Access Bank Plc has kicked off its 2019 sustainability week as  part of efforts to raise awareness about the importance of sustainability within and outside the corporate environment. The weeklong excercise  themed, “Together for a sustainable future,” seeks to reinforce its identity as a sustainability leader in Nigeria. In addition, the exercise seeks to  ensure   everyone is informed of their individual roles in contributing towards positive development. Group Managing Director, Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe,  said  the  week would be a celebration of all its successes and also serve as a building block to achieve better results in the coming years. “At Access Bank, sustainability principles form the bedrock of all our banking and non-banking activities. Thus far, our yearly results have validated this approach, as we are now among the top three most profitable banks in Nigeria. “This week, we will be celebrating these successes, charging and re-educating our employees on global best practices, while also creating awareness about what needs to be done to achieve the SDGs by 2030,” he said. Wigwe’s statement was reiterated by the Bank’s Head, Sustainability, Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, who said: “While we continue to achieve our objectives as an institution, it is important that the sustainability culture is imbibed and practiced by all employees. “Building on last year’s successes, we are going a step further in spreading the sustainability message to external audiences. To this end, we have scheduled workshops for various third party partners currently engaged by the Bank. We earnestly believe that through this and the various activities planned through the week, we would be able to achieve a telling impact.” Activities lined up by the financial institution include multiple workshops for staff and external partners, the launch of a Digital Idea Wall for sustainability ideas, a therapeutic arts session, an exhibition showcasing innovative initiatives, among others.