T he Lagos State Government has shut down at least eight churches and mosques across the state in a renewed campaign against noise pollution in the state  This was even as New Telegraph gathered that the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, the agency saddled with the responsibility of regulating noise and other environmental pollution in the state, receives over 1,000 petitions monthly over noise pollution and other environmental nuisances. The government has therefore ordered religious centres to seek permits before embarking on open crusades or other religious activities.   It was further gathered that following petitions by some residents of the host communities of the religious centres, some of the sealed worship centres had been warned to either relocate or reduce their noise pollution levels.   The shut facilities are located at; No. 68, old Otta Road, Orile Agege, No. 4, Ademola Oshinowo Off LoveAll Street, Ketu, Dele Amuda Street, Lekki, No. 17, Ajileye Street, Ilaje Bariga, No. 39, Kusenla Road, Elegunshi, Ajayi Bembe Street, Abule Oja Yaba, among others.  The General Manager, Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, (LASEPA), Dr Dolapo Fasawe, said there would no longer be a hiding place for any religious organisation that cannot operate within the ambit of the law, regardless of their faith.   Consequently, the LASEPA GM, declared it illegal to convert residential properties for religious use without recourse to the wellbeing of other residents, stressing that the current administration was very concerned about the state of the environment.   She said the enforcement exercise, which coincided with the 2019 United Nations International Day of Tolerance, was a clear indication that Lagos was in sync with the world on the issue of tolerance. She also noted that LASEPA would continue to clamp down on any organisation, firms or bodies noted for persistent environmental pollution and disruption of peaceful co-existence of Lagos residents.   Fasawe assured residents of the state that LASEPA would not rest on its oars in bequeathing a liveable ambience to all inhabitants of the state, stressing that those recalcitrant organisations or worship centres, known to be disturbing the peace of Lagosians would face the full wrath of the law.  According to her, while the state government guarantees freedom of religion for its residents, the government will not condone any act that will hinder peaceful co-existence through infringements on the rights of other residents of the state, in the name of religious activities.  She added that the agency has been inundated with petitions and outcry from residents of the state over the insensitivity and intolerance of some religious outlets in different areas across the state. The LASEPA boss regrettably noted that several warnings issued to the management of these churches and mosques had not yielded the expected result.   “The state government recognises the fact that the state thrives on peaceful co-existence among practitioners of the major religions across the state, but of great concern to the state government is the need for religious activities to be conducted in a manner that worshippers and citizens would not infringe on each other’s rights,” the General Manager reiterated.   Fasawe said that for the facilities to be reopened, the leaders of these organisations must reach an agreement of compliance with the Agency and also satisfy other necessary conditions as may be prescribed by LASEPA.