Iji Christian Agbike popularly known as MC Kris, is a young and versatile entertainer. In this interview with DEBORAH OCHENI, the graduate of Benue State University spoke about his fashion philosophy and sundry issues.  While shopping, which fashion item catches your fancy?  While shopping the fashion item that catches my fancy the most is sneakers. Which fashion accessory do you live for? Bracelets and wrist watches.  Do you conform to trends?  Which fashion trends do you love most? No, I’m not a trend kind of guy.  How comfortable do you feel in jeans and T-shirt?  Jeans and T-shirt are comfortable wears for everyone; so for me I feel very comfortable because they make me feel light.  What makes a man well dressed?  To me, what makes a man well-dressed is simply whatever he wears and he is comfortable with himself first.  Whose celebrity style do you like most? Celebrity style I love the most are Bankole Willington, popularly known as Banky W and Richard Mofedamijo popularly known as RMD.  Fashion wise, do you have a role model?  Fashion wise, people like Bankole Willington( Banky W), Richard Mofedamijo (RMD) will always be my top pick or choice.  Is there anything you are unlikely to be caught wearing?  Yes ooo.. all those coloured trousers and wearing shorts with long socks, chaiii god forbid bad thing.  What is your ready to go outfit?  I will go for T-shirt or Polo and Jeans because they are mostly outfits that wouldn’t make me look too serious.  They are simple, smart and not much stress to get them ready.  When it comes to fashion, would you say your physique works to your advantage?  Yes, my physique really works to my advantage and I hope to model someday. Which outfits take up most space in your wardrobe? Native wears take most the space. My love for native wears makes me do much of them. And also I get designers who cloth me for free to promote them at events too. What is your costliest fashion possession? How much did you get it? My costliest fashion possession is one of my Native Agbadas, and it is just 65,000 naira How do you love your shoes? I love them very simple and not dramatic.  What determines what you wear? What I wear is basically determined by the kind of place or event I’m dressing for. If am home, am likely to be on my shorts and polo shirt, if I’m going out to anchor a corporate event am likely to be on suit, if am going out to Mc a traditional marriage I go on native dress, and so forth.  What do you think of modern designers?  Their creativity has gone into another level entirely. Daily they are out with new style. Kudos to them  Who is your best designer?  DANIEL’S STITCHES, A young and upcoming fashion designer  Do you have a signature perfume?  Antonio Bandaras Seduction for men Do you have any fashion obsession? Yes ooooo, I can use my last money to get Sneakers and sew native wears.   There are people looking up to attaining the height that you are now, what is your advice for such people?  My advice to them is to believe in themselves because the world can’t believe in you when you don’t believe in yourselves and also to thrive in the industry you have to be consistent and creative in what you do.  I travelled from Abuja to Lagos, paid for my transportation and accommodation fee to anchor a wedding for free, so don’t be money conscious initially.   How do you handle female fans’ excesses? Handling female fans excesses is not such a big deal with me at all, I try as much as possible to reciprocate their gestures but in a casual way.  I try to be friendly and let them know that I appreciate their support. Aside anchoring events, which other businesses are you into? I work with Itel mobile as Itel Sales Rep, I’m a Nollywood actor and I am currently working on becoming an event management businessman.  I am an On Air Personality and I’m presently working on establishing other businesses with friends.  Entertainment industry seems saturated; how do you intend to keep afloat?  Saturated is an understatement but despite that, I intend to leave a mark and stay at the top for as long as possible and I intend doing that by been unique and employing creative means to distinguish myself from others in the industry.  As an MC, how do you cope paying bills?  Would you say the career is lucrative enough? Being an MC is a lucrative career and it’s enough to pay my bills but I still have other engagements that compliment my earnings.   Paying bills as an MC at the initial stage could be difficult but with consistency, u get to a point where people get to see the value of what you do and are willing to pay for it then u see jobs coming from every angle making things a lot easier. Does your background influence who you are now? My background sure have a hand in who I am now. I grew up in Lagos and the street of Lagos as we know is entertainment on its own. It was in that spirit that I ventured into MC career then adding acting, OAP and event management to it later on. Are you satisfied with your choice of career? I’m very satisfied.   As the saying goes ” make your hobby your work and you will never work for the rest of your life. I’m doing what I love doing so it’s so easy and smooth for me.  What inspires your various creations?  My creativity is mostly inspired by things happening around me, I pick events and occurrences within my vicinity and the world at large and interpret it in a way that will be entertaining to my audience. Sometimes I go off trends to do something unique that will be known as my trade mark too. What is the major challenge young artistes face in Nigeria?  The major challenge is platform, if you don’t have a platform, your talent is useless. Secondly these young talents are not encouraged, sometimes we beg organizers and even pay to be given the opportunity to perform. Would you say government has done enough for creative people in Nigeria?  I won’t completely discredit government’s role in supporting creative people but I can say they haven’t done enough. I remember a time that I was shooting a short movie and I approached a customary court to use their court room for one of the scenes, they declined because I didn’t have money to dole out, and things like that can be discouraging.  There are some infrastructures and policies they can put in place to make our work easier. I believe they can do better.  As an MC, what is the gap you hope to bridge in the industry?  MC’s most of the time are not given the credit they deserve like those in other areas of the entertainment industry. Organizers will pay music artistes to come perform, pay camera men to cover the event, pay comedians but when it comes to paying MCs they start pricing like they are in the market square.  They be like, is it not just to talk for few hours? But they don’t hesitate to give the music artist who will only perform for few minutes good pay.  As an Mc, I Intend to change this narrative by been principled in my negotiations and letting event planners and organisers know that we are professionals that deserve respect and good pay too.  Do you have any specific research process when anchoring a new event?  Before every single event I go to anchor, I run a research on the kind of event that it’s going to be.  These include knowing the religious beliefs of those having the events, knowing the kind of people that will be present, determining if it’s a corporate or casual event.  These will help me to know the direction from which I’m to approach the anchoring of the event. Other times I go as far as writing a script for the event.  Was there anyone in your family who made you develop interest in what you do presently? None, it is just my passion and love for what I do, even though I have some of my uncles that are into it as well but I got to know them lately.  Who inspires you the most in entertainment industry?  I am inspired by so many, take for instance in Movie industry, Ramsey Nouah inspires me the most, In comedy the likes of Eneche .O. Eneche, Des-talker AY and Bovi etc.  Where do you see yourself in five years?  I see myself sitting at the top in the industry and becoming a household name and at that point, I see myself organizing events and creating platforms for upcoming entertainers particularly MCs to showcase their talent and bring them to limelight.  Are you a fan of ankara prints?  Yes, I am a fan of ankara prints, having a fashion designer as wife, what do you expect?  What is your take on African traditional wears?  They will always be my favourites, because they bring beauty on anybody that put them on and speak volume of our heritage, culture, language etc, they distinguish us from the rest of the world.  Do you consider any fashion item indispensable?  My Bracelets.  How easily do you get your fashion items in Nigeria?  Through the help of a fashion designer.