Two businessmen, Chief Olubunmi Alabi and Alhaji Hammed Bajo, are currently locked in a legal tussle over ownership of a parcel of land situated at No. 17, Odunlami Street, Shomolu, Lagos. In a fundamental rights enforcement suit filed at a Lagos High Court in Ikeja, Alabi is seeking a declaration that the taking over of the landed property by Bajo is unconstitutional, null and void. Besides, he is seeking an order compelling Bajo, who is the respondent in the suit, to immediately vacate the land and pay him N15 million in general, exemplary and punitive damages for illegally entering the land. In a 19-paragraph affidavit attached to the suit, Alabi averred that the respondent was now unlawfully erecting a two-storey building on his land without his consent and authority. “The respondent is not a beneficiary of the land but just imposed himself on my land believing he can do what he likes on the land. Despite several warning issued on the respondent, he never desists from furthering his illegal actions on the land. “When the respondent got to know of a letter to the Lagos Building Control Agency, he quickly sped up the erecting of the building to quickly complete it. “I have been restricted by the massive buildings and the laborers he employed from having access to my land”, the applicant averred. In a brief statement of facts attached to the applicant’s lawyer’s written address, it was stated that “the applicant is one of the beneficiaries of the landed property. The beneficiaries unanimously agreed that the building on the said land should be demolished and give to the builder, Mr. Niyi Adegoroye, who paid N100.2 million to the Alabi’s family and the demolition of the building was done two months after the family unanimously made the agreement. “On the 27th of April, 2019, when the applicant came to Lagos for a meeting, he was bewildered to see an ongoing construction of two-storey building on the land and he immediately made his enquiries to know who gave the respondent the right to erect such building on the land. On his enquiries, the applicant got to know that the respondent has no authority from Lagos State Building Control Agency to build such structure and also lacks the applicant’s authority to build the structure.” The respondent is yet to file his defence to the suit as at the time of filing this report.