   MIXED FEELINGS
Stakeholders are divided over JAMB’s directive to make NIN a pre-condition or requirement for 2020 UTME registration  There are discordant tunes in the education sector over the directive by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to make the National Identification Number (NIN) registration compulsory for all prospective candidates for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). This is as key stakeholders in the sector, especially parents and students are bitter over the directive, blaming the management of JAMB, led by Prof. Is-haq Oloyede for being hasty in the decision, given the hardship and stress Nigerians are going through to register for the national identity card. JAMB, the agency responsible for the conduct of qualifying examinations into higher institutions of learning (universities, polytechnics/monotechnics and colleges of education) in the country, had few months ago announced that for a candidate to be eligible to write the 2020 UTME it is now compulsory to acquire the NIN. According to JAMB, the aim was to ensure that the biometric and other necessary details of a candidate were captured, and better still check malpractice and other irregularities characterising the placement examination. JAMB’s Spokesman, Dr. Fabian Benjamin had said in a statement that the call had become necessary now that registration for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) was to commence. The statement added: “JAMB will during the 2020 registration exercise use the National Identification Number (NIN) generated after successful registration with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) for registration of candidates. This will include capturing of biometric and other necessary details for the registration of all prospective candidates.” The directive also stressed that candidates were enjoined to register as the board will no longer be responsible for the capturing of candidates’ biometrics ahead of the examination, as all information required will be uploaded from the data captured by the NIMC. “Henceforth, the NIN will be compulsory for the UTME registration,” the statement noted, adding that the board has made adequate arrangement with the NIMC for prospective candidates to be registered at the examination centres or with its licensed agents. According to Benjamin, candidates who had registered and acquired the NIN before attaining the age of 16, would be required to update their NIN registration status before registering for the UTME. He further said: “In case a candidate lost or misplaced his or her NIN, the candidate can retrieve such by either going to the NIMC office; its licensed agent or dial *346# (USSD code on the SIM card number earlier used to register for the NIN).” This was as he added that candidate’s name as stated on the NIMC data base would be the same as the one on JAMB’s data registration form. Towards this end, JAMB also announced recently that the commencement of 2020 UTME registration has been postponed, a development which would not be unconnected with the challenges with NIN registration. Though, JAMB had announced that adequate arrangement had been made with the NIMC for prospective candidates to be registered at the examination centres or with its licensed agents, many parents and their children or wards, who went to the various NIMC centres, especially in Lagos to register ahead of the UTME, have continued to bemoan the policy and introduction by JAMB. To them, waiting till the commencement of UTME registration before registering for the NIN, as announced by JAMB could be cumbersome, if the difficulty previously encountered and experience of most candidates at UTME designated CBT registration points, where finger prints and biometric capturing failed, is anything to go by. On the directive of the House of Representatives to suspend the policy till 2021 UTME, a source at JAMB said the House had not communicated the directive to the Presidency and JAMB, and not until that is done the examination body cannot act on anything. The source added that JAMB quite feel the pains the people are going through, but the move was taken to make UTME exercise more transparent, effective and efficient. However, when New Telegraph visited some of the NIMC centres in Lagos, it was tales of woe and lamentation as most parents and children, who narrated their ordeal, blamed the process on poor logistics, personnel, IT, and power supply to cope with the influx of candidates who left their schools to register for the NIN. While narrating their plight, some of the students told New Telegraph: “This is a hasty decision on the part of JAMB. This would be the fourth time we have been coming here for the registration, which we are yet to do. “We come here at 6a.m or 5.30a.m and still we have not been able to register. One of the days, my child was the number 115 on the list and they only attend to less than the first 30 people on the list. And it has been like this in all days. Where are we going from here? “Most days power supply will be cut off between 8.30 and 9a.m and no one would be attended to for the rest of the day. At times we wait till 5p.m before we return home without any success. How long are we going to continue like this? JAMB and NIMC should make registration of NIN easy for Nigerians, especially for these kids who arev supposed to be in school without having to go through or face this kind of predicament.” Also narrating his experience at one of the NIMC centres at Ikeja, a parent, who came to register his two children for the NIN ahead of UTME, recalled: “I have been leaving home by 4.30a.m in the last three days for this centre, when I was asked to get here by 5a.m. And, after coming here for two days without success to register the children, someone approached me if I was ready to pay N5,000 on each child to register them without delay and stress. Of course, I have to play along and pay the N10,000 on my two children and as promised less than two hours the children were captured and registered, while those who did not pay or had such ‘opportunity’ were still on the queue without being attended to. This is a terrible experience these little children should be exposed to in a country which prides them as the future leaders of the nation.” Further investigations by New Telegraph also indicated that in some centres, the people have to part with between N2,000 and N3,000 to be capture and registered, while the NIN forms are sold for N50 or N100 each, which ordinarily is supposed to be free as announced by the government. Those, who are not ready to pay “the non-receipted N2,000, N3,000 or N5,000 depending on the NIMC centre, should be ready to spend days coming to the centre without being captured and registered. They, however, claimed that the N50 or N100 generated from the sale of the form are used for photocopying of the forms which are in short supply, as well as to buy fuel to power their generator. New Telegraph also discovered that lack of adequate NIMC registration centres, shortage of personnel and logistics, as well as corrupt tendencies on the part of the officials of the Commission, are some of the challenges facing the exercise, which the government should attend to with dispatch. Meanwhile, piqued by the development, the House of Representatives has asked the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board to suspend the new policy requiring the National Identity Number for candidates to register for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. At plenary session of the House, Hon. Zainab Gimba had moved a motion calling for the suspension of the policy till 2021, a motion which was unanimously adopted by the House, which also commended JAMB for collaborating with the NIMC in ensuring a more transparent UTME process. The House, however, urged the Board to extend the use of the National ID in order to allow more time and better awareness for prospective candidates, and asked the NIMC to establish more registration centres to enhance the registration process. The lawmakers, therefore, mandated the House Committees on Tertiary Education & Services, to liaise with NIMC to identify the challenges facing the Commission with a view to tackling them and increasing its funding if necessary. According to Gimba, the compulsory use of data from the NIMC’s database for prospective candidates would remove the need for JAMB to capture the biometrics of candidates, thereby helping to curb multiple registration and other forms of malpractices in the process. But despite this, she expressed worry that many prospective candidates from remote locations across the country might not be able to register for the UTME due to non-registration with the NIMC. She insisted that the notice given by JAMB was too short and not sufficient to allow all prospective UTME candidates to be captured by the NIMC, given the difficulties characterising the NIN registration exercise in several locations in the country. “The House is also showed concerned that younger Nigerians and minors constitute the larger number of those yet-to-be captured by the NIMC mainly due to the prior registration criteria, which captured persons aged 18 and above only,” she added. To make the registration process easy, the House said JAMB needed to establish a better collaboration with the NIMC, state and local governments for efficient and less-stressful registration of prospective UTME candidates. Since the inception of the NIN exercise and despite several years of trying to convince Nigerians to register, NIMC Acting Director-General, Hadiza Dagabana, had said that only over 37 million Nigerians of the estimated 200 million population, representing less than 20 per cent of the people, had so far registered in the National Identity Database of the National Identity Management Commission for the NIN. The House expressed worry that though there had been a massive turnout of Nigerians to be captured by the NIMC, the process has been hindered by infrastructural challenges such as poor internet network, power failure/no power supply and sometimes inadequate manpower or equipment to attend to the people. In his reaction to the development, a don at the University of Ibadan (UI), Prof. Ademola Dasylva, said he would like to give the JAMB Registrar, Prof. Oloyede the benefit of the doubt on the directive, saying by logic UTME and NIN are two different phenomenon. He, however, asked how equipped are the NIMC teams, in terms of logistics, personnel, Information Technology, and power supply to NIMC offices across the country to be able to cope with the current demand and pressure, for efficiency and quality deliverables. “Well, I want to give Prof. Oloyede the benefit of the doubt because, sincerely, and to the best of my knowledge, he has offered some reasons for his directive,” Dasylva said. On the relevance of the policy, he pointed out that logically UTME and NIN were two different issues, saying there are a dozen and one means by which the nationality of UTME candidates could be determined by JAMB. He perhaps noted that there was more to the NIN registration, or some hidden agenda that the Federal Government did not want the masses of the people to know about, or not, stressing that as ridiculous as the policy might appear, at least more people are taking the registration for the NIN more serious. “It is a common knowledge and a growing concern for people like me, that for many Nigerians it is characteristic of them to ignore, or take for granted serious issues like NIN or PVC registration, unless a clause is added to rattle them out of their slave mentality. But, even at that, must we apply ridiculous logic that can cause national embarrassment in order to deal with serious matters in this country,” he noted. Also on the necessity and mandatory of NIN for 2020 UTME, Dasylva insisted that he did not see any logic in making it compulsory. Meanwhile, Nigerian students, under their umbrella association, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) have vehemently kicked against the JAMB’s policy of using NIN as requirement for prospective candidates to be eligible to register for UTME. The National President of the association, Danielson Akpan, said there was no need to tie UTME to NIN as they are two different things. In his tacit response to the policy, Akpan simply said: “We are not in support of the policy of making NIN registration as pre-condition and requirement for registering and writing UTME as JAMB is making it compulsory.” A parent and a legal practitioner, Mr. Oluwole Olaniyi, whose child attend one of the International Schools, said the management arranged with the NIMC officials, who brought their equipment to the school to register the students, especially those in Senior School (SS 3) in preparation for the UTME registration. He said such arrangement could also be made by other schools to safe parents and children from the rigour and hassles the people are going through to register for the NIN. Olaniyi, however, recalled: “A friend had to leave home as early as 4.30a.m for Ikeja to register his child, but to make the matter worse, he went to Ikeja Local Government Council Secretariat, one of the NIMC centres in Lagos for two days without success and that was when the students came home for their mid-term break. “What we have been hearing from those who shared their experiences at the various NIMC centres has not been palatable. In fact, before you can be captured and registered, you have to pay between N2,000 and N5,000 depending on the centre, for registration which ordinarily was said to be free by the government. “I think many parents are frustrated and they have to play along with the officials, or whoever they commissioned to act on their behalf by paying the money since the future of their children is at stake, given JAMB’s directive which made NIN registration compulsory for UTME. “Actually, and in real sense of it, there is nothing wrong in every Nigerian acquiring the National Identification Number, what has continued to raise concern is the frustration and plight the people have to go through to get this thing, which should have been made interesting for the people to register and collect at will.” He, therefore, called on the agency responsible for the NIN registration to live to the people’s expectation by making the process less cumbersome and address the issue of demand for gratification from desperate parents to register their children for the NIN. “Now, that the House of Representatives has called on JAMB to suspend the policy, at least till 2021 UTME, Nigerian are awaiting further development on this,”Olaniyi noted. But, to the Chairman of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) chapter, Mr. Tope Famuti, the NIN registration as directed by JAMB is good for the students and Nigerians, as a people. “The NIN registration is a means for every Nigerian to have a distinct national identity number and card. We need it in the country’s database. Unfortunately, our youth that should embrace it for further development are paying lip service to it. If you agree that we must jointly work on the development of this country, then it is the way to go,” Famuti noted.