President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday promised Nigerians that the current administration would use education to fast track transition of the nation to a modern society capable of favourably competing with other nations. The President, who was represented by the Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, said this during the 2019 convocation, and 71st Foundation Day ceremony, award of doctorate degrees and conferment of honorary degrees and Fellowship on some prominent Nigerians at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State. At the event which took place at the International Conference Centre of the university, Buhari said that his administration would continue to substantially invest in education to make the country a knowledgebased economy. He nevertheless urged the graduating students to contribute to nation building and be good ambassadors of the university. Buhari said: “I charge you to make meaningful contribution for the development of the nation in particular and humanity in general. It is my belief and prayer that the recognizance of these prominent Nigerians especially Aare Afe Babalola (one of the awardees) will spur the graduating students to cultivate selfless service to humanity. “One of the main purposes of the university education is nation building. “To achieve this noble objective, you have to be good ambassadors of this school by deploying your skills for national growth and development. “The university and government at all levels have invested for you graduates to be useful for yourself, your parents, community and to the larger society. Here today we are celebrating an important milestone in your life. “I therefore urge you all to justify the investment in you. We will continue to invest substantially in education and government has not relented in its efforts to ensure that education is used to fast track Nigeria’s transition to a modern society.” A total of 343 candidates from various disciplines were awarded the Doctor of Philosophy degrees. The Faculty of Education led the pack with a total of 70, followed by the Faculty of Science with 60 PhDs and the Faculty of Agriculture with 44. Five distinguished Nigerians were given honorary doctoral degrees and Fellowship awards. Among them was the Chancellor of Afe Babalola University, (ABUAD), Ado-Ekiti who received an honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Three of former teachers of the university made the prestigious list. They included the ninth Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ayodele Falase, who received an honorary Fellowship; the foundation Dean of Technology, Prof. Fola Aboaba and the former Dean of the Social Sciences, Professor Emmanuel Edozien. Similarly, Prof. Alex Chika Eze, an alumnus received an honorary Doctor of Science (D.Sc.). Speaking on behalf of other awardees, Aare Babalola (SAN) called for autonomy of public universities in Nigeria to attain a world-class standard. Babalola said: “I wish to utilize this auspicious occasion to address an issue that worries me day and night which is the autonomy of public universities in Nigeria