Kunle Olayeni, Abeokuta No fewer than 13 persons were killed on Wednesday in a multiple accident along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Ten other persons were injured in the fatal crash, which occurred around Saapade, Remo North Local Government Area of Ogun State. The state Public Education Officer, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Florence Okpe, confirmed the incident in a statement made available to New Telegraph. Okpe disclosed that the mishap happened about 5:00pm where a diversion was created by a construction company working on the highway. The official said the crash involved three vehicles – a yellow Mazda bus marked KTU93XW, white Toyota bus with registration number KEY847XA and a MAN Diesel truck with registration number KAB97XA. She explained that the Lagos-bound truck, which was speeding, suffered a tyre burst and veered off its lane colliding into two commuter buses heading towards Ibadan. According to her, a total of 37 people, comprising 20 male adults, 15 female adults and two female children were involved in the accident. “The people injured in the crash were 10, comprising four male adults and six female adults, which unfortunately killed 13 people which comprising four male adults, seven female adults and two female children,” she said. Okpe stated that the injured victims were rushed to Victory Hospital, Ogere for medical treatment while the corpses of the dead were deposited at a mortuary in Ipara, Ogun State. She quoted the Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, as requesting relations of the crash victims to contact the FRSC command in Ogere. She added: “The Sector Commander has again reiterated that this incident would have been avoided where motorists driving along diversion areas at construction zones, observe maximum speed limit of 50 kilometres per hour and avoid overtaking till clearly out of diversion areas to avoid head on collision. “Passengers inside vehicles being driven recklessly should caution their drivers and where they refused to be cautioned, the FRSC should be contacted on the FRSC toll free number 122.” 