The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, yesterday asked the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja  to dismiss the suit challenging the recruitment of 10,000 police constables instituted  by the Police Service Commission. The AGF, who was joined in the suit, in his  counter-affidavit, challenged the proprietary of the constables’ recruitment process by the Nigeria Police Force. Other defendants are the NPF, IGP and Minister for Police Affairs. The AGF submitted that nullifying the process as requested by the commission, would amount to an economic loss for the country. New Telegraph recalls that the PSC had in September instituted the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1124/2019, in its bid to gain the exclusive right to conduct the recruitment process which the NPF and Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, have almost concluded. The commission, in its suit, prayed  the court to nullify the process already commenced by the NPF and the IG, and declare it as the body with the exclusive powers to carry out the recruitment process. However, the AGF’s counter affidavit reads in part, “That the plaintiff’s Prayer 5 seeks to nullify the current process of recruitment of 10,000 persons for appointment in the Nigerian Police Force. “That the recruitment process has gone through significant stages in filtering qualified persons for appointment. “That millions of naira have been budgeted and expended on the current recruitment process of about 10,000 persons into the Nigeria Police Force. “That nullifying the current exercise will occasion serious economic loss to the country.” The AGF also cited a similar legal opinion issued by his immediate-past predecessor, Mohammed Adoke (SAN), on August 8, 2010, and addressed to the Ministry of Police Affairs, stating that it was the NPF that had the power to recruit into the Force. Malami stated that since the establishment of the PSC, “the recruitment of persons for appointment into the Nigeria Police Force had been done by the 1st and 2nd defendants (NPF and the IG).” He added that the plaintiff’s Prayer 5 seeking the nullification of the process being conducted by the NPF, “will create a serious negative effect on the workforce of the 1st defendant (the NPF) as the validity of past exercises conducted will be questioned.” The trial judge, Justice Inyang Ekwo, had however adjourned further hearing till November 20. Meanwhile, Malami had earlier in September 16, 2019 in a letter of legal opinion issued upon a request by the Presidency, argued that the PSC only had the power to “appoint” the police officers, while the powers to “recruit” them were those of the IG and the Police Council. He submitted that the Nigerian Constitution “did not state recruitment as one of the functions of the Police Service Commission”. He added, “The word, ‘appointment’ cannot be accorded an expansive interpretation to include the initial enlistment or engagement recruitment of constables into the NPF. “A proper construction of the word ‘appoint’ and ‘appointed’ in section 215(1)(a) and (b), and Paragraph 30(a) of the Third Schedule, Part I of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and section 24f the Police Service Commission Act, shows that the appointment is to be made from persons already in the system. “While it is the powers of the Police Service Commission to appoint police officers to various offices, it is the duty f the 1st to 3rd defendants to conduct recruitment exercises for persons to be appointed by the Police Service Commission.”