C ucumbers are easy to recognise. They are sold in every Nigeria market, especially where they sell vegetables and fruits. Botanically called ‘Cucumis sativus’, cucumbers belong to the same family (the Cucurbitaceae family) as pumpkin and watermelon. Originally from Asia, cucumbers are grown in almost every continent because of their ability to adapt to different climatic conditions.   One distinct characteristic of cucumber is that it contains much water. Just like watermelon, cucumbers are made up of 95 per cent water. This makes them useful remedies for dehydration.   I have discovered that when people complain of symptoms such as fever, headache, dizziness, a feeling of fainting, especially when standing, dark or yellow urine, internal heat, difficulty in sleeping, dryness of the mouth and leg cramps, the real problem is not malaria. Instead, those symptoms are caused by dehydration.  On the average, an adult loses about three litres of water daily. That is much water to loose, and they must be replaced. Otherwise, we will fall sick. In fact, water is more important than food when it comes to keeping healthy. People can stay alive for up to three weeks or even four weeks without food, but you cannot survive more than five days without water. How, you may ask? Does the body lose so much water? Our bodies lose water through urinating, passing of faeces and sweating.   Dehydration occurs when your body does not have enough water and electrolytes to carry out its normal functions and maintain a balance of fluids. Without enough water, the body dries out.  For this reason, I recommend the consumption of cucumber and watermelon. The advantage is that the water from these two vegetable nourishes the body far more than drinking just water. For example, to meet up with your required daily intake of four litres of water, you do not have to fill your belly with ordinary water. You can get part of your water intake from fruits and vegetables. For example, drinking one glass of raw cucumber juice is equivalent to one litre of water.   Cucumbers contain an anti-inflammatory flavonol called fisetin that helps to boost memory. Fisetin also protects the nerve cells of the brain from decline due to old age. The presence of lignans polyphenols in cucumber helps to lower the risk of breast, uterine and ovarian cancers. Another important nutrient in cucumber called cucurbitacins helps to prevent and fight cancers, especially prostate cancer.   Talking about prostate cancer, this is becoming alarmingly high among Nigerian men, just as breast cancer is alarmingly high among Nigeria women. While early detection is very important, prevention is even better. The important role of proper diet and nutrition in disease prevention is well documented. Vegetables such as cucumber, watermelon, carrots, beets, bitter leaf, waterleaf and many others are very important for this.   One of the ways cucumbers help to fight cancer is through their ability to reduce body inflammation. Inflammations are dangerous because they predispose the body to infections and also weaken the immune system. Cucumbers are said to help reduce harmful inflammation by inhibiting the activity of inflammation-inducing enzymes.   If you suffer from mouth odour, cucumber can help you to get rid of it. Bled one whole cucumber in half a bottle of water and use about half a glass as mouth-wash. However, do not spit out the liquid. Just hold the juice in your mouth for one minute, thereafter swallow.   The skin of cucumbers contains insoluble fibre, which aids in proper metabolism and digestion. The potassium in cucumbers help to lower blood pressure levels and also help to reduce lower blood sugar.   Cucumber juice contains a hormone, which is needed by the cells of the pancreas for producing insulin, which has been found to be beneficial to diabetic patients. Cucumbers contain a lot of potassium, magnesium, and fibre. These work effectively for regulating blood pressure. This makes cucumbers good for treating both low blood pressure and high blood pressure.   Due to its low calorie and high-water content, cucumber is ideal for people who are looking for weight loss. The high-water-content and dietary fibre in cucumbers are very effective in ridding the body of toxins from the digestive system and aiding digestion. Daily consumption of cucumbers can be regarded as a remedy for chronic constipation.   Those who suffer from arthritis will benefit from cucumber as it helps to promote joint health by strengthening the connecting tissues, which is made possible by the presence of the trace element, silica. Cucumbers also help to relieve arthritis, gout, and rheumatism.   There are many ways of eating cucumber. You can slice it and eat it raw or add the slices to your plate of rice. It can be taken as mixed salad comprising watermelon and carrots. You can also blend the whole cucumber, seeds, and peels inclusive. This will give you the full nutritional benefits of the cucumber. However, avoid eating cucumber in the night if you can, as the water content may induce frequent urination which may disturb your sleep.