Psychiatrists have highlighted the importance of  the embracing research for the management of mental health disorder in Nigeria, while assuring that this modern approach would pave the way for better treatment outcome. The Medical Director of the Federal Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital, Yaba (FNPHY), Lagos, Dr. Oluwayemisi Ogun disclosed this during the Hospital’s research conference titled, “Emerging Trends and Innovations In The Management of Psychiatric Disorders: Challenges and Prospects In a Developing Country.” Durint the conference which held in Lagos recently at the FNPHY facility, Ogun said the combination of clinical services, training and research was essential in the management of mental disorders. She said it was through research they were able to discover the alarming rate of Nigerians with drug abuse-related mental disorders. Noting that Nigerians were yet to recognise the hospital for these three responsibilities, he said there was a need to begin to prevent these problems through quality research so as to curtail the alarming rate of drug abuse. She said it was through research they were able to discover the alarming rate of Nigerians with drug abuse-related mental disorders. Noting that Nigerians are yet to recognise the hospital for these three responsibilities, she said there is a need to begin to prevent these problems through quality research. On his part, the keynote speaker, Dr. Gbenga Okulate lamented the shortage of psychiatrists and mental health workers in Nigeria and said the doctor to patient ratio was too low. Nigeria remains under-researched and a lot of mental health conditions were not recognised, inadequately researched or  regarded as a priority, hence they were poorly funded. “A lot of people are suffering from mental health issues.  We have challenges of poor identification, late recognition and therefore, limited funding. The result of this is that a lot of people who have mental issues suffer on their own, people don’t understand they are not feeling well,” the expert said. Okulate explained that the aim of the conference was to train people on conducting basic research and reporting products of their research so that the results can influence clinical practices and policies at all levels. “We can train people to do research. The psychiatrist nurses, social workers could be trained as long as they can work in teams and it will be easier to do more with limited resources.” He said, despite the recognition of mental disorders the hospital has recorded an increase in the presentation of mental health cases.