Former vice president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, last week, recorded another failure in his attempt to rule Nigeria. ONYEKACHI EZE writes on Atiku’s attempts at becoming Nigeria’s president   I n an interview with a news medium in 2014, former vice president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar was quoted to had said:  “Must Atiku be president? No. It is not a birthright. The difference I had wished to make when I ran was to give back to a country that has done so much for me. I owe to Nigeria. Nigeria does not owe to me.”  The 2019 presidential election was the fifth Atiku was seeking to rule Nigeria. And this he did in four different political parties – the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the Action Congress (AC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Out of this number, however, Atiku was on the ballot only twice, in 2007 and 2019. This meant that he was merely an aspirant on the rest.  Atiku’s journey to rule Nigeria started in 1993 when he was drafted into the race by his political mentor, Major-General Shehu Musa Yar’Adua who was disqualified from the race by the defunct the National Electoral Commission (NEC). Atiku was, therefore, among the aspirants who sought the ticket of the SDP in the run to the June 12, 1993 presidential election.   Also in the race were former national chairman of the SDP, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe and business mogul, Alhaji Moshood Abiola. The duo were later to become presidential and vice-presidential candidates of the party in the election.  Before he took a shot at the presidency, Atiku had won the SDP ticket for the governorship of the newly created Adamawa State but was disqualified, just like his mentor, due to the crisis that trailed the primary.  In the SDP presidential primary in Jos, Plateau State, Atiku came third, behind Abiola and Kingibe who came first and second respectively. But with just a margin of 400 votes that separated Abiola from Kingibe, the primary did not produce an outright winner, necessitating a run-off.  Although Atiku had a brighter chance of winning the run-off given the structure of General Yar’Adua at his disposal, he stepped down for Abiola or the instruction of the former Chief of Staff Supreme Headquarters. He would have been the running mate if Abiola had abide by the ‘gentleman’ agreement reached between him and Atiku’s camp.   Notwithstanding his impressive outing at the presidential primary in 1993, Atiku still nursed the ambition of becoming Adamawa State governor when Nigeria returned to civilian rule in 1999. He won the governorship election in the December 1998 governorship but was chosen by Olusegun Obasanjo who emerged the presidential candidate of the PDP, as his running mate. And for eight years, Atiku was Nigeria’s vice president.   When an opportunity was provided in 2007 for him to run for the presidency, Obasanjo who did not have a very cozy relationship with him,  blocked Atiku’s chances of picking the PDP ticket. And in a bid to actualise his ambition, the former vice president left PDP to the newly registered AC, although he still remained a vice president in the PDP government.   Atiku said he was pushed out of PDP. He had told his supporters: “I didn’t leave. I was a victim of deliberate ejection. If a landlord begins to remove your roof, disconnect your water supply and every other thing necessary for normal habitation, you don’t need anybody to tell you that you are not needed.   “The policy of de-registration in 2005 /2006 was directed at my supporters and me, and I was eventually suspended from the party for a period longer than what the party constitution provided – three months. “With such a hostile environment created against me, I had to leave PDP. And then I teamed up with like minds and we founded AC.” On December 20, 2006, Atiku was chosen as the presidential candidate of AC. But it was not a smooth sail for him.   First, the PDP-led Federal Government, through Mallam Uba Sanni, Special Assistant on Public Affairs to Obasanjo, on December 23, 2006, declared Atiku’s office as vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria vacant. Atiku went to court, asking it to determine “whether having regard to the combined provisions of Section 135 and 142 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, the plaintiffs (Atiku) term of office as Vice President, Federal Republic of Nigeria which commenced on 29th of May, 2003 still subsists.   “Whether having regard to the provisions of Section 142, 143, 144 and 146 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, or any other provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 or any law, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria can declare vacant the office of the plaintiff as Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”   The matter was pursued uptil the Supreme Court, and the apex court, in a unanimous judgement held that the office of the vice president, having been created by the constitution, can only be removed by the constitution. It therefore, said that the president has no power to declare the seat of the vice president vacant.   The idea of declaring his office vacant was for him to lose his immunity so that he could be arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for corruption. But the party was not done yet. It set up an administrative panel of enquiry, which found Atiku guilty of corruption.   On the basis of this report, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) removed Atiku’s name from the list of 24 presidential candidates for the April 21 presidential election, claiming that he was indicted for corruption by a panel duly constituted by the government. INEC went ahead to remove his name from the ballot papers prepared for the election.   Again, on March 16, 2007, just Again, on March 16, 2007, just few weeks to the presidential election, Atiku returned to the court, to challenge his exclusion. The apex court, on April 16, few days to the election, ruled that INEC has no power to disqualify any candidate submitted to it by a political party.   It added that “INEC has no constitutional power to disqualify a candidate from contesting elections without a valid order of a court.” That was another victory for Atiku. INEC was forced to reprint the ballot papers just 24 hours to the presidential election. But the harm had already be done. Atiku came a distant third in the presidential election with 2, 837, 848 votes, behind the PDP candidate, Alhaji Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and General Muhammadu Buhari of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). This did not dampen Atiku’s morale as he returned to the drawing board to prepare for the 2011 presidential election.  He left AC and returned to PDP in 2009, and on October 2010, he announced his interest to seek the party’s ticket. A number of aspirants from the north, including former military president, General Ibrahim Babangida, former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, and former National Security Adviser (NSA), also indicated interest in the ticket. But in attempt to brighten the region’s chances against the then incumbent president, Goodluck Jonathan, Northern Political Elders’ Forum (NPEF) led by former Minister of Finance, Mallam Adamu Ciroma, organised a shadow election among northern presidential aspirants to chose a consensus candidate who would face Jonathan at the PDP presidential primary. Atiku beat the others and emerged the north’s sole aspirant. At the PDP primary in January 2011 at Eagle Square, Atiku lost 805 to Jonathan’s 3,542 votes.   That was another fractured ambition for Atiku. The former vice president’s fourth attempt at the presidency was in 2014. This time, it was on the platform of the APC. He had again left PDP for the APC, and said the former ruling party has lost touch with Nigerians. Atiku said it was concluded that the PDP was irredeemable.  “In short, the PDP has abandoned Nigerians, the very people who gave it life and many electoral victories. “In addition, the PDP continues to be beset with many crises, mostly leadership-induced crises. “Many founding members of the PDP, I included, continue to be marginalized and excluded from the affairs of the party. “For instance as a former Vice President, I am by virtue of the PDP constitution, a member of the party’s Board of Trustees and its National Executive Committee.  “However, I am not invited to the meetings of those organs nor consulted on their decisions, apparently because I dared to exercise my right to contest in the party’s primary election for a chance to be its flag-bearer in the 2011 elections,” he explained.  He said APC was a party that would bring the desired change in Nigeria, and declared interest in the party’s presidential ticket. In the primary held in Lagos on December 2014, Atiku again came third with 954 votes as against Buhari’s 3, 430 votes. Former Kano State governor, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso scored 974 votes to come second. Again, it was an end of the road for Atiku. Expectations were high that 2019 would be Atiku’s date with destiny.  He returned to PDP once again on November 24, 2017 and began to reach out to his political associates. Atiku worked harder than any of the then 12 presidential aspirants who obtained the party’s nomination form, visiting more than 36 states of the country twice. His campaign headquarters was almost the size of the PDP National Secretariat. At the Port Harcourt convention on December 6, 2018, Atiku garnered total of 1, 585 out of the 3, 374 accredited delegates, to beat eleven other aspirants. Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State came second with 693 votes.  The stage was then set between him and Buhari who was the APC presidential candidate. Expectations were high that the election would go Atiku’s way. The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), the research unit of The Economist of London, predicted victory for the former vice president. In its publication few weeks to the presidential election, the magazine predicted: “Abubakar’s pledge is to reinvigorate the economy with promarket reforms.   Both candidates are from the northern Nigeria, where Buhari’s support base lies, presaging a fierce contest there. “With the vote likely to be split in the North, Abubakar will find it easier to garner support from the country’s south, which has traditionally been a safe haven for the PDP. “This gives Abubakar an edge, as does popular frustration over the rise in joblessness and poverty (two of the biggest voter concerns) on Mr. Buhari’s watch, as well as growing insecurity in central Nigeria.”  But the result of the February 23 presidential election showed otherwise. Atiku lost by 3, 928, 869 votes. He scored 11, 262, 978 votes to Buhari’s 15, 191, 847.  His attempt to upturn this result was rejected by the Supreme Court. The apex court last week, said Atiku’s appeal lacked merit. In the judgement read by the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammed, the seven-man Supreme Court justices said, “We have examined all the briefs of argument and the exhibits for over two weeks and we have all agreed that there is no merit in this appeal. The appeal is hereby dismissed. Reasons to be given on a date to be announced.” What does future hold for Atiku? The next presidential election is about three years and a few months away.  And by that time, Atiku would be 76 years old. Many people did not believe he would run in the last election because of his age. Even if he decides to run, on which platform would that be? PDP?  Or will he move to another political party? One of the things people believe worked against Atiku was his movement from one political party to another. He has moved to two different political parties, AC and APC, and twice, from to PDP, within a space of 13 years. But even if he decides to stay in PDP, will the party give him the ticket? With the call for Igbo presidency in 2023, PDP which has its major support base in the south might try to assuage the feelings of the people of South East by zoning the ticket to the region. Only future will tell Atiku’s next line of action.  