Fidelity Bank Plc has rewarded winners that emerged in the maiden edition its Get Alert In Millions (GAIM) Season 4 savings promo draw held in various regions of the country. Thirteen customers across the nation had won N15 million and while others got consolation prizes. The winners emerged from a transparent randomization process which was vented by the bank’s control team and witnessed by officials from Consumer Protection Council (CPC) and other regulators received a total of N20 million in the draw that marked the end of the promo. Managing Director, Fidelity Bank Plc, Nnamdi Okonkwo, who was represented by Regional Bank Head, Ikeja branch, Fidelity Bank Plc, Ken Opara, assured customers that the bank will continue to keep to its words and congratulated the winners. “The GAIM 4 is the 9th promo being conducted by the bank in the last 13 years and this is not about Fidelity Bank mobilizing savings rather it is aimed at empowering Nigerians especially our customers which is key to the growth and development of this economy. We recognise that it is also important to build the savings culture amongst Nigerians to elevate their status and take their business to the next level. It is worthy to note that similar presentations are also going on in our locations outside Lagos as total of 31 winners that emerged would be presented with prizes won and a total of N1.5 million worth of airtime will be also given to 1,600 customers as weekly give away”, he said. On his part, Chief Executive Officer, Lagos State Lotteries Board, Bashir Ale, congratulated the winners and revealed that the board is planning to roll out ongoing promos on its website so as to reduce the incidence of suspicious phone calls. Ale noted that more than 94 per cent of Nigerians lived off a low budget, adding that the board would continue to protect its citizens from frivolous gaming and gambling. The savings promo, which will end in April 2020, will see customers cart away a total of N120 million in cash prizes. Speaking during the prize presentation ceremony which held at the bank’s branch at Ogba, Lagos, Okechukwu Darlington, a business man and one of the winners of N1 million from Lagos, said he never envisaged being a winner and even thought the call from the bank was a scam. “I got a call from the bank informing me that I was one lucky winner of N1 million in the GAIM 4. At first, I felt it was a prank by fraudsters but I decided to come for the prize presentation and here I am, very happy being someone who won this wonderful prize, in fact this Christmas would be much better for me and my family. Fidelity Bank have kept their word and I pray that they will continue to soar. I would also use this opportunity to tell my friends that this is real and not a case of fraud,” Darlington said.