…as NNPC disowns bogus ‘Annual Chemistry Competition’   T he Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), China Petroleum Pipeline Engineering Company Limited (CPPECL) and Brantex Consortium, have concluded plans for the commencement of work on the $2.8 billion Abuja-Kaduna- Kano pipeline project popularly known as AKK project.  Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, gave this indication, according to a release by the National Oil Company’s Acting Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Mr. Samson Makoji, when he received the President of CPPECL, Sun Quanjun and the head of the Brantex Consortium at the NNPC Towers in Abuja.  Kyari stated that the AKK project was key to resolving the power   deficit challenge of the country, saying NNPC was ready to give all necessary support to CPPECL and Brantex Consortium to deliver the project within time and within budget. The NNPC helmsman said that the AKK project was very important to the nation, even as he urged the China Pipeline Company to use it as a platform for other bigger opportunities in the Oil and Gas Industry pipeline projects. “We think you can deliver on the AKK project. If you execute the AKK project, we will also support your company to grow her imprint in Nigeria. I assure you that this partnership will be beneficial to us all and deliver value for the Nigerian people,” Mallam Kyari said.   Earlier, Quanjun, said his company along with Brantex Consortium was prepared to deliver on the AKK project, stressing that it would deploy its new pipeline technology system capable of guaranteeing the integrity of the project for several decades to come. Quanjun added that his company would also establish a training facility in Nigeria that would help in the training and retraining of its Nigeria employees, assuring that his company had one of the best pipeline training centres in China.   Meanwhile, the NNPC has also distanced itself and its subsidiaries from a trending online advert inviting unsuspecting members of the public to submit entries for a phantom 2019/2020 Annual Chemistry Competition.’’  The corporation said the online advert which contrived that the exercise was organized to improve the standard of learning of Chemistry in Nigeria was phoney, advising applicants to be wary of the fraudsters behind it.  