Mikel Arteta is keen to talk to Arsenal about replacing Unai Emery, who has reportedly been given three Premier League games to save his job. Arsenal have flattered to deceive since Emery replaced Arsene Wenger at the Emirates last year and slipped to eighth in the Premier League after Saturday’s disappointing draw with Southampton. The Gunners are already eight points adrift of the top-four and, according to ‘The Times’, Arsenal chiefs are interested in talking to Arteta and Massimiliano Allegri about replacing Emery. Both Arteta – who spent five years at Arsenal as a player – and Allegri were looked at by the Gunners as Wenger’s reign came to an end in 2018, reports metro.co.uk. Arteta has enjoyed much success as assistant to Pep Guardiola at Manchester City but is keen to talk to Arsenal about a return to north London. Allegri was interviewed by Arsenal last year but the Italian manager decided to have a year out of the game after leaving Juventus. Despite preparing for Emery’s potential sacking, Arsenal have not given up on the Spanish boss just yet and will give him three more league games to turn things around. The Gunners face Eintracht Frankfurt in the Europa League on Thursday but it is the subsequent Premier League fixtures against Norwich, Brighton and West Ham that will decide his fate. Arsenal gave Emery a vote of confidence during the international break and had been determined to stick by their manager until the end of the season. But another underwhelming performance at home to Southampton has shifted the Gunners’ position and they are now more open to the idea of making a change mid-season. Following Saturday’s 2-2 draw, a number of prominent Arsenal supporters’ groups have urged the club to take ‘urgent action’ to halt the ‘alarming’ decline under Emery. “It feels like the club is rudderless and floating aimlessly, unsure of its destination,” said a statement from the fan groups. “Until the club, especially the senior management structure, is running efficiently, effectively and ambitiously then few other issues can, or will, be satisfactorily resolved. “The last decade, notwithstanding the FA Cup wins, can legitimately be seen as lost years, both on and off the field, when the team has not only stagnated but actually regressed. “To date, that is the legacy of the ‘Kroenke years’”. 