 An Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court on Thursday, ordered that a 45-year-old man, Aderemi Adeleja, who allegedly defiled his 17-yearold daughter, be remanded in a correctional centre pending legal advice. The development emerged on a day a 45-yearold policewoman (name withheld) on Thursday narrated to an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court how a fellow police officer, Mohammed Alidu, allegedly defiled her nine-year-old daughter in a Police barracks. However, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that the police charged Adeleja, who lives on Afariogun Street, Oshodi,Lagos, with sexual assault and defilement. The Chief Magistrate, Olufunke Sule-Amzat, who did not take the plea of the defendant, ordered that he should be remanded in the Nigerian Correctional Service in Kirikiri. Sule-Amzat ordered the police to send the case file to the Lagos State Director of Public Prosecutions for advice and adjourned the case till February 2, 2020. Earlier, the prosecutor, ASP Benson Emuerhi, told the court that Adeleja committed the offence on November 2, around 11.44 pm. He alleged that Adeleja raped the girl while she was asleep. Emuerhi said the case was reported at the Area ‘F’ Police Command, Ikeja, by the girl’s mother and later transferred to the Gender Section, Ikeja Police Command. He said: “The offence contravenes the provisions of sections 35, 137 and 265 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State 2015.” Menwhile, The NAN reports that the policewoman was the second Prosecution Witness (PW2) in the trial of Alidu, a Police sergeant, for defilement. The PW2 was led in evidence by the Deputy-Director, Lagos State Directorate of Public Prosecutions, Mr. Akin George. She said the defendant accosted her daughter (name withheld) on her way home from school, dragged her into his apartment and defiled her.“We live at Makinde Barracks, Mafoluku, Oshodi, Lagos. On June 29, 2018, I was at work when my husband, who was out of Lagos, called me to inform me that Sgt. Mohammed had defiled our daughter. “I went to the police station which is within the same compound of the barracks, and my daughter was in the Police station. “My daughter told me that when she was coming back from school, Mohammed called her but she ignored him. “She said he forcefully took her to his apartment, put her on a bed, tore her underwear and defiled her,” she said. According to her, Mohammed was also at the Police station, begging and telling the Divisional Police Officer that it was the work of the devil.