T roops of ‘Operation Lafiya Dole,’ of the Nigerian Army, have handed over 983 cleared suspected Boko Haram members to the Borno State Government for onward rehabilitation and reintegration into the society.  While handing over the insurgents to the Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum at the Giwa Barracks, Maiduguri yesterday, the theatre Commander, Major General Olusegun Adeniyi said. “today’s ceremony is significant, not only to the people of Borno State but a step forward in our moves to defeat Boko Haram insurgency and restore peace in the northeast.”   He said: “These 983 cleared Boko Haram suspects have undergone joint interrogation and clearing process and when found to be free from Boko Haram activities, will be released.  Among them are 978 males, while five are females. We are handing them over to the Borno State government for rehabilitation and onward reintegration to their communities. The Operation Lafiya Dole is ready at any time of the day to receive any Boko Haram terrorist that is ready to disarm. Let Shekau and Al Barnawi die alone; their dream of having caliphate will never be actualised. I want to assure the government and the people of Borno State that the military will continue to carry out its mandate without inflicting harm on anybody. The Operation Lafiya Dole is always ready to release those in its detention, when found free from insurgents’ activities.   “I urge the Borno State Government to initiate a rehabilitation programme for them, where they will be train in different skills, such as carpentry, tailoring, welding, among others. So that they will be good members of the society as they go back to their families. The Operation Lafiya Dole is always ready to receive surrendered and repentant Boko Haran insurgents, so that peace will be restored to the region.  For those that are still in detention, they’ll still undergo same process, and if found that they have nothing to do with Boko Haram, will be cleared and released.”   The Borno State Governor, Zulum said: “I want to appreciate the military, Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and other sister security agencies, hunters and vigilantes for their sacrifices and tireless efforts to ensure peace is restored back to the northeast. Today’s occasion is significant because it will pave way for ending Boko Haram insurgency. Those willing to surrender and dialogue with government should do so. Government is ready to dialogue with then.  I urge the theatre commander to continue to clear and release more of those not found guilty. This occasion signals the beginning of peace in Borno State. These 983 released suspects are not members of Boko Haram, but suspected Boko Haram members, who were cleared. They should be accepted back into the society. The surrendered Boko Haram suspects are currently receiving de-radicalisation and training in Gombe State.”   Zulum noted that the Borno State Government through the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development will take the suspected Boko Haram members to Bulunkutu Rehabilitation Centre for rehabilitation, where they will be train in different skills. He promised that the Borno State Government will take good care of them.   He explained that the Borno State Government through the Federal Government Operation Safe Corridor was ready to dialogue with any member of the insurgents ready to surrender. One the insurgents said: “We thank the Borno State government for accepting us. The military has been taking good care of us. We thank the Army. In my three years in detention, they have been taking good care of us. We thank them.”