…says no basis for bill …Gov Bello vows to lobby senators to drop bill    F ormer Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida, yesterday, warned that nobody should attempt to muzzle the rights of Nigerians to express themselves, declaring that there was no basis for the Hate Speech Bill presently before the Senate.   Babangida gave the warning, when he received the National President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Christopher Isiguzo, who paid him a courtesy visit at his Minna Uphill residence.  The warning was on the heels of the vow by Niger State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, to ontinue to stand with the media so as to put to rest the Hate Speech and Social Media Regulation bills.  Both bills have drawn lots of criticisms since they were listed for deliberation at the parliament.  Babangida, who recalled that he advised against a similar bill, when it was presented before the 8th National Assembly, expressed surprise that the same bill has resurrected in the 9th Assembly.  His words: “I am surprised that this bill has resurfaced. There is no basis for this now. We are developing and we should be allowed to develop, if we make mistakes people can be cautioned.  “If somebody goes off the mark, you have the right to call him to say no we don’t want this. Unless people are able to express themselves, the government or those in authority will not know what is happening in the country.”  The former military ruler, who described the death penalty prescribed in the bill as “crude,” said the only reason for the bill could be that the sponsors want to show “eye service.”  “If somebody made hate speech and you put him in the gallows or shoot him, it is crude. It is not supposed to happen in the 21st century. It could have happened may be some 300 years ago, but not now. It sounds silly,” he said.  Babangida told his visitor that he will join the NUJ and other stakeholders in protesting against the passage of the bill.  “I am with you on this. I will also talk to those of us who could be in position to bring sanity to bear on some of these things,” he said.  He added that he had been following media publications on the forthcoming United States election, noting: “If we had their type of media, I think they should be jailing you all by now.”  Babangida credited himself with opening up the media space in the country. According him, even when some of his colleagues opposed his policy then, “today, the country is better for it.” He challenged the media in the country to remain “strong and focus on what Nigeria wants,” adding: “We can only succeed if we allow this freedom unfettered without death threat or N10 million.”  Governor Bello, who assured the media that he will reach out to the lawmakers in the National Assembly to drop the bill, said: “I will talk to my legislators; I will try to lobby them for you (the media). But the use of social media should be of great concern to us all.  “Most of the damages and havocs done are not by professional journalists, but by quacks. The media need to come out to highlight issues and join hands with government to stop hate speech.” Bello disclosed that the use of hate speech has done more harm than good to the nation. “How can somebody wake up and say Mr. President is dead? Is this thinkable? Even your enemy, you don’t wish him dead,” Bello said.  Earlier, Isiguzo had solicited the support of the former military president to intervene on the hate speech bill before the National Assembly.  The NUJ National president argued that there was need for the National Assembly to reconsider their stand and drop the controversial bills.  In the alternative, he urged the lawmakers to propose a bill that will improve the welfare of media practitioners in Nigeria. “This is not the best of times to practice journalism in Nigeria; this also is not the best time to clamp down on the media,” he said.  It could be recalled that the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, (APC, Niger North), proposed the Hate Speech Bill, while Senator Sani Musa (APC, Niger East), proposed the Social Media Regulation Bill. Meanwhile, protesters numbering over 200, also yesterday, stormed the National Assembly complex, to express their total rejection of the proposed Social Media and Hate Speech bills.  The protesters, who stormed the main entrance to the National Assembly complex as early as 9.am, demanded that the Senate should suspend the bills aimed at regulating social media in the country.  They also demanded the release of Omoyele Sowore, Abba Jalingo and others, who are currently being held by security agencies against court orders.  Co-convener of the protest, Henry Shield, told journalists that the aim of the protest was to express displeasure and reject the bills, noting that there are existing laws in Nigeria, which are appropriate for dealing with the issues raised in the bills.  Senators Uba Sani (APC, Kaduna Central) and Oseni Yakubu (APC Kogi Central), were delegated to address the protesters on behalf of the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, who was presiding over plenary as at the time of the protest.  Sani told the protesters that the bills would not be passed if they were eventually rejected by Nigerians during the public hearings.  He said: “We have heard your agitation; we believe it is a very important agitation, some of us in the Chamber have also been involved in the struggle for the enthronement of democracy in the country.  “The two bills in question are bills that were introduced by some of our colleagues. Some of us in the National Assembly, including the Senate President, would appear at the public hearing. Whatever Nigerians want is what the 9th Senate would do.   “The law is not about the 109 senators. It is about Nigerians. Democracy is about free speech, it is about rule of law; that is why their voices are extremely important. “That is why we believe that your agitation is valid and also in the best interest of our own county. We are going to certainly work with you on the day of the public hearing.   “I have no doubt in my mind that if Nigerians don’t want these bills, even though they are being sponsored by our colleagues, certainly it won’t escape the public hearing. I can assure you we are going to do whatever is in the best interest of our country.   “We are aware of Section 24 of the Cybercrime Act and some of us are on the same page with these agitations. We are not guided by any political affiliation. We are guided by the law and concerned about the progress of our country.”   Also speaking, Senator Yakubu declared that no single bill would be passed by the Senate without a public hearing, where opinions of Nigerians would be considered.   “No single bill will pass without public hearing. We are here to make laws for Nigerians not for the Senate. We are all here to protect the interests of Nigerians,” he said. The protest, however witnessed an ugly incident, when a policeman, Adiogu Enyinnaya, assaulted and seized the camera of a journalist with Roots Television, Tosin Busayo.   The police officer said Busayo’s offence was that he was filming his colleague, who was trying to prevent the protesters from gaining entrance into the National Assembly Complex.  Enyinnaya, who led the police cordon had whipped the journalist with his baton, and forcefully took his camera, asking, “why would you be filming the policemen?” It took a combination of pleading and protest by other reporters before the police officer released the camera.