Residents of Umuola Ukpulo Autonomous Community, off Dubic road, Ogbor-Hill Aba, Abia State, are presently scared as erosion continues to carve up the community, threatening their homes and farmlands. Property owners are the worst hit; especially those at Chief Nwangwa Street in Umuola Okpulo. Residents and property owners have blamed persistent rainfall and improper channelling of water for the pathetic situation. The popular Chief Nwangwa Street that adjoins Dubic Street to the Seven Up Bottling Company, Ogbor-Hill, has been become one of the most frightening gully erosion sites in the state. One of the residents said: “We have made every effort, both individually and on a communal level to arrest the erosion, but the situation has overpowered our collective efforts. The situation is also threatening to consume us as a community.” According to them, they had written to the Governor of Abia State, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, Senator representing Abia South, Enyinnaya Abaribe, member representing Aba-North and Aba-South Federal Constituency, Hon. Ossy Prestige and member representing Aba-Central State Constituency, Hon. Abraham Oba, but help has not come. A retired civil servant, elder Nnanna Ubani-Okiyi, whose building is almost on the verge of collapse at Chief Nwangwa Street, lamented that he lives in fear every day. He said: “All I made during my active years as civil servant were pooled together to build a home for my family and I. Now, the building is about to be swept away by an avoidable disaster. Every morning, I fear to listen to weather forecast. Whenever it rains, I fear the worst. I’m not a happy man. Every night I come out to pray and beg God to seize the heavens. The rains ought to be a blessing, but it’s a curse to me and my neighbours. This place was not a disaster zone like this. The signs started appearing in 2012, but it wasn’t as terrible as this. As individuals, we’ve tried to help our situation. When we saw we couldn’t handle it, we started writing to our leaders. We’ve even written to the Ministry on several occasions and they’ve also come here, but they have not done anything.” We are begging them to save us from becoming homeless. Even the Abia State/Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project (AB-NEWMAP) has been here, but we’ve not received any assistance from them.” Mr Okezie Okpo, a poultry farmer, lamented that the erosion has swept away the front entrance of both his home and his farm. Okpo, who said he now enters his home through the bush path, added that he couldn’t move out his eggs to the market without losing many. He said: “I’m a farmer, I rear chickens. We’ve done everything humanly possible about this erosion, but we’ve achieved absolutely nothing. We’ve written to every concerned authority. Recently, we wrote to the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, but we’re yet to hear from them. The Abia State Ministry of Environment said that our situation had gone past palliative. He directed us to ABIA-NEWMAP, who acknowledged our letter. We’ve even written to National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to come to our aide. I can only enter my house through the bush path. I can’t even sell my eggs because anytime I’m moving eggs through the bush, most get shattered. Personally, I suffered to achieve what I have here so that my old age will not be full of suffering, but I’m suffering now.” Mr Ahamefuna Eneboha, another victim said his family’s house was almost swept away. “It has taken down our first fence and swept half of our compound away, which made us to erect a new fence. And even now, the erosion is threatening the new fence. It’s even about to take away our source of water. Honestly, we don’t know what to do anymore. The recent one that swept our fence happened about five months ago. And if the rain continues in the next five months, nobody will be in this area.” All efforts made to reach the State Commissioner for Environment, Dr Solomon Ogunji, failed as he didn’t pick his calls or replied text messages sent to him. When our reporter contacted the Commissioner for Information to know government stand on the matter, the Commissioner, Chief John Okiyi-Kalu, urged the residents to write another letter and attach their last letter to the Commissioner for Environment, copy both him and the Abia NEWMAP Programmes Manager. He said that he hoped refreshing the memory of government about the matter would bring the desired results.