 A gainst the backdrop of Nigerian’s complain against alleged and violent and indecent activities of members of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the Motor parks and at bus stops in Lagos and many other parts of the country, the President of Chartered Institute of Transport Administration (CIoTA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh has said that all those bad behaviours will fizzle out with time.   Dr. Jamoh said this while fielding questions at a press conference on Friday in Lagos to intimate the Nigerian public of the forthcoming CIoTA 2019 national transport summit/Annual General Meeting holding in Abuja from December 3-5, 2019.   He said since the CIoTA Nigeria Bill was signed into law by President Muhammdu Buhari in June, members of NURTW have being coming forward to register as members of the institute. “With our professional training and retraining programmes line up for members and stated rules and standards of operation, the members cannot act otherwise while on the job. So those wrong things Nigerians complain about NURTW members will gradually fizzle out with time,” he said.   He disclosed that the CIoTA 2019 is in line with his promise during his investiture as the president of the institute in February this year. “I noted that the creation of the institute will further help proffer solutions to the challenges facing the transportation sector in Nigeria, and also augment government’s effort in that direction. We promised that we will work with relevant bodies and associations to ensure the realization of an efficient transport sector.   “We also stated then that the institute will come up with programmes and create a platform where all transport-related bodies would come together to brainstorm and share ideas with the relevant authorities for the development of the sector.   “It is in fulfillment of this promise that CIoTA Nigeria is organising the 2019 National Transport Summit/Annual General Meeting with the theme, ‘Unlocking the Potentials of Transportation for Sustainable Development.”   Dr Jamoh said the aim of the summit is to push for policies that will enable seamless integration of the different modes of transportation in the country, saying renowned experts like the Chairman of Presidential Economic Council, Dr. Doyin Salami and co-founder of the Lagos Business School, now Pan African University; Prof Pat Utomi will be making presentations at the summit.  According to him, issues that will be discussed at the summit, include how best “we can get the needed value in the transport sector supply chain.”   He said also to be brought at the front burner is the Apapa gridlock that has caused the entire Apapa community untold hardship “because of the concentration on Lagos ports is quite voluminous. On our part as a body, we will be pushing for the use of other ports in the south-east and south-south region of the country, so that the Lagos ports are decongested.”