Heritage Bank Plc has partnered with a non-governmental organization, Prime Women Builders Foundation of Nigeria (PWOBFON), to provide skills training to over 2000 female entrepreneurs, the lender has announced. At the graduation/certificate award ceremonies held at  Ikeja Local Government headquarters over the weekend, the MD/CEO of Heritage Bank, Ifie Sekibo, said the bank was keen in cultivating real partnerships with Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Sekibo, who was represented by the bank’s Head, Brand Management & Sustainability, Ozena Uturu, explained that the lender was interested in initiatives that encourage people to start their own businesses and gradually grow them into conglomerates. According to him, the partnership with PWOBFON is vital in many ways particularly in the area of  job creation, economic empowerment and financial inclusion. He said:  “Apart from skills training, the women have been told the importance of record keeping in business, savings culture and the benefits of having bank accounts as a gateway to accessing other financial services.” Also speaking, President/Convener, Prime Women Builders Foundation of Nigeria, Kemi Olofinkua, commended the bank for its support, and urged other corporate organisations to take a cue from the lender in supporting grassroots women empowerment. She explained that through the support of  Heritage Bank and Ikeja Local Government, the women, based on their choices, had been equipped with 15 vocational skills covering event decoration, small chops making, baking, pastries, bead making, computer training , soap making, makeup, tailoring, digital marketing, photography, hairdressing among others. According to Olofinkua, the training is important because when women are positively occupied, the level of poverty will reduce and great achievements will be recorded not only on the home front, but on several sectors of “our national life.” “Heritage Bank has been very supportive and our desire is to see participants of PWOBFON Empowerment Day, doing great in their various vocations. Each and every one of us must deliberately find something to occupy us and bring good profit. There are lots of vocations that each and every one of us can excel in; so that we will not be frustrated along the part of life,” Olofinkua stated. The Executive Chairman, Ikeja Local Government, Dr. Mojeed Alabi Balogun, represented by his vice, Yomi Mayungba, said the local government was interested in the initiative because it is in line with its grassroots skills training programme as this is a way of keeping not only women, but men also out of the streets.