Former Provost Marshal of the Nigerian Army, Brigadier General Ikponmwen Don Idada (rtd) in this interview, speaks on Federal Government’s closure of the nation’s borders and other national issues. CAJETAN MMUTA reports   There has been mixed reactions over the Federal Government’s closure of the country’s borders, especially, as it concerns the plight of the masses in the face of hike in prices of goods. What is your take on that?   I definitely feel the concern and worries of the present administration as regards to the very negative effects of cross border crimes, smuggling of goods, smuggling of fuel and other crimes. I feel the concern of the government and I know the danger that any form of smuggling that is not checked can cause to the wellbeing and interest of any nation. There is no doubt that petroleum products made for consumption in Nigeria, which are heavily subsidized are ending up in neighbouring countries whereas those neigbhours are getting the fuel cheaper than they would otherwise get it in their own countries because our government is paying for the subsidy. The effect is definitely bad for our government.   Again, the way we man our borders have direct bearing with promotion or sustenance of crimes; illegal movement of criminally minded people, illegal movement of arms and ammunitions, especially, small arms that are easy to hide and pass through borders. But there are also very fundamental issues that everybody must consider in coming out with policies about how to man and whether to close or open our borders. I think that the interest of the average person is paramount in any society. Granted that the Customs authorities or maybe even finance departments or statistics have said that Nigeria as a country is getting more money into our purse following the closure of our borders, but the question is: Where does that take us if the average Nigerian, the suffering masses, the underprivileged Nigerians are now paying more than 50 per cent for food commodities like rice?   So, you think that government’s action was not in the interest of the masses?   What good is it for government to amass money yet it does not impact on the people? I think the interest of the people is paramount and therefore government’s attention must be, firstly, to address the problem of the people. How can they sustain their lives, how can they eat, how can they move in the manner that is affordable? Having said this, I believe that what the Nigerian government needs to do is to have effective management, control, policing of our borders and these are jobs that are primarily meant for law enforcement bodies, principally, Customs and Immigration. There are other security agents that are also supposed to render assistance.   Our problem is to have efficient machinery for checking smuggling, to have effective machinery to ensuring proper passage of human beings that do not have criminal intentions, to ensure that weapons, especially, small arms do not pass through our borders unnoticed. These are responsibilities for the executive arm of government whose duties are clearly written in our laws. What we are seeing in Nigeria is failure of these organizations, ineptitude, corruption, incompetence in the management of our border security and this situation is worsened by the fact that our borders are porous and you cannot treat anyone in isolation; corruption, porosity and others.   Our borders in Nigeria are principally porous whether in the South or North, but worse in the North. As a member of the Vision 20;2020 and as a member of the 2014 National Conference, and in both cases, I was a member of the Security Thematic Group, we identified clearly that the porous level of our borders were inexcusable and unpardonable and we cannot expect security for anything if these porosities do not change. Nigeria has failed to create more organs to correct these border challenges. Unlike what we have in other countries, where several organs are created to man the borders, both land and water, what we have in Nigeria is compromise upon compromise.   If the security agencies are not doing the right thing, government should have the will to ensure that the proper things are done. Bearing in mind the global trend of regional cooperation, regional integration, like those of ECOWAS and African Union (AU) that we have embraced; closure of borders as we are doing today negates all the beautiful concepts of regional and sub-regional integrations. I think that border closure is not the answer, but a clear demonstration of incompetence in governance.   How would you react to various military operations such as positive identification, crocodile smile, python dance and others, which authorities say are aimed at ensuring security of the nation?   My aim is not to rubbish anybody, but like we always say, great minds discuss issues, small minds discuss persons. I will tell you that I know our President as a military commander, I knew him as a Brigade Commander, I knew him as a Divisional Commander, I knew him as Military Head of State and in these capacities, I worked with him, I worked for him. So, I can tell you that basically, I cannot deny the President of the good intentions that he has for Nigeria.   Many say people change, things change, scenarios change, but I still want to believe that the Buhari I know is a man, who has always wanted the best for Nigeria and so the things he do still point to that even now. But, we all know that nobody is perfect and there is a lot about leadership. Some people say there are no bad leaders, but bad advisers, so I think generally that we can do better. The problems we have did not start with the present administration.   In fact, I have found it difficult to see any difference between the regimes that were supposed to be short-lived and curative and now the civilian administrations that have succeeded like from that of Olusegun Obasanjo to Umaru Yar’Adua, Goodluck Jonathan and Muhammadu Buhari. I haven’t seen much difference because we have really not moved away from dictatorship, we have not moved away from authority flowing from the centre, which is typical of the military, a situation, where we have a military that is subordinated to the political leadership. The problem there is that if the political leadership lacks the will, lacks the knowledge to do what is desirable to improve society, what do you expect of a military system under them that have been so well trained? They take the shine off the political leadership and that is why you see today that the military and security remain in Nigeria the most vocal and most prominent. It is the security group that will say yes we are ready for election or the environment is not ready; it is the military that will say Nigeria is at war even, when government has not declared war. Our constitution requires that there should be a declaration of war before you embark on a war.  What is the implication of allowing the military to dictate the pace?   Although one cannot even blame them because when you have terrorism, you have insurgency, you have banditry, you have militancy in the Niger Delta, Nigeria is at war in quotes, and if Nigeria is at war, war standards will hold, But, my question is: If Nigeria is at war, why do we pretend to be in a civilian democracy under the rule of law? Rule of law and democratic principles and rules of fundamental human rights are inconsistent, martial law means a departure from the norm under a civil administration to resorting to military administration. So, which one are we having in Nigeria?   It is against this background that you must understand the psyche of a military man, who has been well trained. They know the difference between our old order before we embraced the American system and what it is today, when we are a country under serious democracy, but because of the environment they found themselves and because government has no other source of legitimacy to sustain that legitimacy under the force of arms, government pushes   the military forward to talk and to create the environment of war and inevitability of military measures.   In sections 217 (1), then Section 305, the military cannot be brought in to any restoration of law and order unless there is a proclamation and unless such proclamation has been approved by the National Assembly. So, if we have conformed with the constitution, it then means we are ruling according to the rule of law and according to the constitution which says that before the military comes into operation, it must be by the express permission of the president, who must have had the approval of the National Assembly.   Are there no other means of checking identification; the banks, the Police, the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and Department of State Services (DSS)? Are all these bodies not to act in synergy without involving the military? We are saying that the army should not be desecrated or demystified by being dragged into jobs that are not theirs. If all these arms of government are working properly together, do you need to drag the army to a situation where they are seen to be the one oppressing people, where they are seen as the one going out of their constitutional duties?   Do you want our military, which is the last hope in security to be our first leg in the fight against insecurity? The military must be advised to stick to their visible and clear roles as spelt out in our constitution; sections 217 and 305. The resort to the military is the last resort; it is when all the other resorts have failed.   What can you make out of the recent debates that President Buhari did not transmit power to his vice, when he travelled abroad?   On this matter, I will not spare too many words. There is no person who is endowed with God’s own intelligence, who is endowed with all the gains that you get from leadership and who will not know that there should be no in our system. Nigeria has a territory and our system is supposed to work in the main on our territory. So, what we are seeing is a repetition of what happened during Yar’Adua’s time.   We are all living memories to that. He was sick and he left and no handover and unfortunately, he passed on and he was more or less smuggled into the country and everything was painted to be in order until it became irreconcilable and the National Assembly in its constitutional process even went to the extent of providing that such situation should never arise again, that when the president is not around, somebody should act. It is embedded in the 1999 constitution, which is what we are still using today. So, quite frankly, there is no excusable reason for failure to transmit power properly in line with the letters and spirit of our constitution, but like I said before, there are no bad leaders but bad advisers.