…as reps stop project, commence investigation •Customs does not need AFC $300m investment –Alagbaoso   In this report, PAUL OGBUOKIRI ex-rays the new Customs modernisation plan, tagged: ‘E Customs Projects,’ already approved by the presidency. He concludes that the move is needless as the Nigeria Customs Service is modernised, adding that the wild goose chase will cost Nigeria over N300 billion savings in the 1 per cent Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme (CISS) fund  Controversy of over 20-year concession of Nigeria Customs Service, tagged ‘E Customs Projects’   As controversy trails the reported move by forces in the presidency to concession the Nigeria Customs Service to the private sector for 20 years, a document sighted at the weekend by our correspondent  titled, Re: Presidential Initiatives  on Customs  Modernisation: “E-Customs  Project”(Establishment  of  a Digital /Paperless  Customs  Administration) and other Matters,  indicate that the presidency has approved the  engagement  of  a consortium comprising Bionica  Technologies  West  Africa,  Bergan  Security  Consultants & Supplies,  Africa Finance Cooperation (AFC) and Huawei to establish a project special  purpose  vehicle to  enter  into the 20-year  concession arrangement with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS)  and the  Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC).   Sunday Telegraph learnt that  the selection  of  this  consortium  was not  advertised  and  no  tender was  issued  for  the selection  of  the  best  companies.  It was further learnt that the  process  was  not  made  transparent  and  the  current contract  holders in the ongoing transformation and modernisation of NCS  were never given  an  opportunity  to  bid.   This is even as it was disclosed that the  supposed  partners  within  the  consortium  do  not  have  any  discernible experience  to  warrant  their  inclusion  in  such  a  huge  and  sensitive  endeavour.   A search on Huawei,  the  technical  partner, showed that it has  never  implemented,  anywhere  in  the  world,  an  automated system  for  Customs  and  has  no  experience  in  the  Customs  environment. Chief Jerry Igbokwe, a maritime lawyer, described the plan as a major  risk to the Nigerian economy  as NCS  plays  a  vital  role  in  revenue  collection  for  the  Federal Government of Nigeria.   Recall that the security  debate around  Huawei is  not  new,  although  it  has  intensified  in  recent  months.  Huawei  is  considered  by many governments to be a surrogate for the Government of the People’s  Republic  of  China. US security  forces  have  warned that Huawei equipment  could  be  used  to  create  a  “backdoor”  into foreign  mobile  and  data  networks.   According to Chief Igbokwe, having  such  a  company  monitoring  all  trade  transaction  in Nigeria  could  be  a  major  issue.   He noted that granting  of  a  20-year  concession  “in  a  non-tendered  and  non-transparent process  seems  precisely  to  be  the  type  of  business  model  that  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria has been trying  to move  away from.” Modernising of Customs since 2013 led to NICIS 11  On October 10, 2019, Hon. Jerry Alagbaoso, Chairman of House of Representatives Committee on Public Petitions, in a motion, raised the alarm over the plan to introduce a fresh modernisation programme for the Nigeria Customs Service even as the agency has been modernising since 2013.   He urged the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, to cause an investigation to commence into the deal.   He said: “There are some foreign companies who are very eager to sponsor, finance and provide technical services to what they call the modernisation of Customs, without recourse to the National Assembly. “My motion is the need to investigate the curious concession proposed arrangement between the consortium Bionica Technologies West Africa Limited, who are the sponsors; Bergan Security Consultants and Supplies, who are co sponsors, African Finance Corporation, who are lead financiers and Huawei, Nigeria Customs Service and Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) for Customs modernisation project.   “The House is aware of various Customs modernisation projects in the past. For example in the 90s, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) for the installation of ASYCUDA++ and training of Customs officers for three years. “The House is also aware that the Federal Government agreed to engage former pre shipment companies for valuation and classification of goods, hence, some service providers namely Webbfontaine, Cotecna, SGS and Globalscan were engaged for that purpose. “This contract was to last for seven years, from 2005 to 2012 when the service providers handed over to Nigeria Customs Service.   “By 2011, one could say the positive effects of this included competent and committed workforce for Nigeria Customs Service, personnel understanding of the new process and benefits to stakeholders.   “It resulted to collection of proper revenue due, elimination of corruption and other benefits. The House notes that with these put in place, there exist a one stop shop which allows all trade transactions to be conducted through a single system domiciled with the Customs “For example, all other government agencies like NAFDAC, SON and the rest have dissolved into a single platform with the Nigeria Customs Service,” he said. He noted that in 2011, there was an illegal concession between the Federal Ministry of Finance and a company with inadequate capital base called Single Window System and Technologies, signed in secrecy during the government transition period of which the House of Representatives had a Public Hearing and stopped it to save Nigeria billions of Naira vide the votes of Wednesday, July 13, 2011. According to him, in 2017 another move for Customs modernisation was made by the Technical Committee on the Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme, purported to be acting on behalf of the Federal Government called Adani Systems Nigeria Limited, to modernise, maintain, develop the scanning of goods in the country in line with the pre shipment inspection act for a period of 25 years. “Again the attention of Controller General of Nigeria Customs Service was drawn to this and the concession was stopped.   “Curious that in September 2019, another concession, which will last for 20 years (that is the subject matter now) is being suggested to Nigeria Customs Service, Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission, Federal Ministry of Finance, Federal Ministry of Budget and Planning, Federal Ministry of Justice and this agreement is for pro-rata sharing of one per cent CISS and a needless $300 million investment.   Meanwhile, Sunday Telegraph learnt that the implementation of Nigerian Integrated Customs Information System (NICIS) II, adopted by the Nigerian Customs Service for trade facilitation and tariff processing has built a robust Customs System for Nigeria. NICIS  II, our correspondent learnt, links around  a  paperless  platform of various organisations like CBN, FMF, SON, NAFDAC, NIACOM Insurance Certificate,  NAQS,  MLSN,  NSA  and  FIRS,  commercial  banks  and  more  than  3000  private  sector companies (Importers,  Shipping  lines,  Airlines,  Clearing  agents).   Having exceeded the N1 trillion mark in revenue since 2017, NCS in October alone, collected over N115 billion and in the first nine months of this year has collected over N1.05trillion. Experts in Customs operations say the revenue continues to increase  despite  the  closure  of  the Nation’s land  borders, because  the  electronic  payment of duties and taxes has secured revenue collection and removed opportunities  for  fraud.   Our correspondent also learnt that clearance  time  is  also  drastically  reducing  for  revenue  collection  and electronic  certificates,  leading  to  better  turnaround  time  and  therefore  many  more  revenue cycles. House investigates, suspends concession   Sequel to the Hon. Alagbaoso’s motion, the House passed Resolution No. HR 132/10/2019 mandating its Joint Committee on Finance, Customs and Petitions to investigate the contract. The resolution further read: Pursuant to Section 88 (1) (a) and (b) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) which confers on the National Assembly power to conduct investigations, the Joint Committee urged the different parties involved to maintain the status-quo-ante pending the outcome of the investigation   Alagbaoso had in the motion expressed worry that the over N300 billion believed to have accumulated in the CISS fund between 2012 and 2019, will be frittered away. He said he is further worried that there is no difference in substance, scope and structure between the failed concession attempts of 2011, 2017 and this 2019. He added that there is already a national single window platform in the Nigeria Customs Service and officers of the service are performing beyond expectations, collecting duties in billions of naira on daily basis.   The House further resolved to mandate the Committee on finance, Customs , public petitions, committee on agreements to expose the foreign and local collaborators involved in this project either as sponsors, co sponsors, financiers and others.   Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) could not be reached at the time of going to press, to comment on their involvement in the deal as several calls put across to Mr. Chidi Iwuwah, Director General of the agency were not answered. Last line   A maritime expert and president of Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents, Mr. Lucky Amiwero, said changing  such  a  complex  Customs  system  as NICIS 11 that has cost the country billion and has repositioned the Service, to  an  untested  IT  system  that  has  never  been implemented  in  a  big  country  might  have  an  impact  on  the  revenue  collected  by  NCS  and  could have  a serious impact on the  ability of importing  and  exporting  for  several months.  