Cancer is responsible for 72,000 deaths in Nigeria every year, with an estimated 102,000 new cases of cancer annually. Late presentation, poor adherence to treatment, out-of-pocket payment for care, denial are some of the factors driving the high death rate of  cancer patients in the country. In this interview, a Haematology Oncologist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Prof.  Edamisan Temiye called for regular cancer screening, saying early detection and treatment could improve treatment outcome as well as turn the tide in cancer care. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  A lot of people don’t know that children have cancer. How is it possible? It is very possible that children could have cancer even a new born baby. So, cancer could occur from the womb to the tomb; from the youngest to the oldest. Although, cancer is common in adults it also occurs in children. Challenges of treating cancer What makes the treatment of cancer to be challenging is the huge cost of treatment and the length of time it could take to manage the ailment. In some cancer you treat them for up to three years before it can stop; the shortest most time are six to nine months are due to intensive treatment and on expenses, it is very expensive to treat cancer. In our environment where poverty is prevalent, many family’s  cannot pay or afford to pay for the treatment of cancer. Even those who can afford it, at the end of the treatment they become poor and so we need a lot of support for those families managing the ailment for their relations. In most development countries , most  families affected by cancer don’t bear the cost of cancer treatment because it is enormous and we need to change that  in Nigeria so that more people can be treated and so that we can get expected result that could be obtained in other parts  of the world. How do we change our ways? One of the things we do is that we waste a lot of money on unnecessary things like throwing parties for our grand-fathers that are dead before we are known. We also waste millions of naira on it; we buy fleets of cars and you could also find some individuals building fifty houses. Then you wonder what they want to do with it when they are not meant for businesses. In developed countries you see people donating freely to the care of the less privileged; whereas, it is a challenge in Nigeria. In fact, some of our companies that are expected to be doing cooperate social responsibilities (CSR) prefer to sponsor dancing competition than to support those who are in need of treatment. They will say that they won’t be seen. they forget that  cooperate social responsivity is taken care of by that tax collectors but that is not what they want.  They want to be seen, hence, they organised 20 dancing competitions in Lagos that is what they are interested in and it is very sad Can a person be free from cancer for life? After treatment, children especially can be free from cancer for life. There are a lot of children treated aboard where they have a lot of record. So, after treatment these children are contributing to the society effectively and to the economy of the society. Therefore, cancer can be treated, cured while the person lives normal life . So how available is cancer treatment centres in Nigeria? There are few centres that are treating cancer in Nigeria and those centres are expected to be properly equipped. However, cancer cantres are not still properly equipped; there are few centres that have treated cancer successfully. Many of the teaching hospitals are engaged in cancer treatment for adults and some for children. For example the  Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) is providing cancer treatment for children while the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH) is providing cancer treatment for children. Similarly, the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital is doing the same for children. Assessment of cancer treatment outcome Well, we are doing our best to the extent that some of the cancers can be treated in Nigeria. We are also joining others cancer treatment centres in the world to gain more experience in managing cancer. So far, more children that go through treatment in the country are surviving cancer How can we possibly prevent cancer in children since prevention is better than cure? Prevention is better than cure. However, cancer is mainly common in children or adult and the best solution is to continue to screen for cancer in both adult and children. For example there are some cancers that you can easily detect early. So, when cancer is detected early, it is easier to cure than when it is discovered late. For example the cancer of the eyes that we called intraocular melanoma in children is highly preventable. A common symptom of this particular cancer is the observation of a light reflection shining in eyes of affected children within the age range of one year to two-year. When this is observed in any child, parents and caregivers are advised to visit an oncologist, who is the best medical specialist to make a diagnosis at that time and then collaborate with other health care providers. Cancer cannot be treated by a doctor, but a group of doctors. When someone sees a swelling, the fact that the swelling isn’t painful doesn’t mean it is not dangerous. That person should approach a doctor who will be able to diagnose and state whether this swelling is dangerous or not. Those swellings that develop suddenly can cause cancer. These swellings usually develop slowly and not painful initially but when it becomes painful the cancers have spread.