Last Thursday, the tempo of activities at the Lagos State Secretariat, Alausa was unusually high as Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, honoured 1,000 public servants who have spent over 30 years in the service of the state. MURITALA AYINLA reports   F or hundreds of workers, friends, relatives and well-wishers who graced the 2019 Lagos State Long Service Awards last Thursday,  the  day was indeed what the Lord has chosen to rejoice and felicitate with the awardees  who were recognized for dedicating over 30 years of their lives to the service of the state. They were so honoured for over three decades of active service to the development of the state.   According to the state government and other analysts, the 1000 award recipients played an active role in the development of Lagos State such that whatever Lagos State must have attained in the last 30 years or more, the award recipients played  a key role in the making of Lagos as the economic hub of the country and fastest growing mega city.  They were one way or the other involved and helped in the implementation of the Lagos developmental blue print in the military and civilian government. Hence, the story of Lagos development cannot be told without the input of the awardees.   Among those honoured by Governor Sanwo-Olu were 17 serving permanent secretaries who have spent between 30-34 years in the service, the Clerk of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Director of the Public Affairs Unit in the Lagos State Ministry of Budget and Economy Planning, Mrs  Olowu Adekoya-Olubunmi, her counterpart in the state Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs,  Mrs Olufuwa Olabisi and other categories of workers who have dedicated over 3 decades of their lives to the state public service. As early as 8:30am, hundreds of dignitaries comprising the awardees, relatives and friends had filled the expansive, well decorated and lit hall.  They all appeared radiant in their elegant attire, accompanied by their spouses who came from far and wide to rejoice with them. It was indeed a gathering of Thanksgivings for many of the awardees as not all who took appointments with them were still alive or still in active service.   Speaking at the colourful event, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who congratulated the celebrators, said that his administration would always recognize and reward diligence and commitment to the service. He said over 3o years in the service of the state deserve accolades and special recognition. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary of State Government, Mrs Folahade Jaji said that his administration remains committed to the payment of N30,000 new minimum wage, urging workers in the state to key into his T.H.E.M.E.S agenda to take the state to a greater height. Explaining the rationale for the award, the state’s Head of Service, Mr Hakeem Muri-Okunola said that the recognition  would further encourage diligence, commitment and loyalty  among public servants  in Lagos State. He added that the award would spur them to continue  to put their best in the service  of the state, adding that the award was a mark of honour to distinguished them among the state workforce. He said: “I congratulate and rejoice with the 1,000 proud recipients of today’s awards and their relations here present  not only for the grace of God which saw them through the  last 30 years  in the service of our dear state in good health but also for their dedication, diligence, loyalty  and invaluable  contribution  to the public service.   Muri-Okunola appealed to the workers to keep up their good attitude to work and continually perform their jobs roles to further align with the 6-pillar agenda of the state government, urging them to familiarize and key into the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda which he likened to the mission and vision statement of the state government. “My advice to all the awardees is that you should  not rest on your oars but must continue to exhibit  a high sense of  responsibility, commitment to duty  and unalloyed loyalty  which today’s recognition and celebration are designed to reward,” the HOS said. Speaking, one of the awardees, Mrs Olowu said she would remain grateful to God Almighty for the gift of life, health and unblemished records in the service, saying that she would continue to give her best to the service of the state. “To God be the glory, I will always thank God for the gift of life. It is by  His grace that we are alive to witness today. We are not better in the sight of Almighty than those that are not here today. To God be the glory!”   On her part, Mrs Olufuwa, who was Chief Press Secretary to the former First Lady, Senator  Oluremi Tinubu, said that the award a gains of years of dedication and commitment to service, saying that he would remain grateful to Almighty God for counting him among the recipients.    Also speaking, the Permanent Secretary of Local and Chieftaincy Affairs,  Dr. Taiwo Salaam, described the whole gamut  of service and  recognition as God’s uncommon gift that he would always cherished. “Spending 33 years in the service is not a child’s play, it takes the grace of God to be alive.  I can only give thanks to Almighty Allah for keeping this long in the service and  sparing my life to witness this in good health. Within three decades, a lot has happened, but we remain grateful to the Almighty God. “