…insists Nigeria can’t continue to subsidize W’Africa   T he Federal Government has confirmed that the closure of the nation’s borders along the corridors of Benin Republic and Niger has resulted in rising inflation in the country.  Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, who disclosed this after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari said despite the rising inflation, the benefits of the closure far outweighs the consequences.   Ahmed explained that the measure taken by the closure of the borders is temporary, while the Federal Government expects the neighbouring countries to respect the  ECOWAS protocols if the action must be relaxed. Nigeria’s annual inflation rate was said to have increased to 11.61 per cent in October 2019 from 11.24 per cent in the previous month, reaching the highest since May of 2018.  The prices rose mainly on food items. Briefing State House Correspondents after the FEC meeting, Ahmed said: “On inflation, headline inflation declined every month for several months before we noticed an uptake in the last two months. “The country’s headline inflation is at about 11:61 per cent as at the end of October.”  According to the Finance Minister, “The slight increase in this inflation between September and October is due to food inflation. The food inflation we are ascribing to prices of cereals, rice and fish, and part of the reason is the border closure.   “But the border closure is very short and temporary and the increase is just about two basic points. Remember there was a time inflation was nine per cent and it grew to about 18 per cent in January 2017 when we were in recession.   “The relationship between inflation, interest rates and growth is managed by the monetary authorities and is a management that is tracked on a regular basis.  So, if you reduce interest rate, you expect more borrowing for investments in the real sector. But at the same time, that also has the tendency of reducing money that is used for consumption on a day-to-day basis.  “So, it’s a balance that we continue to watch on a regular basis. We expect that this will be moderated as border closure impact fizzles out and also as the monetary authorities continue to support the MPR rate, therefore ensuring that interest rates are not on the high side,” she added.  The minister added that: “I need to remind us that the border closure is temporary. We have really advanced in our discussions between ourselves and our neighbours. We expect that the outcomes of those discussions and agreements is that each party will respect the protocols that we all committed to and then the borders will be open again.  “What we are doing is important for our economy. We signed up to the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement, we have to make sure that we put in place checks to make sure that our economy will not be overrun as a result of the coming into effect of the AfCFTA.  “That is why we have this border closure to return to the discipline of respecting the protocols that we all committed to.”   Also speaking on the border closure, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, further explained that the border closure was necessary as Nigeria could not afford to continue to subsidize West Africa.   He said: “You see, the issue of border closure and I think it will be quite misleading and will not serve the real purpose if our headlines tomorrow is that inflation is as a   result of border closure.   “The border closure, frankly speaking, is what we needed to do and we had to do it. We cannot continue to subsidize the rest of West Africa. And the benefits for border closure for me, I think far surpass the very little increase in inflation. “We have been able to save about 30 per cent from our fuel consumption which means that over time, we have been subsidizing the fuel consumption of other countries.   “Within the last three months, we have been able to increase by 15 per cent duties collected from import. Within the same period and this is very important, we have been able to drastically reduce the volumes of arms and ammunition that have been coming into the country through smuggling, ditto with illicit drugs.”   Mohammed said the neighbouring countries must respect protocol on transit. He said: “All Nigeria is saying is, please let’s respect the protocol on transit. ECOWAS sets up a protocol on transit goods which is very simple. If a container meant for Nigeria is dropped in Cotonou, the authorities in Benin Republic should escort the container to customs in Seme border, and that way, proper duty will be levied and will be paid.   “The protocol said, you cannot break the seal, you cannot open the container. But what has been happening over the years is that our neighbours will translate the container, put about five containers on one truck and drive it to the border as if it is only one container that they are going to pay duties on.   “Worse still, less than 50 per cent of what is meant for Nigeria will come through the approved border.   “So, what we have done, and it has maximum effect, is ask our neighbours to respect the protocol on transit. If they do that, the borders will be open. But you cannot continue to play the big brother at the expense of national security and our national economy,” Mohammed noted.   