 I was penultimate week deeply enriched and overfed with myriad of scientific knowledge and researches by the physical presence of countless erudite scholars loaded with unequalled intellectual prowess. The aforementioned remarkable and epochal moment wasn’t unconnected with the 42nd Annual Conference of the revered Nigerian Institute of Physics (NIP) that graciously held in the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO), Imo State. The well-celebrated annual ritual, which occurred precisely between 18th and 22nd November, 2019, was unarguably awesome and historic, to assert the least. Frankly, space and time won’t permit me to holistically x-ray the flurry of observations rightly captured by my person, hence the need to resort to summary.   The experience, as mentioned above, could be attested to by anyone – particularly scientist – who was physically present at that occasion that saw the eminent presence of individuals of note. Less I digress, by being carried away by my present mood, it would be very pertinent to reveal and review the picture of the entire activity that remarkably took place at the gathering of elites. The week-long event whose theme was “Physics in Manufacturing for National Development, Poverty Alleviation and Future Innovations”, was tactically divided into three major sessions namely: the Induction of new members cum Fellows of the Institute (NIP), keynote addresses and presentations as well as the technical segment, which respectively happened in different days.   However, it’s worthy of note to acknowledge that the intellectual ritual was aptly heralded by the unalloyed preparatory contribution and inputs of the Local Organizing Committee (LOC) ably and competently headed by a distinguished female physicist, Prof. (Mrs.) C. A. Madu who is presently the Head of the Physics Department in FUTO.   Being privileged to be around prior to the commencement of the conference, I could wholly see for myself that a woman was able to initiate, coordinate and duly conclude her vision in line with the great mission of the NIP. The rest is history as space might not permit me to analyse this part to the needed conclusion. But we must comprehend that the LOC was the reason everyone left that arena joyously, feeling fulfilled.  The Vice-Chancellor (VC) of the hosting university in the person of Prof. F. C. Eze, who is incidentally a physicist of repute and equally a Fellow of the NIP (FNIP), was really and conspicuously on ground to ensure success was recorded throughout the brainstorming outing.   The last time the conference held in FUTO was in 2008, and then Prof. Eze was the Dean of School of Sciences (SOSC), which is now divided into two large faculties: the School of Physical Sciences (SOPS) and School of Biological Sciences (SOBS). The event, which was the 31st conference of the NIP – was equally splendid, though that’s not our today’s concern or interest. Less I forget; the first session of the 42nd NIP Conference that took place on Monday, 18th November 2019 saw the induction of two convincingly distinguished Professors of FUTO – I. C. Ndukwe and B. C. Anusionwu – as the Fellows of the Institute established since 1973. The former is the immediate past Deputy Vice-Chancellor (DVC) of the university on Administration, whilst the latter is currently the Institution’s DVC on Research Development and Innovation. It’s worth noting that other respected physicists were also honoured with the distinguished award. The second segment of the conference, which held the following day, witnessed lectures from renowned physicists across the federation and beyond such as Professors P. N. Okeke (emeritus) and C. M. I. Okoye, both of the famous University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), just to mention but a few. The presentations from the lead speakers truly deserved accolades.   The technical session of the intellectual harvest, which took place on Wednesday and Thursday being 20th and 21st November, respectively featured several sections involving different fields (specializations) in the world of Physics as an ancient discipline to include the Electronics, Material Science, Geo, Astro and Solid State Physics. This very part saw presentations from various notable practising physicists from all walks of life.   The theme of the conference was synonymous with the hosting university, not only because FUTO is a tertiary institution that’s technology-driven or focuses on technological patents, but equally owing to the fact that it’s happening at a time when the current leadership of the university led by Prof. Eze has in its wisdom duly created and introduced an office bearing the university’s DVC on Research and Innovation. Aside the impaction of knowledge during the annual ritual of the NIP, the exchange of ideas and pleasantries that took place among the innumerable respected scientists was more fascinating and amazing. Surely, everyone who graced the event must have gone home with many new scientific knowledge and ideas.   I can’t possibly conclude this analysis without specially appreciating the NIP Council members ably headed by the President, Prof. H. O. Aboh (FNIP) and particularly the Secretary – Prof. M. M. D. Jago (FNIP) who duly clerked the proceedings of the conference. One may have asked or wondered of what would have been the fate of the universe if physicists were not found in it.It’s indisputably on record that virtually all the inventions in the past pertaining to technology, or machines/devices in particular, were made by the efforts of physicists. And presently, this set of professionals is still striving for excellence in their respective societies.   I suggest more effort needs to be put in place by the governments at all levels pertaining to sponsorship of academic conventions and conferences, coupled with seminars and workshops, among the teachers of various tertiary institutions in the Nigerian society at large.   This, if well considered, would help tremendously to accomplish the goals of the institutions in the area of research, skills’ development and commercialization of patents. One can’t give what he/she doesn’t have, thus the teachers must be well equipped intellectually towards serving the society adequately. Nigeria has indeed come of age to start thinking differently regarding how this set of professionals are treated when it calls for research works and innovations, hence the compelling need for a total positive turnaround. The existing education policies in the country must, therefore, be revisited and reviewed by the apt authorities to suit the present realities as regards tech-driven initiatives and developments. Think about it!