The House of Representatives yesterday raised the alarm over a possible reoccurrence of Ebola in Nigeria and urged the Federal Ministry of Health to deploy necessary materials and personnel at the airports, seaports and land borders for carrying out screening exercise of passengers. It also urged the Federal Government to set aside funds for the management of Ebola virus in the event of its reoccurrence in the country; even as it mandated the committees on healthcare services and health institutions to ensure that relevant agencies take precautionary measures to avert the reoccurrence of the disease. The resolution followed the adoption of a motion brought by Hon. Paschal Chigozie Obi (PDP, Anambra), in which he expressed fear at the likely reoccurrence of Ebola in the country.  Leading debate on the motion, Obi noted the recent outbreak of Ebola virus in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in March 2019, where more than 1,000 cases of Ebola infections were reported. He recalled that; “In 2014, Ebola epidemic spread to some West African countries such as Guinea, Sierra-Leone, Liberia and then Nigeria, when a Liberian, Mr. Patrick Sawyer, arrived in Lagos by air and infected many Nigerians, including doctors and nurses.”  The lawmaker reminded the House that; “The virus quickly spread to different parts of Nigeria, causing up to 50 per cent death rate of infected people. Conscious of different measures by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to curtail the menace of Ebola, ranging from issuing an alert to airline operators directing them to ensure a high level of vigilance and ensure that proper checks were carried out on passengers and other relevant measures such as providing sanitisers and clinical equipment, where necessary. “  Also conscious of steps taken by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on August 8, 2019 to sensitise the public by declaring Ebola outbreak a public health emergency of international concern and also raising the alarm on the need for nations to take preventive actions against the possible further outbreak of Ebola virus,” he stated. He commended the Federal Government for its efforts in tackling the menace of the Ebola disease in 2014, notwithstanding the ravaging force it came with.  He, however, expressed worry that given the proximity of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to Nigeria and other West Africa countries, “if necessary measures are not put in place to prevent the reoccurrence of the pandemic in a densely populated country like Nigeria, the impact may worsen and become difficult to curb.”