Jose Mourinho made a dramatic entrance at his new home as Tottenham came from two goals down to beat Olympiakos and qualify for the Champions League knockout phase. Mourinho made a low-key entrance for his first game as manager at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium – but then it was drama all the way as he was subjected to all facets of the side he inherited from sacked Mauricio Pochettino. Spurs were dreadful at the back in the first half, going behind after only six minutes to Youssef El-Arabi’s low drive and conceding a second 13 minutes later when Ruben Semedo scored from close range at a corner, reports the BBC. Mourinho acted quickly, sending on Christian Eriksen for Eric Dier, but it still took a horrendous error from Yassine Meriah to gift Dele Alli a goal in first-half stoppage time to throw Spurs a lifeline they accepted with relish. Harry Kane levelled from Lucas Moura’s cross five minutes after the break, Mourinho hugging an alert ball boy who helped Serge Aurier take a quick throw-in that caught Olympiakos flat-footed, and the recovery was complete 17 minutes from time when the defender powered home a finish at the far post from Alli’s cross. Mourinho fist-pumped furiously in delight and he was ecstatic again when Kane wrapped things up with a header from Eriksen’s inviting free-kick. The England captain broke Alessandro del Piero’s record as the player to score 20 Champions League goals in the fewest games – 24, compared to the Italian’s 26 games with Juventus. And Paris St-Germain came from 2-0 down to hold Real Madrid in a hugely entertaining Champions League game with both sides already assured of their place in the last 16. Real’s place was booked shortly before kick-off after Club Bruges’ 1-1 draw with Galatasaray. Karim Benzema put Real 2-0 up with a close-range finish and a header. But Kylian Mbappe scored after a defensive mix-up and Pablo Sarabia fired a brilliant equaliser. Gareth Bale, a replacement for Eden Hazard, who suffered a twisted ankle, almost won the game for Real Madrid deep into injury time but his free-kick hit the post. The French champions will finish top of Group A as a result. This was among Real’s best performances since the return of Zinedine Zidane as manager in March. Only a fine performance by PSG keeper Keylor Navas, a summer signing from Real, stopped this from being a thrashing – the Costa Rican making 10 saves in total. Meanwhile, Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola says his side can now focus on the Premier League after qualifying for the Champions League last 16 with a group match to spare. Ilkay Gundogan scored as City drew 1-1 at home against Ukrainian side Shakhtar Donetsk, a result that ensured Guardiola’s team would finish top of Group C. “The target was to qualify and we have done it,” said the Spaniard, who won the Champions League twice when in charge of Barcelona. “This competition in February will be completely different, tougher. We’ll see in which conditions we arrive there. This competition is about the details. “The group stage is always tricky but now we have one competition already done – we play the last game qualified as first in the group – so we can focus on the Premier League until we arrive in the cups.” City, who have won the Premier League in both the last two seasons, are currently third domestically, nine points behind leaders Liverpool. As they are still in the Carabao Cup, Guardiola’s team will be playing nine times between 30 November and 29 December, although they can now rest players for their last Champions League group game, away in Croatia against Dinamo Zagreb on 11 December. And Nigerian born defender, Paolo Gozzi Iweru scored for Juventus on Tuesday as they defeated Atletico Madrid 2-1 in the UEFA Youth League. Iweru scored a 94th minute winner for young Old Lady after Atletico had taken the lead earlier on through Alberto Salido. Pablo Moreno made it 1-1 for Juve in the 78th minute before Iweru pounced on a pass from Elia Petrelli to beat goalkeeper José Saldaña to put the Italians ahead. He also scored Juventus’ 2-1 loss to Lokomotiv Moscow in their third group game last month. The Nigerian starlet now has 2 goals to his name in UYL. Juve have now qualified for the second round of the competition with a game to spare.