A  recent event organised by friends of the Vice- Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), South- West, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, afforded the politician to itemise his reasons for throwing his hat into the ring to contest governorship seat in Ondo State come 2020, writes BIYI ADEGOROYE  W hen associates and friends of Vice- Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) South- West, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, gathered in Lagos last weekend, they were united by one mission – to raise funds for his governorship ambition in Ondo State, come 2020.   The associates and friends  at the event tagged: “An Evening with Eddy and Friends: Ondo 2020,” included the newly elected PDP Chairman in Lagos, Engineer Deji Doherty; PDP Zonal Secretary, Pastor Femi Jenyo; Ambassador Kole Omololu; Hon. (Dr.) Lad Ojomo; Dotun Babayemi and a former senatorial aspirant in  Ondo State, Barrister Benson Enikuomoehin.   Others are Otunba Femi Carrena, Mr. Ayo Fadaka, Mr. Bolaji Ogunseye and his childhood friend and former Editor of the Guardian Newspaper, Mr. Martins Oloja. One and all, they lauded Olafeso, expressing their confidence in his leadership qualities and ability to rescue the state if given the opportunity to serve as the next governor.   In his remarks at the event, the chairman, Committee of Friends, Pastor Jenyo, recalled that the political journey of the governorship aspirant started in 2002 when he aspired to represent Irele and Okitipupa Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives and later as Secretary of the Ondo State chapter of the PDP,  culminating in his becoming the Information Commissioner under late Governor Olusegun Agagu, declared that Olafeso possesses requisite experience and education to govern the state and take it out of poverty. According to Jenyo, who said he had the opportunity of working with Olafeso such that he is  now more of a brother to him, the fund raising ceremony was a “demonstration of solidarity,”  and enjoined everyone to be part of the movement, which he said had since begun.   While assuring the people of Ondo of better governance as the state is richly blessed with a lot of resources not to make it rely on dole outs from the Federation Account to survive, Jenyo prayed: “By His (God) grace next year, he (Olafeso) would become governor of Ondo State.”   Reflecting on the leadership qualities, a former chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Ondo State, Barrister Enikuomoehin, described the governorship aspirant as a cerebral person, a man of his words and someone who makes people to be independent rather than dependent on others for survival, adding that such was the leader he preferred to follow.   “Here is a man who says what he means, I don’t follow the person who cannot lead me.  Right from his student union leadership days in the University of Ife, Olafeso is not only focused, but he is equally cerebral and educated to the level of doctorate degree.   “I didn’t know Dr. Olafeso 40 years ago; neither did I know him 30 years ago. I didn’t know him 20 years ago. But the much I know is sufficient to gear you up ladies and gentlemen to do the needful in respect of this matter. “I am a restless person. I have criss-crossed many political parties. I met him in the mucky water of politics when we all began to look for who would represent our people. I was very ambitious. I was gunning for the Senate while he was vying for the House of Representatives. So we met on the field and he saw this boisterous young man. ‘I am looking for the House of Representatives and you are so young fighting for the Senate?”   “Then I was rooting all the corners from Ilaje to Okitikipa, Irele to Oke-Igbo and the rest – I could go on and on to the wards and units. So, I traversed the land but I was also not fortunate. Decisions were made, and I had to take my time. So when I look at Dr. Eddy Olafeso taking his time, I was not going to protest,” he said.   Enikuomehin narrated how they both worked for Dr. Olusegun Agagu when he became the governor of Ondo State, stating that he was fortunate enough to come on board early. “The person who announced that Dr. Eddy Olafeso became a commissioner did not tell you how he was banished to Ajaokuta Steel in Kogi State, where he was recalled when the party ran into stormy waters.  “Eddy came in board as the secretary of the party and within a brief period of time that he was, he galvanised the party together. Dr. Agagu, for who he was would go for anything fine so that it won’t be said that the problem of the party was from his own side of the camp. Not too long, he Dr. Olafeso became the Commissioner for information. At that point, I had pulled out of the PDP like I told you I am restless.”   Enikuomehin noted that Olafeso had competent hands across the state who he could hire to make him deliver on his mandate if voted the next governor of the state, saying for this to happen everybody seated in the gathering must set to work immediately. “Gentlemen, I say the truth and I lie not. I drove all the way from Akure to this place, not because I want to eat food, I came because there is a man who has said ‘follow me, I will make you fisher of men.’  Enikuomehin said the current government in Ondo State “is fading away. I was one of the pillars that established that government. I fought strenuously for that government to come on board. After I sojourned for like a year or thereabout, I asked myself, ‘Does it worth it for me to remain in this forever?’ So on one of the days, I put a call to him, (Eddy), I didn’t know he still had my number, and that marked my return to the PDP.”   Olafeso, in his response, said Ondo State needed a visionary leader at this particular time to enable her realise the dream of her founding fathers. “My agenda is not to criticise people; they have tried their ultimate best. It’s just that our society is in dire need of more visionary leadership that can convert our God-given resources to development. In this land there is more than enough to ensure meaningful development.   “I rode on some people’s back, but I have not finished. You see, without Chief Obafemi Awolowo being the Premier of the Western region, how would my father with a salary of N19: 90 kobo, with four wives and nine children would have educated us? We benefitted from his free education programme?   “I can tell you, my family is unique because my younger brother is here. Out of those nine children, the last born is a medical doctor; the one next to that is a diplomat in Paris; the one next to him is a marketing manager at GSK, and next to that is a manager at Fedex and next to this one is a senior manager in NNPC, next to this is a local government employee, and next to him is a director at ADB, on and on till it gets to me. Chief Awolowo brought my family out of poverty; we are not rich but middle class,” he said. On why he is joining the governorship race in Ondo State, he said: “Why I got involved in governorship race? I need to give back to the society what I had benefitted,” expressing worries that the same Ondo State which benefitted from free education programme of the sage now has children dropping out of schools.   Olafeso said it was inexplicable that Ondo State is in a deplorable condition with about N131 billion foreign and domestic debts, besides N50billion bond in the works, despite agricultural and other abandoned resources in the state. “The case of Ondo State is comparable to what Bob Marley captured in his song titled: ‘Rat Race,’ where he lamented that ‘in the abundance of water, the fool is thirsty,’ hence, we are setting out to implement the state’s template for development, put in place more than a decade ago,” he said.   “The thinking that we have to wait for Federal Government to bring allocation is a lazy attitude of leadership and governance, because we have enough to actually make our state grow,” urging the people of Ondo to join hands with him to enable him transform the state by voting him as next governor of the state, stating that he could not do it alone.   “Where I’m from, we are the ninth oil producing state in Nigeria. We have OPL 241, Ororo marginal field, Oluwa Glass and the Okitikupa Oil Palm Company, one of the largest in the entire West Coast, it has the largest plantation in West Africa, yet that place is under lock and key. You know what they do? They just harvest fruits and just sell it on the way side. So the place is dead now. That’s a million dollar establishment that dies just like that. Everything they touch turns to ashes, why? It’s just leadership.   “Dropout records is getting between 60-70 per cent in Ondo State,  because today in primary, secondary and tertiary institutions, you have to pay school fees; they have destroyed the legacy of Obafemi Awolowo, of Baba Adekunle Ajasin, Adebayo Adefarati and of  Olusegun Agagu. Former Governor, Olusegun Mimiko put in place a health programme that became the toast of the whole world. Dr. Agagu designed a template for development of the state, but today, the deplorable condition of roads and other infrastructures and current government failure to intervene in the absence of public power supply in Ondo South senatorial district in the last 15 years is most insensitive.”   Olafeso said he represents “The New Deal”  for Ondo State, which is based on his understanding of the sociological and political dynamics of Ondo State and the compelling need to arrest the worrying slide in people’s behavioral patterns and infrastructural decay completely informed his six-point agenda – human capital development, agriculture, infrastructure/foreign direct investment, security, job creation and power supply.