…absolve INEC, demand electronic transmission of results …say APC, PDP procured thugs for elections  The Forum of Chairmen of Nigerian Political Parties has indicted security agencies and politicians over the widespread violence and other electoral fraud witnessed during the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. The indictment followed a review of the conduct of the elections in the two states by the leaders of over 60 political parties, which participated in the said elections. The forum lamented that whereas the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) made adequate preparations for the polls in both states, other critical stakeholders in the electoral process failed to provide the necessary support to ensure free, fair and credible elections. It also accused the two major political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of perpetrating violence through the procurement of armed thugs to disrupt the elections in selected areas of the two states. According to the forum, security agencies namely the Nigeria Police and Nigerian Army were also largely culpable in the electoral malfeasance that played out on the day of the election. The National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA), Mr. Kenneth Udeze, who addressed newsmen on behalf of the forum, said that the failure of the Kogi and Bayelsa elections was not caused by administrative lapses or inefficiency of the INEC as many Nigerians are tempted to believe, but by the “treasonable actions of security agencies (Nigerian Army and Nigeria Police) who compromised the process and aided political thugs to disrupt the entire process and cart away electoral materials.” He said that despite the deployment of over 60,000 security personnel to Kogi and Bayelsa states for the elections, armed political thugs had a field day and their activities played a major role in determining who was eventually declared to have won the election. “We as political party chairmen have compared notes and crosschecked reports and have come to the conclusion that INEC largely improved on its performance from the general election during the conduct of these elections in Kogi and Bayelsa. The pre-election preparations were carried out in line with the released timetable and checklist. Distribution of materials (sensitive and non-sensitive) training and deployment of staff and card readers was better than the general election records. Polls opened at most by 10a.m. in about 96 per cent of polling units. It is based on this assessment that we state that INEC is constantly improving in its performance. “We also state that some political parties and politicians are culpable in the rigging and violation of the electoral rights of the people of Kogi and Bayelsa, particularly the APC and the PDP. They procured the thugs, armed them, instructed them on what to do, compromised the security personnel, compromised the INEC personnel, etc. If some political parties and politicians do not engage in these activities, our elections will be freer and fairer. “The Forum of Chairmen of Nigeria Political Parties also concludes that the role of security agencies particularly the Nigeria Police and the Nigerian Army during the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states were largely reprehensible. Men in Police uniforms were seen aiding thugs to carry ballot boxes and other materials from the centres and abducting polling staff. The 35,200 policemen deployed to Kogi State were all either standing by watching or were active participants guarding the thugs to carry the election materials and disrupt a hitherto peaceful and well-organised process. “It was disheartening to hear the Inspector-General of Police announce to journalists that the Police got intelligence about the plans of politicians to sew Police uniforms but rather than announce what the Police did to checkmate these criminals and even arrest them for possible prosecution, he announced that the Police made tags for further identification of their officers. He did not announce anything else the Police did. “He has since not announced the arrest of any of the persons he referred to as fake policemen who were on rampage and heavily dented the credibility of the election. The Inspector-General of Police still owes Nigerians a lot of explanation on why the 35,000 policemen in Kogi were helpless and could not stop these thugs. Security agencies colluded with political thugs and this collusion is at the highest levels of the security echelon. “It is following from these analyses that we resolve and demand as follows: “Failure noticed in the Kogi election, the killings, maiming and destruction of property are blamed on the security agencies. “We condemn particularly and in very strong terms the involvement of the Nigerian Army in the election. It does not speak well of the Army to have its personnel shown in viral videos aiding political thugs to hijack ballot boxes. This is the third time the Army is getting involved in elections from a compromised position. It was in Ekiti 2014 and Rivers 2019 governorship elections that they were used to carry out election rigging and this trend must stop.” In a communiqué released at the end of the meeting, the forum demanded among other things that the Federal Government should set up inquiry into the circumstances that led to the over running of 35,000 policemen by a motley crowd of political thugs. “The GOC who compromised his men should also be investigated and appropriate punishment meted out to all who are found wanting. “The Inspector-General of Police should also be investigated to ascertain whether truly 35,000 policemen were deployed to Kogi State as the activities of the thugs do not support the fact that they should have that number of policemen. The investigation should also unravel the quantum of allowances approved for the Police and to whom they were actually paid.” The forum also demanded an urgent amendment of the Electoral Act to introduce electronic accreditation of voters and electronic transmission of results straight from the Polling Units (PUs) to a central database to eliminate manual processes as much as possible in future elections. The forum recalled that the political elite in Nigeria seems not to have learnt any lessons from the political events of 1983, which led to the collapse of the Second Republic. According to the forum, it was the arbitrary use of federal force and the loss of confidence in the courts that led people to seek all sorts of self-help, which culminated in the overthrow of that administration by the military junta at that time. They warned that all the indices which led to the fall of Second Republic, have reared their ugly heads again because politicians seemed not to have learnt anything from history.