MPC retains interest rate at 13.5 %  C’ttee seeks review of oil benchmark T he Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said that the loan-to-deposit ratio policy of the bank had increased loan advancement to agriculture and real sector to the tune of N1.1 trillion between June and October 2019.   The apex bank Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, who confirmed the figure yesterday in Abuja at the bi-monthly briefing of the bank’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting, appealed to deposit money banks to lend more credit to agriculture and real sector of the economy.  This was as MPC members unanimously endorsed the retention of interest rate at 13.5 per cent, in addition to all other key parameters such as Cash Reserve Ratio  (CRR) was retained at 22.5 per cent, liquidity ratio at 30 per cent, and asymmetric corridor at +200 -500 basis point. In arriving at the decision to uphold key policy unchanged, the CBN governor said the committee reviewed the upside and downside of option to tighten, loosen or hold.   Emefiele said while tightening might encourage capital flow, it also had downside consequence of tightening the already nascent recovery outlook growth. The MPC noted that the reduction in the policy rate would improve growth prospect, but in view of optic inflationary pressure, the committee decided that the balance of the risk was in favour of protecting price stability. He further explained that in holding policy at the current position, the committee noted the positive outcome of action already taken by the bank. He enumerated the steps taken by CBN in this direction to include policy on loan to deposit ratio, which had resulted in loans advancing and rising by N1.1 trillion between June and October. He said this action had assisted the agricultural and manufacturing sectors, hence the positive outcome on the GDP.  The CBN governor said the committee advised government on tinkering with the oil price benchmark for 2020 budget in the face of instability in oil price. “On crude oil price, the committee noted the lull in the futures market, suggesting that prices would remain relatively weak into the foreseeable future. The committee, therefore, urged the Federal Government to reconsider its 2020 budget oil price benchmark of $57 per barrel, to build fiscal buffers,” he said.  Members of MPC, Emefiele said, reviewed policies of the bank in 2019 in view of progress recorded in the economy.  He said: “The committee noted the use of home-grown heterodox policies used by the bank to successfully achieve substantial macroeconomic stability in 2019. Amongst the policies were the use of the Global Standing Instruction (GSI) to address the predatory impact of serial borrowers in the banking system, a phenomenon that reduced the level of NPLs over time, the Loan-to-Deposit Ratio (LDR) to boost credit delivery by the deposit money banks (DMBs) to the real sector, Discounted Cash Reserve Requirement (DCRR), development finance initiatives in agriculture, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and other real sector activities, including restriction of patronage by local corporate and individual investors in CBN OMO bills.”   He said there had been tremendous improvement in credit flow to the private sector, which he said improved to 13.08 per cent in October 2019 from 12.49 per cent in the previous month, reflecting the impact of the bank’s recent policy on loan-to-deposit ratio. “An increase in absolute gross credit, amounting to N1,169.70 billion, was recorded between end-May and end-October 2019. “Consequently, the manufacturing sector received N459.69 billion, the highest in two decades. This was followed by consumer loans of N356.65 billion, general commerce (N142.98 billion), information and communications (N82.07 billion), construction (N74.52 billion), agriculture, forestry and fishing (N73.20 billion), mining and quarrying (N3.64 billion) and transportation and storage (N3.09 billion), amongst others,” CBN governor noted. On status of NPLs in banking sector, the CBN governor said NPLs recorded significant decline to 6.56 per cent at end-October 2019 from 6.67 per cent at end-September 2019 and from 14.05 per cent in October 2018. “The committee, however, noted that this figure remained above the prudential benchmark of 5.0 per cent, and urged the bank to sustain its current efforts, which have created this exorable prudential regime,” he said. For the economy to achieve the desired growth and robustness, CBN advised government to sustain implementation of diversification of economy away from oil. “Diversification has become necessary now that Nigeria has signed the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCTA). To achieve this, the committee urged the Federal Government to continue to improve the investment climate and ease of doing business to attract foreign direct investment.   “Particularly, government should, as a priority, improve conditions for global auto manufacturers, including for aviation and rail industries to invest in the country. “The committee commended the expansion in manufacturing output, noting that it was a direct fallout of the policy on loan-to-deposit ratio. The committee called on government to urge the National Pension Commission to improve the prudential requirements for pension funds to refocus their investment portfolio away from their traditional choice of government securities in favour of other viable long-term investments in real estate, manufacturing and agriculture; and indeed infrastructure.   “As a key pillar of economic diversification, the MPC directed the attention of the fiscal authorities to the immense potentials of the gas sub-sector and the urgency to encourage horizontal integration through private sector participation. This, the Committee argued, will improve domestic power supply and export earnings,” he said.    On the fiscal sector, the committee identified the need for institutional reforms through policies that would automate day-to-day processes of key revenue generating and security agencies such as the Nigerian customs. This would provide additional advantage of stemming smuggling, kidnapping and the migration of terrorists into the country. The CBN governor said that MPC members reiterated support for land borders closure, noting that any upward price movement arising from the closure was reactionary and, therefore, temporary.  