 T he Medical Women Association of Nigeria (MWAN), Lagos Branch, said it was committed to the prevention of diseases through regular medical screening.  Consequently, the immediate past President of MWAN, Lagos State Branch, Dr. Omowunmi Bakare has urged women to visit MWAN’s Well Woman Centre domiciled at Ebute Metta to discuss their health challenges as a strategy to reduce the high disease burden in the country.   Bakare similarly disclosed that NWAN in Lagos has screened not less than 3,000 women for breast and cervical cancer. Bakare stated these at a media briefing in Lagos recently.  According to her the MWAN facility in Lagos known more for its breast and cervical cancer screening activities in the last 25 years, has now been renovated and upgraded  as the ‘Well Woman Centre’ to promote preventive health.   The renovation of the centre, which was achieved through funds raised from members, friends and families, was considered the landmark achievement of the 2017-2019 biennium, Bakare added.   She said, “As a Well Woman Centre, in addition to provision of health education and information for clients, it shall also provide family planning services, counseling on menopause, domestic violence and child welfare services.   “MWAN in Lagos seeks to promote wellness among women and the whole populace. The Well Woman Centre shall be a One-Stop Shop for women and children healthcare services.   While announcing the 21st Biennial Conference of MWAN, Bakare disclosed that during the breast and cervical cancer screening, women with breast lumps and those with aceto-white lesions on the cervix were referred to general hospitals for further evaluation and treatment.   In her remarks, the current President of MWAN, Lagos State Branch, Prof. Funmi Ajose said Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, wife of the Lagos State governor and now Matron of Lagos MWAN was an active functional member of the association in the state, adding that the existing relationship would enhance activities of the organization.   Sanwo-Olu was recently decorated the Matron of MWAN at the 11th Irene Thomas Memorial Lecture which held in Lagos last week.   Reiterating the position of the past president of Lagos MWAN, Ajose said in the current dispensation, 2019 -2021 biennium, MWAN in Lagos would carry medical delivery beyond ‘talk-talk’ to pragmatic actions. “That is the reason we are including schools as health promoting institutions.”   While lamenting that Nigeria has second worst maternal mortality cases and the highest number of child brides globally, she said MWAN would take medical education and intervention to schools. She added, “We are not going to wait for women to become sick and come to hospitals before doing intervention. We want to prevent them from getting to that stage.