* No cause for alarm, insists LG Chair’s spokesman As the build up to Bayelsa State election continues, Chief Dogood Bekebo, a former governor’s representative for Southern Ijaw, has sent a message to security agencies to beam their search light on southern Ijaw as he alleged that the local government chairman, Kia Nigeria  has procured speed boats which he said may be used to cause problem during  the governorship election. Speaking to Sunday Telegraph at the weekend in Yenagao, the state capital, Chief Bekebo, who recently defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC), disclosed that he learnt on good authority that the speed boats were procured from Port Harcourt last week Wednesday for the purpose of next weekend’s election. “I was reliably informed that the boats were bought from Port Harcourt last week Wednesday.  “They have planned to drop two speed boats for each ward we have 17 wards and I’m talking about my ward (Apoi ward 15). Let the security agents be aware. “Let the whole world be aware that this is what they want to do this election period. The operation will be carried out four days to the election and the two boats are already at my ward. “On our side, we want peace. We are not ready to kill one person. We don’t have even a gun to shoot. We don’t even have money,” he said. However, reacting to the allegation, the Chief Press Secretary to Kia Nigeria, Julius Kuraideidei said if at all there was a purchase: ”I don’t think  it is an offense. “If it is to ease people in order for them to assess their communities so that they will exercise their franchise. There is no issue whatsoever there is nothing of such. We don’t even have one boat. “Even most of the boats are owned by people in APC. There was no boat purchased in the first place secondly, there is no plan to cause mayhem during the election whatsoever. “My boss is one of those persons that does not believe in hooliganism or thuggery. What he believes on is to impact in the lives of the electorates so that people will be convinced that this person is
credible. “Instead APC has marked him as one the persons to be kidnapped,” he alleged.