The United States, yesterday, vowed to apply necessary sanctions for political actors who incite violence or broadly disrupt the conduct of this Saturday’s governorship election in Bayelsa State. Speaking yesterday in Lagos while briefing some select journalists ahead of the November 16 election in Bayelsa State, the U.S Consul-General in Lagos, Ms Claire Pierangelo, said the U.S. and the international community will monitor the election closely. While reiterating that the Bayelsa election provides a channel for the citizens to choose a leader who will govern fairly, the envoy said the U.S. government has assisted Nigeria with strengthening the electoral process since 1999 by supporting a free and fair electoral process, preventing and mitigating election-related violence and encouraging an expansion in Nigerian civic and political engagement. The Consul-General said she had, ahead of the election, visited Bayelsa and met with the leading candidates and leadership of the political parties, adding that the visit provided her the opportunity to engage with public and private key stakeholders in the state and expressed the U.S. expectations from the election. Fielding questions on whether the U.S. will sanction anyone who disrupts or incites violence during the Bayelsa election, the Consul-General said: “I think for any election that happens in Nigeria, we are going to be looking at, in verifiable cases, those folks who contributed or incited to violence or the disruption of the election in any way. It doesn’t have to be violence. It could be vote-buying, it could be a missing ballot, it could be all of these. “Anyone that can be identified and verified, we are going to consider what consequences we can impose and it might be that it might be something different. It really depends on the situation. But I think it is really important to know. “Other countries and organizations are looking at the same thing. That is why it is incredibly important for people to get out and try to vote and to help us document as observers the ballot vote tabulation as it is critical and necessary to help us verify the veracity of voting because that helps us pinpoint where the bad actors might be.” While stating that the U.S. and the international community will deploy monitors to the South-South state, she said: “As a friend of Nigeria and its people, we will follow the election closely. We will be out there in the field observing the election. I am aware that many other foreign, international organizations will also be on the ground in Bayelsa. We will work closely with our colleagues and partners in the international community to promote a credible process that will benefit the people of Bayelsa. “It is also critical that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) operates free from outside pressure and intimidation and in a totally objective manner. Voter intimidation, vote-buying, interference by security forces and violence cannot be tolerated.” Pierangelo said the professional conduct of all stakeholders – especially security forces – is crucial for free, fair, credible, transparent and peaceful elections. The Nigerian security services must provide a safe, secure and impartial environment for the people of Bayelsa to exercise their right to vote. “Political actors, political parties, bloggers and other influencers must not engage in hate speech or incite violence. People who engage in such conduct must be held accountable. “I encourage all eligible voters in Bayelsa to participate in the upcoming election and exercise their political franchise. A large turnout will enhance the credibility of the election and Nigeria’s democratic reputation. I would, especially, ask that every effort be made to boost the participation of women, youths and people living with disabilities.” The U.S. also encouraged citizens to participate actively during the elections and help in documenting cases of vote-buying and any form of disruption.