…Coaches bank on super strikers for points   Players are supposed to be the main actors in Sunday’s English Premier League clash between Liverpool and Manchester City but the spat between Jurgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola has heated up the atmosphere ahead of the tie and fans will be keen to see who have the upper hand at the end of hostilities at Anfield. The rivalry between Manchester City and Liverpool is quickly starting to manifest itself as a clash of th EPL’s two best coaches.  For three years, Klopp and the enigmatic Guardiola have kept it respectful and civil.  There has been nothing like the toxic enmity which infused Spanish football when Guardiola and Jose Mourinho went head to head as the main men at Barcelona and Real Madrid – and it is unlikely there will be. But Guardiola’s jab at Sadio Mane’s penchant for hurling himself to the ground this week was met with Klopp’s riposte about tactical fouls, and a staunch defence of his player.  At the final whistle on Sunday, these matters will be resolved by a back-slap and a handshake, no doubt. The two managers have met six times since Guardiola arrived the Etihad Stadium in 2016; the results have been even as they have both won two matches and drawn twice.  Klopp’s side could go nine points clear at the top of the table if they are victorious, so it’s no wonder the encounter is seen as a potential title decider. Pep Guardiola, meanwhile, has played down the significance of the trip to Merseyside but must know deep down that anything other than a win will represent a significant psychological blow to his players.  The Spaniard surely has the weapon to get the result at Anfield; forwards Raheem Sterling and Sergio Ageuro have been lethal this term. The England’s winger has scored impressive seven goals for the Citizen while the Argentine has put away nine goals in just 10 games. Mane is at the centre of spat between the two coaches and the Senegalese is becoming the most dangerous player for the Reds after he scored six times in 11 matches. He has stolen the attention from Mohamed Salah who hasn’t done badly this term so far.   The Egyptian has also scored five EPL’s goals with three assists. Klopp is expecting an exciting tie when he said, ” It’s a big game; two really good teams. Good news it is at Anfield, that is cool. Floodlights. Big game. We will see, everything is on a plate, so nobody hides. We cannot only be offensive but if we are not brave versus Man City we have no chance. We have to create.  “Our positioning must be perfect all the time again, protection must be perfect. We really try to adapt to what the opponent is doing and make sure they cannot. It can lead to other things. “It’s possible it could be 0-0 like last year, even with all these things. Depending on the formation, maybe you can’t be as creative or offensive (as normal).”