Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice John Tsoho has said the obvious when he declared that the court he presided over as the first among equals is currently overburdened with about 116,623 pending cases across its divisions nationwide. Speaking in Abuja recently during a special court session marking the commencement of the Federal High Court’s new legal year 2019/2020 at the court’s headquarters, Justice Tsoho lamented that the plight of judges may have been forgotten especially as there was no provision in the 2019 Budget for the appointment of new judges for the court. This, he said, was a major challenge bedeviling administration of justice in the country. “It is pertinent at this juncture to highlight the status of litigation before this court in the past legal year. From the reports received, about 116,623 cases are pending in the Federal High Court. “About 16,144 cases were filed in this quarter alone in which 12,692 have been disposed of. It is obvious that the judges were overburdened with work in the last legal year. We therefore need to engage more judicial officers to help out,” Justice Tsoho said. But beyond Justice Tsoho’s declaration that there is the need for more judges to come on board via appointment and the role by the Federal Government to make provision for such appointment in the budget, inadequate courtrooms, lack of financial autonomy, delays, frivolous applications, congestion of cases and poor condition of service especially when judges still record proceedings in long hands are other problems occasioning snail speed justice system in the country. Justice Tsoho’s argument that judges are overburdened with thousands of cases for inadequate judicial officers is just one of the numerous challenges the judiciary had encountered and more challenges are still mounting. For instance, cost of justice and access to justice had also remained elusive contrary to the mantra that the court is the last hope of a common man. Therefore, accessing justice shouldn’t be dependent on financial status or social class. If the welfare of the people is the primary aim of the government, nothing will stop such government from funding financial incapable citizens to engage a lawyer of their choice and not be constrained to the available options in the name of pro bono which wouldn’t suit them. This, of course, won’t work in a system where taxes aren’t paid accordingly as when due. Although the conducts of the Supreme Court, some states and Federal High Courts have appreciated in terms of access to justice, those of the Court of Appeal and the Magistrate/Customary/Area Courts have depreciated. Also, prosecution of civil and criminal cases still linger for so long a time except in places like Lagos State, other states still hold criminal suspects via committal proceedings longer than necessary. There should be urgent clarion call beyond appointment of judges as being canvassed by Justice Tsoho as dearth of judicial officers was not the only factor staunching speed of administration of justice in the country. Notwithstanding, we need more voices that would take up the gauntlet as being done by Justice Tsoho to salvage what is left of the judiciary if our democracy must thrive. Besides, we believe that what the judiciary need is holistic approach to actually stem the tide of snail speed justice system by rising above primordial tendencies of delay just as our laws have also remained substantially static. We also believe that apart from appointment of more judges to fast track justice delivery system, there is the need to ensure that our scope of law is steadily expanded. There should also be the decentralization of the Supreme Court, creation of more divisions of the Court of Appeal and appointment of more Justices to the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal. It is also time for the Federal Government to consider building new courtrooms and employing judges or establishing courts for specific subject matters. Also, there should be a timeframe to conclude a suit at the trial court. However, with statistics provided by the Chief Judge Tsoho, we believe that the judges are already overworked and unless mechanism are put in place to put the challenges on check, the backlog of cases will keep adding up as the end result would not only be unrealistic verdict coming from the courts but a self-help as litigants would not wait for justice which can no longer come from the court. To us, we agree with the Chief Judge in toto when he said “by any standard, the caseload of the judges you see here today is among the heaviest and the most complex across many jurisdictions in the country.” While we are suggesting Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) to be made attractive to litigants, there is also an urgent need to appoint more judges if the nation’s justice must be at par with other jurisdictions of the world. It is time we made our judiciary work by ensuring ADR which is quicker and cheaper more litigant-friendly with a view to making judges embrace the process to alleviate the challenges which about 116,623 cases have posed to the administration of justice.