…may worsen Apapa gridlock  I ndications were rife at the weekend that the Apapa Port is set to record another round of cargo congestion, not only because the cargoes are flowing in faster than before, courtesy of the partial border closure, but because the cargoes are not evacuated as fast as they were offloaded from the ships.  Sunday Telegraph learnt that the layers of containers in the port terminals which used to be three strata have elongated. This development, our correspondent learnt is not unrelated to the activities of the Federal Ministry of Works on the roads inward the seaport. At Point Road intersection, the Federal Ministry of Works has blocked the intersection leading to Liverpool, at the Polysonic Mall.  First they dug a ditch in front of the Mall, made it very steeply, so that container-laden trucks would not be able to use it. Then, they moved towards the bank, inward Point Road and properly blocked it with rocks and boulders.   By blocking the Point Road Intersection, the FMW has ensured that every truck, moving towards the Tin Can could not go through, the Point Road unto the Liverpool. In order words, every truck going to Liverpool, must join the queue, as they come from Ijora, drive past the Police Point Road, move through the Airways Bus stop and head towards Eleganza.  Trucks going to Tin Can now have to first go through Ijora and enter Apapa Wharf Road before heading to Tin Can because the road leading into Tin Can from Mile 2 or Coconut Bust Stop has become seriously impassable.  Experts say if the Ministry of Works put its mind into it, a palliative measure can be achieved in one week.  With the Point Road intersection successfully blocked, a new wave of bedlam is currently in the offing, looming larger every day.  A Concerned resident of Apapa told Sunday Telegraph that the FMW first poured laterite in early September, halting traffic on Point Road. But sensing the danger it posed to the smooth traffic along the axis, the source said it was removed by PTT but the FMW came back on October 1, and totally blocked the same route/spot this time with rocks and boulders. 