..calls for arms mop up   T he Police Service Commission (PSC), yesterday, said Saturday’s gubernatorial elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states were characterised by proliferation of illegal weapons, complaints of sporadic shooting as well as snatching of ballot boxes.   These developments in addition to inadequate logistics, according to the PSC, militated against the capacity of policemen deployed on election duties to provide adequate security protection during the exercise.   This is as the Kogi State Police Command, also yesterday, confirmed three persons dead during the governorship election in the state.  The state Commissioner of Police, Mr Akeem Busari, who confirmed the deaths to newsmen, said that the command is still compiling its report on the poll to ascertain the actual number of casualties.   Busari also said 10 persons were arrested across the state during the election. He said it was gathered that three persons died in Lokoja, the state capital, when armed thugs invaded St. Luke Primary School, Adanakolo, during the election.   The PSC, which decried that illegal arms overstretched policemen, made public, its observation at the end of a monitoring exercise by two separate teams it deployed in the two states for the polls.   New Telegraph recalls that the 45 officials of the PSC – 25 to Kogi and 20 to Bayelsa – were saddled with the task of “benchmarking” the conduct of police officers against the approved rules of engagement for the elections.   The commission, in a statement by its spokesperson, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani, however, commended the conduct of the police personnel on election duties, saying an interim report by its officials indicated that they were “professional.”   The statement read in part: “The PSC has expressed satisfaction with the role so far played by the Nigeria Police and other security agencies in the Bayelsa and Kogi states gubernatorial elections. The interim report of the Commission indicates that the Police were very professional despite numerous challenges in the two states.   “The strong monitoring team of the Commission to the two states observed the over proliferation of illegal weapons, inadequate logistics and challenging terrains as militating factors.   “The Commission monitored the conduct of Police officers on election duties in Bayelsa and Kogi states on Saturday, November 16 and observed that the Police were professional in their conduct during the elections, while the activities of illegal armed men overstretched the capacity of these officers to protect the voters and the electoral materials.   “The Commission calls on the leadership of the security agencies to immediately take steps to mop up these arms to safe guard the nation’s democracy.   “The Commission team observed that the Police did its best to contain the situation but noted that in several instances they were overwhelmed.”   The PSC further observed that whereas policemen arrived at voting centres on time, complaints of sporadic shootings as well as ballot box snatching were rife.   It said: “The Commission covered the three senatorial districts in Kogi State and two in Bayelsa State – Bayelsa Central and Bayelsa East. It received about 31 distress calls to its advertised dedicated telephone numbers.   “Most of the complaints were on snatching of ballot boxes and indiscriminate shootings. There were also complaints on other election malpractices such as vote-buying and multiple thump printing.”