The governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states have come and gone, but the battle is yet to be over as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which rejected the outcome has announced plans to challenge the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the election petitions tribunal. Felix Nwaneri reports    The November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states lived to pre-poll billing as another test of might between the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after both parties slugged it out in the February/March general election. The elections’ outcome also proved bookmakers, who predicted that the polls would be a two-horse race between the candidates of ruling APC and main opposition PDP in both states. Both parties were in control of each of the respective states – APC in Kogi and PDP in Bayelsa – before the elections, but it was the former that proved dominance after the polls. Interestingly, the November 16 exercise was not the first time the two leading parties would return to the ring after a general election. The first was the gubernatorial polls in the same states after the 2015 general election. Both parties shared the states apiece then, with APC taking over Kogi from PDP, while PDP retained Bayelsa. No doubt, several factors shaped the polls in the two states then, but many warned against both parties relying on the same variables for this year’s polls. Some political analysts then said that t will amount to a political gamble for any of the two parties to rely on those old variables given the dynamic nature of politics. The PDP which apparently did not heed to the warning had its fingers burnt as it lost oil-rich Bayelsa State to the ruling party in what many have described as an upset given that the main opposition party had been in charge of the state in the past 20 years. After a keenly contested poll, the governorship candidate of the APC, David Lyon, defeated Senator Douye Diri of the PDP. The former polled 352,552 votes against the latter’s 143,172 votes – a margin of 209,380 votes. Lyon won in six out of the eight local government areas of the state, while Diri won in only two local government areas. According to results announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), APC won in Brass, Nembe, Ogbia, Yenagoa, Southern Ijaw and Ekeremor. Lyon defeated Diri in Nembe by 83,041 votes against 874. The APC candidate also recorded the highest vote of 124,803 in Southern Ijaw, where Diri scored 4,898 votes. In Ogbia, Lyon scored 58,016 votes, while Diri polled 13,763 votes. In Nembe, 83,041 votes were recorded by the APC candidate against the PDP’s 874 votes. The APC candidate also won In Brass, where he polled 23,831 votes to defeat his PDP counterpart, who had 10,410 votes. It also victory for the Lyon in Ekeremor; he polled 21,489 votes against Diri’s 18,344 votes. The PDP candidate, however, won in Sagbama with 60,339 votes against APC’s 7,831 votes and Kolokuma/Opokuma with 15,360 votes against APC’s 8,934 votes. It was also victory for APC in Kogi, where its candidate, Governor Yahaya Bello, was re-elected for a second term. Bello defeated Engr. Musa Wada of the PDP with a margin of 216,518 votes. The APC candidate polled 406,222 votes, while his PDP counterpart had 189,704 votes out of the 624,514 total votes cast by 636,202 accredited voters. Bello won in 12 out of the 21 local governments in the state, while Wada won in the remaining nine councils. The governor, who hails from Okenne Local Government Area in Kogi Central Senatorial District, won all the five local governments in the area. The councils are Okenne, Okehi, Adavi, Ogorimagongo and Ajaokuta. He also won five out of the seven local governments are in the Kogi West Senatorial District. The local governments he won in the area are Lokoja, Ijumu, Kabba-Bunu, Kogi (KK) and Mopamuro. Bello also won in Ibaji and Olamaboro councils for APC to win two out of the nine local governments in Kogi East Senatorial District. Wada, who is an Igala from Dekina Local Government Area won in Kogi East Senatorial District, but failed to make impact in Kogi Central and Kogi West senatorial districts. He won seven councils in Kogi East and two local governments in Kogi West. The PDP candidate won in Dekina, Ankpa, Bassa, Idah, Igalamela-Odolu, Omala, Lokoja, Yagba East and Yagba West. Polls’ outcome confirms APC dominance The outcome of the Kogi and Bayelsa states governorship elections has altered the political standings maintained by the two leading parties after the 2019 general election. The Adams Oshiomhole-led ruling party is now in charge of 21 states, while the Uche Secondus-led PDP controls 15. The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) holds sway in the remaining one state. APC had won the last presidential election and retained the country number one political seat, which it took from the PDP in the 2015 general election. However, it was neck and neck in the governorship polls that took place in 29 states in the 2019 general election. The PDP won 15 out of the 29 states, while APC won 14. The states won by main opposition party are Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ebonyi, Delta, Enugu, Taraba, Abia, Imo, Oyo, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Sokoto, Rivers and Zamfara. Those won by APC are Lagos, Ogun, Kebbi, Niger, Kaduna, Plateau, Jigawa, Borno, Katsina, Yobe, Nasarawa and Kano, Kwara and Gombe.  Governorship elections did not hold in seven states – Kogi, Bayelsa, Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Osun and Ekiti as a result of the interregnum by the courts. Of these seven states, APC was at the time in charge in five – Kogi, Edo, Ondo, Osun and Ekiti. The PDP only held sway in Bayelsa, while Anambra is controlled by APGA. Remarkably, the main opposition party took over five APC controlled states – Adamawa, Imo, Oyo, Bauchi and Zamfara. APC, on its part, won two PDP controlled states – Gombe and Kwara. PDP rejects results While the victors (APC and its candidates) are still savouring their electoral victory, the vanquished (PDP and its candidates) are crying foul. Rejecting results of the polls as announced by INEC, PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said the elections were “the biggest fraud of the century.” Secondus said the PDP reviewed documentary evidence, including video clips, graphic pictures, witness testimonies, manipulated results sheets, proofs of alleged compromise of INEC officials and other facts, to establish the culpability of the police and INEC in the electoral fraud. He, therefore, called on the international community to place travel bans on officials of the electoral commission and Police high command for the roles they allegedly played during exercise. His words: “The world watched with horror as killer security agents brutalized voters and carted away ballot boxes to government facilities where results were written in favour of the APC and handed to a heavily compromised INEC, which has become part of the crime, to announce. “No fewer than 30 innocent compatriots were killed and many more injured in this organised crime against humanity by the APC, the police and INEC. The only crime of the citizens was their expressed determination to vote for the candidates of their choice as governors of Kogi and Bayelsa states as clearly manifested in the results from the polling centres before the forceful seizure of the electoral processes. “Most distressing is the gruesome incineration of one of our party’s woman leaders in Kogi State, Mrs. Acheju Abuh, in her home by APC thugs, a crime that was abetted by unscrupulous security agents. Our party holds that this electoral fraud and crime against humanity, including established culpable homicide committed by the APC, security agents and INEC cannot be allowed to pass.” Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, whose anointed candidate was defeated at the poll, not only rejected the result announced by INEC, but tendered video evidence in support of his claims of killings and election violence that characterised the conduct of the election. Addressing a press conference in Yenagoa, Governor Dickson described the election as a charade and a carefully orchestrated plan to forcefully take-over Bayelsa State towards entrenching a one-party system. He condemned in its entirety, what he termed as brazen connivance of security agents, particularly officers and men of the Nigerian Army with the All Progressives Congress (APC) thugs to hijack electoral materials in most local government areas of the state. According to the governor, soldiers were deployed to Ogbia Local Government Area and other parts of the state to cart away electoral materials, thereby undermining the process in favour of the APC. Diri, who spoke in the same vein, declared that he was the winner of the election. He reiterated that INEC and the Nigerian Army connived with the APC to rob him and the PDP of victory. He maintained that results collated from the PDP situation room indicated that he won Lyon in all the local government areas of the state. His words: “I am the winner of the just concluded elections. I am the winner even though INEC decided to look the other way. I am not just saying that PDP is the winner, because we had a situation room and reports from our situation indicated I won the election. Based on this result, PDP and its candidate is the winner of the election.” Wada, who also rejected the Kogi governorship election result, described the poll as not only a scam, but a replica of war orchestrated by the APC and security agents deployed to the state. His words: “As far as my party and I are concerned, this election is not only a scam, but more like a war because there was connivance between the ruling party and security agents to perpetuate wide spread malpractices through intimidation of voters, snatching of ballot boxes, thereby subverting the will of the people. “If this kind of election continues, I think there should be no need for election as just allowing people to come out to vote is a mere formality. What they did at the collation centres is not the true reflection of the electorate’s choice.” He insisted that the entire results from the 21 local government areas of the state were not the true reflection of the people’s choice, adding the results were written by the APC and accepted by INEC. According to him, true results from polling units across the state shows that he is the winner of the election. “I, Engineer Musa Wada, won the November 16 gubernatorial election in Kogi State and I have all it takes to prove my case when the time comes.” CSO’s, observers call for cancellation The opposition party was not alone in condemning the conduct of the polls. Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and most election observers that monitored the polls, equally called for cancellation of the entire elections, alleging that the conduct fell short of acceptable standard. The Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room, for instance called for the total cancellation of Kogi State election as it represents a major dent to Nigeria’s democracy. Convener of the group, comprising about 400 civil rights organisations, Clement Nwankwo, particularly warned that forthcoming elections in the country would be characterized by bloodbath if the election is allowed to stand. He said: “Situation Room is disappointed with the conduct of the two governorship elections that held in Kogi and Bayelsa states. The elections fall below the standard expected of a free, fair and credible election. “In Kogi State, the levels of violence perpetrated by the two major political parties seriously undermined the elections, deterred voters and made the exercise a farce. Accordingly, Situation Room is calling for the cancellation of the entirety of the Kogi State election.” Similarly, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), described the governorship election in Kogi State as falling below minimum standard of a credible election. A report of the NBA’s Election Working Group led by its Chairman, Afam Osigwe, read in part: “The credibility of the entire process was put in issue by the overwhelming incidents of harassment and intimidation of voters and electoral officials, destruction of electoral materials, snatching of ballot boxes and votes and the killings of persons. “In light of the large scale acts of violence, disruptions of the electoral process, snatching of electoral materials by armed persons some of whom were dressed in police uniform, coupled with sporadic gunshots that scared voters away from voting centres, as observed by the NBA EWG, the elections in Kogi State failed to meet the minimum standards of a credible election.” But a group, Niger Delta Youth Coalition for Peace and Progress (NDYCPP), which commended the Bayelsa election, urged the PDP, Diri and Governor Dickson to emulate ex-President Goodluck Jonathan by conceding defeat. Bayelsa State chapter chairman of the group, Henry Nabena, who gave the advice in Yenagoa, also commended the security agencies for effective security cover during the election, which, according to him, went against the prediction that the polls would be marred by violence. His words: “We commend INEC for their performance in this election; they should sustain this record and improve on it. We equally applaud the Nigeria media for their balanced and factual reports of events during the elections even at the risks of their lives and under a very difficult terrain. “We call on INEC to ignore the cry of Dickson and the PDP for the cancellations of results from Nembe, Ogbia and Southern Ijaw LGAs as the elections conducted in those areas were remarkably very peaceful and credible. Bayelsa people and the electorate have spoken through their votes and that is the voice of liberation and freedom from shackles of manipulation and we are very happy that both local and foreign observers have endorsed the process. “We are proud that Bayelsa people have proved bookmakers wrong. Our people have debunked the perception that we are violent. That stereotype is false. The result of the election is a reflection of the wishes of the people and INEC should be commended for making votes count.” APC disagrees with PDP Apparently dismissing PDP’s claim, President Muhammadu Buhari, who is APC’s undisputable leader, advised the main opposition party and others that were not satisfied with the results of governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states to seek redress in court. Buhari, who gave the advice through a statement by his media aide, Femi Adesina, to congratulate Bello and Lyon, for their respective victories, however admitted that the elections featured “isolated incidents of violence” which he blamed on “desperate politicians.” He said: “Violence during elections vitiates our commitment to demonstrate to the world and upcoming generation that we are a people capable of electing leaders in a peaceful and orderly manner.” He noted that officials of (INEC and the security agencies did their best within the ambit of the law to ensure free, fair and credible elections, noting: “All those dissatisfied with the outcome of the elections should in seeking redress, approach the courts.” Corroborating the President’s view, Oshiomhole, particularly described the governorship election in Bayelsa as the most peaceful in the state since 1999. He stated this, when was joined by the Chairman APC governorship campaign and Governor of Kebbi State, Mohammed Badaru; Chairman of APC Governors Forum, Atiku Bagudu and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Silver, to present Lyon to President Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. His words: “We thanked the President for his fatherly role as he insisted that we must ensure that while we are determined to win the election, we must play by the rule and ensure that the process is transparent. Above all, the President has always been concerned about peaceful election and we were proud to inform him that besides very isolated cases of snatching of ballot boxes, the election in Bayelsa can be described as the most peaceful. “I believe since 1999, you as very seasoned journalists, who have covered elections in Bayelsa in the past, will agree that this is the only time we can say the election is truly transparent and peaceful.” PDP heads to tribunal As it is, the PDP is not only rejecting outcomes of the polls in Bayelsa and Kogis states, but have announced plans to challenge them at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunals. In Kogi, the party’s candidate, Wada, has described the election as a declaration and execution of war against Kogi people, said he will challenge the outcome of the poll at the tribunal. He said what happened in his state was “an organised war against democracy; coup against the people and seizure of power through brigandage and the barrel of the gun with members of the police and other security agencies coordinating the stealing of the people’s votes.” The PDP candidate accused the police of aiding alleged armed thugs of All Progressives Congress (APC) to invade polling units with impunity. His words: “Police helicopters were used to attack polling units, fire tear gas on voters and provide cover to APC hoodlums and policemen who brutalized the people of Kogi State and stole their mandate. “The APC turned our state into a theatre of war. No fewer than nine innocent Nigerians were killed. Many more were maimed and injured by the APC in their desperation to seize power at all cost. “It is therefore distressing that INEC went ahead with a shameful collation and declaration of fabricated results despite the glaring disruptions that characterized the shambolic exercise. “In order to achieve this ignoble goal, INEC cancelled our votes in areas of our stronghold, subtracted from our votes in many other areas and padded the votes of APC to give a semblance of victory for APC. “We therefore stand with the people of Kogi to state without equivocation that this brigandage and stealing of our mandate cannot stand. We will never despair, but remain strong in our determination to retrieve the mandate freely given to us by the people in their desire for a change. We will pursue this course to its logical conclusion within the confines of the law of this country.” The same position was adopted by PDP stakeholders in Bayelsa State. Governor Dickson, who urged Bayelsans to be calm, said the reprehensible acts against democracy would be addressed through democratic procedures. His words: “As democrats, we believe in using democratic procedures in challenging what happened. In Ogbia, there was no collation done. In most of the areas, at the conclusion of voting, the soldiers came and rounded up everybody and forcibly took them to Ogbia town and asked all PDP leaders to leave to enable them replace pre-written results. So, the results announced for Ogbia, like those for Southern Ijaw and Nembe were not real. “What has happened in Bayelsa is one of the most brazen acts of distortion and rape of our democracy. What took place was not a democratic election. It was a military coup. It was the height of conspiracy by the Federal Government and security agencies to subvert the democratic rights of our people for the sole purpose of foisting the APC on the people. “It has never been like this before. In 2015, it wasn’t as bad as this. In this case, not only was the Army directed to take over our place, but to collude with the APC thugs to unleash terror on our people.” Bello promises to meet PDP in court The PDP’s hope of using the court to turn the table against the APC, notwithstanding, Kogi State’s re-elected governor, Bello, has expressed his readiness and that of his party to meet any of his opponents in court over the result of the November 16 governorship election. Bello, who spoke with State House Correspondents after he paid a visit to President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Thursday, opined that the presentation of Certificate of rReturn to him by INEC had proved that he won the gubernatorial election as expected. His words: “Just few hours ago, I received my Certificate of Return from the Independent National Electoral Commission in Lokoja. That is the conclusion of the November 16 gubernatorial election that I won with landslide. “I told you sometimes back that the issue of winning the election was not in question, but the margin with which I will defeat my opponent, and that he will have no reason whatsoever to go tribunal. However, going to the tribunal is their right and if they so wish, we will meet in court.” No doubt, the battle will shift to the courts, but while Nigerians wait for the legal fireworks to commence, the focus of the two foremost parties shifts to Edo State, where governorship election is billed to hold next year.