TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE and MUHAMMAD BASHIR report on the intrigues that characterised the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State   There is no doubt that memories of the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State will remain linger in the minds of many within the camps of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as well as families of those who lost their loved ones during the polls. The outcome of the election has generated a lot of issues in the polity as most stakeholders are divided over the results as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). While some are of the view that the election was free and fair, there are others who felt that it was marred by malpractices, violence and killings. But irrespective of individual thoughts about the election, INEC on Monday, November 18 declared the incumbent governor and APC candidate, Yahaya Bello, as Governor-elect. For some political analysts, there were several issues and events that shaped the election right from pre-primary, primary, campaign and the main election. Pre-election drama Governor Bello was criticized by many ahead of the election over non-payment of salaries of civil servants in the state; a situation that made an average Kogi person to believe that his second term bid was wishful thinking. It was even believed that the governor would not get the ticket of his party, APC. But like a cat with nine lives, Bello did not only get his party’s nomination, he also got the support of APC leaders, including the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who ordered his loyalists in the state led by a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. James Faleke, to work for the governor. Faleke, who handed over the political structure of a former governor of the state, late Prince Abubakar Audu, to Bello before the election, said his decision to join the governor’s team was based on the directive by his political father, Tinubu. He added that as a member of the APC, he had to support his party no matter the circumstances. Other APC chieftains in the state, who fell out with the Bello-led government soon began to follow the New Direction. As at then, one don’t need to go to the government to announced his or her loyalty, simple take a snap shot with the two hands up but hiding the two thumbs fingers to indicate 4+4 sign. The governor was said to have be so comfortable with the turn in events, until the emergence of Engr. Musa Wada as the flag bearer of the PDP. The belief in Bello’s camp was that the likes of former Governor Idris Wada, Abubakar Ibrahim Idris and Senator Dino Melaye, would have come in handy for the APC, should any of the them emerge as the PDP candidate. Musa Wada was seen as a hard nut to crack. The campaigns With the coming of Wada into the political scene, the APC-led government began to intensify efforts to win the minds of the electorate through a rigorous campaign across the state. While the APC was criss-crossing the length and breadth of the state canvassing for votes, the PDP was nowhere to be found, Billboards or campaign posters of the party were not visible in the state unlike those of APC. The lukewarm attitude of the opposition party towards the election, prompted the Director-General of the Bello/Onoja Campaign Council, Senator Smart Adeyemi, to express worrisome concern. Adeyemi, who said the silence of the PDP should be checked, urged the relevant security agencies to be vigilant as the stillness might be a grand plan to unleash mayhem on the people on election day. “Have you seen their campaign posters, billboards or handbills in any part of the state? They are not also engaging us in anyway. They claimed to be doing house-to-house campaigns, but we are also going from house to house; we have not met them anywhere. This is pregnant with lots of meanings and we want the security to be vigilant to prevent innocent citizens from being harmed,” Adeyemi said. But, in a swift reaction to Adeyemi’s statement on PDP not preparing for the election, the Director-General Media, Wada/Aro Campaign Organisation, Mr. Farouk Adejo, said the APC was only afraid of its shadows and also worried about how the PDP will send it packing out of the Lugard House. He added that the silence of the PDP is the party’s business and urged APC to face its window dressing campaign until November 16, when it would be sacked by the impoverished and oppressed people of the state. Promises by INEC and security agencies Following pockets of violent attacks and intimidation experienced in different parts of the state during the campaign period, many people clamoured for the contending parties and their leaders to embrace peace and part of measures put in place to ensure peace during the election was a Peace Accord signed by political parties. The accord’s objective was however defeated, when some irate youths caused disturbance at the venue of the ceremony, beating up the state chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Muktar Atima and also preventing the party’s governorship candidate, Barr. Natasha Akpoti, from entering the venue of the event. The peace accord was an initiative of INEC and was the event was graced by the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu and INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. The IGP, who sensed that violence might characterise the election, warned those planning to disrupt the poll to be prepared to face the consequence. The police boss, particularly warned hoodlums to stay off the polling units, saying anyone caught causing trouble would be severely dealt with. He pointed out that election is not war and that those carrying arms would be doing themselves a lot favour by submitting same to the law enforcement agents as anyone caught with arm before, during and after the election would face the full wrath of the law. The IGP, however, assured that the police have enough men to confront challenges that might pop up as a result of the exercise, while promising that a level playing ground would be provided for all contestants and political parties. He warned that any policeman found violating the rules of the game would be dealt with. He disclosed that all security agents to be deployed for election duty would be carrying INEC accredited tags to prevent disruption of the exercise by fake security agents. Prof Yakubu also disclosed that all arrangements were put in place to ensure a hitch-free election. He assured that the process would not only be transparent, but free and fair, stressing the need for the contestants and political parties to eschew violence as election is not a do-or-die affair. But despite the assurances by INEC and the security agencies, the election was marred by violence and killings as armed thugs backed by the police, either fake or real, stormed polling units to snatch ballot boxes and cause mayhem. Large turn-out of voters, few security personnel Despite pre-election violence and attacks, voters across the 21 local governments in the state turned out in their numbers to participate in the governorship and Kogi West Senatorial rerun elections in the state. New Telegraph correspondents, who monitored the elections across the three senatorial districts of the states, gathered that as early as 7.am, hundreds of voters were already at different polling units to perform their civic responsibility. In some of the polling units visited at 8.am, INEC officials and security personnel were on ground and had already set up, waiting for the commencement of the process, while voters were still awaiting the arrival of officials in some places. But despite slight delay in some polling units, as at 9.am, the governorship and senatorial polls had started in many places across the state and there was less report of late arrival of materials and commencement of the elections. But despite the deployment of over 30,000 security officials comprising personnel of the Nigerian Army, Nigeria Police, Nigeria Customs Services, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Nigerian Correctional Services and Immigration for the poll, there was no security officials on some of the major roads in Kogi State, especially the Lokoja-Okenne expressway and Okenne-Kabba road for several hours while voting was taking place. As a result of this, commercial vehicles, especially trucks and trailers moved freely on the major highways and state roads as well as inner roads within the state. Also, there were few security officials in some of the polling units visited during the election, especially in Kogi Central Senatorial District. However, there was heavy security in Kogi East and Kogi West senatorial districts. Election marred by violence, killings Despite the promises by the INEC chairman and the IGP as well as deployment of over 30,000 security personnel to the state for the election, the governorship and Kogi West Senatorial rerun elections were heavily marred by violence, ballot snatching, killings and burning of property. Eight people reportedly died, while several others sustained varying degrees of injury. A building belonging to an APC chieftain was set ablaze in Lokoja, the state capital. Also, at Lokongoma community in Lokoja Local Government Area, a police chopper reportedly aided the snatching of ballot boxes. The helicopter was said to have descended as if it was about to land, thereby raising thick dust to scare voters away, before the ballot boxes were carted away. At Abocho community in Dekina Local Government Area, two persons reportedly lost their lives. The deceased who names were issued by the natives, as Umoru shuaib and Faruk Suleiman, died during a gun battle between supporters of APC and PDP. Witnesses said the incident happened while voting was going at Barrack Polling Unit 001 in Dekina council. Three people were also killed in Adankolo in Lokoja, the state capital. They were killed in different polling units by hoodlums who shot sporadically with the aim carting away ballot boxes, but were prevented by some voters and residents in the community. A member of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) also reportedly died during the election. A voter was also killed in Ayetoro-Gbede in Ijumu Local Government Area and two other people shot by hoodlums, who disrupted the voting process at Ayetoro Town Hall in Ward 03 of the local government. The hoodlums also snatched ballot boxes at Ayetoro Town Hall and Oke Ibukun in Ijumu Local Government Area. But the ballot boxes were later recovered. There was also report of some hoodlums being arrested with thump printed ballot papers and Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). New Telegraph also gathered that there were sporadic gunshots in some communities in Kogi East Senatorial District shortly after the commencement of voting. The gunshots were heard in Emewe Okpada, part of Ajiyolo communities in Dekina Local Government area of the state. In Aikpele-Ajaka polling unit 002, Igalamela-Odolu Local Government, armed men wearing mask reportedly shot sporadically into the air, disrupting the exercise as voters and INEC officials took to their heels. On Monday, November 18, shortly after Bello was declared winner of the poll, a 60-year-old Woman Leader of Wada/Aro Campaign Council in Ofu Local Government Area, Mrs. Acheju Abuh, was set ablaze in her home by thugs. Discordant tunes over elections Speaking on the violence and killings, which took place during the elections, some international observers condemned the widespread violence during the polls. The observers, who are from Austria, Germany, Ireland, Netherlands, United Kingdom and United States, said they witnessed violence and intimidation during the elections. They also lamented attempt to prevent the media, electoral body as well as civil societies from carrying out their duties during the elections. “We express our alarm at reports of widespread incidents of violence and intimidation, some of which were witnessed by our teams in Kogi. There are reports of fatalities and people missing, including INEC staff. Our thoughts are with all victims and their families. “We express our sympathy for those affected by the violence, including ordinary voters; INEC officials; members of the NYSC; civil society; and the media,” the observers stated. Also commenting on the elections, the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), a domestic group, said widespread violence marred the election. CDD chairman, Prof. Adele Jinaidu, said reports from its observers indicated widespread violence, intimidation of voters, vote buying, abductions, gunshots and massive rigging undermined the integrity of the governorship election. It also described the conduct of the election as falling short of public expectation in spite of the public outcry against electoral violence in the state. Bello declared winner Governor Bello was declared winner of the governorship election. He defeated his major opponent, Wada of PDP with 216, 518 votes. The governor scored 406,222 votes, while Wada had 189,704 votes out of the 624, 514 total votes cast by 636, 202 accredited voters. According to the State Returning Officer, Prof. Ibrahim Garba, the APC candidate emerged winner having polled the highest number of votes. The SDP candidate, Mrs. Akpoti came third with 9,482 votes. Bello won 12 out of the 21 local governments in the state, while Wada won the remaining nine councils. The governor who hails from Okenne Local Government Area in Kogi Central Local Government won all the five local governments in his senatorial district – Okenne, Okehi, Adavi, Ogorimagongo and Ajaokuta. He also won five out of the seven local governments in Kogi West Senatorial District. The local governments he won in the area are Lokoja, Ijumu, Kabba-Bunu, Kogi (KK) and Mopamuro. He also won in Ibaji and Olamaboro councils for APC to win two out of the nine local governments in Kogi East Senatorial District. Wada, who is an Igala from Dekina Local Government Area, won in Kogi East Senatorial District, but he could not muster the strength to garner enough votes from Kogi Central and Kogi West senatorial districts. He won seven councils in Kogi East and two local governments in Kogi West. He won in Dekina, Ankpa, Bassa, Idah, Igalamela-Odolu, Omala, Lokoja, Yagba East and Yagba West. Declaring the results of the governorship election, Prof. Garba said Abdullahi Muhammed of Accord Party scored 76 votes, while Muhammadul-Kabir Abdul-Wasiu of African Action Council (AAC), Medupin Ephraim of Alliance for Democracy (AD) and Justina Dolapo Abanida of African Democratic Congress (ADC) scored 328, 488 and 706 votes respectively. Ndakwo Abdulrahman Tanko of Action Democratic Party (ADP) had 411 votes; Orugun Emmanuel Olorunmowaju, Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP) polled 357 votes and Ibrahim Jibril Sheik of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), 475 votes. Bello Williams Dele of Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria (GDPN) got 48 votes while Victor Akubo, Green Party of Nigeria (GPN); Gabdulmalik Adama Mohammed, Hope Democratic Party (HDP); Alfa Amos Oboy, Justice Must Prevail Party, JMPP; Jimoh Amodu Yusuf, Mass Joint Action Alliance (MAJA) and Muhammed Ibrahim Dangana, National Conscience Party (NCP) scored 29, 46, 83, 91 and 419 votes respectively. Other results are; Ukwumonu Joseph Idachaba, Peoples Party of Nigeria, PPN (624); Moses Itodo Drisu, People Progressive Party, PPP (381); Ayodele Raymond Ajibola, Peoples Redemption Party, PRP (169); Abdulrazaq Baba Emeje, United Democratic Party, UDP (185); Abuh Sunday Omogami, United Peoples Congress, UPC (52); Shaibu Sani Seidi, Young Democratic Party, YDP (69); Aisha Abubakar Audu, Young Progressive Party, YPP (63); Suleiman Mohammed Mikhail, Zenith Labour Party, ZLP (77) and Yusuf Dantalle, Allied Peoples Movement, APM (199). Bello in his acceptance speech during a press conference at Government House in Lokoja, dedicated his victory to her mother, Hajia Hawawu Bello and people of Kogi State. He said the people of Kogi State are the winners of the election for breaking ethnic jinx as well as class and age difference in the state by re-electing him. He, therefore, assured them that they will all benefit from the state’s resources. The governor, who condemned the violence and killings in different parts of the state during the governorship poll, condoled with those who lost their loved ones and called on the police and other law enforcement agencies to bring those behind the violence and killings to book. The governor, who was flanked by his deputy, Chief Edward Onoja and other government officials and party leaders, appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari and his wife, Aisha; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and his wife, Dolapo; APC National Leader, Asiwaju Tinubu; the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and others for their support. He disclosed that he was supported in cash and kind by both the APC and opposition, PDP governors and that their supported contributed to his victory at the poll. PDP, SDP, others divided over election results The PDP and its candidate, Wada, rejected the results and outcome of the election in its entirety. The PDP governorship candidate, at a media conference in Lokoja, described the election in the state as not only a scam, but also a replica of war orchestrated by APC and securities deployed to the state. “As far as my party and I are concerned, this election is not only a scam but more like a war, because there is heavy connivance between the ruling party in power and security to perpetuate wide spread malpractices, by intimidating voters, snatching ballot papers therefore subverting the will of the people. If this kind of election continues, I think there should be no need for election. What they did at the collation centres, is not the true reflection of the electorate’s choice,” he said. Wada insisted that the entire results from the 21 local government areas of the state were not the true reflection of the people’s choice, adding that all the result were completely written by the APC and accepted by the INEC. According to him, the true results from the polling units in the state made him winner of the election.  “I Engineer Musa Wada, won the November 16 gubernatorial election in Kogi state, and I have all it takes to prove my case when the time comes,” he said. Akpoti, the SDP governorship candidate, also called for an outright cancellation of the election, saying it was a “civil war” imposed on the Kogi people by Governor Bello. Insisting that the results of the election was a product of massive rigging, said violence and thuggery inflicted on the people on election day should not be allowed to go without a penalty. Also speaking on the disruption of the election process and snatching of ballot boxes during the election, the PDP senatorial candidate in Kogi West, Senator Dino Melaye, condemned the governorship and senatorial elections, saying they were militarised, full of violence and ballot boxes easily carted away by gunmen. “We already said that APC is not prepared for the election. But we are ready to proof that the ballot is stronger. We will fight with the last drop of our blood,” he said. But despite the opposition to the outcome of the governorship poll, a coalition of 16 governorship candidates in Kogi State condemned the call for the cancelation of the gubernatorial election in the state. The group, at a press conference in Lokoja, said the idea of calling for a rerun might lead to more loss of lives. Addressing journalists at the conference, the governorship candidate of the Young Democratic Party (YDP), Dr. Sanni Shaibu Teidi, said the 16 candidates have since accepted the result of the election, urging the losers to work with the winner of the election towards achieving accelerated development in the state.