A group known as Ijaw Leaders Forum, in collaboration with the coalition of civil society, faith based organisations and some other groups, on Tuesday endorsed Senator Douye Diri the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Saturday’s governorship election. Speaking in Yenagoa, at a press conference, the group, through it’s leader Timi Ogoriba, said that they decided to endorse Diri after a thorough assessment and evaluation of the unfolding political developments and electioneering process, the so far. “We are convinced that Senator Douye Diri has the requisite pedgree, administrative knack, exposure, qualification and reach to turn around the fortunes and developmental challeges of the state,” they said. Accepting that there were some mistakes in governing the state, the group maintained that: “In this connection, we wish to appeal very strongly particularly to the organised labour, professional associations, trade unions, artisans, students, women and youth groups and the Bayelsa State electorate to vote for Senator Douye Diri. “A vote for Douye is a vote for prosperity, light, massive infrastructure and human capital development. “We therefore endorse Senator Douye Diri, the gubernatorial candidate of the PDP, for Saturday’s election.” T he top leadership of the People’s Democratic Party, stakeholders, youth and women groups have unanimously adopted the Senator representing Bayelsa Central, Senator Douye Diri, as their sole aspirant in the September 3 party primaries.     Senator Diri hails from the same Kolokuma/Okpokuma Local Government Area as the former… In "News" ...election between saboteurs and true leaders, says Dickson   Ahead of the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State, over 250 presidents of youth groups and 500 youth leaders from Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of the state have declared support for gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator… In "Politics" The governorship primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State has come and gone. But in this report, PAULINE ONYIBE writes on how the battle was won and lost     E xpectedly, the battle for the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the November… In "Politics"