Ahead of Saturday’s governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has begged the electorate to vote for its candidates in the polls. In particular, the chairman, Kogi State APC Campaign Council, Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna, yesterday knelt down in Lokoja, the state capital, begging the electorate to forgive Governor Yahaya Bello and re-elect him in the Saturday election. El-Rufai, who mounted the podium during the grand finale campaign for the APC at the Confluence Stadium in Lokoja, pleaded with the people to forgive Governor Bello on account of his young age, for his real and perceived past wrongs and return him for a second term on the platform of the APC on November 16. According to him, young persons are susceptible to mistakes. His words: “Many people say Yahaya Bello is young; that he has fought many people. For every one that the governor has offended, I’m asking all of you to forgive him. He is young; he is supposed to make mistakes. “When you are young, you make mistakes. Please, I am kneeling down on my knees to beg you. Please, forgive whatever wrong he has done to you. He cares about the people of Kogi State. He has brought progress to this state; he has brought young people and women into government. “He has cleared salary arrears that he inherited from previous governments. You must all come out to support him. I beg you all. Let us make history. Let us not dishonour the memory of Prince Abubakar Audu by allowing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to return to Lugard House – the Government House. We must work for the unity and progress of Kogi,” he said. El-Rufai said the campaign train had come not only to re-elect Yahaya Bello, but to bury PDP once and for all. He stated that the four years’ achievement of Bello has surpassed the 13 years of the PDP in Kogi state. “That is why we must all come to together and finally burry the PDP in Kogi State. We are going to do them “murus” (in Hausa dialect, meaning, total finishing of the opposition party in the state),” he added. He appealed to the electorate to also vote for Senator Smart Adeyemi and not to repeat the mistakes of the past by voting Senator Dino Melaye. “You all have the choice to choose between foolishness and goodness,” he said. On his part, National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole urged the people of the Kogi West to join in kicking the “Rascal” out of the Senate. Another drama took place when the wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, invited the governor to come back to the podium and clear the air over the issue of non-payment of salary. Bello, in response, said: “Your excellency, I can assure you that my administration has cleared all salary arrears owed workers in the state.” The governor, who stated that he was already smelling victory, vowed that any thug deployed to the state to foment trouble in the Saturday election, will not go back to their home safe. Addressing the gathering, Bello appealed to the people to uphold the unity so far achieved in the state, and speak with one voice by returning him as governor on November 16. “We have been able to unite Kogi State. What we have now is Kogi Agenda, not ethnic agenda. Ethnicity has brought Nigeria to its knees. But today in Kogi, the Igalas, the Okuns and Ebiras are brothers. “I want Mr. President to return to meet a new dawn in Kogi State that his son has been re-elected the governor of Kogi State,” he said. But the PDP said the public apology by El-Rufai, was an acknowledgement that Bello does not deserve a second term in office. The party in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, also observed that Edo State deputy governor, Philip Shuaibu, agreed that Governor Bello misused the opportunity given to him to lead the state. “Unfortunately, the apology is coming too late in the day and cannot be accepted by the people of Kogi State, whose lives, Yahaya Bello had turned into a living hell in the last four year. “Moreover, Yahaya Bello openly confirmed that he is irredeemable as he stood without any sign of remorse while El-Rufai and the Edo State deputy governor begged the unimpressed scanty crowd. “Governor El-Rufai and the APC ought to have counselled Bello at the time he was busy suppressing, insulting, abusing and making life unbearable for the people of Kogi State as if there will not be a day of reckoning. “The irreversible fact is that the day of reckoning has come. The people of Kogi State have moved beyond Yahaya Bello and the APC,” PDP said.