 The Executive Council of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has ratified the suspension of National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, from the party in the state. The decision was reached at an enlarged meeting of the council and other party chieftains with the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki yesterday. At the meeting, the leaders said the suspension of Comrade Oshiomhole became necessary because the national chairman has been deploying divisive tactics to cause disharmony in the party in collaboration with the proscribed group, Edo Peoples Movement (EPM). While addressing APC leaders from the 18 Local Government Areas of the state, the State Chairman of the APC, Anslem Ojezua, said the news of his removal was shocking as the State Working Committee, which purportedly removed him, didn’t have powers to do so. “Our constitution has a provision to remove officers at the state level. It is only the State Executive Committee that has the powers to remove any officer. “Yesterday, 15 chairmen of the APC chapters in the local councils and 23 out of the 35 members of the State Executive Committee passed a vote of no confidence in the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, while a vote of confidence was passed in me,” he said. Governor Obaseki said he is not happy with the recent political developments in the state, especially the disruptions from a once-trusted leader who has thrown caution to the wind to cause disaffection among APC members in the state. The governor said when he first met Oshiomhole 12 years ago, they shared a common interest in salvaging Edo State, but all that has changed in recent times. “I am not an ungrateful person. No one made me governor. I became governor by God’s grace, with the support of many other people. If God had said I would not be governor, no way would I have been a governor. It is wrong for someone to say he made me governor. “No one gave me money. The funds Oshiomhole initially raised for his governorship ambition was raised by me in Lagos. If I can raise money for him for his election, why would I not be able to raise money for my own election?” the governor asked. Obaseki said the national chairman was not truthful about comments on his administration, adding, “If you came into power on some basic principles, do not expect to change those principles because you have certain ambition. If you came to power believing no man is God, then the day you start to play God, you will get the consequences.” Meanwhile, leaders of the APC across the three senatorial districts of Edo State yesterday suspended Governor Obaseki, his deputy, Philip Shaibu and the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie. They were suspended from the party for alleged anti-party activities ahead of next year’s gubernatorial election in the state. The party’s senatorial leaders and stakeholders accused the governor of allegedly hobnobbing with the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), engaging in divisive tendencies, operating an illegally constituted House of Assembly and other allegations. A chieftain of the APC in the state, Hon. Patrick Ikhariale, told newsmen in Benin, the state capital, shortly after a meeting of APC leaders drawn from the three senatorial zones of the state, that the inability of the state APC chairman, Anslem Ojezua, to run an all-inclusive party in the state was gradually creating hopelessness among party members over issues that could have been amicably resolved. Ikhariale alleged that Obaseki had already concluded plans to defect to the opposition PDP.