P rotesters, who besieged the National Assembly Complex’s gate yesterday in Abuja to demand the banishment of the proposed “Social Media and Hate Speech Bills,” have accused the lawmakers of shopping around the world only for evil and satanic ideas that would hurt Nigerians.   While they alleged that the lawmakers had compromised the independence of the legislature and  made the National Assembly an extension of the Presidency by always endorsing President Muhammadu Buhari’s wishes, they noted that the “Social Media and Hate Speech Bills,” were grand plots to encourage despotic regime in Nigeria.   The group led by a political activist, Deji Adeyanju and others called on the lawmakers to tread the path of honour by rejecting the bills and also sanction all anti-democratic forces that are encouraging oppression in any form.  Adeyanju noted that while the lawmakers travel round the world and see best practices that enhance democracy and economic development, they have never brought home such good ideals, only negative and destructive templates.  The letter the group submitted to the Senate President reads thus, “We insist that the monstrous Social Media Bill and its Hate Speech Bill counterpart have no place in any democratic society, let alone a fledgling democracy like ours. We believe that the bills are satanic, and must be totally withdrawn by the Ninth Senate with immediate effect.   “As constituents and citizens alike, we believe that the proposed bills suggest that lawmakers are anti-people and unwilling to either understand the sufferings of Nigerians or even take any meaningful step to mitigate them. We therefore hope that you will listen to the unanimous voice of Nigerians that these bills have no place in our democracy and must be forever banished to the trash can. We urge our lawmakers to borrow from abroad or plagiarize things and laws that will make them to be responsive to the yearnings of Nigerians, accommodate public criticisms and tower above pedestrian actions. You must truly show that you’re distinguished lawmakers.”