Amb. Etim Okpoyo is former deputy governor of Akwa Ibom State and ex-Nigeria Ambassador to Italy. In this interview with TONY ANICHEBE in Uyo, he speaks on his experience in Italy and the politics of Akwa Ibom State, among other issues   As a stakeholder and former deputy governor of Akwa Ibom State, what is your verdict on the progress of the state 32 years after its creation? I think we should start by asking why the state was created. Are we meeting our obligations and reasons why the state was created? They are the probing questions; we must ask ourselves because the idea of creating the state was to bring government closer to the people so that we can have development. The state was not created for selfish reasons but for the collective benefit of the Akwa Ibom people. Is it what we are getting today? Sadly there are areas in the state you cannot still access by road. The factories we are talking about which is for employment and profit for the owners, is it serving that purpose? However it is sad to note that Akwa Ibom State is filled with praise singers who hardly tells the leaders the truth about the current realities in the state, and when one speaks the truth at times, he is see as working against the government. Akwa Ibom is making progress but needed improvement. If for instance we are talking about industries now, it shouldn’t be one which employs 10 to 15 people but one which takes in 400 to 500 people at least; that is what I call industry. The factories for instance, are we putting them across the other 31 local government areas? I remember telling the governor as the chairman of the occasion during the ceremony to honour the Secretary to the State Government and President-General of Oro Union that we need road infrastructures in Oro, especially the road connecting Uyo through Nsit Atai to Okobo and Oron but till now, it is still not done. The time frame it is taking us to develop the Ibom Deep Sea port is becoming worrisome. Cross River State is working on a similar project and if they achieve theirs before the coming of Ibom Deep Sea port, it will be a big challenge to us. These are all the things that should worry an average Akwa Ibom man not praise singing which is the problem of Akwa Ibom State today. A top government functionary said recently that over 95 per cent of the paper work or documentation of the Ibom Deep Sea port is completed… I haven’t seen the paper work but it is worrisome that the project, which started since the early days of Senator Godswill Akpabio’s administration, is still ongoing. Are we going to remain on that same project for 20 years? I am talking as an elder and somebody with experience that you cannot be on a project for over 10 years and be happy about it. We need to know what is going on and if we don’t act fast, Cross River state will over take us in the realization of the deep seaport and the anticipated benefits. The current politics of senatorial district succession in Akwa Ibom State appears to have buried the tripod initial canvassed, which is for power to rotate around Ibibio, Annanga and Oro nations, are you worried? It is worrisome and sad, how they have jettisoned the tripod. In 1992 when late Obong Akpan Isemin was the governor (may his soul rest in peace) and I was his deputy, we started the tripod of Ibibio, Annang and Oro; everything was anchored on tripod and when Obong Victor Attah came, he discovered that was the best for Akwa Ibom State and stood for it. But Senator Godswill Akpabio messed up the tripod. I have always said this and can’t stop saying it; today there is nothing like tripod. I warned people that with the killing of tripod, there might be a time an Annang man may not taste the seat of the Governor of Akwa Ibom State for 40 years. When the governorship leaves Eket Senatorial district back to Uyo, it will be 16 years for Ibibio man and when it gets to Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District it will be for Ikono/Ini which will be 24 years and return to Eket District which will make it 32 years and back to Uyo again to make it 40 years then they will know the need for the tripod. I confronted Akpabio and explained to him how the state was designed to make everybody have sense of belonging, which he ignored. He will regret his action. What I have said should be documented for future reference purposes. Taking a holistic view of the Governor Udom Emmanuel’s administration in Akwa Ibom State, are you impressed with the strides? Well I am one of those who will not tell you when you are writing examinations that you have passed; that is praise singing. I will only advise the government of today that they are writing their examinations and one day their script will be marked and that will be done at the expiration of their tenure when the praise signers are gone. So mine is more of advice, which is for government to be alive to her responsibilities and shun sycophants, as they will all melt away when the verdict of their tenure will be scored in the public domain. If I cite an example of what the government is not doing well now, I will get a reply that it is in the pipeline and the next will be that I am criticising the administration but what is clear is that at the end there will be stock taking followed by the verdict. Looking at the issue of security situation in the state, can you see an improvement from the past? To be honest with you, what we have as a security situation here is better than what is obtainable in most states of the South-South. Outside minor cult activities, it is not that bad at all compared to many states. In terms of security, Akwa Ibom is doing well; people move freely without molestation or being killed. The state is secured. As a former Ambassador to Italy, do you think that the manner the Federal Government handled the xenophobia attack on Nigerians by South Africans is satisfactory? I will not support or condemn the Federal Government on this matter sadly a lot of Nigerians aboard are very mischievous. I know what I passed thorough as Nigeria Ambassador to Italy with Nigerians. When you go to a country, there are laws you must keep but most of us disobey these laws. I know that South Africans too have no right to take laws into their hands but as you make your bed, so you lay down on it. Lots of Nigerians are not law abiding, let the blame starts from within ourselves, some go there selling drugs, some go for prostitution. I was Ambassador to Italy and I know what I passed through there in terms of human trafficking and prostitution. I witnessed lawlessness, people going for armed robbery, so when you engaged in these things the repercussion comes back but it is not proper for South Africans to take laws into their hands. Like I said earlier, I pity Nigeria because I had a terrible experience in Italy, I see Nigerians indulged in armed robbery, human trafficking, and prostitution and when you hear that Nigerians are repatriated from Egypt and Libya, they are merely on transit to Italy and Spain, mainly Italy. So when you take laws into your land, some people may be forced to give it back to you same way. Nigerians travelling aboard must learn to be law abiding. Take note that I said it is improper for South Africans to take laws into their hands but if lots of Nigerians have been law abiding, most of these things would not have happened. I am talking from my experience as Nigerian from Italy; I started deporting Nigerians from Italy back home during my time. I consulted the then president and he asked me to do so immediately. He even asked if I needed an aircraft I said no, that Italian government has offered me an aircraft and that is how I started sending dubious Nigerians back to the country and big man confronted me and asked if I am working for Italian or Nigerian government and I told them to be careful because I am working on the directives of Mr. President. The assignment in Italy must have been a challenging one for you? Yes, I stepped on peoples’ toes to succeed as Nigeria Ambassador to Italy. Could you believe that a woman approach me right in the Nigeria Embassy with her two daughters complaining that while her senior daughter was co-operating with their prostitution business, the junior one has refused to co-operate and to my utter shock that I should now talk to the junior one to start co-operating for them to succeed. What I did was to quietly call the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to intimate them and arrange security and on their way out, they were arrested and deported to Nigeria. It is so sad that some came to Italy for robbery, we have cases of old Italy men some above 80 years who sit out evenings to play draft, drink tea and coffee been robbed of their belongings by Nigerians and we reported such things to Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Before now in South Africa they have not been driving away Nigerians, so why now? May be they have done what they shouldn’t do. The presidency still cites past administration as the reason for hardship in the country after five years, do you believe such excuses? I think it is laughable for a government that spends over four years to ever advance such excuses for non-performance. A government that governed for four years, should be able to put certain things right. They should invite capable Nigerians to help fix the country. In Akwa Ibom today there is no federal presence, you can’t even go to Calabar from here, the same applies to going to Aba, Abia State because there is no access road till date and we are oil producers. The minister and our National Assembly members should as a matter of urgency tell the people of Akwa Ibom what they have for them from this federal government. Recently the Federal Government called for the forensic audit of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) after petitions from Nigerians who believe that the agency has not lived up to expectation since its establishment. What is your take? Well for government to go into the issue of forensic audit means they may have gotten security report to warrant it. So if the Federal Government that created the commission decides to know how funds sent to them here utilised, they should be encouraged to do so. Recently you were appointed the leader of ORO Elders Forum. What do you hope to achieve with the new appointment? Some time ago, people approached me and told me to provide leadership for them as a political and opinion leader, I accepted and have been carrying people along in this assignment. One of our major challenges presently is the problem of council of Oro traditional rulers, which I have tried my best to mediate when the Ata Oro was alive. He sat down with me and formed what are the executives of Council of Oro Traditional Rulers (COTR) and both of us endorsed it but the paper was discarded, I still have my copy in my file. We have had several meetings to resolve the problem involving the COTR though several meetings to no avail. At a point I pleaded with the Paramount rulers to meet with clan heads and village heads and found solutions yet the problem persists. So I discovered that people allow personal interest to override the community interest. With the demise of Ata Oro recently, do you see the solution to the matter soon? It would have been sorted out if the people involved were realistic. Some of the demands people make are not realistic. In the past when they are meeting, it is Ata in council but today there is no Ata Oro, is it proper for the COTR to have a chairman or president presiding over it when we have five paramount rulers in Oro nation. That is where I differ and lots of rights thinking Oro people are in the same position with me. The late Ata Oro told me how he felt going for a meeting in Akwa Ibom and his brothers will by pass him without greeting him. He asked if we must continue this way! I have tried severally to bring them together but some people are still opposing the right thing. Please Clan Head, one day you will be a Paramount Ruler, then will you sit down as a Paramount Ruler and allow a Clan Head to preside over a meeting. Even if you are a titleholder as a clan head, you are not a paramount ruler. Council of Oro traditional rulers is not council of Oro titleholders. So they should allow COTR to functions and that is my position in which some people are criticising me today. Have you ask for government intervention through the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs? I wouldn’t like us to bring in the government; Paramount Rulers and Clan Heads belong to each council area but what we have as Oro belong to us. My desire to bring everybody to live together in peace is not acceptable to some people yet. That is not proper for a Clan Head to lead COTR with five Paramount Rulers is the offence I have committed but I will stand by the truth.