…as APC, PDP lead other parties in renewed hostilities  There is a saying that in politics, there is no permanent friend or permanent enemy but permanent interests. This saying best describes the present situation in Kogi and Bayelsa states, considering how friends are turning to enemies and foes becoming friends in today’s governorship elections in the two states.  OLALEKAN OSIADE, TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE and PAULINE ONYIBE write on the intrigues in the polls and the renewed scramble for the two states.   Today is the decision day for the people in Kogi and Bayelsa states as registered voters match out in their thousands for the long awaited governorship poll in the state. The outcome of the election will determine either continuity of the ruling party, or change of baton in the Lugard House and Creek Haven respectively. According to many political observers and analysts, the governorship elections are going to be two-horse races the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). While in Kogi, the race is between between Governor Yahaya Bello, who is seeking re-election on the platform of the APC and his main challenger, Engr. Musa Wada of the PDP, the Bayelsa poll will see Senator Douye Diri slugging it out with the candidates of the other political parties. It is not clear what would be the fate of the APC in Bayelsa State as the court has nullified the candidacy of both the governorship candidate of the APC and his running mate. While awaiting INEC’s verdict on the poll, the parties have returned to the court and there is uncertainty in the air. In Bayelsa State, though Governor Henry Seriake Dickson of the PDP and the Minister of Petroleum, Timipre Sylva of the APC are not on the ballot papers, the duo are the game changers in today’s polls. Four years ago, precisely during the 2015 governorship election, some of those who were political rivals then are now eating in the same political plate while those who worked together then are now working at cross purposes. It is also of note that many of those who were political enemies then are now teaming up for common goals. Some politicians who worked together in their respective political parties are now rivals in different political parties while political interests have also united former opponents. Melaye, Adeyemi faceoff In Kogi State, though attention would be on the entire state for the governorship election, the people of Kogi West Senatorial District are also expected to elect who will represent them in the Senate in today’s senatorial rerun. The senatorial rerun has been narrowed down to a race between the PDP candidate, Senator Dino Melaye and the APC flag bearer, Senator Smart Adeyemi. Many believe that the election is going to be a renewed battle between the duo as this is the third time they would be battling each other for the Kogi West Senatorial District seat; they both contested for the seat during the 2015 and 2019 National Assembly elections. Today’s senatorial rerun became necessary following the October 11 ruling of a Court of Appeal, which sacked Senator Melaye on account that he was not validly elected during the February 23 senatorial election. The three-man panel of the Court of Appeal, led by Justice A.O. Chijioke, in its majority decision, upheld the August 23 judgment of the National/State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal in Kogi State, which nullified the election of Melaye and ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct a fresh poll within 90 days. The appellate court also invalidated the election due to what it described as discrepancies in dates indicated in the result sheets produced by the electoral commission, noting that while the election was conducted on February 23, 2019, the result sheets indicated February 25, 2019 as the date of the election. While reacting to the ruling, Senator Melaye said he was not worried by the verdict, which he described as human judgment. “It is absolutely okay. No worries, no tension, no pains. I celebrate God for He is always a good God. I believe in God’s judgment,” he said. Adeyemi, however, expressed confidence in defeating Melaye in the rerun, saying, “I am not afraid of poll rerun with Senator Melaye. He cannot defeat me in a free and fair election. He is no match any day,” he said. With the legal dispute on the February 23 National Assembly election laid to rest by the ruling of the appellate court, INEC on Monday October 21 announced November 16 as the date for the senatorial election. INEC according to a statement issued by its National Commissioner and chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said a fresh election in the Kogi West Senatorial District will take place simultaneously with the Kogi governorship election. He said: “This is sequel to the nullification of the Kogi West Senatorial District election conducted on February 23 2019, by the election petitions tribunal and its subsequent affirmation by the Court of Appeal which ordered the commission to conduct a fresh election within 90 days from the date of judgment with all those who participated in it as eligible candidates. “Following extensive consultations with stakeholders and a review of the security situation with the relevant security agencies, the commission has fixed November 30, 2019 for the conduct of a bye-election for the state constituency.” Prior to today’s senatorial rerun election, Senators Melaye and Adeyemi as well as their political parties have been campaigning vigorously to woo electorate for supports to realise their ambitions in the poll, which is expected to be a big battle for supremacy between the ruling party, APC and PDP. Apart from the senatorial election, the two political parties will also use the gubernatorial poll holding the same date to settle political scores. APC, PDP scramble in fresh battle While the ruling party, APC is strategising to use the senatorial poll to maintain its edge in Kogi politics by ensuring that it occupies all the three senatorial seats in the state, having produced Senator Oseni Yakubu (Kogi Central) and Jibrin Isah (Kogi East) in the last National Assembly poll, the opposition party, PDP is not resting on its oars to reclaim the Kogi West Senatorial District seat. Today’s contest is going to be determine by a lot of factors and some of the factors that will shape the outcome of the election are: party’s structures, power of incumbency, federal and state might, and crisis within the political parties, among other issues. Senators Melaye and Adeyemi are not new in the senatorial race and the personalities of both candidates and their structures may likely determine the outcome of the poll. Melaye is not a novice in the politics of the state. He was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2007 to represent Kabba/Ijumu Federal Constituency and was re-elected in 2011. In 2015, Melaye ran for Kogi West Senatorial District seat on the platform of APC and defeated Adeyemi who was then the incumbent and ran on the platform of the PDP. Due to the internal wrangling in APC and having fallen out with Governor Bello, Melaye defected to PDP and contested for second term on the platform of his new party and was declared winner by INEC. He also contested in the Kogi State PDP governorship primaries but lost the party’s ticket to Engr. Musa Wada. While in the Senate, he served in many committees and is a former chairman, Senate Committee of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Court of Appeal sacked him from Senate on October 11. Senator Adeyemi is also aspiring to return to the Senate. Adeyemi, a former President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), was first elected to the Senate in April 2007. And on assuming his Senate seat he was appointed to committees on Privatization, Industry, Federal Character & Inter-Government Affairs (Chairman), Federal Capital Territory and Appropriation. He was also appointed vice chairman of the Northern Senators Forum. Adeyemi won the PDP primary to compete for re-election as Kogi West Senator in the April 2011 elections and won the poll but his aspiration to remain in the Senate beyond 2015 was cut short by Melaye. The power of incumbency and state might would also be a major factor in the senatorial poll. APC will be going into the poll with power of incumbency since the party is the ruling party at the state and national level. Considering the fact that Kogi governorship election is also holding today alongside the senatorial poll, federal might may also work in favour of the ruling party. Governor Bello is very interested in the election because Senator Melaye is regarded as one of his political opponents and critics in the state, therefore the governor will not relent in his effort to ensure that his party wins the Kogi West Senatorial District seat. Considering the rivalry between Governor Bello and Melaye, the senatorial battle will not only be a straight one between Melaye and Adeyemi, but also between him and the governor, who many belief has a score to settle with Melaye, who once attempted to occupy the Lugard House. The issue of performance will also be a major yardstick for the senatorial poll as the electorate may use the eight years records of Melaye and Adeyemi to determine whom they will vote for on November 16. Both the APC and PDP senatorial candidates have represented their senatorial districts in the last 16 years and their constituents, without any iota of doubt, would have taken cognizance of their records and performance as bases for choosing their senator. Speaking prior to today’s senatorial poll, Senators Melaye and Adeyemi have both expressed confidence that they will win the election. Melaye assured his supporters that he would continue to defeat his political rival, Adeyemi, in any senatorial election organised in Kogi West. Melaye who posted a video on his Facebook page titled “I will defeat my political wife, Smart Adeyemi again,” said today’s fresh election would be the third goal he would score against his opponent. Adeyemi, on his part, has also expressed confidence that he will beat Melaye arms down in the elections. “There is no basis for comparison between me and Dino. If INEC conducts election again, I will beat him arms down,” he said. As electorate in Kogi West Senatorial District goes to poll today, the fate of the candidates would be determined by the electorate, irrespective of the odds in favour or against the political parties and their candidates. Will Melaye return to Senate or will Adeyemi continues from where his successor stopped? The outcome of today’s poll will determine the answer. Friendly foes: Bello and ßFaleke In 2015, Governor Bello and Faleke were never in good term as a result of their governoship ambition. Governor Bello took part in the then All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary and lost the party’s ticket to former Governor Abubakar Audi, who picked Faleke as his running mate. Audu and Faleke were already coasting to victory with wide margin during the 2015 Kogi governorship poll, when the former governor died during the process and INEC later declared the election inconclusive. Audu’s death created a vacuum and created controversy over who will fly the APC’s ticket in the concluding election. Faleke thought that as Audu’s deputy, he should automatically be the candidate but the party settled for Bello, who came second during the APC governorship primary with Faleke as his running mate. Faleke rejected the party’s offer and challenged the matter in court. Bello went ahead with election and won but despite Faleke being his running mate in the election, both of them were not in good term and base on the disagreement between the duo, Faleke turned down being sworn-in as deputy governor. Both of them embarked on the legal tussle and the ruling went in favour of Governor Bello. But today, both of them seem to have put the 2015 election tussle behind them as they are now working as a team to ensure that APC retains the governorship seat. Faleke has also reconciled members of Abubakar Audu political family with Governor Bello, which many see as a boost to the governor in today’s governorship poll. Governor Yahaya Bello and Senator Dino Melaye Governor Yahaya Bello and Senator Dino Melaye were in the same camp during the 2015 general elections and it was believed that Melaye played crucial role in the emergence of Bello as Kogi State governor. Melaye, who was then in APC was among the stakeholders in the party and was very active during the 2015 presidential campaign of General Muhammadu Buhari and his running mate, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Senator Melaye stood solidly behind Yayaha Bello in 2015 to ensure that he got the APC governorship ticket after the demise of Prince Abubakar Audu. During the swearing in ceremony of Governor Bello, Melaye was the Master of Ceremony at the event. But few months after the swearing in, there was rancour between them over issue of governance in the state and during the tussle, Melaye dumped the APC and defected to the opposition PDP. Melaye was returned to the Senate during 2019 National Assembly but lost the seat through a court verdict last month, as the Appeal Court ordered a rerun election between him and Senator Smart Adeyemi. Senator Melaye also made attempt to succeed Governor Bello but the aspiration of the senator did not see the light of the day as he lost the PDP governorship ticket to Engr. Musa Wada. Bello and Adeyemi Four years ago, Governor Bello and Senator Adeyemi originally belonged to different political camps. The governor was in APC while Adeyemi was in the opposition, PDP. Adeyemi worked then for the re-election of the then Governor Idris Wada but the political calculation favoured Bello. Today, both of them are on the same political platform. In fact, both of them will be seeking re-election from the people of Kogi State. While Bello is running for the governorship poll, Adeyemi would be battling Dino Melaye for Kogi West Senatorial District. The bond within duo is very strong as Adeyemi is currently the Director-General of Bello/Onoja Campaign Organisation. No doubt, there is tension in Bayelsa as court rulings are beginning to change the narratives in the long awaited governorship election as the atmosphere in the state is now electrified after the series of campaigns. Elections in Bayelsa State has always been characterised by violence, the reason many think that today’s polls won’t be different. Violence is not ruled out as some people have already lost their lives in a gun duel during the PDP campaign in Nembe on Wednesday. A policeman was reportedly shot in the leg, while the campaign rally of the PDP, which was slated to hold in the area was disrupted and party faithful chased out of the area. Governor Dickson, who was billed to attend the rally in company of the candidate of the party, Senator Douye Diri, however condemned the bloody attack. Trouble was said to have started when some supporters of one of the political parties started defacing posters and flags of rival political parties. From all indications, the battle is between Governor Dickson of the PDP and Timipre Sylva of the APC, who are not even on the ballot papers. The governor has always urged Bayelsans to vote for Senator Diri so that he will consolidate on all the achievements of the restoration Government. In a special media chat few days ago, Dickson had said: “We have been able to deliver the best airport in Nigeria. We have changed the history of development in Bayelsa. Prosperity is not about sharing money that should be used for development but putting it into work for development. Dickson also the APC was not on ground in the state and that the party had no verifiable record of leveraging on its presence at the center to impact lives in the state. “APC has not done anything for the Epie/Atissa people. APC is a party full of lies and deceit. Everything Epie Atissa has is from the PDP. My government alone in the last eight years has invested over N400 billion in verifiable projects in the state capital. We have invested N70 billion in building an airport”, he said. Describing the APC guber ticket as a ticket of militants and cultists, Dickson charged Bayelsans not to vote in persons with questionable characters capable of taking the state to the dark days of anarchy and disorder. On his part, Sylva, a former governor of the state, has always criticise Dickson and faulted his successor’s achievements especially the Bayelsa airport. Accusing Dickson of receiving over one trillion naira in allocation since he came on board, Sylva said there is nothing to show for it in the state. “But what can you see in Bayelsa? It is the darkness that we can see everywhere. Governor Dickson said he had built an airport. A few days ago, he brought some people to come and walk on the tarmac. I thought he was going to bring planes to land on the tarmac. “The biggest shame is that this airport is the most expensive airport in the world. So far, Dickson has spent N91billion. He owes N58.2billion on the airport to banks. “So you can see why Dickson is very desperate because he knows that he has taken Bayelsa people for a ride. He knows that he had done nothing and he had taken us into debt more than anything else. Not yet uhuru However, the court may have to give the final decision as to who are the candidates of the APC and the PDP. While members of the PDP have been celebrating since an Abuja High Court stopped the APC and its deputy governorship candidate, Degi Eremienyo from the polls, disqualifying him as the running mate to the Bayelsa APC governorship candidate, David Lyon, some APC members are also hoping on the court to give its verdict in the PDP case instituted by a former chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), and one of the aspirants during the PDP primaries, Dr. Timi Alaibe. The court had on Tuesday ruled in favour of the PDP in a suit challenging the veracity of the information supplied by the second defendant to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The court ruled that there were discrepancies in the educational documents supplied to the INEC by the deputy governorship candidate contrary to the relevant provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). It therefore disqualified the second defendant based on the alleged false information supplied to the INEC, which is contrary to the relevant section of the 1999 Constitution and Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). Eremienyo according to the ruling is not eligible to hold any political office in the country. But it is not yet uhuru for the PDP as there are pending court cases instituted by Alaibe and others. No doubt the fight is between APC and PDP, though the Accord Party candidate Ebizimor Diriyai, seems to be waxing stronger. As opined by an analyst, Kembi Kuku, “if the two major political parties end up not having any candidate, that means Diriyai of the Accord Party will have more chances of becoming the Bayelsa State Governor and that will be called divine mandate”. In all, the die is cast. With the choice between the devil and the deep blue sea, Bayelsans are keeping their fingers crossed as events unfold.