Police in Ogun State have arrested a 42-year-old woman, Temitope Akinola, for allegedly killing her two-day-old granddaughter. The suspect, a resident of Isote area of Sagamu, was accused of poisoning the baby with a deadly insecticide known as Sniper, resulting in her death. The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the arrest of the suspect in a statement made available to journalists in Abeokuta yesterday. Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, said Akinola was arrested by operatives of the command on Thursday, last week. According to him, the suspect has confessed to the murder on the pretext that she did not like her daughter getting married to the father of the baby. He explained that the woman had attempted to terminate the pregnancy of her daughter, but shelved the idea after her pastor warned her never to try such. Oyeyemi said: “Her arrest followed information received by police in Shagamu Division after the reported death of the baby. The suspect had never hidden her hatred for her son-in-law. The suspect was the only person with the baby, while her daughter went to bath. The daughter returned from the bathroom to meet the lifeless body of her baby. Upon the information, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Shagamu Division, a Superintendent of Police (SP), Okiki Agunbiade, detailed his detectives to the scene where the grandmother was promptly arrested. On interrogation, she admitted killing the baby because she didn’t like her son-in-law. “She confessed further that when she discovered that her daughter was pregnant, she made an attempt to terminate the pregnancy but her pastor warned her not to do so, hence she waited for her to deliver before carrying out her devilish intention. She also explained that she poisoned the baby with a deadly insecticide known as sniper.” The police spokesman stated that the corpse of the baby has been deposited at the mortuary of Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu. He added that the suspect has been transferred to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation and prosecution.