…donates 11 vehicles to police, DSS  No fewer than 5,000 people have been offered free medical care by the Nasiru Haladu Dani Medical Mission Foundation in Dutse, the Jigawa State capital. The three-day exercise began at the Dutse residence of the founder of the foundation, Alhaji Nasiru Haladu Danu. A statement by Danu’s spokesperson, Wabiye Idoniboyeobu, disclosed that the medical team was accompanied by partners from the United States of America. According to him, the 5,000 beneficiaries of the medical mission included men, women, boys and girls selected randomly from all the communities in the Dutse Emirate. Idoniboyeobu also disclosed that the foundation donated four vehicles to the Department of State Services (DSS) and seven utility vehicles to the state police command in a bid to maintain the resounding peace in Jigawa. In attendance were the governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alhaji Abdulkadir Fanini Adamu; the Chief of Army Staff, who was represented by the Brigade Commander, 3 Brigade, Brig-Gen. B. A. Alabi, Chairman, Dutse Local Government Area, Turaki Dutse, and Prince Tonye Princewill. The Emir of Dutse, Alhaji (Dr.) Muhammed Nuhu Sanusi, who was also on ground to witness the commencement of the exercise, visited all the treatment points and watched closely as his people received medical attention from the American specialists. In his remarks, Danu said despite the laudable efforts of the state government, people still need help, support and assistance. The founder noted that well-meaning people and corporate bodies must come to the rescue as government cannot do everything alone. He said: “We are here again in Jigawa because of the vision we have for our people. With the aid of our partners and the Jigawa State Ministry of Health, the NHD Medical Mission is here to create a platform where my brothers and sisters in Dutse can get free medical attention and support. “We are also here because it is evident that in spite of the laudable efforts of the government, our people still need our help, support and assistance. We have decided to pick up the challenge and help in whatever way we can, especially in the healthcare and educational sectors. “This is a vision we must achieve together. Government cannot do it alone, neither can I. We all have to join in. Some of us have big ambitions and big dreams; while some just dream of making it through the day. “But in all this, one hope we all share is to live a healthy life. This is why we have decided to better organise our outreach and build awareness. “I am calling on all Nigerians to replicate this in their various communities. Together we can achieve the long-awaited dream, ‘Health for all.’ If I can do something, you can do something, anybody can do something.” Earlier in the day, the Foundation donated 11 vehicles to the security agencies in the state. The vehicles were received by the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of the Zone. The AIG, on behalf of the Inspector General of Police, thanked the foundation for the donation and restated the command’s commitment to securing lives and property of all Nigerians. He thanked Jigawa people for the cooperation they had given the police and assured Danu that the vehicles will be put to the use they were designed for.