As part of meeting their professional obligation, Nigerian underwriters suffered an increase in their claims profile in 2018 as it increased from N142.83 billion to N207.43 billion, representing an increase of N65 billion. The payment also represents over 50 per cent cut from the premium grossed by the operators during the period. According to the breakdown, out of the N413.01 billion generated as gross written premium in 2018, 50.23 per cent was used to settle claims to policyholders. Nigerian underwriters’ penchant to claims payment has changed for better in the last couple of years since the industry regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) introduced various reforms to regain policyholders’ confidence in the sector. As part of the measures, the Commission created a complaint bureau which in the last couple of years ensured the payment of verified claims to aggrieved policyholders. In the current circumstance, the Director-General, Nigerian Insurers’ Association, Mrs Yetunde Ilori, also disclosed that the industry spent 39.13 per cent from the N365.05 billion it generated as gross premium in 2017 to settle claims. Failure and inability to fulfil their claims obligation have been identified as two major factors that dealt harshly on the integrity of the sector over the years, a development that increased the degree of public apathy to the sector. To alter the negative tide, the regulator has continuously introduced series of reforms to rebuild public confidence in the sector with the latest of such being the on-going recapitalisation. Just last week, while addressing shareholders the Director, Policy & Regulation Directorate, NAICOM, Pius Agboola, said there was need for the underwriters to recapitalize, saying the operators had been ceding juicy risks offshore due to low capitalisation. He said, for instance, that in 2018, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), under its consolidated insurance package, totalling N35.8 trillion ($99.5 billion), insured N27.9 trillion ($77.5 billion) locally and took N7.9 trillion ($22 billion) risk sum abroad, while Chevron Nigeria Limited, under its energy package insurance, of which its total risk sum was N5.1 trillion, retained N3.7 trillion locally and N1.36 trillion abroad. In the same vein, Mobil Producing Nigeria Limited, in its energy package/physical damage insurance retained N3.5trillion insurance risks in the local market and took N1.15trillion of its risks offshore. Lafarge under its combined property damage/business interruption and public liability) retained N383.4 billion risks in Nigeria and ceded N181.4 billion of its risks abroad. Similarly, Dangote Fertiliser Limited, in its construction/erection in all risk and third party liability, totalling N396 billion, retained N237.6 billion locally and ceded N158.4 billion risks abroad. Others in the top 10 are Sahara Power (Egbin Power Plc), Yinson Production, StarDeep Water Petroleum Limited, Dangote Refinery Plc, Aviation Refuelling and Centre for Energy Research and Trainings affiliated to Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) took some of their risks abroad because of the limited risk retention capacity of local insurers. To further curtail excesses claims conflicts, the President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), Eddie Efekoha, said going forward, operators, reinsurance and consumers would have to state what they are underwriting so that when it is time for claims payments, all parties would have known how much is due to them. He said: “When it comes to claim payments, we have noticed that while the local operators may fulfil their obligation, reinsurance or foreign operators may delay in delivery their obligation,” adding that policyholders should work with brokers to avoid misinterpretation of contracts.