…says no plan to impose levies on religious bodies   The Lagos State Government yesterday held an emergency stakeholders’ meeting with the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council, NIREC, stating that no doctrine encourages noise pollution The government said that noise pollution was antithetical to a smart city and that the dream of developing a 21st Century Lagos couldn’t be achieved in a noisy state. According to the government, to achieve peaceful coexistence among adherents of various religions in the state, certain guidelines must be followed and practiced. It added that the religious leaders through the State’s Ministry of Home Affairs will collaborate with the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, through the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency on the eradication of noise pollution. At the meeting, the religious leaders expressed concern over frequent clamp down on religious centres, insisting that the inter-religious body deserved to be carried along in the government’s enforcement on noise pollution law. Churches and mosques were urged to reduce noise generation level during services and control noise generation during vigils and other activities. The State’s Commissioner for Home Affairs, Mrs Uzamot Akinbile-Yusuff, said that the stakeholders have agreed to have a data base for religious bodies for ease of reference and communication purposes. She said: “As part of the decisions reached, the Ministry of Home Affairs will collaborate with the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources through LASEPA, to eradicate noise pollution emanating from places of worship throughout the state. It was also agreed that religious bodies in the state will support the governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’ T.H.E.M.E.S agenda in order to aid an even development in the state’s quest to become smart city. “The religious bodies have also agreed that to help government in community policing by monitoring, preaching lecture and prayer against criminal acts in the state. The religious bodies also agreed to coexist peacefully and eschew violence and acts that could lead to wanton destruction of the lives and property.” Harping on noise pollution, the commissioner expressed the possibility of a noise-free worship in Lagos, charging the clerics to ensure peaceful coexistence through their dealings and preaching.