T he Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested the Controller of the Kirikiri Maximum Prison (Nigerian Correctional Service, NCS), DCI Emmanuel Oluwaniyi, and another Deputy Controller, Hemeson Edson Edwin. Oluwaniyi and Edwin were arrested in connection with the earlier discovery that a convicted Internet fraudster, one Hope Olusegun Aroke, masterminded a mega scam to the tune of over $1 million from the Kirikiri Maximum prison.  EFCC spokesperson, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, said the duo was arrested on Monday by operatives of the Lagos zonal office of the commission. While Oluwaniyi was nabbed in his capacity as controller of the facility, Edwin was taken in for allegedly giving exaggerated medical reports that warranted a convicted Internet fraudster, who is serving a 24-year jail term, being given a referral to be treated outside the facility.   “The first suspect, Oluwaniyi, who is the Controller, Kirikiri Maximum Prison, as well as the second suspect, Edwin, who is in charge of the medical facility, were arrested on Monday, November 25, by operatives of the Commission. “The suspects have given useful information to the commission about their alleged involvement in the crime,” Uwujaren said. Aroke, also known as H.Money, who is serving a 24-year jail term, was one of two Malaysia-based Nigerian undergraduate Internet fraud suspects arrested in 2012 at the 1004 Housing Estate, Victoria Island, Lagos following a tip- off. Aroke, who is an indigene of Okene, Kogi State, had claimed to be a student of Computer Science at the Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan University, Malaysia.   According to the anti-graft agency, preliminary investigation revealed that the convict, against established standard practice, had access to Internet and mobile phone in the Correctional Centre where he is supposed to be serving his jail term. “Even more puzzling was the finding that Aroke got himself admitted to the Nigeria Police Hospital, Falomo, Lagos for an undisclosed ailment. And from the hospital, he would move out to lodge in hotels, meet with his wife and two children and attend other social functions. “The circumstance of his admission into the hospital and those who aided his movement from the hospital to hotels and other social engagements is already being investigated by the EFCC,” EFCC had said. The commission further stated that the suspect, while serving  a jail term, used a fictitious name, Akinwunmi Sorinmade, to open two accounts with two banks. He also bought a property at Fountain Spring Estate, Lekki Lagos in 2018 for N22 million and a Lexus RX 350 2018 model registered in his wife’s name, Maria Jennifer Aroke.   “The convict was also in possession of his wife’s bank account token in prison, which he used to freely transfer funds. “Further investigation revealed that, while his trial was ongoing in 2015, Aroke bought a four bedroom duplex at Plot 12, Deji Fadoju Street, Megamounds Estate Lekki County Homes, Lekki for N48 million.” When Aroke was arrested, a search conducted by EFCC operatives on his apartment led to the recovery of several items such as laptops, iPad, travelling documents, cheque books, flash drives, Internet modem, and three exotic cars – a Mercedes Benz Jeep, One 4Matic Mercedes Benz Car and a Range Rover Sport SUV. He was eventually convicted by Justice Lateefa Okunnu of a Lagos State High Court on two counts of obtaining money by false pretence, cheque cloning, wire transfer and forgery. He was sentenced to 12 years imprisonment on each of the two counts. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has announced the arrest of the Comptroller of the Kirikiri Maximum prison, DCI Emmanuel Oluwaniyi, and Doctor Hemeson Edson Edwin. The Comptroller and Efwin, who is in charge of the centre's medical facility, were arrested in connection with the earlier discovery that a… In "News" EFCC probes how prisoner sleeps in hotels, attends social functions     T he Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has accused a convict of masterminding a mega scam to the tune of over $1 million from the Kirikiri Maximum Prison in Lagos.   According to the commission, the convict,… In "News" ...converts 20 others on death row to life sentence     The Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, has pardoned and ordered the release of 14 inmates of the Maximum Security Prison in Kirikiri who have been imprisoned for over 20 years for various offences and 20 others on death row… In "News"