The Federal Government has pledged its commitment to the development and growth of the creative industry in order to achieve optimum utilisation of all the resources in the sector. This, according to the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, was in line with the economic agenda of the Federal Government, as its seeks to remove all obstacles to growing the sector. Mohammed made this disclosure in Lagos on Saturday during the award ceremony of the 2019 All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) held on Lagos. “As we head into 2020, the successful commercialisation of the creative industry is our number one priority. It will create jobs, reduce crime, be a major source of foreign exchange and thereby, reduce our dependence on oil, rebrand our country internationally and boost our Gross Domestic Product (GDP)”, said the minister. Furthermore, Mohammed said besides removing all the impediments that hamper growth of the sector,  the government will make funding and financing of projects in the sector cheaper and easily accessible to all. “So, we in government are tackling all impediments to the industry thriving. We are making cheaper and longer term financing available for the industry, especially for infrastructural projects, like concert halls across the six geo-political zones of the country, as recently announced by the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria.” The framework and guideline for this, he said, would be provided through the Office of the Attorney General of the Federation to ensure that listeners of music pay for it. He also urged the various telecommunication operators in the country to make data cheaper for the populace while he said that owners of content must make more money from the use of their works. “The other big issue for commercialisation is the digital economy and data must be cheaper and owners of content must make more money from the use of their works. I am sure you have been following the announcements by my colleague, the Minister of Communications, on this,” he said. The minister also said the government is cleaning up the advertising industry and making sure proper measurement of content exist and are collated, stressing that this measure has the potential to add at least N50 billion annually to the sector.