Recently, the hierarchy of the National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC) disclosed that about N1.1 billion would be required to execute its programmes under a five-year strategic blueprint to improve seed system in Nigeria. Taiwo Hassan reports  To make Nigeria’s food sufficiency programme a reality to guarantee sustainable food security and safety in the country, there is need for quality seed availability for farmers. However, it is regrettable that Nigeria is yet to possess quality seed in her agriculture space following widely adulterated or fake seeds in circulation. In a bid to correct the wrong, the Federal Government saddled the National Agricultural Seed Council with the responsibility of regulating seeds in circulation and to ensure that Nigerian farmers get high quality seeds and also reduce fake ones in the country to the barest minimum. Curbing fake seeds In many fora, stakeholders have raised concern over increased circulation of adulterated seeds, a development that is posing a threat to Nigeria’s gross domestic product. Ideally, curbing fake seeds in circulation has been very challenging as statistics showed that over 70 per cent of people who have no business with seeds jump into the business without getting certified by the Seed Council- National Agricultural Seed Council.  They end up selling junk to farmers. Consequently, this has resulted to farmers being at the receiving end by buying fake seeds, thereby truncating the actualization of food sufficiency in the country. With this menace in place, it is important that the only agency empowered by law to regulate the seed industry in Nigeria, NASC, plays its role to deal with the challenge. As part of the strategies to combating fake seeds merchants and helping farmers access quality seeds, the Director-General of NASC, Dr. Philip Ojo, told journalists in Abuja that his council had perfected arrangement to provide farmers with a call centre and a helpline. He explained that “the helpline will serve a platform to address the concerns of farmers and the general public on seed related matters.” Ojo noted that to achieve the desired food security in the country, farmers need to be properly guided in their dealings in the seed market, as that would help them to make informed decision towards improved yields and bumper harvest. Funding However, to realise the dream of eradicating fake seeds in the country’s agriculture space, the issue of funding to NASC is important. To achieve this, Ojo disclosed that N1.1 billion was required to execute its programmes under a five-year strategic blueprint, spanning from 2019 to 2024. Ojo, in a chat with newsmen in Lagos recently, decried the low funding from the statutory budgetary allocations, saying that the council intends to leverage technology to develop improved seed system for farmers, ensure greater access to quality seeds, and position Nigeria as the seed hub of Africa. Despite the fact that Nigeria already accounts for a large number of seeds used in West Africa, the DG stated that the endgame was not only to sustain food sufficiency in the country but to also improve agricultural produce for exports. 2019 NASC Act Speaking on the 2019 NASC Act, Ojo said that the council had been enabled by its enactment in line with changing trends in the global seed industry, adding that the Act will ensure adulterated seed peddlers face stiffer sanctions. In his words: “It is important to have a new Act because there are changing trends in the global trade industry, and Nigeria cannot afford to be left behind. There are also other things that were not in the old Act, which has been added; one major issue is that of doing the wrong thing in the seed industry because, in any other professional business, there are also fraudulent and deceitful people as well as regulation that should not be broken. “The penalties in the Seed Act before were very minimal, example; if anybody runs afoul of the law in the old Act, he or she was to pay a fine of N50, 000 for a first time offender, N100, 000 for a repeat offender as well as a jail time of six months. “Under this new Act, if the first time offender is found guilty he or she will pay N1 million and jail time of one year, while a repeat offender would pay N2 million and jail time of two years.” Last line Agric stakeholders hope that the proposed N1.1 billion to execute the country’s seed programmes under a five-year strategic blueprint will come to reality.