The Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Salihu Moh’ Lukuman has stressed further his grouse against the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole on the administration of the party.
According to the PGF DG, who on Wednesday called on the APC National Chairman to convene a meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party or resign, said the APC National Chairman has reneged from his declaration to protect the party’s constitution.
Speaking in Abuja on Thursday to news men, he stated that his position that Oshiomhole should convene a NEC meeting or resign was not in variance to the opinion of party leaders.
He extracted the declaration of the APC National Chairman acceptance speech where he emphasized his commitment to protect the constitution of the party.
On the Oshiomhole declaration speech he quoted him, “we own the party and will be ready to work to ensure the success of the party at all levels and at all times.
“Secondly, we will promote internal democracy within the party. For me, a political party is a structured, voluntary
association and not an amorphous informal mob that is not governed by a set of rules. The rules serve as a contract between the party and its members. Thus, a credible membership register is a pre-condition for sustainable internal party democracy.
“To promote internal party democracy, we will ensure that all organs of the party regularly meet, as stipulated by the party’s Constitution.
“For instance, article 25 of the APC’s constitution provides that National Convention of the party shall be held once in two years; National Executive Committee (NEC) every quarter and National Working Committee (NWC) once every month.”
But Lukuman said that of these declarations none had been abided by the APC National Chairman.
He stated that there was nothing personal against Oshiomhole, whom he said brought him to limelight as a labour leader but there was need to save the party.