Justice Nichol Clay of a Lagos High Court in Igbosere has ordered the remand of an Indian, Lokesh Parwani, who attempted suicide after been arrested over alleged stealing of N146 million. The remand order was sequel to Parwani’s arraignment by the police on a seven counts charge of conspiracy, stealing, fraud, issuance of dud cheques and attempted suicide. He however pleaded not guilty to the charge. Following the reading of the charge to the defendant, defence lawyer, Abiodun Kolawole, drew the court’s attention to the bail motion of his client. He added that the motion has been served on the prosecution’s lawyer. Responding, police lawyer, Morufu Animashaun, while acknowledging the receipt of motion sought for an adjournment to enable him respond appropriately. He subsequently urged the court to remand the defendant in prison facility pending the hearing and determination of the  bail application. Following the submissions of the lawyer, Justice Clay adjourned the matter to December 2, for the hearing of the defendant’s bail motion. The judge also ordered that the defendant be remanded in the facility of Nigerian Correctional Services (NCS). The police had in charge number LD/10480c/2019, accused the defendant of conspiring with some persons said to be at large, of defrauding their employer of N149.6 million. He was said to have committed the offence sometimes in July, 2019, while acting as the company’s Personal Manager. Upon the detection of the alleged fraud, he was said to have promised to pay back instalmentally and thereby issued four cheques in the sums of $69, 444, $69, 444,  $69, 444 and $44, 444 which were returned and rejected on the ground of insufficient funds in his accounts. Following his failure to pay back the money and coupled with the dud cheques he issued, he was arrested by the police. He was said to have attempted to commit suicide on July 19, 2019, at the entrance gate of the Force CIID, when he swallowed a rat killer named ‘Super Ready Action Bait Cake’. The offences according to the police prosecutor are contrary to and punishable under Sections 411, 287 and 407 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015, as well as Sections 1 (1) (b) of the Dishonoured  Cheques Offence (Act). Cap D11. Vol. 5. Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.