A 25-year-old student of the Lagos State University (LASU), Shittu Saheed, was yesterday arraigned alongside five suspected cult members of the Aiye confraternity (Black Axe Movement) for armed robbery. They were also accused of shooting a man, Oke Oscar, on his penis with a locally-made pistol. Saheed was arraigned before an Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos alongside Victor Otobo (28), Suleiman Musa (34), Ibrahim Kolade (33), Ayinla Muiz (30) and Lateef Alowonle (21). The six defendants were arraigned on an 11-count charge bordering on conspiracy to commit robbery, armed robbery, attempted murder and causing grievous harm. The state prosecutor, Mr. Olakunle Ligali, the defendants committed the offences at different times and locations within Pipeline area of Okokomaiko, Lagos, in 2018. Ligali told the court that the offences were committed sometime on September 14 at 8.40p.m., around Pipeline (PPL) area, within the LASU premises and also on October 2nd and 4th at 9p.m., at Ahiawu Apeke Street, Pipeline, Okokomaiko. The prosecutor said that the offences contravened Sections 299, 297(2)(a), 230(a), 245 of the Criminal Law, CH. C. 17 Vol. 3 Laws of Lagos State, 2015. The charge sheet reads: “Victor Otobo (Marine agent), Shittu Saheed (student), Suleiman Musa (music producer), Ibrahim Kolade (baker), Ayinla Muiz (unemployed), and Lateef Alowonle (carpenter), at Dubai hotel, Pipeline area of Okokomaiko did belong to an unlawful society called ‘Aiye confraternity’ – Black Axe movement. “That Victor Otobo, Shittu Saheed, Suleiman Musa, Ibrahim Kolade and Ayinla Muiz on October 2, 2018, about 9p.m., at Ahiawu Apeke Street, Pipeline, Okokomaiko, caused grievous harm on Oscar by shooting him on his penis with a locally-made cut-to-size pistol. “Also that the five defendants at same date and place, while armed, robbed one Isiaka Adeshina (m) of the sum of N25,000 and also caused grievous harm by shooting him on his left armpit with a locally-made cut-to-size pistol. “The five defendants also, at same date and place, attempted to kill one Chinedu Onwuka (m) by shooting him on his back with a pistol. “While Ibrahim Kolade and Lateef Alowonle did rob one Itohan Omorodion (f) of her Tecno W3 mobile phone valued at N40,000 within the LASU premises on September 24, 2018″. The six defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to all the charges. Justice Josephine Taiwo thereafter adjourned the matter till December 18, 2019 for trial.