The Federal Capital Territory  Administration (FCTA ) recently moved to redress the distortions  in  the transportation and traffic management system of Abuja.  CALEB ONWE reports   It all started  at a  top management meeting during which the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, expressed dissatisfaction with the chaos in the transportation system across the city of Abuja. He reportedly lambasted top officials of the Directorate of  Road Traffic Service (DRTS) for their apparent failure in the discharge of their responsibilities. It is the duty of the DRTS to ensure that motorists and other road users adhered strictly to the Transport Policy of the FCTA vis-a-vis the Abuja Master Plan. Bello, according to those privy to the meeting, was particularly disturbed with the presence of tricycles, popularly known as KEKE NAPEP on major highways across the city.  He was also alarmed at the gradual return of motorcycles also known as okada to some parts of the city. The minister, who noted that these were clear distortions to the transportation policy, directed the DRTS to swiftly halt  the flagrant abuse of the system by ensuring that these transport service providers adhered to the rules. Although the resolutions of the meeting were not made public, the impact was felt almost immediately as the KEKE NAPEP operators suddenly disappeared from their illegal terminals in the city. Under the Transportation Policy, these tricycles were not to be seen on the major highways in Abuja. They were  restricted to less busy  routes in the rural communities and internal roads within  the housing  estates. In these places,  commuters could board them in order to access designated bus terminals on  the major highways. However, Inside Abuja  observed that these rules have long been jettisoned and the tricycles have been competing for space with fast moving cars and buses  on the  highways. The result has been avoidable chaos, traffic  gridlocks and fatalities on some of these roads. It was gathered that those who were supposed to have ensured that the restrictions order were  implemented,  had gone to sleep and  abdicated  their responsibilities to the detriment of the people. They had to return to the streets to fully enforce the restrictions based on the marching orders of the Minister who has declared a total war on these crawling automobiles. Though, he said that restoring sanity to the system and making it more efficient won’t be done without a human face, he assured the people that no stone would be left unturned. The Minister, who is bent on achieving the desired results, has also refused to take the excuse that the population upsurge was responsible for the brazen distortion of the transportation system. He noted that as much as Abuja was becoming one of the fastest growing capital cities in the world, the developmental  standard could not be compromised for any individual or group. It was equally gathered that at that meeting, he  ordered   officials of DRTS  who want to keep their jobs to sit up  or be shown the exit door. A few days ago,  the Minister demonstrated his determination to getting the system working  efficiently  when he incorporated the Federal Road Safety Corps, ( FRSC), Nigeria Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, ( NSCDC) , Department of State Security( DSS) and other security agencies to collaborate with the FCT  Directorate of Road Traffic Services  ( DRTS) in sanitizing the transportation system. The Minister said that the reinvigorated road traffic policy was intended to save lives on the roads and not to inflict hardship on residents of the FCT. According to him, the collaborative measures of the  various security agencies in the FCT were geared towards ensuring that all traffic regulations were followed to save lives and ensure a safer city. “Journeys that ought to take a short time, because of the available facilities, take much longer, simply because many road users decide not to follow basic rules of traffic within the city. It is manifested through parking on areas that are meant for pedestrian walkways, ignoring pedestrian bridges, ignoring zebra crossings, driving against traffic, overloading and parking in undesignated car parks. People have to learn to respect zebra crossing. Motorists must respect paedestrians and school children at zebra crossings,” he said. The minister  explained that  while there was no ban on commercial tricycles and commercial motorcycles in the Federal Capital City (FCC),  the law does not permit them to ply  expressways or drive against traffic as they are inclined to do, as  there are designated areas for each of them to operate. “What we are saying is that the laws are very clear. There are designated areas allowed for motorcycles. There are designated areas allowed for tricycle. “Our objective is to save lives; to make the human life valuable the way it’s supposed to be. And how can we do that? We have to make sure that all traffic regulations are adhered to and the advantage we have is that all these is covered by law and we are going to use the provisions of the Nigerian constitution, the laws of the highway code, the FCT Transport Regulations, the National Road Traffic Regulations and other traffic laws and regulations. “We are going to back that with a robust support from the judiciary, so that all those that violate traffic regulations and protocols are made to pay for it because that is the only way we can guarantee the safety of lives of our people,” he said. Inside Abuja gathered that part of the palliative measures the administration was putting in place was the effort to facilitate the arrival of additional coaches for the Abuja light rail. According to the minister, 10 additional metro stations will be opened on the Abuja Airport line before the middle of next year to ease the traffic on the roads. “On our part as an Administration, we are doing our very best to provide additional high capacity buses. We are also making much easier the process of registration of companies or persons that want to provide taxi services, as long as the vehicle meets the minimum standard that is required by law.  “I would also want to mention that as you know, the Abuja light rail is already operational. By the middle of next year, a substantial number of coaches that are under construction now would have arrived and about 10 additional stations on the metro stations to Abuja airport line would have been opened and then we would have train probably moving almost in intervals of 30 minutes”, he said. Bello also called on investors in the transport sector to partner with the FCTA to help cushion the effects of enforcement of the traffic rules and regulations, adding that requirements for the registration of taxis/cabs have been made easy to encourage more participants. Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC),  Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, has  deployed about  20 patrol vans and 350 personnel  to support  the FCT in its efforts to sanitize the transportation system. Oyeyemi, who pledged the commitment of the FRSC to working very closely with the FCTA for the success of the safe, functional and efficient traffic management policy of the FCTA, noted that  road safety is everybody’s business. Inside Abuja learnt that some private sector players were already showing interest in the fight to making Abuja’s transportation functional and efficient. Managing Director of MTI Taxi Limited, Alfred Ajagbe, said his company had made plans to key into the new transportation system of FCT and would help to harness the values in the sector. Ajagbe noted that his company has a scheme that allows graduates of higher institutions, who desire to be self-employed to come into the transportation business. “We are operating like Uber. We have our app, so that ordinarily, people could  subscribe to it. But what we have done in the first instance is that we bought 23 brand new cars for our graduate scheme and the idea is to encourage graduates to become self employed.