Ecobankmobile *326# has announced its partnership with the All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) 2019 slated for Lagos from 20th through 23rd, November. AFRIMA is an annual celebration of African talents from all regions of the continent. The Lagos Awards, which is the 6th edition, has as its theme: “Feel Africa.” Announcing the partnership in Lagos, Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, said it was one of the several initiatives by the Pan-African bank to boost tourism, culture and the entertainment industry in Africa. He said it was also in line with Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s initiative for banks to support the growth of the creative industry in the county. According to Mr. Akinwuntan, Ecobankmobile *326#  is pleased to support the growth of the creative and music industry which is a key driver of Africas history and rich culture and most significantly youth engagement and empowerment. “As the Pan-African bank, Ecobank is proud to partner with Africa’s most renowned music awards, which is a symbol of our support to building the family and lifestyle of Africans. Ecobankmobile *326# is joining AFRIMA to ensure that  the Lagos show is a success,“ he stated. Akinwuntan further  said Ecobankmobile *326#, Ecobankpay, Ecobankmobile App, Ecobankxpress Account were bringing easy, affordable and convenient financial services to the youth, entrepreneurs and businesses, both local and foreign which are expected at the events. “Our products interact with the lifestyle of Africans.  Ecobankmobile *326# makes it easy to open an instant account, make transfers, pay bills and buy airtime.  Our integrated Ecobankmobile App works seamlessly across all 33 countries where Ecobank operates in Africa; also, the EcobankPay offers customers a multi-channel payment experience that includes Mobile QR payment at merchant stores. The channel has a distinct advantage of supporting the three main payment schemes, Masterpass, mVisa and mCash, thereby broadening acceptability regardless of which bank a client makes payment from.  Merchant QR is set up via Facebook Messenger as well as USSD payment for feature phone users,” he added. Also speaking, President and Executive Producer, AFRIMA, Mr. Mike Dada, said: “The AFRIMA-Ecobank partnership for the 6th All Africa Music Awards brings together deep skills in financial and culture industries strategy, product ideation, technology development and deployment and organizational change management to help support African communities for successful socio-economic transformation.