Justice Sikiru Oyinloye of a Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin yesterday convicted a man, Abolarin Kayode, for internet fraud. Kayode was prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ilorin Zonal Office. Oyinloye sentenced the convict to six months imprisonment. Earlier, after his arraignment, the convict had pleaded with the commission for plea bargain, having considered his involvement in internet fraud and the proof of evidence gathered against him by the anti-graft body. The amended charge reads: “That you,  Abolarin Kayode, on or about 6th day of February 2019, in Ilorin within the jurisdiction of the High Court of Kwara State, did attempt to cheat by impersonation, when you presented yourself as Dawn Groff and sent an email to one Gregory Carter, an American citizen through your acclaimed email groffdawn77@gmail.com, that Budweiser Drink is carrying out vehicle advertisement programme, a representation you knew to be false and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 95 of the Penal Code and punishable under Section 324 of the same Penal Code.” The convict pleaded guilty to the amended charge. While reviewing the facts of the case, an operative of the EFCC, Olamide Sadiq, told the court that Kayode was arrested in Ilorin. He said: “My lord, on the 4th of February 2019, based on intelligence reports, operatives of the commission arrested the defendant and others at Agric Estate in Ilorin for their involvement in internet scam. We analysed his phone and laptop and discovered that he created four emails for himself, the email conversations were printed in his presence and discovered that he sent several fraudulent messages to his victims, that was the circumstance in which I knew the defendant my lord.” Delivering his judgement, Oyinloye said the prosecution had been able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. According to him, the anti-graft body was also able to link the defendant with the allegations of intent fraud brought against him. He said: “The evidence of the PW1, Olamide Sadiq, who is an operative of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, was not challenged nor controverted. “This court found you, Abolarin Kayode, guilty of a one-count charge bordering on internet fraud and hereby convicted and sentenced you to six months imprisonment.” The judge also ordered the convict to forfeit his phones, laptops and a Lexus car to the Federal Government. The sentence is without an option of fine.