Spokesman of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group,  Afenifere, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, in this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, examines some recent developments in the polity, including the electoral process in Kogi and Bayelsa states as well as the proposed bill on hate speech which carries death penalty    What do you make of the pre-election violence in Kogi and Bayelsa states in the last one week?   Why would there no be violence with our heavily monetised election, where you have rubber stamp National Assembly approving N10.9billion to be released to Kogi State government less than 72 hours before governorship election? You can see that we are not practicing democracy; we are not having elections. It is a case of mafia moves to power in Nigeria; they acquire power by all means available. So you should expect such thing to happen.   Why did you say we have a rubber stamp National Assembly?  How would any reasonable National Assembly approve such amount of money for a state less than 72 hours to an election? Don’t you think that is voter’s money instead of the traders’ money they were doing? And for a whole National Assembly to just rush and approve it- that means we don’t have a National Assembly anymore, but a mere rubber stamp assembly.   How do you see the recent alleged donation of an exotic vehicle to the Kogi State paramount ruler by the state government, who has been unable to pay civil servants salaries for about three years?   Well, maybe they did that because the monarch will be able to deliver votes for them, and that goes to show that there is no governance in Nigeria but politics. We spend lots of money on politics,  vote buying and politics, nothing for development. It is a shame that the traditional ruler did not say no that this is not the best time to give such gift. That ‘I won’t accept this period; don’t use this to embarrass me. There is no honour; no shame in this country.   Where does this leave us if the system is so flawed?   It means we are actually going below below. And to retrieve Nigeria will take a lot of efforts. You cannot say anymore that the country has not gone to the dogs.   In this same Kogi State the Deputy Governor was impeached in a manner that has drawn national umbrage. What is your impression about the whole event?  That action in showed that Nigeria is no longer a democracy. We now operate outside the law. It sounds very disturbing that a Chief Judge set up a an investigative body on activities of the Deputy Governor and the panel returned a not guilty verdict, yet the Chief Judge went ahead to swear in a new Deputy Governor. Sad to say that happened in Nigeria and nobody has called that government to order showed clearly where we are as a country. We have become a hopeless polity and we are now governed by the whim and caprices of the powerful and we have virtually thrown away the constitution.   Do you still see the judiciary as the bastion of hope and stability?   Actually the Nigerian judiciary has been cowed. The whole thing started when the Chief Judge of the Federation was removed such that today our judges are today no more than appendages of the executive. This is unfortunate for the judges to have descended to that level, especially the Chief Judge of Kogi State to have descended to that level. This is a final sign that the judiciary has been cowed by the executive.   How do you see the presentation of the bill to prohibit hate speech, with death by hanging and proposed setting up of a commission for this purpose?   Well, the first thing to ask is who defines what is hate speech? Is it going to be at the whim and caprices of the government in power? If they look at your face and your utterances are in opposition to the government, then you will be arrested, tried and hung. That will be very unfortunate. If you go by that, then most of these people in government would have died long ago.  The issue now is that they used hate speech to come into power and now they want to criminalise freedom of speech. What for? Nigeria, by this action is gradually becoming a totalitarian state where dictatorship takes full swing.   It beats my imagination that this lawmaker who sponsored the bill could not think about any major problem in Nigeria to address through a bill. Has he sponsored any bill to enhance the economy? Check unemployment? They have not set up any agency to revitalise industries; they have not addressed the report of the last National Conference which can make the country better. All they are now addressing is hate speech. Clearly, we cannot have a worse rubber stamp National Assembly like we have now.   You said they came to power through hate speech and now want to outlaw free speech. Do you have any examples in this regard?   Go and look at the 2014/2015 newspaper clipping now and you will agree with me. Go and look at what Nasir el-Rufai and the rest were saying then, that they would hound out then President Goodluck Jonathan. Have you forgotten how they said Jonathan was clueless and how he was kindergarten president? They even called his wife shippopotamus! So if Jonathan had enacted such law, many of these people would not be alive today. Get all the clips and you will see what I mean. Even Senator Dino Melaye who is now at the receiving end used some of those words in describing the then president in unsavory terms.   Why did you say we are sliding towards totalitarianism like it was in 1984?   Well, what happened in 1984 was child’s play because it is even worse now, because then we were under the military, but this is supposed to be a democracy. And so some of us who fought General Sani Abacha and the military are beginning to ask ourselves what did we fight for? Nothing.   Some have argued that there are sufficient laws in our statute books to address this issue of hate speech. Do you agree with this?   Don’t we have the laws on libel?  Look this is a fascist approach to governance; totalitarian dictatorship.  That is just what it is; nothing more nothing less, because the laws on libel only stipulates fines and the rest damages, hence they replaced it with this bill that stipulates death penalty. When you place death penalty then you frighten the people. So what are they trying to achieve? They want the culture of silence. That is what they are pushing Nigeria into. What is the way out of this quagmire?   Well, we should not give up as a people. If we keep quiet, with what is going on now we will lose the country. We must not be dampened in spirit rather we must continue to speak for and work for what is right. Even if it is at the level of talking, we must not surrender to what is happening right now. If we surrender, that is the end.   How do you react to the hanky panky that greeted the granting of bail to Omoyele Sowore between his lawyers and the security agency that kept him in custody?   Actually, it seems Sowore has now joined the league of Sambo Dasuki, El-Zakky Zakky and the rest of them who are being detained outside the purview of the law. It all adds up to the fact that we have set aside the constitution of Nigeria and now we have a brazen display of totalitarianism in our country.   Let us look at the development in the Niger Delta Development Commission recently. While the President sent a list of board members to the Senate, the Niger Delta Minister swore in some directors in acting capacity for the same commission. What do you make of this?   It is an indication of lack of co-ordination in the government. At times when you listen to two ministers in this same government, you will discover that they are saying two different things. It is an indication that there is lack of co-ordination because everyone is trying to do his own thing. One newspaper published the other day that two ministers were not on the same page on a particular issue and these are people on the same cabinet. It is unfortunate that we have found ourselves in this level.   One other issue that raised a great dust recently was the fact that the Chief of Staff to the President took a bill to London for him to sign while the Vice President remained in Nigeria. How do you see this?   It indicates that we have a Vice President in name but not in deed and like I have said several times, I don’t know what Prof. Yemi Osinbajo is still doing in that office. Clearly, they have shown him the way out; that he is not part of the government. Look at what they did to him recently, sacking over 20 of his aides in the name of load shedding just after they appointed about six aides for the president’s wife. And up till now no one has come up to say what he has done. This is share impunity, arrogance of power.   You will recall that the constitution of Nigeria says that a presidential candidate is not validly nominated unless he has a running mate. So the Vice President is not just a person you can just depose without any reason. No, it is not done. So it just reflects total feudal control of Nigeria at the moment.     What does this pattern of governance and flawed electoral system portend for the nation?   There is one Turkish columnist called Ece Temelkuran, who released a book last year titled: “How to Lose a Country- Seven Steps from Democracy to Dictatorship.” All the seven steps she listed are currently manifesting in our so-called democracy in Nigeria. So we are losing the country gradually. The situation appears hopeless, but I know that the Nigerian resilience is there, but we must not surrender to dictatorship.  