The Acting Permanent Secretary, State Ministry of Energy, Science and Technology, Benue State, Mr Seker Akaa, his pregnant wife and two children were yesterday burnt to death in their apartment in an early inferno in Makurdi, the state capital. The remains of the family members were found in their burnt sitting room. The house itself is situated at the Kwararafa Quarters, near government house, Makurdi. The cause of the fire is yet unknown, but neighbours disclosed that the fire, which started at about 2am, was uncontrollable until fire fighters got to the scene at about 5am and doused it. Property destroyed in the fire was alleged to be worth millions of naira. The Commissioner for Energy, Science and Technology, Dr. Oyiwona Godwin, and the State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Mr Sewuese Anene, confirmed the incident. Anene said: “The inferno started at about 2 am and killed Mr. Seker Akaa, his pregnant wife, Mrs. Linda Akaa and their two children, Sender Akaa and Tertsegha Akaa. The remains of the victims have been deposited at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Mortuary, Makurdi. The cause of the fire is unknown, but investigation into the matter had already commenced.” The Deputy Governor, Engr. Benson Abounu, who visited the scene of the incident, expressed shock at the level of devastation. He described it as a monumental disaster, adding that, “It is Black Monday for Benue.” Abounu said the state has lost a prized asset in Seker and prayed God to give the family the fortitude to bear the loss. He said: “We cannot undo what has happened. At the moment, government will take responsibility for their burial and also assist the other families, who lost property to relocate. We warn against any looting of property.” Reverend Favour Akaa, brother to the deceased, described late Seker as a God fearing man. According Favour, his last conversation with his brother was on Sunday at about 11am. Favour recalled: “His death is strength to us. It is time for him to depart and we give glory to God.” The elder sister to Seker’s wife, Mrs. Apeife Azor, said that the deceased’s children were pupils of First Baptist High School in Makurdi. Apeife disclosed that the last time she met her sister was in July this year at the burial of one of their relatives. When they met at that mournful event, they had discussed about issues affecting the development of their family. The Chaplain of the Chapel of Grace, Government House, Evangelist Daniel Unongo, a neighbour to Seker, who narrowly escaped death as fire lashed out at his flat, said that all efforts by neighbours to help rescue the victims  and put out the fire were abortive. Unongo said: “We rushed out to help in dousing the fire; we tried to break the door and windows, but we didn’t succeed. The next thing we did was to call fire fighters. They arrived at the scene in about 20 minutes. But before the door of the victims’ flat could be forced open, the whole family had already died. The next apartment, where I stay with my family was also consumed by the fire.” Asked what he thinks caused the fire, Unongo, said: “For close to four or five weeks now, we have been experiencing power fluctuations. My electronic gadgets were damaged by power surge. So, we’re assuming that perhaps the deceased didn’t turn off their electrical appliances and there was power surge.”