…says poor coaching cost Eaglets in Brazil  …wants players monitored ahead U-20  Ex-international, Mobi Oparaku, has blamed the ouster of the country’s U-17 team, Golden Eaglets, from the ongoing U-17 FIFA World Cup on poor coaching and lack of technical depth.  Speaking with our correspondent, Oparaku said the coach went with a bunch of good individual players without teaching them how to play as a team.  It would be recalled that the Golden Eaglets lost 3-1 to Netherlands in their round of 16 game played in the early hour of Wednesday, November 6. They had earlier came from behind to claim a 4-2 win over Hungary in their opening game and repeated the same feat in their second group game after they stormed back from one goal down to record a 3-2 win over Ecuador. The lost their last group game 2-1 to Australia despite recording 34 shots, with more than 12 of them on target.  Oparaku lamented over the poor performance of the team identifying poor instructions from the technical crew as bane of the team. Oparaku,    who was part of the 1993 winning squad to Japan insisted that there was no cohesion in the team as many of the lads played without proper tactical direction.   “There wasn’t any build up play, the technical crew didn’t use their team well,” Oparaku said. “They picked up a bunch of good, individual talents, brought them together and there was nothing like team building, everybody was playing with his individual skills, showcasing himself and not for the country. Everybody was just playing what he thinks he can play to score a goal, not team work.”  Meanwhile, the current Heartland of Owerri Team Manager has urged the Nigeria Football Federation not to let go of the players as they are full of talents and should be promoted to the U-20 team, the Flying Eagles.  Oparaku said with a good coach, the players will blossom into better stars that would help the U-20 team excel in the nearest future and also make it to the Super Eagles.  He added: “They should elevate the players to the U-20, offer them good coaching crew that will impart football knowledge in the players so that when they are playing everybody will be enjoying their game because it’s not about what they want to play but what the coach wants them to play.” 