 A s the Nigerian visual art sector continues to expand, more innovative programmes are emerging as part of this impressive growth. One of such new and refreshing projects is The Miniature Art Fair, Lagos, an event that exhibits miniatures by both established and young Nigerian contemporary artists in one space annually. After the fair was launched a year ago with a show titled Tale of 1000 Miniatures, its second edition featuring over a 100 artists will open at 10 am on Saturday, November 30th 2019, at the Mega Plaza, 19 Idowu Martins Street, Victoria Island, Lagos.   The Art Fair is an initiative of two emerging art galleries in the boisterous Nigerian art ecosystem namely Ogirikan Art Gallery and Iwalewa Gallery of Art. Their combined mission is to fill an existing void whereby art production, promotion and patronage are tilted against miniature art pieces. Artists, galleries, auction houses and other art spaces are usually more interested in large-sized artworks. As a result, collectors seem to have equally developed their acquisition tastes following this trend. This may have resulted in miniature artworks either missing totally or poorly represented in most art shows or spaces in Nigeria. So, to find a solution to this gap, these two galleries have boldly initiated a novel large-scale art fair that is solely dedicated to small-sized artworks, which according to Mrs. Adeolu Tahouf, the founder of Ogirikan Art Gallery, “are generally more affordable and therefore incentivising for all art lovers who desire to own a piece of art, to do so no matter the depth of their pockets.”   It is not all about making a case for the affordability of miniature artworks, the Miniature Art Fair according to a joint statement by the organizers aim to “promote and encourage many young Nigerian artists with exceptional talents to showcase their works of art alongside those of the more established participating artists who have earned more visibility and recognition in the society.” This way, there will be lots of exchanges that can give rise to an improved culture of art production. At the maiden edition of the fair in 2018, many well-known artists exhibited their art alongside younger artists. The pattern will not be different this year as many reputable artists will also be participating. They include TheJunkmanfromafrica, Ufuoma Evuarherhe, Donald Onuoha, Reuben Ugbine, Timipre Willis-Amah, Pius Remet and Silas Adelanke Adeoye. In no hierarchical order, these artists will be showing their works together with the works of younger contemporaries drawn from different parts of the country including some bright talents still undergoing training in art schools. Among the selection of young artists are Grace Ighavbota, Ayela-Uwangue Nosawena, Osimeh Godstand, Naomi Oyeniyi, Paul Ogunlesi, Kolawole Olalekan, Asemokha Imomoh, Fasilat Eletu, Josiah Chinedu and 15 year old Onarietta Isabella Remet, Nigeria’s most famous child painter who started painting at less than two years old and has had more than 18 solo and group exhibitions.   There are other layers of reasons why The Miniature Art Fair by Ogirikan and Iwalewa Art Galleries is focusing on small-sized artworks which are also called “the little jewels of the art world.” Miniatures are dainty and are often more intimate with their owners because each time you view them you are compelled to get closer as they are better appreciated at close range. Another interesting aspect of miniature art is that its portability makes it easier to take them along when we travel or decide to relocate to new places. Speaking metaphorically about miniatures, Femi Williams, founder of Iwalewa Gallery of Art says, “In our quest to achieve greatness can be done through miniatures, without us missing the expected reward.”   In an art fair comprising a hundred artists working in a country with diverse cultures and a capricious socio-political climate like Nigeria, there are sufficient themes that cover numerous areas of our existential realities and experiences. There are also different styles spanning naturalism, abstract art and performances that are expected to appeal to everyone’s taste and discernment.   Among numerous exciting asides, there will be Free Life Drawing, Body Painting and Composition Exercises for Children, where they will be guided to paint Miniature artworks. There will also be creative performances such as Damilola Adegoke’s piece titled “Quest for Humanity,” and other performances.  • Enekwachi (MFA) is an Abuja based artist and curator.