Comrade Kabir Wurma is the Secretary, Kebbi State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). He spoke with AHMED IDRIS on the dialogue between Governor Aminu Masari and some bandits, which has led to peace in the state. Excerpts…  You once lamented that bandits were terrorising your people. How is the situation now? Yes, I did, because I am an indigene of Katsina State, born in Wurma under Kurfi Local Government. At that time, bandits were attacking the people. Everyday, you will hear or see bandits attacking one village or the other. It was all over the place; southern, central and northern parts of Katsina State. Sometimes the bandits would appear on the roads linking some local areas and attack people. These are innocent people on their way to their businesses and farms. Bandits will kidnap them, put them in captivity at Rugu Forest in Sabana Local Government or in Chiji Forest in Kankara Local Government until they collect heavy ransom from their families and relations before they could be released. That was what we witnessed until when the new government in Zamfara State emerged and Governor Bello Matawalle initiated a peace dialogue with bandits in state. When he started, it was like a joke, but it yielded positive results. Banditry in Zamfara State has become a bygone issue. People in the state have returned to their villages and towns, while people traveling on the road at night have no fear. Other state began to follow the initiative because Zamfara model was a success. In Katsina, when bandits attacked Wurma village on August 26, around 11:30pm, it became the mother of all attacks. That day, the bandits numbering about 300 besieged the town and kidnapped about 50 unmarried girls and a former Vice Chairman of Kurfi Local Government, Muhammed Jibrin. Over 100 cattle and sheep were also hijacked and taken to Rugu Forest. They were with the kidnappers a ransom of about 10million was paid. When news of these incidents went viral on both social and conventional medium, Governor Aminu Masari was irked. So, he quickly followed the footsteps of his counterpart in Zamfara State and arranged a dialogue with the bandits. He met them kankara, Safana, Batsari and Jibia, where he had peace meetings with their representatives. Was it those meetings that gave rise to peace in Katsina? Yes, it was, because during the negotiation, the bandits expressed their grievances and made demands, one of which is to release their members in the custody of security operatives. They wanted their members go to market and mosque freely. And on the government’s side, Masari requested them to allow peace to return to the state. As I am talking to you now, over 70 kidnapped victims had been released by the bandits and surrendered their weapons to the government. On the other side, Governor Masari ordered the release of 15 of their members who were in custody. Since then, we have not heard or seen any village, town or even road being attacked by bandits. Peace has returned to Katsina, the state is under the control of the government. So definitely, this is commendable. We must commend the initiative and the efforts by Governor Masari. In fact, he has done what is right, the people of Katsina, especially those from Wurma town are supposed to give him kolanut in appreciation. The dialogue has brought absolute peace in Katsina. It is for the bandits to obey the dialogue agreements; they should stop attacking villages or even people on the road. They should obey the peace agreement and all governments must fulfill their promises by freeing all bandit’s members and allow them to mingle with the people; in the market, mosques and on the roads like every human being. With over 23 years in the journalism profession, what are the challenges? Are there gains? There are lots of challenges, which include harassments from the security agents and government interference. Those in the profession know the hazards I am talking about. There are benefits. If you dedicate yourself to your job, one day you will reap what you sow. I have a colleague whom we worked together in New Nigeria. Because of his track records of dedication, as I am talking to you now, he is the editor of a newspaper. Equally, a senior colleague who dedicated himself in those days in Maiduguri for the defunct Concord Newspaper is now the General Manager Administration at Labana Rice Mills Ltd Birnin Kebbi, having served as Senior Special Assistant on Media when Senator Muhammad Adamu Aliero was the governor. Let me advise my colleagues against taking this profession as business. A journalist is supposed to take his profession as a duty to serve his organisation and the nation but not as a business. How did you emerge twice as secretary of the Kebbi State council of the NUJ? I have been the correspondent of the New Nigeria Newspaper in Kebbi State since 2001. So, when the election of the new officers of the council came up in 2015, I was nominated, being the eldest and among the most qualified among colleagues. Other correspondents quickly adopted my nomination and sent my name to the electoral committee. It has been a tradition in the North; in Kebbi, Sokoto and Zamfara states, that the slot of the secretary should go to the Correspondent Chapel and that was how I became the NUJ Secretary, Kebbi State Council. And when our tenure ended in 2018, the seven us in the executive, under the chairmanship of Comrade Aliyu Jajirma were re-elected for another three-year term. The re-election issue is a long story but to tell you, it happened as a result of the tremendous achievements during our first term in office. And this could not have happened without the support of the Kebbi State Government under the leadership of Governor Abubakar Bagudu and indeed the cooperation of our colleagues.