Two popular local beverages sold on the streets  are believed to have high nutritional value for both men and women. However, an investigation into their preparation and packaging has raised  some health concerns. CALEB ONWE reports  ‘Kunu’ is a drink made from millet,  guinea corn  and other locally sourced ingredients , while ‘Zobo’ is a drink produced from the  hibiscus flower. These beverages are produced in what could be described as local brewery methods  and  packaged  in used water bottles, and sometimes in  cellophane bags. Although they are produced mostly by women of  northern extraction, these drinks  have become  delicacies enjoyed across all cultures in Nigeria. Kunu has different types, depending on the choice ingredients.  For those who are from Northern Nigeria, Kunu jada and Kunu aya are preferred delicacies. On the other hand, Zobo is a drink that may not have a southern Nigerian origin, but is  beginning to make an essential part of their occasional menu. These drinks are hawked on the streets,  shops and other market outlets.  They are also taken to offices, hospitals, and schools. An encounter with a middle aged woman, popularly known as Madam Christy, revealed that the business has a lot of profits, even though not a medical experts, she also said that both Kunu and Zobo have a lot of nutritional values. Madam Christy noted that she has been in the business for more than seven years and have used the proceeds  to contribute significantly to the up keep of her family. According to her, she makes up to N30,000 every month after her expenses. The only challenge she faces is running away from Environmental Task Force that does not want her to sell her wares under the shade of a  tree by the roadside  where she uses as her outlet. “I have been selling Kunu and Zobo here since 2012 and I make up to N30,000 from the business.  The problem we have is the Environmental Task Force that is always coming to chase us,”she said. Inside Abuja’s check revealed that though the business is thriving and providing sucour to many households,  especially women who don’t want to be dependent on  their spouses,  one thing that is common among the producers and sellers, is the ignorance about the health concerns  associated with the production and  packaging processes of these drinks. Public health experts have said that no matter how thirsty one  may be or in need of some food supplements, one  must apply some caution before patronizing that daring  Kunu or Zobo seller who often strolls into   offices and building construction sites and  other public places to hawk  their products. This warning has become very imperative in view of the rising cases of infectious diseases afflictng people in the country. Experts say that contrary to the popular belief   “that diseases do not have power over Africans,” careless consumption of poorly prepared food and drinks could put one’s body  in harm’s way. According to these experts, Kunu and Zobo are produced most of the time,  in dirty environments. Their producers are essentially poor rural women,  who live in the rural communities and suburbs where access to clean water is a luxury. Above all, most of the plastic bottles used in packaging these drinks are sourced from waste dump sites. The scavengers, who warehouse these  pet bottles pick them from many unimaginable places such as  gutters, road sides and waste bins where their original users had dumped them.  In some cases, producers of these beverages source for   these used  pet bottles  directly from  hospital wards  after patients suffering from different ailments had used them. It goes without saying that these used bottles do not undergo thorough washing before they are used to package Kunu and Zobo for sale to the public. Inside Abuja learnt that these bottles that are already used and thrown away can never be free from germs and other  micro organisms without them being thoroughly  washed and sterilized. Maryam,  a young girl in her early thirties, is popularly known as ‘ Mai Kunu ‘  because  she sells Kunu  around the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing Headquarters,  Mabushi, Abuja.  She believes that once she washes her containers ( bottles ) with clean water and detergent, they are free from all germs. This aggressive marketer of Kunu, unwittingly admitted that she buys used bottles from scavengers, who pick them from the refuse dump site, but argued that she takes time to wash them before reusing them. “I used to buy these containers (bottle) from Mai bolas ( scavengers) but I have to wash them with water and detergent. I don’t know about the germs you are talking about. “Sometimes, we go to big hotels and restaurants to pick the bottles, which we use . I have been into this business for more than two years and my customers have not come to me with any complaint about any health issue,” she said. Dr. Remigius Obinatu,  Head, Environmental and Occupational Health Division of the Federal Capital Territory  (FCT ) Public Health Department, argued vehemently that these recycled  water bottles could become  serious health harzards to those who drink these local  beverages. “The hygienic conditions of these bottles used and thrown away are of great concern; they can never wash it completely to make them devoid of contamination from bacteria infection causing organisms.  That is why when people buy Kunu or Zobo and drink, they could become victims of food poisoning, either because  the container that was used  was not properly washed or because of the conditions of the surrounding where  it was prepared before going into those bottles. The drinks are only safe if these containers  have been properly washed and sterilized,” he said. Obinatu noted that having once suffered from food poisoning himself, he has always used his professional expertise to advice people to be careful what they consume. He noted that unless these used bottles were properly sterilized, they can never be free  from ” radicals ” that are accumulated in the body, and at the long run cause illness. He said that sometimes, these people who produce Kunu and Zobo,  go to hospital environment to pick used water bottles,  without knowing if they were used by patients that suffered from communicable diseases. According to him,  sometimes these bottles may have been used to collect human urine or faeces as specimens for  examination in the medical laboratory.  Yet, when they are thrown into the dustbin,  Kunu and Zobo sellers will pick them up to reuse without proper sterilization. “Even breweries and bottling companies that depend on recycled bottles,  use chemicals to wash their  bottles and still sterilize them,  but most of the local  people who re-use these disposable bottles don’t sterilize them. So, it is a serious hazard to those who will buy the Kunu,  Zobo or whatever is inside to drink. “Some people even go to hospitals to pick these bottles, not caring whether they were used to collect human excreter or other  specimen before they were thrown away. It has to be discouraged,” he said. Obinatu also raised serious concerns about the practice where   Kunu and Zobo drinks are packaged in the bottles and kept under the sun. According to him, when it is heated up, the chemicals in the bottles could react with the drinks to cause cancer. “Another concern is that these bottles are plastics. Most of them when they are exposed to sun and are heated up so much in the sun, they can release some radicals that are not good to human health. Some of them are carcinogenic. So, when they are heated up and they form bubbles and mix up with what people drink, on the long run, it  will accumulate in the body and could  cause cancer or other new diseases. “People are drinking death from these bottles because we are not sure that they can sterilize the bottles very well. People should be careful about what they put into their mouth. They should exercise caution at all times, they should buy things from certified places. “They should ensure that those who prepare such things have gone through medical test and are certified food handlers. Actually, all food handlers in FCT are supposed to be screened every six months. This includes Kunu, Zobo makers and those that run restaurant or even other food centres. “These food handlers are supposed to be screened to ensure that they are not harbouring food related infections that can be transmitted through foods, drinks and water. Those who are found with such infections are to be treated and some of them are asked not to handle public foods until they are certified fit”, Obinatu said.