Nigerians have been charged to desist from human trafficking and smuggling. This was stated recently in Lagos, during a meeting of different security agents and stakeholders. Participants at the event included members of the Nigeria Police, Immigration the Civil Society Organisation and Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). The event, tagged, ‘“Human Trafficking and Smuggling of Migrants as it affects Women and Children,’ was sponsored by the Foundation of International and Latin American Administration and Public Policies (FIIAPP). The President of Nigeria Hotels Association, Prince Akilo Adekunle, speaking during the event, said: “Trafficking in Person is a menace that requires all forces and brains to work together to eradicate it. We discourage people from using our hotels to perpetuate these atrocities. We have our own measures, which we use to make sure that we don’t encourage trafficking in persons in our hotels. Thus, we are here to join forces with security agencies to eradicate this menace. Trafficking in person has been going on for ages. Every security department has people fighting against Trafficking in Persons. Forums like this should be encouraged. Trafficking in persons is not peculiar to Nigeria alone. It’s a global thing. It’s more peculiar to the developing countries. We believe that if the government provides jobs for our youths and put other things in place in Nigeria, human trafficking will reduce.” The team leader of FIIAPP, Mr. Raphael Reels, said the aim of the programme was to reduce trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants in Nigeria. Reels further noted: “If you ask me about the consequences for trafficking and smuggling of migrants, I would say that it is necessary to spread the message that smugglers and traffickers would definitely end up in jail. And for us, the programme is helping the national agencies to increase the awareness about this kind of crime.” According to him, it was quite normal for anyone to aspire to leave the country, either for educational purpose or otherwise, but such journeys should be done in a legal and safer way.