World Diabetes Day, marked globally on November 14, was created in 1991 by International Diabetes Federation (IDF) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) in response to growing concerns about the escalating health threat posed by diabetes. As Nigeria commemorates the day today, Dr. Anthonia Ogbera, an Associate Professor of Medicine, Consultant Physician and Endocrinologist at the Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) discusses factors fuelling new cases of diabetes mellitus, the huge burden the disease impose on patients, preventive measures, among others. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  How does diabetes present? Adult type of diabetes may present in three ways. It may present with symptoms: the person is urinating frequently, the person is losing weight, and may have blurring of vision. Also, an affected person may present with complication, which may be either acute or chronic. Some of the chronic complications are blindness, foot ulcer, a wound that will not heal and erectile dysfunction, which is impotence in men, So, you have some people presenting for the first time with these complications. By the time they are presenting we are detecting that they have diabetes. Some experts blame rising diabetes mellitus on the consumption of sugary drinks and confectionaries. Whats your take on this? Indirectly because when I talked about poor eating habit – people taking calory-dense food, most of these pasteries are calory-dense, meaning that they are packed with calories. Similarly the soft drinks have high calories like all these high energy drinks and they are not complex cabohydrates in that when you take those drinks your blood sugar shoots up instantly. It is not that if your blood sugar shoots up you will have diabetes, but over time that you do this and against the background of a person with the risk factors of developing diabetes, then we can say they are contributory. This is why we encourage healthy eating. Those ones that do not have symptoms mind their own business until somebody says, “Let me screen.” They screen and find that the person has diabetes. You can imagine this group that doesn’t have symptoms. They will be there for a long time until one day that they will come up with a wound that will not heal or until somebody screens and finds that they have diabetes. That is why we say it is good for people to go for screening, especially if they are 40 years and above or if they have family history of diabetes. They could even go earlier for screening. This is because diabetes may go undetected until there are complications. How exactly does this high calorie injure the body? There is a certain amount of calorie the body requires daily. This depends on what your current body mass index (BMI)  is and what your activities are. Are you a sedentary person or you are active. For somebody like a bricklayer he will require more calorie than the banker who says he is very busy but sits down and busies himself without burning any calorie. He may be doing a lot of physical activity but may not be doing any physical activity. These are the factors that determine how much calories one should take. When you are taking too much calories that the body does not need it is going to be stored as fat. The person will be getting bigger and that is where obesity comes in. It is about what you take in versus what you burn and there is a way your insulin is going to respond to that. Your insulin may not be functioning normally. Whats your description of healthy eating habit? Its all about the traditional way we eat – the unprocessed food. Most of the food in fast food eateries, have high cholesterol, though there is good and bad cholesterol. So, apart from having high values of calories they also have high levels of the bad cholesterol. Our traditional food includes ‘gari’ which has fiber and vegetables. A healthy diet should have a certain amount of carbohydrates; usually remember that ‘gari’ is carbohydrate nad soft drinks is also carbohydrate. Of course you are taking the same calory that you are taking from the ‘gari’ and the soft drink but if you place the ‘gari’ and the soft drink side by side, the ‘gari’ is healthier because it is a complex carbohydrate. When you eat it your blood glucose will not just shoot up. The body takes time in breaking it down unlike when you take a bottle of soft drink. They may have the same calories, but the bottle of soft drink is empty, considering that it is just sugar, unlike the ‘gari’ and soup. The ‘gari’ has some fibre and and if you are eating the ‘gari’ with bitter leaf soup there is still some vitamins you may get from that. Yams are similarly good. To eat healthy, focus more on consuming traditional foods. Unhealthy diet Unhealthy diet will be soft drinks, carbonated drinks, ice creams and processed fast foods. The thing with these fast food is that they can be misleading. Somebody could go into the fast food joint and takes meatpie and in our thinking we are wired to think that is a snack and because it is not proper food the person will say he has not eaten proper food and that he will eat when he gets home. Unfortunately that snack may have more calory than the proper food. So at the end of the day somebody may be consuming up to 2,000 or 3,000 calories from he fast food joint and the fellow has not eaten the his main meal. Hence, that’s the danger in these fast foods. If you take a breakdown of these calories in the snack, you will find that they are really high. Why are we seeing an explosion of diabetes mellitus? The explosion of diabetes is the adult type because of the risk factors associated with it. We have certain risk factors that are non-modifiable. There’s nothing you can do about that and these include age. As people get older their insulin may not be functioning properly. We are all getting older but that’s not to say that everybody at a particular age must get diabetes. Similarly, having a family history of diabetes is another non-modifiable risk factor. You don’t chose your family. This puts such people at risk of diabetes. It is not everyone with family history of diabetes that end up having diabetes. The higher the risk, more likely affected persons may develop diabetes. There are modifiable risk factors. These are the ones we can do something about and it is the ones that are partly responsible for the explosion. These include obesity. People are getting bigger because of sedentary habits including sitting down and watching several series of television (TV) broadcasts. Most children no longer play football on the fields; they do it with their smart phones. Even as they are watching TV they are taking the calory-dense sugary drink and unhealthy drinks. Sedentary habit is another factor. When people are sedentary they are not physically active. You find out that the insulin too may not be functioning optically. Of course, other risk factors include being hypertensive, women who have had big babies in the past or a woman who had diabetes in pregnancy and after pregnancy the blood glucose became normal. Such a woman is at risk of developing diabetes. Another reason why we see more diabetes is because we are now able to detect it better than before. Detection is easily accessible. It is offered freely. Most hospitals do opportunistic screening and because of this we are detecting those with diabetes more. There is now more explosion of diseases like HIV and Tuberculosis, (TB). HIV has also been found to be associated with diabeters because some of the drugs they take make them prone to diabetes.