Though Nigeria may have been experiencing austere times too tough to describe, her citizens have maintained healthy and resilient attitudes in pursuing great success. The entertainment industry is an aspect of the Nigerian economy that has thrived nonetheless. Receiving recognition both home and abroad, Nigerian music has sailed the waves of international storms. Meet some notable Nigerian young artistes who have been able to command international recognition against all odds.   WIZKID Ayodeji Balogun (Wizkid) is one of Nigeria’s respected entertainers. This is because of his influence in international roles. Wizkid has been on a quest for global recognition since he began some years back. He recently got an endorsement deal with Ciroc, which was valued to be worth millions. Some international artistes that have starred together with Wizkid to mention a few are French Montana, Ty Dolla $ign, Beyonce, Future, Chris Brown, Kayla, Drake, Ale and Tinie Tempah DAVIDO David Adedeji Adeleke, ‘Omo Baba Olowo’ (OBO) as Nigerians fondly call him; is one of the Nigerian celebrities that has made waves internationally. A graduate of Babcock University, the music star who is better known as Davido has enjoyed collaborations with international music artistes like Mafizikolo, Young Thug, Rae Sremmurd, Trey songs and Meek Mill. Often, he has been seen on different occasions with French Montana and Kent Jones as well as DJ Khaled The young artiste got his massive fame internationally when a famous international entertainment company ‘SONY’ signed him. He also emerged best for the second time as the Best International Act at the BET Awards in California, United States. BURNA BOY Without mincing words, Damini Ogulu, popularly known as Burnaboy is a locally and internationally respected musician. Burna boy has witnessed indescribable feats of success as many international artistes have shown love for his music. Kourtney Kardashian and Rihanna are some of these. Burna had a concert in London at the 02 arenas in which his tickets were completely sold out, and this went on to give him public exposure. Kanye West recently titled his album ‘Ye’ after one of Burna’s most popular tracks. TIWA SAVAGE Popular Nigerian singer, Tiwa savage is a force to reckon with both in Nigeria and outside the shores of the country as she is reported to be one of the most successful female artistes in Nigeria. Tiwa Savage, who lived overseas for some time, started as a backup singer for lots of American musicians. Recently, the Mavin Queen had featured several international artistes, especially when Jay-Z’s Roc Nation added her to its list. In 2018, she was recently called to deliver a performance at the Global Citizen Performer- a programme that has hosted international performers like Pharell Williams, Ed Sheeran and Beyonce. ASA Bukola Elemide, popularly referred to as ‘Asa,’ is one of the few Nigerian artistes that thrived overseas early in life. The female Nigerian artiste is known for her unique and exceptional style of music. Asa, who came into limelight in 2007, has continued to succeed as a recording artiste. She has dropped three ‘hot’ studio albums and a live album. The Nigerian-French singer and songwriter has been able to quietly find a haven for herself by her distinct style of meaningful music. Currently signed to Naïve records, a French record label, Asa has won lots of awards and has enjoyed international ratings.