Justice M. T. Tukur of Kaduna State High Court yesterday sentenced Mr. Mukhtar Bello to three years imprisonment for defrauding people several times and for impersonation. The convict was, however, given an option of fine. Bello, who was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), was convicted on a three-count charge of impersonation and obtaining money by false pretence. The 43-year-old graduate of the University of Tampa, Florida, United States, was arrested on October 31, 2019 after he failed to honour his obligations on a financial transaction with some ladies. The EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, said: “A scene was created at an ATM point of one of the new generation banks in Kaduna metropolis, where some ladies tried to compel him to make withdrawal, to pay for items he bought from them. An officer of the commission, who had come to make use of the ATM at the time, was shocked to hear Mukhtar repeatedly harassing the ladies saying, ‘I am an EFCC staff, I will deal with you all’. “The curious EFCC worker sought to know what the problem was. Mukhtar told him he was from the Abuja office of the commission, but was in Kaduna on leave. Further questioning led to the discovery that he was an impostor. He was brought to the Kaduna Zonal Office, where another officer, who had previously encountered Mukhtar at a relaxation spot in Kaduna immediately, recognised him, ‘as the EFCC staff from Abuja.’” Uwujaren said statements of other witnesses were taken, affirming their encounters with Mukhtar, the fake EFCC operator. Investigation revealed that the suspect was known for harassing and defrauding unsuspecting members of the public by dropping the names of public agencies. Before now, he had claimed to be a worker with the Federal Character Commission (between 2003 and 2007). Upon arraignment, the defendant pleaded guilty to the charges. Consequently, Tukur convicted and sentenced him to three years imprisonment with an option of N250,000 fine on each of the three counts totalling N750,000.