Concern Analysts advise retail investors, local corporates to trade cautiously in T-bills   A side from deposit money banks (DMBs), investment banks, finance companies and other investment companies could also be adversely affected by the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) directive, barring non-bank locals (individuals and corporates) from participating in its Open Market Operations (OMO) at both the primary and secondary markets, findings by New Telegraph show.  As part of measures to ensure that more banking system credit is channeled to the real sector to boost economic growth, the CBN had, on October 24, announced that it had completely barred individuals, local firms and non-bank financial institutions from investing in both its primary and secondary OMO auctions, thus implying that only foreign investors and lenders are allowed to participate at such auctions.   The move led to a sharp drop to single digits in treasury bills’ (T-Bills) yields, a development, analysts predicted, would negatively impact DMBs’ profitability due to their huge investments in government securities. However, given that investment firms and finance companies also heavily invest in the fixed income market on behalf of their clients, speculation is widespread in industry circles that these companies are equally going to face a profit hit from the CBN OMO ban. Expressing this sentiment in a chat with New Telegraph at the weekend, a financial analyst, Mr. Paul Attah, contended that the declining treasury bill yields, occasioned by the CBN’s OMO restriction, would clearly affect most companies playing in the fixed income space.   He said: “All the attention is obviously on what impact the CBN OMO restriction would have on DMBs’ profitability. This is because through their financial reports, which they are mandated to release on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), they are known to invest heavily in government securities.  But since most investment firms are not listed on the NSE, the details of their financials are not easily obtainable so many people don’t know that they also earn a lot of income from investments in fixed income securities.”   Indeed, in reaction to a recent report by a national daily that the CBN was planning to restrict individuals from participating in treasury bills auctions with  effect from  November 29, 2019, a finance company/investment firm issued a statement to its clients, denying the report.   The statement, which was seen by New Telegraph’s correspondent, reads: “There is news that CBN will restrict individuals from participating in Treasury Bills auctions, effective November 29, 2019.  That is not true. The restriction is only for domestic investors in Open Market Operations (OMO) which is a market strictly between the CBN and Banks for managing liquidity. Individuals are safe.   “You can still access and invest in Federal Government Treasury Bills (NTBs), either at the Primary market or via Secondary markets channels through us. Although this directive has caused a decline in the fixed income market, you have nothing to worry about as we have other investment alternatives. Our diverse investment products assist you with properly diversifying your portfolio for possible higher returns.   “Some of the juicy options are investments in fundamentally justified equities, fixed placement with very competitive returns, US Dollar investments, ethical investments, GB Pounds investments and real-estate   backed investments (with bi-annual returns).” It will be recalled that in the wake of the OMO ban, analysts at Afrinvest Research predicted that the decline in T-bills yields across tenors witnessed at the auction conducted by the CBN would continue due to the increase in demand for government securities. In a note obtained by New Telegraph, the analysts advised retail investors and local corporates to trade cautiously.   The analyst stated: “In line with our expectations, demand on the Nigerian Treasury Bills surged further in the primary and secondary markets last week as the impact of the CBN’s policy on Open Market Operation (OMO) bills reined in on available money market investment options. We recall that the apex bank directive limits the purchase of OMO bills in the primary and secondary market to foreign investors, thus prompting local investors, especially the PFAs, to search for alternatives such as NT-Bills and FGN Bonds. “Retail investors and local corporates are advised to trade cautiously and position in NT-Bills with attractive yields as we expect yields to continue to decline on the back of increased demand. Nonetheless, N-T-Bills rates remain attractive relative to other money market investments due to the tax free and upfront interest.”  Similarly, in a report last week, analysts at CardinalStone Research predicted that with the uptrend in Nigeria’s  inflation set to continue given the looming  hike in Value Added Tax (VAT)  and electricity tariffs next year, there will be a  further drop in T-bills yields thereby reducing the allure of investing in such government securities.   The analysts said: “The 36-bps jump in October headline inflation suggests a prevailing real yield of -1.68% on the one-year treasury bill (9.93%). The recent OMO ban restricting individuals and local corporates has catalyzed into robust demand for government bills, driving yields down by as much as 400 bps on the 360-day paper since the announcement of the ban. “For us, this negative real yield is likely to expand further on expected hikes in electricity tariffs and VAT, reducing the real return in fixed income instruments. Akin to the case in 2016, expanding negative real yield could force domestic fund managers (such as Pension Fund Administrators – PFA) to further explore other investment options in coming months.”   According to the “Half year activity report 2019”   released by the CBN recently, DMBs in the country invested a total of N6.5trillion in T-bills in the first six months of this year. The figure is N1.73trillion higher than the N4.83trillion that the lenders invested in treasury bills in the corresponding period of 2018.