Presiding Bishop of Living Faith Church, Dr David Oyedepo who is also the Chancellor of Covenant University, Ota in Ogun, has warned the fresh students of the University to shun all forms of examination malpractice.  Oyedepo gave this warning at the 18th Matriculation of the institution held recently at the University chapel in Ota, Ogun state.  According to him, Covenant University, Ota in Ogun, has zero tolerance for all forms of examination malpractice, as he urged the students to shun the evil act.  About 1,860 students comprising 1,672 undergraduates and 188 postgraduates were matriculated for the 2019/2020 academic session.  The Chancellor said that the advice became necessary so that the new students would not derail from the purpose of coming into the institution.   Oyedepo warned the students that anyone caught in the act of examination malpractice would be rusticated.  “Covenant University exists to raise a new generation of leaders through qualitative training system that focusses on values and skills development” he said.  The chancellor urged the matriculating students to be diligent and make sacrifices, adding that those who were determined to effect a change do not run a normal schedule.  Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof.Aaron Atayero, said that the institution equips students with the spiritual, mental and physical capacity to positively impact their world.  Atayero said the institution has a mission of redeeming the battered image of black man through capacity building, sacrifice, integrity and responsibility for moulding these new generation of leaders.  The Vice Chancellor said that the university would continue to lead tertiary institution community as demonstrated by its nomination as the most outstanding higher institution of the year.  “Presently, Covenant University ranked in the 401-500 bracket in the Times Higher Education World University Ranking for 2020.  “This ranking places covenant as the best university in Nigeria and West Africa as well as 10 Universities in Africa,” he said.  Atayero said that the institution graduates were job providers rather than jobs seekers which are contributing positive to the development of the country.