 M any traders, shop owners and workers on Lagos Island wept yesterday as fire gutted two buildings and destroyed property believed to worth millions of naira. The first incident occurred at Oluwole by Martins Street involving six-storey building as well as Docemo Street where a three-storey building of lock-up shops serving as jewellery market went up in flames. For several hours, traders were confused and helpless while the fire raged from the two buildings. Thick smoke rose from the buildings, leaving traders and residents in panic.  Some traders were packing their goods away from their shops while some were making frantic efforts to salvage their goods. Some sympathisers and shop owners were struggling to put out the fire though it appeared to be more intense than what they could manage until the arrival of the emergency responders.  The General Manager (GM), Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, said his team and other responders were able to put out the fire and bring the situation under control despite difficulties.  Oke-Osanyintolu said the fire, which affected almost every section of both buildings, was at risk of spreading to other buildings next to them, a situation which presented peculiar difficulties to responders to access the source of the fire in order to effectively put it out on time. He said: “Despite obstacles of inaccessibility via roads and set-backs, as all the affected buildings are continuously built together in a conjoined manner, the combined efforts of LASEMA Response Team, Lagos State Fire Service, UBA Fire Department and the Federal Fire Service are on ground.” Oke-Osanyintolu said that there were no casualties, no fatalities and no injuries.  The LASEMA boss added that the agencies also made sure nobody was trapped in any of the buildings. He said the Skylight Fighter Truck fully activated and deployed to aid swift recovery, as dampening commenced. Oke-Osanyintolu added that the agency would still carry out further investigation on the cause of the inferno. The LASEMA GM appealed to residents to be safety conscious.