The Nigeria Air Force recently conducted awareness lectures and screening of its personnel and families for some health conditions.  EMMANUEL ONANI reports  In a bid to prevent the spread of viral hepatitis among its personnel and their families, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) last week, held an awareness lecture on Hepatitis B (HBV) and Hepatitis C (HCV)  at Headquarters NAF (HQ NAF) in Abuja. Apart from the awareness lecture, personnel were also screened and those who tested negative to the virus were vaccinated. The lecture, which was themed “Empowering Personnel to Eliminate Hepatitis out of the Nigerian Air Force”, was delivered by Professor Adamu Samaila, a professor of Gastroenterology/Hepatology from Bayero University, Kano State. Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who declared the lecture open, said  that the programme was aimed at adequately sensitizing participants on the  viral diseases which are capable of degrading the capacity of the Service to deploy affected personnel for necessary trainings and operations. Abubakar, represented by the Chief of Policy and Plans (COPP), Air Vice Marshal Napoleon Bali, disclosed that  the Service had  since discovered that there was no better way to fight hepatitis than to prevent its spread through regular screening and sensitization programmes. He recalled that the reasoning behind the upgrading of NAF Medical Services from a Directorate to a Branch status was to ensure enhanced healthcare delivery for NAF personnel, their families as well as host communities of the NAF. This, he said, was borne out of the realization that the combat readiness of the NAF does not only depend on the employment of sophisticated aircraft or advanced weapon systems but also on sound mental and physical fitness of the personnel who operate the various platforms and equipment. According to him, this had also necessitated the upgrading of existing NAF Hospitals and Medical Centres as well as the construction of new Reference Hospitals equipped with state-of-the-art facilities to provide better preventive and curative medical services. In terms of preventive services, Air Marshal Abubakar noted that the NAF had put in place  measures to ensure that hepatitis and similar diseases do not pose a challenge to NAF operational readiness. According to him, such measures included rigorous screening to ensure that only medically fit individuals are recruited into the Service. In addition, he said,    NAF units conduct regular enlightenment campaigns, while the Service continues to build the capacity of its Medical personnel and improve facilities in various NAF  Hospitals to screen, detect, treat and manage Hepatitis and other ailments. He pledged that the Service would continue to enlist more medical professionals, provide better infrastructure and procure more advanced equipment. In his welcome address, the Chief of Medical Services (CMS), Air Commodore Gideon Bako, stated that, despite the tremendous strides made in public health, infectious diseases control and preventive medicine during the past century, infectious agents remain a significant threat to the operational capacity of military forces. This, he said, underscored the need for continuous sensitization to prevent the spread of causal viruses. He reiterated that the provision of relevant information as well as preventive measures, such as vaccination and treatment, when necessary, were valid ways of empowering personnel to eliminate Hepatitis from the NAF. The CMS used the opportunity to thank the CAS for his immense support and investment in the Medical Services Branch, stating that the Branch would continue to reciprocate by ensuring enhanced professional performance and excellent service delivery. He urged all personnel and their families to endeavour to present themselves for screening and vaccination at any NAF Medical Facility. A lecture delivered by Professor Adamu Samaila, addressed the causes of hepatitis as well as the risk factors, clinical presentations, management and prevention of the disease. The highlight of the event was the screening of participants at the HQ NAF Clinic. Similarly,  the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has stepped up its campaign on Yellow Fever awareness by holding a sensitisation lecture on the ailment at the 211 Quick Response Group (QRG) in Owerri, Imo State. Director of Public Relations and Information, Nigerian Air Force, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said the  awareness lecture, which held last week was  to ensure that the healthcare needs of personnel of the Service and its host communities  were at optimal level. The event, which took place within the premises of the NAF Hospital in Owerri, witnessed a large turnout of community heads and members of not less than four  communities surrounding the Unit, namely Umuotuke Umowa, Nekede, Agbala and Naze. The lecture majorly addressed the causes and mode of transmission of the disease as well as the risk factors, clinical presentations, management and prevention. In his remarks at the event, the Commander 211 QRG, Group Captain Elisha Bindul, stated that due to the increasing spread of the disease in other parts of the country, it became necessary to enlighten personnel and their families as well as host communities on necessary preventive measures, which include vaccination as well as maintenance of high levels of hygiene and elimination of conditions amenable to the breeding of mosquitoes. He noted that the awareness programme, which also featured the distribution of insecticide treated mosquito nets to over 300 participants, would facilitate the design of appropriate control strategies. Meanwhile,  the United States Military has  trained Nigerian Air Force medical personnel on Casualty Evacuation (CASEVAC) as part of a four phased Aerial Patient Movement Program.  The rigorous two-week training, conducted at the Nigeria Air Force Base Hospital Abuja, will enable the Air Force to recover wounded soldiers from the battlefield more effectively. The personnel acquired lifesaving first-aid skills to be used in the field, in addition to familiarizing themselves with techniques to both properly load patients on helicopters and care for them in-flight. Nigeria Air Force helicopter pilots were also trained by U.S. instructor pilots on how to effectively plan and execute a Casualty Evacuation Mission.  The training, which is the second phase of the program, was conducted and funded by the United States Air Force and the California National Guard. These trainings, Inside Abuja learnt, we’re designed  to  increase of the medical capability of the Armed Forces of Nigeria.  The training provided patient evacuation tactics, techniques, and procedures to reduce casualty mortality rate at the point of injury and increase patient survivability during transport.