…orders Corporation to refund N382.2m to treasury   T he Senate, yesterday, urged the executive arm of government to fish out officials of government conniving with criminals to vandalise oil pipelines across the country, with a view to punishing them. The Senate made the submission in its resolutions while adopting the report of its ad hoc committee on pipeline explosions in Komkom, Rivers State and Ijegun, Lagos State.  This was as the apex legislative chamber summoned the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to come and explain the measures or the plans it had put in place over the years to secure pipelines from the menace of vandalism across the country.   The invitation also intends to make the nation’s oil corporation brief it on the agreements and arrangements it had been making on behalf of the country, so as to ascertain areas of review.   In his remarks after the report was considered and adopted, the President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, directed the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Downstream) to invite the NNPC, with a view to ensuring a review of security measures for pipelines in parts of the country.  Lawan also said the National Assembly would amend the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) Act to prevent the activities of pipeline vandals that led to explosions and deaths.  His words: “Our Committee on Petroleum (Downstream) should invite the NNPC with a view to know what they have been doing over the years to secure the pipelines; what measures are in place and whether there is need to review these agreements.  “This is a multi-billion dollar industry. People consciously do these things, it’s not an accident. Those who are caught in the fires or who come to scavenge are the ones who end up losing their lives. This is not acceptable. “There must be sanctions, somebody will have to pay the price and, of course, after these resolutions are sent to the executive, our committee must follow it up.  “When we have to amend the NOSDRA Act, this is something that we have to do expeditiously. We should do it because it will help in preventing or minimising reoccurrence of these criminal acts.”  The ad hoc committee, in its report, stated that the incidences of pipeline explosions in Rivers and Lagos states would have been avoided if the NNPC/Nigerian Pipeline Storage Company (NPSC) and contractors monitoring the pipelines were proactive.  Presenting the report to the chamber for consideration, the chairman of the ad hoc committee, Senator Ibrahim Gobir said that the NNPC, the NPSC and the contractor were aware of the Komkom pipeline leakage in Rivers State, two days before the explosion, but delayed in taking necessary action.   He further disclosed that the NNPC, the NPSC and the Oilserv contractor were aware of the activities of the vandals and the leakage a week and a day respectively, before the Ijegun explosion in Lagos State.  Gobir alleged that security personnel, in connivance with NPSC staff, collaborated with the vandals to siphon petroleum products from the pipelines.  After a comprehensive consideration of the report, the Senate adopted all the 14 recommendations, including two additional ones proposed by other senators.   It also directed the NNPC to refund to the treasury the sum of N382,203,055.74 it claimed to have used in firefighting operation in Komkom and provide evidence of compliance to the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Downstream).