 Honourable Frank Ilaboya is a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the incumbent Local Government Chairman of Owan West in Edo State. In this Interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN, he spoke on the current political situation in Edo State. Excerpts…  Governor Obaseki is three years in office, what is your assessment of him?  First and foremost, let me congratulate Mr. Governor His Excellency Godwin Obaseki, like you said he will be three years in office as Governor this month. You will agree with me that Mr. Governor has done very well within these three years. In terms of achievements, I can liken him to the late Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia of the then Bendel State who brought the touch of development to all parts of the state.  If Obaseki is just three years in office, and he has done all these things we are seeing, then he should be commended and encouraged to continue. We are not only talking about development in the political sector, we are talking about development in all facets.   If you look at what is ongoing in the sports sector, which is my primary constituency, you will agree with me that Mr. Governor has done well.  Take a look at Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, you know what I’m talking about. Not just that, additional 20 other mini- stadia are being built cross the state. That tells you the love he has for sports and his plans to use sports to drive the economy of the state just like the late Dr. Ogbemudia did which made the then Bendel State number one in sports. Aside that, you are aware that the sport commission has being set up which is the first time such a thing is happening in the state.  The governor is determined to leave a legacy in all facets of human development and more are still coming. With the level of sports development that is on in the state presently, especially the new look Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Edo is fully ready to host international competitions because the stadium has been brought to international standard.  Again, apart from the fact that football lovers in the state will have the opportunity of watching first-class football competitions, it will also turn round the economy of the state.   That is just in the area of sports   now let’s take a look at the educational sector, today we have what is known as Edo Best which has received both local and international acclaim, Edo Best is a situation where teachers teach their students digitally, and across the state the system is the same, they all have handy computer systems, and you can see the quality of students that Edo will be turning out with. Just recently, we had student summit and the aim was to catch them young and put them through in modern technology.  Those things we see abroad, that is w h a t Governor G o d w i n Obaseki has brought to E d o   State.   Last month, our governor was given an award by Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) as best Governor in the Education Sector.  Those who know NUT very well know that they don’t give awards, except to those who deserve of them. If you go to the health sector, the governor is also doing very well. Today, a model health centre equipped with state-of-the-art facilities is being built in all the Local Government Areas. I’m very proud to be a local government chairman under the Obaseki administration. Look our governor is being rated very high in all the areas, because he is a leader of purpose, a leader of quality, and a leader of vision. So Edo people are ready to go any length with him to ensure his second term ticket is not negotiable. Again, because he has done so well within these three years, we have decided to follow him till the end, and those few individuals who are against his 4+4 will be put to shame at the end. He said his second term is not negotiable, do you agree with him? Look, he does not need to demand it, he deserves it. It is not something to be debated about, we are ready to give him our full support, Owan West people in Edo North are behind him, he has done what previous administrators could not do, his support spans the three senatorial zones. There is nobody in Edo State that has not felt the impact of his administration. It is just three years and he still has one year to do in the first four years ticket, so I strongly believe that more development will come by the time he commences the second tenure of four years. The second term ticket is sure and guaranteed by the people of Edo State.  What is the priority of your administration       as a local government boss?   Education is our priority.  When I came in, I started by giving out notebooks, making furniture and doing renovations because children need a conducive environment to study. I also discovered that the pupils need uniform because not many parents can afford to buy school uniforms for their children.  The parents are so happy with what the local government is doing in Owan West. Whatever we are doing at the local level is taking a cue from the state level because the governor has given us a clear vision to follow. Just recently, we organized a seminar for school children where they were taught how to have confidence in themselves so that they would be able to face challenges in future. You can see the way children spoke during quiz competitions and I was so impressed with the performances of the kids. This is as a result of the governor’s good quality education programme. Very soon, we are starting our capacity programme where we would be training one graduate per ward across the 11 wards. We also have a robust youth empowerment programme that has empowered over 100 youths in the LGA.  What is your advice to those House members –elect who have not been inaugurated and are in Abuja?   My candid advice to them is to come back and join their colleagues, the doors are wide open for them. We call on our representative, Hon. Ohio Ezomon, to come and join his colleagues so that Owan West will have a voice at the floor of the House. Do you think this ongoing feud in APC can be settled? I think every well-meaning APC member is working round the clock to ensure that these family issues are settled. That is what we have been doing. I must once again commend the State Government for showing enough sincerity in this regard. The government has shown its desire for all to move as a team