The Bayelsa State Governor-elect,  David Lyon has set up a 59-members transition committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state.
In the Statement issued on Thursday by the State Chairman of the APC, Jothan Amos, the Committee is headed by the former Acting Governor, Werinipre Davidson Seibarugu.
Other members of the Committee include Chief Obioha Oworibor as Secetary, the members of the Federal House of Representative,  Isreal Sunny-Goli,  Preye Influence Oseke, Millionaire F. N Abowei,  Fakuma Ilagha,  Dennis Otiotio, the alternate Director-General of the David Lyon Campaign Organisation,  Professor Seiyefa Brisibe, James Oyeboa and Chief Beinmo Spiff.
Also on the list are Ate Beredugo, Professor. Ngoebi Etebu, Hon Ebitimi Amgbare, Diseye Poweigha Rtd, Diekivie Ikiogha, Sen Nimi-Barigha Amange,  Gamene Difurutorgu, Lady Ann Netiman,  Mike Ogiasa,  Eddy Orubo,  David Oboma , Amalanyo Yousuo ,  Undutimi Komonibo,  Donald Egberibin, Gaabriel John Jonah, Claudius Enegesi,  Eboroh E. K Edeba, Godknows Powell, a former member of the House of Representative, Nadu Karibo, Rex Ogbuku, Chief Abel Ebifemowei, Captain Mathew Karimo and Chief Moses Otazi.
Others include Mr. Livingstone Kipus, Engr. Augustine Pabo, Chief Alex Ekiotenne, Dr Ebikitin Diongoli, Surveyor Furuebi Freeborn Akene, Mrs Gloria Izonfuo, Hon Salvation Tuesday, Hon Stella Dorgu, Barr. Inimo Orubemienkumo, Barr Whyte Rhodesia, Hon Samuel Tangi, Dr Theodore Allison, O. J Martins and Amb Augustus Osuomo. Hon R. J Etolor,  Mr Onini Nelson Izonebi, Hon Ebianga Egain, Sir Churchill Williams, Chief Stephen Ogula, Selekeye Ben Victor,Chief Stephen Bekefula, Hon Henry Ofongo, Hon Ayibakuro Nelson, Barr Ebi Ogionwo and Dr. Mabel Ogon.
The state Governor,  Henry Seriake Dickson on Tuesday inaugurated two committees on safety of government assets committee  and immovable assets and investment committee, both of which are to serve as sub committees of the transition committee earlier set up by his administration.
Governor Dikson, while performing the inauguration, emphasised the need for both committees to properly document the movable and immovable assets of government including investments which would form part of his hand over notes to the incoming government