With just one week to the governorship elections and senatorial rerun in Bayelsa and Kogi states respectively, a Lagos-based cleric and the leader of Christ Deliverance Ministries Inc, {CDM}, Prophet Ekong Ituen, has predicted a tough race for the Bayelsa State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Senator Dino Melaye in Kogi State.   Ituen, who was on record to have predicted the return of President Muhammadu Buhari to office before the 2019 polls, said it would only take the Grace of God for the Bayelsa PDP candidate, Senator Douye Diri and Melaye to scale through their present hurdles.  Speaking with journalists in Lagos on what may likely be the results of November 16 gubernatorial elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, Ituen said his prophecy is a warning and a clue to the plan of God which can be prevented if the right steps are taken. He urged leaders not to see prophecies as hatred or criticism but as part of intelligence reports because even in the Bible God used Prophets to warn leaders of impending crises and defeat.  “In view of the above and from all spiritual indications, Kogi and Bayelsa states’ elections would be tough. Peoples Democratic Party {PDP} in Bayelsa State will find it difficult to win this election, their chances are slim. “I urge their governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri to be prayerful and contact a true Prophet of God of his choice with proven integrity because God has a word for him. “Yahaya Bello of the APC will win the 2019 governorship election in Kogi State. Senator Melaye needs divine intervention to win the rerun senatorial election.   “In my revelation, I saw him descending from a ladder, which signifies defeat”, he said. It would be recalled that Ituen also predicted the defeat of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar before the 2019 general elections. Ituen had said: “Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is playing his last days in politics, he will not become the President in Nigeria. “I urge him to withdraw from the race and retire from politics to avoid shame as he will be messed-up and abandoned”, he had said then.