T he House of Representatives yesterday urged the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) to immediately rescind the restriction it placed on the supply of petroleum products to towns within 20 kilometres of Nigerian border.  The directive was given following the adoption of a motion sponsored by Hon. Sada Soli (APC, Katsina).   Leading debate on the motion, Soli lamented that the inhabitants of these border towns were already feeling the brunt of the border closure and to deny them petroleum products, has adversely affected hospitals, businesses, the supplementing of the source of epileptic power, etc. without due consultation and enlightenment is most insensitive to the plight of these Nigerians.   He stated that being from Jibia in Katsina State, which is also a border community; he has seen firsthand the adverse effects of this operation as the price of petroleum has skyrocketed beyond what is the reach of the common man, adding that “no alternative provision was made to cater for the needs of those residing in the border communities.”   According to him: “There are legitimate Nigeria citizens living on those borders.  With this sudden directive, we are approaching Christmas.  How will they survive? Today, my people travel 45 kilometers to buy petrol.  This is not acceptable.  If they are saying there is smuggling, who allowed this smuggling?  I appeal to the House to look at this directive with a human face.”   Also calling for the suspension of the restriction order, chairman of the House Committee on Ethics and Privileges, Hon. Kolawole Lawal (APM, Ogun) expressed concerns that the policy which began on November 6, 2019, has already adversely affected and brought untold hardship on them.   He said: “Shortage of petroleum products could easily destabilize the economy in the border areas even as they struggle to transport goods and services within the towns.”   Lawal, who represents Egbado south/Ipokia federal constituency, a border constituency in Ogun State, argued that the Customs do not have the power to unilaterally issue such a directive and immediately commence implementation without consulting with relevant stakeholders.   The lawmaker said the reasons advanced by the NCS for imposition such a policy were untenable, explaining that “there are a total of 51 checkpoints between Idiroko and Owode; this is made up of three army checkpoints, two Immigration check points, 13 police checkpoints, two health checkpoints, one NDLEA checkpoint and two Quarantine officer’s checkpoints. Yet, they allow rice and other banned products to find their way into Nigeria and in the night they now go to the border towns searching houses for rice.”   Continuing, Lawal insisted that the directive by the Customs was “obnoxious and draconian” and must be jettisoned without delay. “As a stakeholder in the border area and a member of the House of Representatives, I have not been contacted or consulted. The directive is a violation of the provisions of the Customs and Excise Act (as amended)”, he disclosed.   Similarly, Hon. Fatuhu Mohammed (APC, Katsina) stated that the people in his constituency in Daura were suffering immeasurably and the Customs should be sensitive and reverse the policy.   Consequently, the House presided over by the deputy speaker, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, mandated its committee on interior, customs and excise, as well as petroleum resources (downstream) to engage the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola and his petroleum counterpart, Chief Timi Sylva, on the issue.   The committees are to interface with the Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hammed Ali (rtd) and the Group Managing director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC),  Engr. Mele Kyari  with a view to reviewing the situation,  so as to ameliorate the suffering of Nigerians living in the border communities.  