Bandits on Tuesday gunned down three policemen at a checkpoint in the southern part of Kaduna State. The policemen were said to be serving at Fadan Karshi Outpost in Sanga Local Government Area of the state. The attack occurred at a checkpoint between Fadan Karshi and Sabon Gida village within the same local government area.  The state Police Command has confirmed the incident and gave the names of the policemen as Inspector Bobai Bature, Inspector Daniel Dogo and Sergeant Mamman Ahmadu. The Vice-Chairman of Sanga Local Government Area, Hon Abubakar Abba, also confirmed the incident.  Abba disclosed that the bodies of the slain policemen had been deposited at the Gwantu General Hospital mortuary. He said: “Two among the policemen died on the spot, while the third died on the way to the hospital.” Abba expressed worry over the wave of criminal activities in the area and called on security agencies to rise up to the challenge. The state Deputy Police Public Relations Officer (DPPRO), Suleiman Abubakar, said a manhunt for the culprits was ongoing as no effort would be spared in bringing them to book. He said: “On November 12, about 1p.m., the police operatives attached to Safer Highway with code No. KDS 018, deployed to Gwantu Divisional area, were ambushed by gunmen while on patrol at Aboro village, on Fadan Karshi-Nimbia Forest Road in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The gunmen opened fire on them through a thick bush in the opposite direction. “The operatives engaged the hoodlums and in the process, Inspector Bobai Bature, Inspector Daniel Dogo and Sergeant Mamman Ahmadu paid the supreme sacrifice while other team members escaped unhurt. Reinforcement has since been deployed to the area for general combing to ensure that the culprits are arrested and brought to face justice.” Abubakar added that the state Commissioner of Police, Ali Janga, was greatly saddened by the incident and commiserates with families of the gallant policeman. Janga, according to the DPPRO, also called on members of the general public to assist the police with relevant information on the whereabouts of suspicious persons in order to rid communities of bad elements. He said: “The commissioner of police has also assured members of the public that the culprits will not escape the long arms of the law. The command is doing everything possible to arrest those behind this dastardly act.”