The Kaduna State Police Command, yesterday, said it has arrested no fewer than 39 suspected kidnappers, bandits and armed robbers within the past few weeks in Kaduna. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Yakubu Sabo, made the disclosure during a press briefing at the command’s headquarters yesterday in Kaduna. Sabo said: “I am pleased to update you on the achievements recorded in suppressing criminal activities in the state during the past few weeks. The Command has intensified efforts towards ensuring safety and security of the populace through some coordinated raiding of criminal hideouts. “This is being carried out by our gallant Operatives and the IGP’s Special Tactical Squad (STS) and Intelligence Response Team (IRT) as well as active Community Engagement Initiative in line with the Inspector General of Police mandate on Community Policing. “These efforts have gained some remarkable results which led to the arrest of 39 suspected criminals comprising largely suspected kidnappers, bandits, armed robbers, culpable homicide suspects, cattle rustlers and internet fraudsters, among others.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sabo disclosed that the following exhibits were recovered from the suspects, 10 AK47 rifles, four Pump Action Rifles, two locally made pistols and  one locally made gun. Also 154 live ammunition, 17 cartridges, four vehicles, four motorcycles were made. He explained that the Command like other commands across the country has some peculiar security challenges. “However, we have succeeded in reducing these crimes within our towns, villages and to a large extend on our major highways,” Sabo said. He added that the command had been relatively calm, as the bandits could no longer carry out any coordinated attack largely due to the Command’s strategic deployment as well as the public support being received. Sabo revealed that some of these suspects have confessed to series of kidnapping within and outside the state, including the killing of police personnel and two other victims at Kangimi after collecting millions of naira as ransom. He noted: “In view of the successes recorded and the drastic reduction in crime rate in the Command within the period under review, we cannot afford to relent in our effort to sustain the gains.” He, therefore, called on the general public to continue to be supportive of the Police in various ways they could to ensure peace and stability of businesses and the social environment in the state. Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, who attended the briefing, commended the Police for its effort. Aruwan said the state government would continue to support security agencies to rid the state of crime and criminality. He said fighting crime and criminality was a collective effort and urged residents to support government and security agencies in the fight against crime in the state.