Superstar comedian, presenter, singer and actress, Helen Paul, popularly known as Tatafo, is a household name in entertainment industry. The Edo State-born artiste doesn’t need any introduction. Ask any Nigerian kid and he would tell you, that lady who mimic our voice. In this interview with EDWIN USOBOH, she talks about growing up, challenges of being a female comedian and sundry issues   Who is Helen Paul? Tell us about your growing up, education etc. I’m a go-getter and workaholic, and I also love to play a lot. Growing up was fun. I enjoyed it like every other Nigerian child did. My parents were not poor and they were not rich, but we were comfortable. My mother and grandmother are disciplinarians, they were very strict, and that is honestly helping me a lot. I see myself as the girl next door; I can walk on the streets when I feel like, stop by the road to buy roasted corn and plantain, name it. Most times, it is people that remind me that I’m a celebrity. I just enjoy myself, that’s the truth. I grew up in Iju-Ishaga and Fadeyi parts of Lagos, respectively, which means I schooled in both areas from Primary to Secondary school before gaining admission to UNILAG to study Creative Arts, where I got my first degree. I also have Masters Degree in the same discipline and institution. I also have a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) and Masters in Public Administration (MPA), all from the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomosho, Oyo State. The truth is that I love knowledge, and would stop at nothing to get it. I belong to the school of thought that believes that we stop acquiring knowledge only when we die. And as much as I can, I try to pass the little knowledge I have to the younger generation. I always advise my fans never to give up on their dreams, no matter the obstacles. Immediately after I finished secondary school, I got admission to study Performing Arts at the University of Ilorin. Of course, you can imagine how elated I was and how proud my mother was about the development. She was so happy that she shared the good news with our neighbours, but there was a problem –she could not afford the admission fees. When I eventually got to Ilorin, registration had closed. With the shame of going back home without the admission not an option I decided to be lurking around the campus, perhaps until I get another admission. Without accommodation arrangement in place, I was about to pass the night in an open space with my luggage when a junior lecturer of the school, Mr Felix (now Dr. Felix) walked up to me. He told me where I planned to sleep was dangerous, and I explained my predicament to him, and out of pity, he offered me a space in his apartment. Every morning, I will resume with him to the school and attend his classes. I would even write attendance. I did this for almost one year and even the bonafide students thought I was part of them. Ironically, it was the same Dr Felix who supervised my Ph.D project. He was transferred to UNILAG when I was in 200 Levels. As a little child, I have always known that I would become a celebrity in future, but honestly, I didn’t know in what capacity. I didn’t know what will bring the fame, but I just knew that I would be star. Even when I was just a receptionist at Eko Reelmix Studio, I was so confident of becoming a star. It was later that I started as a back-up singer and voice-over artiste before the comedy and acting aspects took over. My success is God’s plan for me, and I worked relentlessly towards it. Did you get your parents full support when you decided to go into entertainment? My mum and grandmother are not unnecessarily rigid; their priority is to ensure that you are doing the right thing. Once they are sure of that, they support you with their prayers. They didn’t have any problem with my choice of career. From childhood, people always refer to me as a quirky and funny person. I have a teacher in school that doesn’t beat me at all because he saw that comedy trait in me. But professionally, I started comedy during my days as an undergraduate of the University of Lagos. Somehow, I have always been into entertainment. I have been a singer in church as a teenager. I have done stage performances, and as well worked at Yotomi Television owned by the late Yoruba movie icon, Alade Aromire. To cut the story short, I didn’t have any problem with my parents regarding my choice of career. Would you say your future career was paved for you back then (when you embraced arts as a child) or a coincidence? We are nothing but pencils in the hands of God. He is the master planner, and sometimes, His ways are not our ways. Professionally, the comedy aspect started more like a coincidence. I actually went for a show, and the MC did not come, so my friends said I can do it because I’m a funny character. I eventually did it and it was awesome, and from there, people started calling me for shows and the money kept coming in. I had to stick to it and of course met the likes of Ali Baba and Basorge Tariah Jnr. who now enlightened me on the business part of the job. Again, what drives you? I don’t even refer to myself as a star. I’m just a brand. What I’m trying to tell you is that fame is neither in my mind nor head. I just want to be my natural self, and trust me; fame hasn’t changed anything about me. What are the challenges of being a female comedian?  Do you sometimes feel intimidated? In this part of the world where we are, people are very quick to criticise women, but when the men folk do the same thing, nobody is talking. There are some jokes or songs a female entertainer will do that will spark criticisms, but when the male counterpart does the same thing, it is business as usual. But in a developed country like America, male and female entertainers have equal share, and that is why they have many women doing really well. Our mentality about women in Nigeria needs to change. A male comedian can pull off his shirt on stage, but when a female entertainer wears something provocative to depict a character, she comes under serious criticism. The society has not made it a level playing ground for men and women generally. I honestly don’t see competition from anyone. I only compete with myself; trying to make sure that every new job I do is better than the previous one, so I have never felt intimidated. Then what does it take to be a successful comedian in an unfriendly terrain? What helped you while climbing the ladder of success? The number one factor is God. Once you have His green light, then the next thing is originality, uniqueness – people should know you for what you stand for. Just be yourself, and don’t try to be like someone else. Never give up on your dreams. Keep pushing because your breakthrough might just be a few steps away from you. See, life is full of ups and downs. Sometimes you win. Sometimes you won’t be quite lucky. But come what may, resilience, hard work and a good heart will surely pave ways for you somehow, even in the face of heavy storm and adversity. Righteousness exalts a nation. Success seems to be your middle name: You get the face, the fame and the fortune. What is the secret? I don’t want to sound too religious, but honestly, I will say it’s God –and that’s just the truth. Personally, the only thing I try to do is to have the right set of people around me –then God handles the rest. You must surround yourself with people who can cue into your dream. I mean people who can motivate and encourage you to go all out and make that dream come true. How rich are you? To the glory of God, I can afford a three square meal (laughs). To me, your account balance or the posh cars and mansions does not determine how rich you are. How many lives have you touched positively with the little God has given you? I’m not talking about the public giveaways now, but people you have secretly wiped their tears –that’s my definition of riches. You dedicated your degree to your mum and came out with an appalling aspect of your life with ‘born out of rape’.  What gave you the boldness to come out considering the sensitivity of that aspect of your life? My mum deserves it because she is really a strong woman. I had been waiting for the right time to talk about it publicly, and there can’t be a better time. Sometimes, the best revenge is success. When a man succeeds, they say he works hard but when a woman attains success they say she uses bottom power. What is your view on this notion? It is really unfortunate, and it is a black man’s mentality. But I’m happy that we have many women who are changing the narratives now.