  President Muhammadu Buhari has assured foreign investors operating in the country that his government would do everything to secure their interest. The President said that investments cannot thrive in an atmosphere of social and political instability. Buhari, according to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said it was in the interest of the government to provide a conducive environment for businesses in the country. The President stated this yesterday, while playing host to the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Total Group Worldwide, Mr. Patrick Pouyanne, at the presidential villa, Abuja. According to Buhari: “The relationship between us and Total has been long and mutually beneficial. We want it to remain so. We have to be honourable, honest, and work together, so that we can improve. At our end, we promise social and political stability, so that you can recover your investments. It’s our duty as government, and we will do it, so that we can maintain mutual confidence in each other.” Pouyanne disclosed that apart from oil and gas, which is its core activity, Total was also willing to develop the solar power potentials of Nigeria. “Our portfolio is large. We have many more projects to come. The prospects for Nigeria in oil and gas remain huge. More developing activities are possible, and we need to keep the momentum, and commit more investments to Nigeria,” he said. The management of Total also said it was ready to start discussions for new licenses, in order to deepen its investments in the country. Pouyanne, made this known in Abuja, when he led a high-powered delegation on a strategic visit to the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva. Pouyanne, who made emphasis on the need to fully explore the nation’s potentials, said there was need for reinvestments stemming from the return on earlier investments with a focus on the practicality of the Egina Field. In his words: “Nigeria has a big potential that has not been fully explored and we (Total) are ready to open discussions for new licenses. We will continue to invest more and it is imperative to have conversations that will ensure a rewarding investment structure. “In a show of commitment, Total is committed to reinvestments in the country from the proceeds of the Egina venture.” Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, confirmed earlier statements by Pouyanne that Total remains an important partner in Nigeria’s Oil and Gas landscape while name-checking the Group’s Nigerian content achievement with the laudable Egina field with a production of about 200,000 barrels of oil per day, representing over 10 per cent of Nigeria’s production. He further applauded TOTAL for the notable investment in the Downstream Sector and recent strides in the Solar Energy business. While insisting on the need for the right high-level representation of the Group at occasions instanced by the Nigerian Government, the Minister gave assurances that the Nigerian government would do everything to encourage the further stay of Total in the country.