F ootball-loving Nigerians are yet to come to terms with the sad ouster of the country’s national women’s team, the Super Falcons, from the football event of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. It was Cote d’Ivoire that edged Nigeria out courtesy of a crucial away goal scored in the 1-1 draw recorded in Lagos after a goalless affair in Abidjan in the first leg of the qualifiers. The last has not been heard about the administrative issue that led to the ouster. The last time the female team attended the games was at Beijing in 2008.  Incidentally, Cote d’Ivoire male team for the Olympics will play in same group with Nigeria as the African qualifiers for the event starts this weekend in Egypt. In a seemingly tough group, the country’s U-23 team also has Zambia and South Africa to contend in the battle for semifinal ticket in Group B of the tournament at the Al Salam Stadium. Hosts Egypt are in Group A that also has Ghana, Cameroon and Mali with matches billed for the Cairo International Stadium. Nigeria’s first match of the campaign is against Cote d’Ivoire on Sunday, November 9.  The top three teams at the eight-nation age grade football event will win tickets to represent Africa in the Men’s Football Tournament of the forthcoming 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, Japan.  We do not want our male team to go the way of the female especially with the rich pedigree of teams going to Cairo for the tournament. We make bold to say the competition will be tough.  However, the important aspect of the setting is the fact that the players should be future senior national team stars, so, the authorities and Eagles handler, Gernot Rohr, should monitor the proceedings very well. As the country battle for the Olympic ticket, there should be a deliberate effort to look at the players that could break into the Super Eagles in the next one year and be part of the next World Cup campaign for the country.  It is important to state that the U-23 team is the most delicate to handle because it involves players trying to start a career in clubs abroad. Most of the best legs are abroad and might not be available to feature in the tournament. For example, Victor Osimhen who is on fire for Lille currently in France and high flying Samuel Chukwueze, who is also doing great in Villareal of Spain are not part of the team to Cairo since FIFA is yet to recognize Olympic Games football. We believe this is a setback because some other players within the range could not make the cut as well due to club engagements.  We recall that in the past, Samson Siasia on two occasions for the Beijing 2008 Games and Brazil 2016 Olympics football event, built his African qualifier teams round home-based players who are available for long camping and he was successful winning silver and bronze at the games.  This time, Imama Amakapabo, handler of the team, was able to get foreign-based players to travel to Cairo but the fear is the understanding and cohesion expected in the team. He named players like team captain Azubuike Okechukwu (Turkey), defenders Anthony Izuchukwu (Turkey), Sincere Seth (Turkey) and Olisah Ndah (Remo Stars), midfielders Kelechi Nwakali (Spain), Muyiwa Olabiran (Turkey) and Ndifreke Effiong (Norway), and forwards Taiwo Awoniyi (Germany) and Orji Okwonkwo (Italy) in his final list of 21 players to defend the U-23 Africa Cup. We ask, do these players have enough time to blend and understand one another? Are they good enough to handle the opposition in Egypt and deliver the ticket to Tokyo?  The handlers need to adopt a strategy that to get early goals and defend well because the three teams in Group B have better training period than Nigeria. There should be means of getting the best from the individual talents in the team as well. The male team has failed in the past when the handler, Austin Eguavoen, relied on pros but they failed to turn up for the qualifiers and his last-minute efforts were not enough.  Picking a ticket to Tokyo Games football event won’t be easy because there is no hiding place for Nigeria as defending champions of the event. An event that has Cote d’Ivore, Mali, Ghana, Cameroon and South Africa on parade will be tough.We charge the NFF to give the team all the motivation they need to excel in Egypt. The Tokyo Games could produce next generation of Super Eagles stars and the qualifiers billed to start on November 9 should be taken seriously in the interest of football development in the country.  We believe transition of players from U-23 to the Super Eagles should not be difficult as any player in that range is ripe enough for the national team. Rohr and the NFF should take the qualifiers seriously to create healthy competition in the Super Eagles.  Amakapabo has an opportunity to warm himself to the hearts of Nigerians after failing to book a ticket to the finals of AFCON with the home-based National team. We believe failure in Cairo could crumble his coaching career and so he must get it right.