Airtel Africa yesterday announced the acquisition of Intercellular Nigeria in a transaction valued at about $70 million. The acquisition is aimed at boosting its Nigerian operation, Airtel Nigeria, with additional spectrum to expand its network across the country. Airtel Africa disclosed this in a regulatory filing to its shareholders through the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The telecoms firm, with a presence in 14 countries on the continent, said its Nigerian subsidiary signed an agreement with Intercellular Nigeria Limited to acquire an additional 10 megahertz (MHz) spectrum in the 900 MHz band in Nigeria. Intercellular Nigeria Limited commenced commercial operations as a public company in 1998 after being awarded a National Fixed License in 1996. Prior to its acquisition, Intercellular Nigeria operated with a National Unified Access Service License and was able to provide a complete range of telecommunication services to Nigerians. Airtel Africa said the acquisition of the additional spectrum would allow Airtel Nigeria to expand its operations and strengthen its LTE network across Nigeria, considered the largest market for Airtel Africa. The deal is, however, subject to regulatory approval by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). The latest acquisition aligns with the company’s plan to continue to dominate the tele-mobile communications space on the continent. Last August, the company unfolded plans to roll out its mobile money platform. The company said it was continuing its aggressive investment in its 4G network infrastructure, with nearly 1,500 additional sites across its operational locations, apparently preparatory to the roll out. In the last six months period ended September 30, 2019, Airtel Nigeria announced a 23 per cent increase in its revenue, with revenue from data sales increasing by about 76 per cent during the period, driven by the accelerated rollout of its 4G network. The increase in data customer base rose by about 20.8 per cent, with an ARPU growth of about 43 per cent. The report said during the period, 4G data usage by its customers increased by almost 20 folds. Reacting to the latest acquisition, the Chief Executive of Airtel Africa, Raghunath Mandava, identified data as a key pillar of the company’s growth, driven by increasing 4G networks, supported by the increased affordability and increasing penetration of smartphones.