There is move by government to weed out quacks among the country’s freight forwarders in the port industry from next month, BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports   N on-compliance with regulatory requirements among some people posing as freight forwarders is one of the major challenges confronting Nigerian port industry.   Worried by the height of dishonesty in the sector as evident in false declarations and undervaluation, government has said that it will no longer be business as usual for quacks in the sector.   Deadline   As parts of efforts to reduce sharp practice in the industry, the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) has set aside December 2019 as  the deadline for non- professionals in the industry to register for training. Ahead of the deadline, the council said that it had accredited no fewer than   17 tertiary and professional institutions to train freight forwarders operating in the ports and borders.  It added that  the decision taken by the government  would also improve logistics performance index and competitiveness in the country.   Standard Already, government had said that the benchmark for freight forwarding practice in the country from 2021 would be the International Federation of Freight Forwarders Association (FIATA)’s diploma in Freight Forwarding and Supply Chain Management (FFSCM), which will be raised to FIATA higher diploma in future.   The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Ameachi, who  supported to CRFFN’s plans, said that licensed customs agents and freight forwarders, who failed to register with the council, would not be allowed to renew their licences.  Amaechi noted that certification would be the first step to implementing the CRFFN law and those who have refused to function within the law would be compelled to do so.  At a sensitisation workshop on ‘Freight Forwarding as a Career’ organised by the CRFFN in Lagos,  the minister explained that Nigerian Ports Authority  (NPA) and other agencies would not allow those unregistered freight forwarders  to function. Mandate  According to him, CRFFN has the mandate to set standard, build capacity, regulate freight forwarding practice and generate revenue for government.  Amaechi warned that freight forwarders, who do not follow the established processes in line with the law, would not be allowed to operate in the country.  To this end, he advised all freight forwarders in the country to take advantage of the certification process put in place by the council in order to become professionally fit and competent.  The minister said: “Professionalising freight forwarding will, no doubt, improve the ease of doing business ratings and reduce smuggling activities which is dangerous and inimical to the country’s economy. Any educated and enlightened freight forwarder will always find the space to fit in.   “We are also hopeful that all these efforts will yield better competitiveness in the industry because it is the freight forwarding activities that determine the logistics performance index and therefore the country’s competitiveness.”   Registrar of the council, Sam Nwakohu, said that the new benchmark for professionalism  would come  by 2021.   He noted: “It is intended to be raised as prescribed by the freight forwarding Act to FIATA’s higher diploma in future. We are doing a lot of integrating and if you are not registered with us, your license will not be renewed by customs.”   The registrar explained that sub-standard trucks at the Nigerian ports and on the roads across the country were the major reason containers often fall and kill people/damage goods, and cause traffic disruption, among others.   Job creation   Nwakohu noted that it was a legacy project that holds the promise of driving Nigeria’s competitiveness through job creation, promotion of entrepreneurship, capacity building and enhancing ease of doing business. He stressed that the CRFFN planned to embark on a massive technology upgrading where trucks could be tracked just like Uber.   He added: “We will develop an app for this and distribute it, so that intending users could simply call the app and a ready truck will come up. It is still on the drawing board, and is estimated to cost between N70 million and N100 million.” Nwakohu called on the National Assembly to help make this technology come alive within a year by allowing the council include, it in their budget.   Assurance Following the yearning of the CRFFN management to float a technology-driven Uber-style trucking system within a year, the Senate Committee on Marine Transport has assured that it will make the necessary budgetary adjustments to facilitate its realisation. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Maritime Transport, Sen. Danjuma Goje, assured CRFFN of their cooperation in ensuring that the much desired change and upgrading is achieved.   He  said: “We want a situation where this profession is properly regulated. When it is regulated, the service delivery will be of higher quality and that would add great value to the determination of this administration to turn around the economy.   “We also need to improve on our ports. The Apapa problem is a shame and must be tackled, so the ports will be clear and the freight forwarders will do their job better, importers and exporters will be better serviced and the economy will be the great beneficiary.” Last line   Regulation of freight forwarding profession in the country by the Federal Government will put an end to cargo diversion and other sharp practices in the maritime industry.