Nigeria’s Super Eagles needed to dig deep in order to overcome the Squirrels of Benin 2-1 in an opening match of the race to Cameroon 2021. The Group L game played at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo saw the home team going behind to an early goal from the visiting team before rallying to secure victory which took them to the top of the group following a draw in the other match between Sierra Leone and Lesotho in Freetown which ended 1-1. The Eagles now head to Lesotho for their second match on Sunday while Benin hosts Sierra Leone. In some other Nations Cup 2021 qualifying matches played on Wednesday, Central African Republic (CAR) and Malawi began their campaigns with victories at home. CAR scored the first goal of the group stages after just five minutes when Vianney Mabide, who plays in Morocco for Kawkab Marrakech, struck in the 2-0 win over Burundi. The second goal came late in the game and was scored by France-born Louis Mafouta, who plays in the French fourth-tier for RC Grasse. The other two teams in Group E Morocco and Mauritania play each other on November 15. Malawi’s winner came from Orlando Pirates forward Gabadinho Mhango in the 67th minute as they beat South Sudan 1-0. Mhango picked up a pass from Gerald Phiri Jr before beating two defenders inside the area and then firing in a fierce shot that South Sudan keeper Majak Mawith was unable to hold as the ball spilled into the net. It was, however, a difficult game for Malawi as they struggled to find any fluidity early in the game while South Sudan will draw some positives from the match as they twice were denied by the woodwork. The other two teams in Group B are Burkina Faso and Uganda. Cameroon qualify for the finals as hosts but are taking part in the qualifying campaign to gain competitive match practice so just one team from Group F will progress to the finals. The top two sides in the remaining 11 groups will all advance to the 2021 finals in Cameroon. Wednesday’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations results: Namibia 2-1 Chad (Group A) Malawi 1-0 South Sudan (Group B) CAR 2-0 Burundi (Group E) Cameroon 0-0 Cape Verde (Group F) Guinea Bissau 3-0 Eswatini (Group I) Nigeria 2-1 Benin (Group L) Sierra Leone 1-1 Lesotho (Group L)