Operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) have arrested a mortuary attendant, Tayo Salami, for stealing a phone from a dead woman. According to Salami, after stealing the phone from the corpse of 40-year-old Mrs Ngozi Okonkwor, he sold it for N13, 500 to Isa Abubakar, who then gave it to Yetunde Enyadike to settle a long standing debt of N13,000. While fielding questions from IRT operatives, Salami confessed to have stolen the phone from Ngozi, after her corpse was brought to the mortuary where he works as an attendant. He told police that Isa was not aware that he stole the phone from a dead body. Yetunde, the first suspect to be arrested after IRT operatives, headed by a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari started investigating the missing phone, explained that Isa sold the phone to her as a means of cancelling a debt he owed her. She didn’t know it was a stolen phone. When police established that Yetunde and Isa were victims of circumstances, they were allowed to go. The 45 years old mortuary attendant, a father of two, said: “I work at Musunmola Private Morgue in Ajah. I embalm corpses. I have worked there for four years.  I have also worked at Lagos Island General Hospital Mortuary, where I embalm bodies. I was arrested by the Police because I stole phone from a corpse that was brought to our morgue for embalmment. I saw a phone on her body and I took it. I did not show it to the family of the deceased. I also saw a gold necklace. But when her family members brought a white garment for the dressing of the corpse, I put the necklace on her neck before the casket was taken away. After collecting the phone, I gave it to Abu because I did not know how to use it.  He gave me N13, 000, which I kept in my locker at the morgue. Abu did not know I stole it. I am not into human parts trading. In fact, I have never done this kind of thing before. I don’t have the SIM card of the phone with me. This is because I gave the phone to Abu without removing the SIM card.  I cannot tell where it is until I see Abu. I did not see any purse with her or money.” IRT operatives launched investigation after Ngozi died in church on a Sunday. She was alleged to have died after experiencing asthmatic attack. She went to the church that fateful Sunday with her three children. Her family members became worried and suspected foul play after they couldn’t find her purse, phone and necklace. The matter was reported to the police and IRT was instructed to investigate the matter. In the course of tracking her phone, operatives zeroed in on Yetunde. Ngozi, an indigene of Ogwashi-Uku in Aniocha South Local Government Area of Delta State died on 16th of June 2019, at the House Hold of Love Church, located at Addo, Badore Road, Ajah, Lagos State. The deceased was a mother of three children. The first child is three years old; the second is a year and six months, while the last is barely three months old. Ngozi’s cousin, Malcolm James 25, lived with her until her death. James said: “I don’t attend the same church with them. When I returned from my church, I waited for her to come back to no avail. I became worried when it was 2pm and she had not returned. She usually returns early because of her children. I went towards the estate gate to wait for her. While waiting, I saw three members of her church. I recognised a lady among them. The lady used to come to visit Ngozi. When I asked why Ngozi was late, she explained that Ngozi took ill. She told me that I was needed at the hospital. I got to the hospital, only to see her corpse on the floor. I cried out and called my father who lives in Ogun State. I told him to tell my mother to start rushing down to Ajah. I accompanied the church members to the morgue where she was deposited and they paid N50, 000 for embalmment. No autopsy was carried.” Ngozi’s younger sister, Ogochukwu Anamanya, disclosed that when she was contacted on the phone about the incident, she rushed to the hospital and met the corpse of her sister on the floor. She said: “I saw some of her church members. They arranged for the corpse to be deposited at the morgue. They even paid N50,000 for embalmment while my cousin, James Malcolm, waited for some members of our family we had earlier contacted to arrive. We felt that since our sister died in the church, she would make heaven, and did not suspect any foul play. They handed over her children to us; two girls and a little boy of three months old, who went with her to the church. They also handed over her handbag to us. But her phone and purse were not in the handbag. We asked about the phone, a lady who claimed to be her friend said my sister did not come to church with a phone. But I knew she doesn’t go to church without a phone. She had rather go to church without a Bible. She reads the gospel with her phone. We decided to let sleeping dog to lie. We thought the phone might have fallen during the pandemonium. When we called the line several times, and rang on that Sunday night, but nobody picked. When we tried to call it on Monday morning, it was switched off.” A petition was written to the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu with an appeal to assist in resolving the circumstances surrounding the death, especially as her phone, gold necklace and purse containing unspecified amount of money were missing. Kyari deployed a crack undercover team from the South West sector of IRT led by a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Philip Rieninwa, to comb Ajah for the missing phone and other valuables first. The team made breakthrough when Yetunde was arrested with the missing Infinix Hot 6 Android phone belonging to the deceased. Yetunde told the police that she bought the phone from N13, 000 from Isa. She led the police to arrest Isa, who confessed he bought it for N13,500:00 from Salami, a mortuary attendant at Mosunmola Ajayi Private Morgue, Ajah.