A solo art exhibition by Nigerian ceramic artist, poet and art historian, Ozioma Onuzulike, which ended recently at the Centre for Contemporary Art (CCA) Lagos, Nigeria, brings to the fore the precarious conditions young people grow up. But he did so in a unique way, using yam as symbols. Curated and organised by CCA’s curator, Iheanyi Onwuegbucha, the exhibition is titled ‘Seed Yams of Our Land’.   No doubt, for someone from the South Eastern part of Nigeria, the installations will look familiar because yam barns are a common sight in many rural areas in that part of the country. While to a neutral visitor the patterns created by the yams and the way they are displayed is both intimidated and engaging.   Ozioma, it seems, paid close attention to the techniques and patterns in which the real yams are tied in the barn as he repeats this in creating lines of ceramic yams and yam seedlings forged from the clay dug up in Nsukka-a popular university town in Eastern Nigeria.   Anyone looking at the long rows of yams hanging on the wall, or suspended on metal frames to create barns might think that they are real yams from a distance, but, on closer examination the glassy and hollow surface reveals the truth.   Yam plays a central role in the Igbo tradition, and it even has its own festival that is celebrated by descents of the Igbo society in Nigeria and in the diaspora.   Ozioma takes the powerful crop and uses it to make statements that are social, political, economic and to an extent spiritual. This two-year project takes its roots from the one question, what does the future hold for the seed yams (Youth) of our land?   With this timely showing he metaphorically explores yam and the yam barn in dimensions that have never been imagined.  In the Bible man was molded by God from clay, Ozioma takes this symbol literally as his basic material and explores the violent studio processes of pounding, cutting, crushing, firing as fitting metaphors for the human conditions in Africa today. He draws the attention of the audience to the consequences on the ‘seed yams’ (the youth) of things like unwholesome politics, hunger, unemployment, banditry and armed conflicts in Africa.   Yams are everywhere, in heaps that are familiar with the way they are sold in the marketplace, arranged in rows on the walls and on beams. Some of the yams look like they have been attacked by insects, while another set take the shape of bowls, each ‘gathering’ telling its own story.   For example in the installation ‘Yam Fields’ made up of ceramic yams in wooden enclosures and x-rays installations that are placed under light.   Like all the yams displayed at the exhibition there are cuts on the body of each one symbolic of the scars of war, deprivation, destruction and the challenges faced by the African every day. The x-ray part of the installation tells something jarring yet hopeful- A broken bone joined together by metal to assist with the healing process.   This, perhaps, hint of Ozioma’s optimism that amidst of all the fracture  caused by conflicts, politics, unemployment and banditry, there is still hope that peace will come to heal all the broken parts. Ozioma who is also a poet used the exhibition to launch his latest collections of poems which address the same themes as the exhibition.   Ozioma teaches both the artist and viewer one powerful lesson amidst the many things he talks about in his new body of work. Anything consumed by the mouth can inspire the brain.   Onuzulike was born 1972 in Achi, Enugu State, Nigeria. He holds BA (First Class Honours, 1996), MFA (2001) and Ph.D. (2007) from the Department of Fine and Applied Arts, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, where he has taught Ceramics, Art History and Art Criticism since 2003, rising to the rank of Professor in 2014.   A notable scholar of African ceramics art history, Onuzulike, has, however, remained committed to his studio, producing a large body of work in utilitarian ceramics and in mixed media sculptures and installations. His works have been shown in numerous group exhibitions and in nine solo shows between 1995 and 2018 in Nigeria, Italy and the USA.   Onuzulike also follows on the artist-poet tradition established at the Nsukka art department by Uche Okeke, Chike Aniakor, Obiora Udechukwu, Olu Oguibe and others, often drawing concrete images for his poetry from his own studio forms and work processes. His first published poetry collection, Snails of Umbertide and other Poems (Umbertide, Italy: Civitella Ranieri Centre), resulted from his first major artist residency in 2003. His current volume, Seed Yams of Our Land (Lagos: Centre for Contemporary Art) was first written in 1998 during his national service under the Nigerian National Youth Service Corps. Reinforced with images of works drawn from his studio project based on terracotta yams, the poems playfully but powerfully critique the precarious, yet hopeful, conditions in which Nigeria’s young people (her metaphorical seed yams) are perennially grown.  