  Former President Goodluck Jonathan has advised the Bayelsa State governor-elect, David Lyon, to put the welfare and interest of people of the state above other issues when he takes over the mantle of leadership. He gave the admonition in Yenagoa yesterday when leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state visited him. The party leaders, including Lyon and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, had visited the former president after Saturday’s governorship election in recognition of his position as the father and leader of the state. Jonathan, in his remarks, urged the governor-elect to carry all Bayelsans along, irrespective of the party they voted for. He said: “As a former President of Nigeria, I am a father to all Bayelsans, hence my doors are open to all citizens irrespective of their political affiliations. “I urge you to make the welfare of Bayelsans a top priority and carry all Bayelsans along irrespective of the party they voted for. “Elections are over now, so I want you to see yourself as the governor of all Bayelsans and not only to the sections that voted for you. This is the way to move Bayelsa forward.” The former president also condemned the violence that occurred in some parts of the state during the gubernatorial polls, describing it as unfortunate and regrettable. He noted that the nation’s democracy will never mature if violence and irregularities continue to mar its elections. Speaking earlier, Sylva told Jonathan that the APC leaders decided to seek for his blessings in recognition of his status as the father of Bayelsans. The minister noted that as a former President and leader of the state, Jonathan deserves to be respected and honoured by all Bayelsans, irrespective of their political leanings, hence the need to present the governor-elect to him for his blessing and guidance. He said: “Being a former President of the country and a past governor of the state, you remained an asset to the state and your inputs will always be needed to advance the course of governance in Bayelsa. “As such, it was important for us to introduce the governor-elect to you and seek your support and guidance in building a better Bayelsa.”