 *PDP: Come out on modalities for the election   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it has taken steps to ensure that this weekend’s governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states were not affected “by any 11th hour judgement.”  This is just as the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) wants the commission to come out clean on the modalities for the conduct of the elections, particularly on transmission of the results.  INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, at a stakeholders’ meeting in Lokoja, Kogi State Tuesday assured that the commission’s preparations would not be affected by court judgements delivered few days ago.  A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, last week, ordered INEC to include the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Kogi State on the ballot for this Saturday’s election.  But Prof. Yakubu said such judgement was at variance with the decision of another Federal High Court in Abuja delivered earlier which affirmed the propriety of the commission’s action in a similar case by another political party.  “However, we will consider legitimate steps to address the conflicting judgements by courts of coordinate jurisdiction in the interest of our electoral jurisprudence,” he said.  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says conflicting court orders are affecting the nation's electoral process. ONYEKACHI EZE examines the extent this has negatively impacted on the system     The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, last August, escaped being committed to prison by… In "Politics" Last year, precisely in June, the constituents of Kogi West Senatorial District reportedly tendered a recall petition purportedly signed by over 188,000 persons to the office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The petition, which intended to unseat the senator representing the said constituency, Dino Melaye, was apparently informed… In "Opinions" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has finally declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bello Matawalle as winner of the March 9 governorship election in Zamfara State. PDP also won three of the senatorial seats, seven House of Representatives and 23 state constituencies seats, while Kabiru Hashimu… In "BREAKING NEWS"