Huge demand for student accommodation in many Nigerian universities  is putting serious  pressure on rental market. Dayo Ayeyemi reports  It is no longer news that demand for student accommodation in Nigerian universities is on the rise and its inadequacy has also put pressure  on  existing accommodation and rental market. High demand for student housing has led to the growth of private student accommodation across the country while some have come through conversions of existing residential apartments, thereby creating an opening for   most of the  students since most institutions are unable to do so. According  to a report from Northcourt Real Estate Limited, an average of 1.8 million  students are in tertiary institutions. Despite National Universities Commission’s policy that 33 per cent of the students accepted must be accommodated, most institutions are  unable to afford this. New Telegraph findings showed  that most of the state universities in Nigeria did not have hostel accommodation for students,  while few federal universities  could hardly boast of accommodation for 30 per cent of students admitted. In most of the universities, especially state owned, New Telegraph gathered that private student accommodation and conversion of existing residential housing to hostels are rampant. Findings showed that some students pay between N120,000 and  N160,000 for accommodation per annum,  depending on location. While most developers concentrate their activities on provision of residential and office apartments for the middle and high networth individuals and corporations,  provision of student accommodation,  another veritable source of investment, suffers. Experts’ views Speaking with New Telegraph,  Head of Department, Estate Management, University of Ibadan, Prof Olutoye Ojo, said provision of hostels for students was one of the best ways to solve accommodation challenges in the country. However, he stated that most developers were not properly informed about investment in the sector, adding that those that are aware see it as not being lucrative. According to him,  developers should see this window as a veritable venture and another way  of contributing to the society. He further explained that most student accommodation schemes were operated as Built Operate and Transfer (BOT), explaining  that the concessionaire would provide fund while  the university supplied the land, adding that the former would transfer the hostel to the institution after 20 or  30 years, depending on the agreement. He said: “This is not too attractive to developers if they do the cashflow analysis. “We have students’ village at the universities of Ibadan, Ilorin and Obafemi Awolowo University  Ile Ife,” he said. However, if  proper analysis of the cashflow is carried out, the professor described  investment in student accommodation as laudable and encouraging. “The bed rate,  if well equipped, will almost be zero and the defaulting rate is also zero, “ the university lecturer said. A former Chairman, Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers, Lagos Branch, Mr Samuel Effiong Ukpong, stated that housing deficit had dove-tailed into deficit in  student  accommodation. According to him, provision of student accommodation is a veritable source of investment, saying many are going into it with the aim of making profit without involving professionals for guide. He said: “If you want to invest in real estate,  there is need for feasibility and visibility  appraisal.  Private and public universities are different. If you carry the mind of Lagos to Nasarawa State,  the project will fail. “Feasibility and visibility appraisals would show the running cost of the project,  cost of maintenance etc.” A lecturer in the Department of Urban Planning, University of Lagos, Professor Leke  Oduwaye, said that coincidentally, he had been  involved with some student accommodation projects. He pointed out that the viability depended on the location and the profile of the university or perception of the public about the rank of the university.He said: “This has relationship with demand for private hostel because the source of demand is for regular undergraduates and pre-degree/diploma/foundation even certificate courses for those unable to secure admission through  Joint Admission Matriculation Board (JAMB.) “All these sources will add-up to generate demand. The higher the demand the higher the rent.” A former President, Association of Town Planning Consultants of Nigeria(ATOPCON), Mr Moses Ogunleye, said that some investors were at present negotiating  with the management of Lagos State University  (LASU) on building hostels. Principal Partner, Ubosi Eleh and Associates, Mr.  Chudi Ubosi, said that hostel accommodation was not a common investment, adding that Nigerian real estate investors had not caught onto it yet. Last line Long gestation period, high cost of building, high maintenance cost,  ignorance, lack of indept feasibility and viability appraisals, among others are some of the factors inhibiting investment in student accommodation.