…demand release of N600bn to firms I mminent crisis is looming in the power sector as electricity generation companies (GenCos) have threatened to shut down if the Federal Government fails to call the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET) to order. The Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies, Dr. Joy Ogaji, who issued the threat yesterday, said the GenCos were owed over a trillion naira and that it had become difficult to pay gas suppliers. Ogaji decried the frustration the companies are facing from the management of NBET, stating that the bulk trading firm had constituted itself to a regulator and no longer a debtor to the GenCos.  The executive secretary said that they had written relevant authorities on the demand by NBET that the GenCos would pay 0.75 per cent administrative charg es before they can access the N600 billion released to them by the Federal Government. According to her, “As you are aware, the Federal Government promised to release N600 billion to GenCos, but from that time till now, we have not seen anything. NBET has been calling the GenCos, the investors telling them that they have the money with them and that they should comply with their terms.  “If NBET excesses are not checked and this N600 billion is not released on time, whether we deliberately shutdown or not, the machines would shut down by itself because the gas suppliers have stopped giving gas to some GenCos.” She, however, said that what the GenCos were owing the gas suppliers was not equal to what it’s being owed.  She noted: “GenCos have called for this press briefing to inform the public and relevant stakeholders that as creditors, they will not be subjected to unnecessary duress by a debtor who should be pleading with them on payment terms in the face of their dire financial crisis. “Recall that on September 20, 2019, the GenCos, through the Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), convened a press conference to discuss on the 0.75 per cent charge, which the NBET demanded from the GenCos as administrative charge for payment of gas invoices on their behalf.  “It was expected that the issue has been nipped in the bud, haven written to all relevant stakeholders, including the sector regulator, NERC, and having received responses from its major shareholder and vice chairman of its board, the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) as well as the Gas Aggregation Company of Nigeria (GACN) all unanimously rejecting NBET’s stance, it is clear from recent occurrences that NBET is not deterred. “NBET has now reduced its role to blackmailing/threatening GenCo investors/chairmen, who have refused to concede to NBET’s illegal demand of a 0.75 per cent charge on invoices paid to gas suppliers. “NBET has clearly threatened not to release payments due GenCos until they accede to NBET’s request, urging them to agree for a quid pro quo with the 0.75 per cent administrative charge.  “The situation is truly grave and completely unprecedented as NBET has completely shed its role as a licensee of the industry and has taken on some sort of regulatory role. The entity is almost conducting itself in a manner that suggests that it is above the law. “This singular action by NBET may lead to shutdown of power supply by GenCos, who have unanimously agreed to call the bluff of NBET.  “NBET (a.k.a. the ‘Bulk Trader’) is a trading licensee, licensed and regulated by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), to undertake bulk purchase and resale of electricity in the transitional electricity market.”  She described NBET as a child of necessity and a transitory agency created to instill confidence and act as a buffer, bulwark or a gap filler virtually providing security to investors in the power generation business in the Nigerian electricity supply industry. “In essence, NBET is appointed by the Federal Government to act on behalf of GenCos. This entails that without the GenCos, there is no NBET,” she added.  Calling on the Federal Government to intervene, she said, in adherence to the current administration’s vision of providing an enabling environment and leveraging the ease to do business index in Nigeria, the Federal Government, especially the board chairman of NBET, needed to review the professional conduct of the management of NBET and ensure that business etiquettes are instilled to create an avenue for operators to ventilate their feelings and difficulties. She said: “Besides being owed huge debts, the Gencos also are operating under very harsh monetary and fiscal conditions, occasioned by the economic realities that face the country today. “The APGC is pained by the inhuman treatment meted out to GenCos and stresses that law abiding corporate citizens should not be victims of bullying and malady. “GenCos’ indebtedness to their gas suppliers is due to NBET’s indebtedness to them. No Genco has any outstanding gas payment that is more than what NBET owes the Genco. Put differently, NBET is indirectly charging 0.75 per cent for paying its debt to GenCos. “Has it ever been heard or seen, where a debtor is dictating terms of payment and even wanting to benefit from proceeds of debts it is obligated to pay? To this, the GenCos say, we are ready for business, and will walk the proverbial “whole nine yards” to get what is our due.”