Caleb Group of Schools, Lagos is set to play host to leading gospel artists in Nigeria at the maiden edition of its musical festival and award night.  The event which is slated for Saturday, 30th November at the Sports Arena, Caleb British International School, Abijo GRA, Lekki, Lagos state will feature gospel artistes such as Tope Alabi, Sinach, Beejay Sax, Bukky Bekes and Ayan Jesu.  The event themed ‘Joyful Tidings’ aims at showcasing the exquisite bouquet of skillful display of musical instruments, rendition and performances from the Caleb Orchestra, Voice of Caleb and other invited schools, as well as awarding of prizes to outstanding students, staff members and parents.  The event would also appreciate laudable achievements of noble ladies and gentlemen in the society who have lived a life of integrity and used their passion to positively affect humanity, irrespective of race, age, creed or gender.  The award is in response to the need to continually identify, access, and project successful leaders across the length and breadth of our Nigeria in particular and Africa at large, to benchmark achievements and galvanize the country towards greater values and advancement in all ramifications.  Speaking on the significance of the event, the Director of Caleb Group of Schools, Dr. Ola Adebogun, said the Musical Festival and Award Night underscores Caleb Group of School’s commitment to Christian values, grooming of highly-educated and skilled students, and rewarding of excellent performance and behavior.  “The festival is an avenue for us to exhibit the musical talents of our students and other platform for us to celebrate and praise God with friends and members of the growing Caleb family in the company of proven stars and models like Tobe Alabi, Sinach and others”.  Chairperson, Planning Committee and Principal of Caleb British International School, Lekki, Mrs Busola Adegbaju assured parents and other invited guests of an exciting event where established stars and emerging ones will take the stage.  “Caleb Group of Schools recognizes the deposit of talent in every child and we help to unearth, refine and catapult it to stardom. At the musical festival, new stars will be born”, she added.  She said the planning committee comprising of experienced and trained school management team have put in all efforts to ensuring that a seamless and well organized event is ensured stressing that all are all looking forward to the event excitedly.  Caleb Group of Schools, foremost a Christian citadel of learning, founded in 1986, has spanned over three decades. Amongst other accolades, the school claimed the first position at the Commonwealth Science Class Competition organized by the British Council in 2017.  Most recently, the school also presented one of its teachers, Mr. Olusegun Adeniyi who won the”Best Teachers Award” in the 2019 edition of the Federal Ministry of Education, President’s Teachers and School Excellence Award (PTSRA). This award further confirms the ‘Outstanding School Award’presented to the school by the Office of Education Quality Assurance, Ministry of Education, Lagos State. 