November 20, 2019 was a remarkable day at Government Day Secondary School, Garki, Abuja. That day, UNICEF Nigeria  took ace music producer, Cobham’s Asuquo and other artistes  to interact  and dance with children. REGINA OTOKPA reports  Music they say, is one of the things that rules the world. In Nigeria, the old and young alike, would easily sway to the sound of any type of music whether they know it or are listening to it for the very first time. Such was the situation at Government Day Secondary School, Garki, when the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and some top Nigerian artistes debuted the song ‘For Every Child’ to commemorate the 2019 International World Children’s Day and 30th anniversary of the Convention of the Rights of the Child (CRC). The World Children’s Day was first established in 1954 as Universal Children’s Day and is now celebrated November 20 each year. ‘For Every Child’ has a rich blend of unique voices and lyrics starting from Niniola, Chidinma, Umar Sheriff, Timi Dakolo, TuFace, Cobham’s Asuquo and  not forgetting the children who are proud to be a ‘Nigerian Child.” The excited students, who grabbed the lyrics in no time, could not help but display different dance steps. Adding more flavour were the UNICEF Country Representative, Mr Peter Hawkins and UNICEF Education Specialist, Azuka Menkiti, who stormed the dance floor to celebrate with the students. The highlight of the one hour event was a dance competition among the students. The two winners got  a Techno Spark phone each. Addressing the students, Hawkins, who quoted a part of the song said, “When a child is born, they have a right. You are the light, you are the dream and you are the hope for tomorrow and for Nigeria.” He said that the song provided children a platform to reflect on their future, their aspirations and the contributions they can make to the country. He advised the students to take their studies seriously and  aim for the top so they could find their voice and use it for the good of the society. Hawkins said that as children, once they are  educated,  they are given the ability to contribute their quota to the community. “When a child is educated, he can avoid situations that can endanger him as regards his health and future as a whole,” he said.  Making reference to this year’s theme ‘Children of Today, Our Keepers Tomorrow,’  Hawkins  called on the Federal Government, relevant stakeholders and individuals to give priority to the education of every child in Nigeria. According to him,  this could be achieved  through increased  investment and funding to ensure better equipped schools, adequately trained teachers with sufficient support, so that the poorest families are not forced to pay for their children’s schooling. “Every child especially a Nigerian child is born with a talent, is born with a future and it’s for us to create a platform so that they can perform, can inspire and be a part of the future of this country. “Priority should be given to the education of the child as it forms the basis of defence for them in knowing and standing for their rights in the society. When a child is educated, he will be given the ability to contribute their quota to the community; when a child is educated, he can avoid situations that can engender them as regards their heath and their future as a whole,” he said. Hawkins, who commended the efforts and hard work of teachers worldwide, pledged his organisation’s support in promoting the rights of children in Nigeria. He reaffirmed the need to value and recognise the rights of  children in every community. The United Nations Secretary General, Anthonio Gutteres, whose address was delivered at the occasion, urged every government in the world to build, advance and recommit to putting children first. He noted that all governments must ensure every child has a right and it was up to the present generation to demand commitments and actions were fulfilled by governments and communities. He described the Convention of the Rights of the Child (CRC) as a veritable instrument which all countries should subscribe to guarantee the future of the children. “It has become the most widely ratified human rights treaty in history and has hoped to transform children’s lives around the world but still, not every child gets to enjoy a full childhood; too many childhoods are cut short. Around the world, children are showing us their strength and leadership, advocating for a more sustainable world for all,” he said. On his part, Cobhams Asuquo called for equal and better treatment of the Nigerian child and maintained that Nigerian children were all that was right with the country. He however added that that every Nigerian child has the chance and opportunity to re-write all that was wrong with the country. “You are all that is right with Nigeria because you all have the chance to rewrite all the wrongs the previous generations have committed. I envy you all because you have the chance. Greatness is achievable for all Nigerian child; you have a chance to make it better,” he said. Speaking to Inside Abuja, one of the students, Alfred Jason, said with his exposure to the CRC, he presently knows more about his rights as a child and thus, can no longer be intimidated by any one. “I do know that I have some rights as a child but I am better informed with what I learnt from the programme today and so I am glad to be a part of this event,” he said. Although Apere Maltina got to know about the CRC for the first time, she has become an advocate for child’s rights, calling on the Nigerian government to support every Nigerian child, especially those on the streets, access to quality, free education. “I see children like me hawking on the streets instead of going to school and I always wish our government will do something about it,” she said. She added that children have rights which should be respected and given. Recently, Nigeria joined the rest of the world to celebrate the Children's Day. In Abuja, children from various schools gathered at the Old Parade Ground for the occasion. DEBORAH OCHENI and CALEB ONWE report     In Abuja, this year's celebration was held at the Old Parade Ground located in… In "Inside Abuja" UNICEF has commemorated Nigerian Children’s Day, saying that it comes at a crucial moment for child rights in the country, and for child rights globally. The UN agency launched the campaign yesterday to draw awareness to children’s rights by all of Nigerian society. “While there have been many advances… In "News" The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) says over 10 million children in Nigeria are out of school. The fund also said about 60 million children are globally out of the school burden. Mr Mohamed Fall, UNICEF Country Representative in Nigeria, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of… In "Education"