Mr. Moses Dickson, a lawyer and entrepreneur, in this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE speaks on the Saturday governorship election and why Bayelsans should vote for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate, Senator Douye Diri  What is your take on this weekend’s governorship election in Bayelsa State? Like any other Bayelsan, I am excited at the auspicious opportunity presented for us to determine who succeeds Henry Seriake Dickson, the first democratically elected governor of the state to serve out his two terms. I am delighted at the stability and growth the state has enjoyed these past almost eight years and the window the forthcoming elections provide to determine our collective future as Bayelsans. It is my sincere hope that this election produces a winner that will sustain and surpass the quantum leap the state has made in the last almost eight years. I hope the electoral umpire will conduct a free and fair contest tapping from their experiences of this same exercise in this state and beyond and that security agencies will exude professionalism in support of a peaceful and credible election. Who among the governorship candidates will you support and ask the people of Bayelsa State to vote for and why are you supporting and endorsing your chosen candidate? Having studied the candidates vying in the next elections, I have reached an informed conclusion to support the Senator Douye Diri, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and enjoin Bayelsans to do the same. The reasons for my choice are not farfetched. Bayelsa needs a governor, who will hit the ground running and not a novice coming to experiment with the position. Senator Diri stands shoulder high above other aspirants in this regards as he has acquired and demonstrated competence, capacity and experience from years of long service in government at many levels. Senator Diri’s candidacy should also be supported to sustain the long-established tradition of political justice that provides the opportunity for power rotation among the different senatorial zones of the state and the constituent local government areas irrespective on numbers and don’t forget that this same ideology granted our state and region an opportunity to produce a president of this country. It is instructive to note that SDD is from Kolokuma/Opokuma local government area in the Central Senatorial district which is one out of the remaining two local governments that has not produced a governor; acting or substantive in the history of Bayelsa State. He is a man with a listening ear and an impressive and sustainable policy document if implemented diligently. What do you think Bayelsans will benefit if they return the ruling PDP in the state to power? In the immediate, Bayelsans can be assured of the completion of projects initiated by the Restoration government by voting for Senator Diri. Educational milestones like the University of Africa, Medical University, the life changing boarding schools in all the senatorial districts not to mention the Ijaw National Academy, the free school feeding and other massive and aggressive educational initiatives such as the school loans and scholarships at all levels be sustained and improved on. Similarly, this election provides an opportunity for Bayelsans to enjoy the gains of sustainability in governance for the first time. The discontinuation of laudable policies and programmes by successive administrations has been identified as a major challenge to the development of any area. Bayelsans with this election should vote the Diri/Lawrence ticket to ensure the sustenance of the current pace development in the state. Do you see the APC governorship candidate, Chief David Lyon stopping the PDP candidate? It is important to clarify that there is just a single party on ground in Bayelsa and that is the PDP. Suffice it to say that the party has been in power since the return to democracy in 1999. In these years, the party to its credit has impacted positively on every household in Bayelsa. This, in turn, has translated to a viable and tested structure that ensures the mobilization of our people in support of the party. The PDP as a party has immensely championed the course of the Ijaw nation over the years. A clear demonstration of the commitment of the PDP to the Ijaw people is the platform provided for the emergence of an Ijaw man as Nigeria’s president despite our “minority” status. The APC as it is today is an assembly of disgruntled politicians driven more by an ambition to secure power than the need to foster the development of our dear state. The good thing in all of these is that our people can see beyond the smokescreen and will again rally round the party that has shown the greatest commitment to the development of Ijaw land. Quote me any day that there is only one party our people know and trust and that’s the PDP and am glad to say even the business community I belong to have worked hand in hand with policymakers over the years to advance the cause of entrepreneurs and we feel committed to continue this partnership with the incoming governor, Senator Diri and his team. What is your reaction to the disqualification of the APC deputy governorship candidate, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, on account of presentation of false information to INEC? The legal effect of the disqualification of the deputy governorship candidate of the APC in Bayelsa State under the Constitution and the Electoral Act except reversed on appeal, simply implies that the APC has no governorship candidate at all for the gubernatorial election. Justice Inyang Ekwo disqualified Senator Degi-Eremienyo over false information given in his Form CF001 submitted to INEC. The suit was instituted by the PDP against the APC candidate and the judge found and held that he gave false information in relation to his educational qualifications and went ahead to depose to an affidavit to correct the discrepancies. The judge held also that all his documents bore different names and therefore disqualified him from contesting the election. By virtue of section 187(1) of the 1999 Constitution, a candidate for the office of Governor of a State shall not be deemed to have been validly nominated for such office unless he nominates another candidate as his associate for his running for the office of governor, who is to occupy the office of deputy governor and that candidate shall be deemed to have been duly elected to the office of deputy governor if the candidate who nominated him is duly elected as governor in accordance with the said provisions. So, any ticket devoid of a joint running mate is automatically invalid, null, void and of no effect whatsoever because it is simply unconstitutional. The constitution envisions and has deliberately made a governorship candidate to be a tied with the deputy governorship candidate in any election, sharing the same unbreakable fate for better and for worse. One without the other is not competent to contest. So where a governorship candidate cannot, therefore, produce his running mate, his candidature lapses into natural and immediate extinction. My view then is that the APC has no candidate arising from that judgement and I am happy that many of my senior colleagues also share the same view. What is your advice to Bayelsans as they come out on Saturday to elect a new governor? I will ask Bayelsans to come out en masse to exercise their franchise via the ballot on Saturday. Furthermore, I would ask our people to reflect on the state of our nation at this time. Specifically, I would ask them to consider the promises the APC made to attain power at the federal level and what has become of those promises today and I am asking my friends in the business community here to understand that our businesses rest on policies of the government which either help our businesses grow or wind down. So, it will be regrettable if anyone believes the APC will achieve in Bayelsa, what it has failed to do with the enormous power and resources it controls at the centre and I am more concerned about my state. We have made a lot of progress as a state. We are having an airport that will boost our businesses and link up more opportunities for us all and our state, we are having a Brass NLNG, we are making giant strides towards stable power for our businesses, we are having a seaport that will drive all other sectors and many more all under a stable government under PDP in the last seven years and we have to continue this stable and sustainable governance train. I will also ask Bayelsans to vote for Senator Diri to ensure that the current peaceful and harmonious relationship is sustained in the years ahead. A vote for Diri is a guarantee that Bayelsans will continue to enjoy freedom of expression and association irrespective of their place of origin, religious or political persuasion. I believe Bayelsans from all walks of life will again affirm with their votes their preference for the party that has contributed immensely to the development of the state. I believe Diri, like Dickson, will leave behind a better Bayelsa than he met it.