•High Court nullifies APC primaries
•Appeal orders stay of execution   The Bayelsa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged the people of the state not be deterred by the judgement of the Bayelsa State High Court presided by Justice Jane Inyang, which disqualified its candidate, David Lyon. The alternate Director General of the David Lyon Campaign Organization, Prof. Seiyefa Brisibe, who gave the charge yesterday, said the judgement does not hold water and therefore should be disregarded. This is as a Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, also yesterday, nullified the governorship primaries that produced Lyon as the candidate of the APC for this weekend’s poll in the state. Prof. Birisibe, who addressed the media in Yenagoa, urged the people not to panic, saying that the party has appealed the judgement against APC candidates. He noted that the governorship candidate of the party, David Lyon and his running mate, Degi Eremienyo are on the ballot for the election. His words: “Our opponents are actually jittery because of the acceptance of our candidate because testimonies abound. So, people will want to do anything that will scuttle the peace of the state. “Everybody that desire peace in the state should not worry. Your preferred candidate and his deputy are on the ballot. We have done everything procedurally to make sure that the judgement doesn’t stand. So, come out en mass and vote for APC.” Prof. Birisibe said that prior to the judgement, the APC governorship candidate has been endorsed by groups and individuals including ordinary men, women and youths across the state owing to his selfless services to the people. He assured of a better Bayelsa ahead for the people, adding that “the needful has been done. Come out en masse and vote. We must take this state to a platform of sustainable development. We must take this state to a platform where we not only have electricity.” According to him, the party’s campaign had shown the love that the people have for Lyon, noting that they were enthused at how the APC’s flag bearer helped their children out of drug addiction, criminality and other vices. Delivering judgement on a suit filed by Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, which challenged the conduct of the September 4 governorship primary of the APC, Justice Jane Inyang held that the exercise was conducted outside the rules of the party. She further held that since the process was conducted in violation of the party’s constitution and guidelines as clearly spelt out for the conduct of governorship primaries, none of the aspirants should be fielded as the party’s candidate. She therefore restrained the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC), from including Lyon as the APC candidate in the governorship election. Meanwhile, the Court of Appeal in Abuja has granted APC a stay of execution on the judgement delivered by the Federal High Court nullifying the primary of the party. Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timpre Sylva, who disclosed this at a news conference in Yenagoa, yesterday, said APC will participate in the governorship poll. His words: “I must tell you that the judgement nullifying the primary was clearly a bias one with all due respect to the judiciary. So, I have come to address you because we have good news for the people of Baylesa. The court in Abuja has granted us stay of execution. “That means, we are fully as a party in the position of contesting this election. Because we know that the people of Bayelsa are seriously behind us and we will win the election. “Everyone in Bayelsa knows that APC has the majority in the state and if there is an election today, it is clear even to blind and the deaf that APC will win. The electorate should go en-masse and vote the candidature of the APC, Mr David Lyon,” the minister said.