At least 13 persons were killed and many others injured in road accidents that occurred in Anambra and Sokoto states. In the Anambra State incident, one person was killed and 12 others injured after two vehicles rammed into each other at Enugu Agidi areas of the Enugu- Onitsha Expressway at the weekend. The Anambra State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), a Superintendent of Police (SP), Haruna Mohammed, in a statement, explained that on November 23, at about 12:30 pm, there was a fatal motor accident along Awka-Onitsha Expressway by Enugu Agidi Junction, involving a Hiace commercial bus with registration No. 463 XB and Mitsubishi L300 bus, marked XC 418 JJT. According to Mohammed, the identities of both drivers we are not yet known. It was, however, gathered that about 12 passengers sustained different degrees of injuries, while the driver of the L300bus died. Haruna said: “Police patrol team attached to Abagana Division visited the scene and rushed casualties to Princeton Orthopedic Hospital, Ngozika Estate and Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital, Awka, for treatment. One casualty, believed to be the driver of the L300 bus was confirmed dead by the doctor. His corpse has been deposited at Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital, Amaku, for preservation and autopsy, while obstruction was cleared to enable free flow of traffic.” He disclosed that the case was now under investigation to ascertain the actual cause of the accident. In Sokoto State, no fewer than 12 people were confirmed dead following the accident that occurred at Kasarawa town, Wamakko Local Government Area. An eyewitness said that the accident involved a trailer loaded with donkeys and passengers, from Rabah Local Government Area. The trailer was heading to Niger State, where most of the passengers were hoping to get employment as casual workers with farmers. The driver of the trailer allegedly lost control of his vehicle, skidded off the road and then somersaulted. Some of the deceased died instantly, while several other passengers sustained different degrees of injuries. The injured passengers were rushed to Usman Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital and Sokoto Specialist Hospital. The Chief Medical Director of the Specialist hospital, Dr. Nuhu Maishanu, confirmed receiving 34 of the victims, including four corpses. His words: “At least 34 people were brought into this hospital, including four lifeless bodies. We treated and discharged almost everyone, except for eight victims who are still on admission. We referred another four with severe head injuries to the teaching hospitals for treatment.|” Maishanu added that all the victims were treated free of charge. The spokesman of the Federal Road Safety Corps in the state, Aliyu Kanya, who confirmed the accident, said the driver lost control of the vehicle while trying to negotiate a sharp bend along Sultan Abubakar III International Airport, at about 3am last Saturday.