In Lagos, carpooling is now a very common mode of transportation, especially for people who do whitecollar jobs. Many people rely on ridesharing (as it is also called) as their preferred option when commuting within the metropolis. They join car owners who are going towards their place of work in the morning at a fare and at the close of work, they do same to get back home.  This mode of transportation which is also very common in the Nation’s capital, Abuja, usually comes at relatively cheaper fare when compared to public buses (also called Danfo), they are more comfortable, and it gets them to their destinations much faster.  “I would rather go in private cars because they are usually more comfortable than buses. Sometimes, you are lucky and find a car has a functional AC and it doesn’t change the price of the fare. Since I started working in Lagos, I’d have taken between 40 to 50 trips with private car owners and it has been very peaceful. There are times when I make friends with other passengers and we become good friends afterwards,” said Ose.  However, it is not always a tale of peace and tranquility when engaging in ride sharing. As with public transportation, commuting in private cars also comes with great danger. Criminallyminded people have exploited carpooling to carry out heinous crimes.  There have been cases where unsuspecting riders and drivers have been dispossessed of their belongings by people who pose as drivers. Like every other weekday, Mr. Samuel Adegoke had set out of his house in the Egbeda area of Lagos on a Wednesday about 5:30am to get to his office at Lekki. It wasn’t dawn yet but Adegoke prefers to leave home very early in order to beat the traffic in the city.  He had always preferred to share rides with car owners whenever he was going to work or returning home. According to him, it comes cheaper, and he gets to work earlier too. On the said day, he took a Toyota Sienna Bus from Egbeda to Victoria Island for an agreed fare of N200.  The same trip would have cost at least N300 if he were to board a Danfo. He needed to save money and he also had to get to work early and boarding a Danfo wouldn’t have helped him achieve that. On the bus were four other ‘passengers’ who were corporately dressed as though they were also heading to their respective places of work – but they were a gang of robbers. The air-condition of the vehicle, he recalled, was chilling and the windows – all tinted – were wound up.  There was nothing to suspect because it wasn’t his first time. According to him, he had barely finished his three-minute prayer in the car when the trouble started.  “All of them were fresh and clean. They wore shirts and tie. Some even had bags with them. You wouldn’t have known that they were robbers. They all looked like passengers that were also heading to their offices,” he said. “I was sitting in the middle of two guys. We hadn’t even covered up to a kilometer when one of them demanded my bag. I was confused.  I didn’t know what was going on. Then another person asked, ‘Where’s your wallet!” I was determined to fight through, but they subdued me. The two guys beside me pinned my hand down.  Before I knew was going on, they pulled out guns. That was when I knew that they meant business. They beat the hell out of me, and the vehicle was still in motion,” he added. As he recounted his ordeal, it was a tale of horror. He was putting on a very dark pair of glasses. His eyes were black and battered in a very bad shape.  “Be very careful when you need to enter a private car. Some of them are One Chance. If the glass is tinted, please don’t enter,” he cautioned this reporter. Adegoke’s experience was terrifying. He lost his laptop, phones, wedding and other valuables to the attack. “Those guys had no compassion in them. They kept hitting me with the butt of their guns on every part of my body.  The only thing I was saying was ‘Please don’t kill me.’ They had a POS Machine with them and cleaned out everything I had in my all my accounts; everything I’ve laboured for.  They had a field day on me,” he lamented. At the time the ‘passengers’ were done with him and wanted to release him, they rubbed Aboniki Balm in his eyes and dumped him at the road side. Save for providence, Mr. Adegoke would have lost his sight or his life; or both. He didn’t get to work on the said day and couldn’t go until after a week. He sought immediate help from an optician who helped save his sight. The passengers are not the only ones exposed to the dangers of carpooling.  Car owners are also at risk of picking up criminals who pose as passengers. Saturday Telegraph gathered that there are passengers who board private cars and go away with the driver’s phones or other valuables when alighting from the vehicle.   It was also learnt that motorists use their vehicle for commercial purposes in order to augment the fuel cost for the daily trips. A motorist who spoke to our correspondent and identified himself as Adetokunbo Fatokun Ishola disclosed that he had been in the business for nearly 15 years. “My office is at Anthony but most times, I go to the Island for field work. So, I pick people who are going towards my direction for a cheap fare. I usually use the money I make to buy fuel, airtime and pay at the toll gate,” the Electrical Engineer who drives a Ford Ranger said. In his 15 years of carpooling, Ishola has never experienced any bad incident. According to him, he is always very vigilant and tries to assess the prospective passenger before pulling over for them.   “I look at people and how they are dressed before I can decide to stop. If they look suspicious, I won’t stop. There are passengers who even forget their phones or other belongings in my car and I return same to them,” he added.  In Nigeria, it is illegal for vehicles registered as private cars to be used for commercial purposes without obtaining the necessary documents, our correspondent gathered. According to a traffic official who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, motorists are to obtain Hackney Permits before their vehicles can be used to pick passengers. He said: “Private cars are now competing with public buses and people prefer to board them because of the comfort.  However, many commuters are oblivious of the risks that come with it.   The commercial buses have Hackney Permits before they can operate on the roads but most of these private cars that you see here don’t have. How many of them can we apprehend?” Speaking further, the government official added: “Whenever there is a security incident in a public bus, we can easily trace them, but it may not be so easy with private cars, just because of the lack of Hackney Permit. It is not even enough to have a Hackney Permit; it must be displayed on your windscreen.  If you don’t have a Permit, the fine is N30,000. If you have but you don’t display it, the fine is also the same.