*Says matter forwarded to anti-corruption agencies Following a report credited to Senator James Manager challenging Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, Ag. Executive Director (Projects), of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to name the Senator who allegedly got 300 NDDC jobs, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh Sunday replied the senator saying that the Commission has already forwarded the issue to the anti-corruption agencies, saying that the particular senator would soon be known. It would be recalled that Dr. Ojougboh, Ag. EDP of the NDDC Interim Committee had dropped a bombshell, when he alleged during a press conference last Monday, that a Senator, who is also a member of the Senate Committee on NDDC, got 300 jobs for which payment had already been made without any sign that such jobs were ever done. However, not satisfied with the statement, Senator James Manager, representing Delta South, in an online report credited to him challenged Dr. Cairo Ojougboh to name the Senator. Manager had in his statement said: “I am currently out of the country on an official trip. I have been inundated with several communications about what Hon. Dr.Cairo Ojougboh said about NDDC and a Delta Senator on award of contracts. I “I have always known Dr Cairo to be a bold, fearless, courageous and tall man. On this matter he appears to be a disastrous disappointment on his failure to name the particular Senator from Delta that is involved. Instead his outburst has given job to pull him down heavy weight politicians and their ever ready hangouts to make stupendous insinuations and innuendos. “Dr Cairo, it will do you well to do the needful. Just mention the name in public and submit same to law enforcement agencies.” But in a swift reaction, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh fired back saying the particular senator would soon be invited by the anti-corruption agencies for questioning. Ojougbo in a statement made available to journalists said: “The Commission has forwarded the matter to the anti-corruption agencies and the particular senator will soon be invited and the public will know the person soon.” He noted that the Interim Management Committee will continue to carry out inspections and verification of abandoned and ongoing NDDC projects in the region and also ensure an enabling environment for the forensic audit to take place.