It would be ungrateful for North to hold on to power after President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term – Shehu Sani Last week this space was on a special memo to the South-West region regarding the ambition of some persons from the area ahead of 2023. The memo was intended to take a historical look at the origin and benefits of the zoning of political offices at national level and how it has helped to stabilize the polity. It also emphasized the moral burden inherent in jettisoning it for some selfish gains. A lot of reactions from the publication show that Nigerians are indeed interested in their peaceful co-existence and are willing to make all the needful sacrifices for peace to reign in our land. This week Musing is on a similar memo to the geo-political North where available indicators are also showing some politicians desirous of nursing the ambition of retaining power after holding it for eight years. It’s not yet clear what the driving force of those with this position is except that when power like alcohol intoxicates, it makes its victim extremely stupefied and irrational. Among the excellent qualities that stood out late Northern idol Sir Ahmadu Bello, the Sarduana of Sokoto among his peers in Nigeria political landscape was his ability to accommodate varying views. He was never on record to have unduly taken advantage of the majority position of his Fulani kinsmen. His management of the divergent ethnic groups in the North became significant that even today we talk of monolith geo-political North thanks to his obliging leadership spirit. Bello remains a model in the management of strength in diversity. Technocrats like Sunday Awoniyi and Solomon Lar were brought right inside the system not minding their minority status in the equation. Even when the Tiv strongman late Joseph Sarwuan Tarka led a rebellion against the Northern hegemony Bello did not come with big stick being conscious of the implications of such to the larger interest of the geo-political North. As a result, since Nigeria’s independence 1960, the Middle Belt region has been struggling to break away from the core North in all their socio-political activities but has failed as they always end up voting alongside Northern interest when the chips are down. Credit goes to Bello for this, for successfully and strategically intertwining the people notwithstanding their ethnic and religious differences. In truth, if Nigeria has been lucky to have a leader like Bello with all its differences it would have made significant progress as there would not have been much talk of marginalization. No wonder Bello told Zik of Africa in a dialogue when Zik wanted us to forget our differences and forge ahead that instead of forgetting it let us understand it because by understanding it we will build unity in our country. When the nation through a constitutional conference rejigged its political structure and created six geo-political zones for easy governance and administration of the country, the North remained one refusing to be carried away by the division. Unlike their brethren in the South who had their zones almost like a different country refusing to co-work as one geo-political interest – Southern protectorate. Since independence all elected national leaders in the North except the Prime Minister Tafawa Belewa, the others are from the North-West but the rest of the region are not losing any sleep. From Shehu Shagari to Umaru Yar’Adua and now Muhammadu Buhari. Even now it’s still people from the same North-West region that are scheming to domicile power in the place after eight years and the others are really not grudging all thanks to the great bond established by Bello. It’s perhaps against this backdrop that the whole region rose in unison against Goodluck Jonathan when he tried to take advantage of his position to truncate power rotation to the North which caused PDP to lose power at the centre. The incontrovertible fact remains that Jonathan lost power in 2015 because of the obvious gang up by Northerners because they believe rightly perhaps that he was usurping the position meant for them. Why have I gone down memory lane like this in this memo? It’s to draw a historical fact to those in the North trying to disrupt the power rotation by wanting to continue after eight years that such act has far-reaching implications. Even Jonathan who can lay claim to divine providence on the natural death of his boss, Yar’Adua, did not eventually have his way so what reason would those desiring to keep power have weighty enough to dislocate power rotation without reaping some consequences. If Ahmadu Bello is the overwhelming leader to emerge from the North why should some lessons not be learnt from his style? The likes of Ango Abdullahi and Junaid Mohammad are failed scholars from Bello school of accommodation and scooping to conquer. These are anarchists who have by their own antecedents have edged themselves out of national relevance and needed to be cantankerous and crabby always to be noticed. It need to be said pointedly here that anybody desiring to retain power in the North either by supporting somebody or nursing ambition does not merit to be called a lover of peace in Nigeria. These crusty old men like Abdullahi and Mohammad and their likes should not be allowed to sow seeds of discord in our midst. Bello had all the potentials and advantages during his time but he accommodated diverse views and brought his leadership to such quintessential level. It baffles pundits why knowledgeable persons who are privy to history are still allowing their inordinate ambition to drive them to the dyke. Governor of Kaduna State Nasiri el rufai driven by his jaundiced ambition is arguing that zoning should be thrown away because it is affecting competence and quality. The governor knows as a fact that if we are talking of competence and quality in political position a lot of those occupying positions should not have been there from inception because there are more competent persons than them. The governor is part and parcel of APC reign since 2015 and we all are wondering what his own definition of competence is vis-a-vis where we are today in this country. Moreover, El rufai needs to respond to the poser put forward by his political opposite in Kaduna State, Senator Shehu Sani who asked the all-important and perplexing question: Can you be talking of competence when you have not produced an Igbo President? Are they not Nigerians? The main essence of this memo therefore is to undress the danger inherent in trying to disorder a formula that has continued to give stability to the polity just because it insignificances the ambition of some persons. Justice and fairness demand that after eight years power should rotate back to the South anything otherwise would be sowing discord in our midst and we should be ready to reap what it produces. This country belongs to everybody born in it and its leaders must operate with this fact in mind in all their political dealings whether in PDP or APC. God help Nigeria.