 Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, yesterday stated that all that Nigeria needed to do in order for it to be out of quagmire was for the political class to ensure that there was justice and fairness across board. While disclosing that for Nigeria to achieve this, El-Rufai emphasized that the citizenry must be pragmatic in choosing their leaders. el-Rufai, who spoke at the 2019 Ajasin Foundation Colloquium in honour of the first civilian Governor of Ondo State, the Late Pa Michael Adekunle Ajasin, urged Nigerians to always choose competence ahead of political or ethnic affiliation. The event held at the International Event Center (Dome) in Akure, the Ondo State capital had as its theme ‘Promoting Economic Development, Social Justice And Rule of Law As Pathways To Stability, Peace And Prosperity In Nigeria’. According to el-Rufai, if Nigeria must make progress, the laws of the land must balance, adding that citizens of the country must have access to justice if the elite must enjoy their wealth. He said: “One of the problems of the country is that elite are not seating down to agree on the minimum. They should make the country work because if the country works, they will be the greatest beneficiary. “Nigerians have not realized that if their neighbours are not okay, they will not enjoy their wealth. One of these is that they must have access to justice. The law must be balance. “Each person should be judged by is merit and competence, if we want our country to grow. Any policy that we have that has not worked for the development of the country for 20 to 40 years should be reviewed. “Those people that are saying politicians messed up the country are at fault because our best never join politics. They are all working with oil companies, telecommunication giants and so on. When bad politicians are messing up the country, they are shouting. You better come and join us to collectively move the country forward.” Also, Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu said without rule of law, there would not be any meaningful development in the country. Akeredolu, who was represented by his deputy, Hon. Agboola Ajayi noted that the difference between Nigeria and other countries of the world was that the people, including Nigerians, always obeyed their laws. Earlier in her address, Mrs. Jumoke Anifowose stated that the foundation was initiated in 1999 in honour of the late sage, saying that her father’s life was marked by unwavering belief in the cause of social justice, equity and fair play. Anifowose said: “Very close to his heart were principles of accountability, transparency, and probity. As an elder statesman, Chief Adekunle Ajasin contributed tremendously towards salvaging the country from the firm grip of military dictatorship and succeeded, working with like minds in ushering in a democratic government.”