Followers of political events in Bayelsa State had predicted disastrous outing for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the November 16 governorship election due to the actions and inactions of the state governor,  Hon. Seriake Dickson, writes ONYEKACHI EZE  T he declaration last week of David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner of the November 16 Bayelsa State governorship election by the returning officer, Prof. Faraday Orumwese, left a sour taste in the mouths of members and supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).   Bayelsa State is the home of immediate former Nigerian President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. And like his predecessors, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, Jonathan has lost his state to the APC. The margin between Lyon and PDP candidate, Senator Douye Diri was very wide: 352,552 votes to 143, 172. The APC candidate also won in six of the eight local government areas.  PDP lost Ogbia, Jonathan’s Local Government, scoring only 13,763 votes as against 58,016 votes recorded for APC. In Nembe, PDP got a paltry 874 votes while APC got 83, 041 votes. And in Southern Ijaw where the APC candidate comes from, the party scored 124,803 votes while PDP got 4,898. Ekeremor gave APC 21,489 votes and 18,344 to PDP. In Yenagoa, the state capital, it was APC 24,607 votes and the PDP polled 19,184 votes.  PDP’s consolation was in Kolokuma/Opokuma and Sagbama. In Kolokuma/Opokuma, the APC had 8,934 votes while the PDP had 15,360 and in Sagbama, it was PDP 60,339 votes as against APC’s 7, 831. The returning officer said out of the total number of 505,884 votes, 6,333 were rejected while 499,511 were valid votes. The outcome of the poll was a huge surprise to many Nigerians. But for ardent followers of political event in Bayelsa, it was a disaster long predicted.   It was a combination of factors. The first was the style of the state governor, Seriake Dickson, which was said to have alienated many Bayelsans. The other factor was the choice of Senator Diri as PDP candidate. His emergence on September 6 did not go down well with party leaders, including the former president. They believe Dickson wanted someone he could control to be his successor.   The popular choice was former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Company (NDDC), Timi Alaibe. Although he rejoined PDP after his failed ambition to fly APC ticket in 2015, Alaibe enjoys support across political parties. A source disclosed that Dickson blackmailed PDP to ensure that his choice candidate emerged the party’s candidate. According to the source, the governor boxed the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus and his National Working Committee (NWC) to a tight corner and ensured that he had his way.   Just before the party’s primary, Dickson allegedly held a meeting with the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and allowed his media aides to leak the video. He threatened to move the party’s structure in the state to the APC if his choice successor was denied the PDP ticket.   “Taking a decision that would have led to losing a sitting governor would have meant that Secondus and NWC are not tactical and suave enough.  Governors of the party would have come heavily on them for not respecting one of their own to influence his successor,” the source said.   Dickson was a member of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) and rose to the position of National Legal Adviser of the party. Tinubu was AD governor of Lagos State at that time. The insistence of the governor to produce the governorship candidate and the running mate did not go down well with Bayelsa PDP stakeholders.   Last month, six PDP governors met with Jonathan in his Maitama, Abuja residence and pleaded with him to support the party’s candidate in the election.  Among the governors were Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia); Engr. Seyi Makinde (Oyo); Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Aminu Tambuwal Sokoto); Darius Ishaku (Taraba) and Senator Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), who was also the Chairman, PDP National Campaign Committe for Bayelsa State governorship election.   PDP lost Jonathan’s senatorial zone to APC in the February’s National Assembly election. This was attributed to the insistence of Dickson to field his choice candidate to fly the PDP flag in the senatorial district. This caused disaffection in the zone and led to protest vote against PDP.   That was what the governors who visited Jonathan wanted to avoid. A source at the meeting said the governors, pleaded with him to forget what might have transpired between him and Dickson and work for the success of the PDP in the governorship election.   “If PDP is defeated, the report would be that Jonathan loses state to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and not Governor Dickson. Who is Dickson to Jonathan? “We made it clear to him that his name and influence were at stake and that he should do everything necessary by supporting Diri to become victorious in the November 16 election.   “At the end, he said that as an elder and party leader that he has no personal grievances against Diri or Governor Dickson,” the source said.   Dickson served as a commissioner in Jonathan’s government. It was because of him that the former President fell out with Timpre Sylva and later former Rivers State governor, Chibuike Amaechi, now Minister of Transportation. The former governor was not happy with Jonathan for denying Sylva a second term ticket in place of Dickson.   This was why Jonathan’s family and supporters saw Dickson as an ingrate, and believed that this was the appropriate time to teach him some political lesson. That might be the reason the former president’s wife and mother adopted Lyon and turned their back on the PDP candidate.   Dickson however denied that he alienated PDP stakeholders including Jonathan, and described the primary that produced the PDP candidate as credible.   “Jonathan remains my oga and I respect him, but there are lots of efforts by certain interest to create a rift between us, there is no politician that has been there for the former president than me.    “He has also helped me but it is unfortunate that I am being misconstrued in this matter of the election. I tried to meet Jonathan for 16 times and he opted to support a candidate that does not wish me well. “I will soon write my memoirs and people will have a fair view of what happened, the visit of some APC governors to Jonathan who congratulated the APC candidate without congratulating the candidate of his party. “It is strategic for APC leaders to use Jonathan to legitimise the illegitimacy that happened on Saturday,” Dickson said last Tuesday.   In the run to the election, PDP in Bayelsa State was hit by gale of defections. Even within his cabinet, some of them were not comfortable with the governor’s choice of successor. There was report that the Deputy Governor, AVM John Jona, (rtd), who was among those who obtained PDP nomination form, was considering leaving the party. His younger brother who commands great followership in Nembe also defected to the APC. Some were reported to have left but the state government denied it.   By the last count, over 13 prominent politicians some of those who have been with the Restoration Government for eight years, holding appointments gotten through PDP have dumped PDP for the APC. Besides another former Deputy Governor, Ebebi Peremobowei led the pack earlier on October 11 defected and resigned his membership of the PDP. Ebebi said that he couldn’t endure further excruciating period of a largely fraudulent internal democracy in the state chapter of the party. About 10 days later, Benjamin Ogbara, Director, Ethics and Compliance, Due process Bureau,  Ombu Napoleon, Senior Special Assistant on Community Development to Deputy Governor,  Berry Nengerese, a serving Commissioner in the Local Government Service Commission have also left.   Others are Markson Fefegha, Commissioner for Mineral Resources, Stephen Diver, Senior Special Adviser to the Governor on Political Matters; Timipa Tiwei Orunimighe, Senior Special Adviser to the Governor on Conflicts Resolution in Oil and Gas Producing Communities; Alamene Williams, former Commissioner and the Special Adviser to the governor, Governor’s office. Evarada Abednego, Special Adviser to the Governor on Urban Security have also deserted the governor.   Similarly, Natus Zebakame, Special Adviser to the Governor on Culture, Godspower Ake, Special Adviser on Agriculture, Clever Lawrence Ebede, Special Adviser on ICT Development and the most recently, Robert Enogha and Chief Claudius Enegesi all from Ogbia axis have defected from the PDP.   And from Nembe, Bright Erewari-Igbeta, a former House of Assembly member and Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment resigned his appointment, just as James Jephthah, said he and his political associates had decided to withdraw their membership of the PDP.   Also in Brass, Chief Beimo Spiff, the Coordinator of the PDP Governorship Campaign Council in Brass Local Government Area and brother to Senator Inatimi Rufus Spiff, Chairman of the PDP reconciliation committee, dumped the party for the APC. Beimo-Spiff, in his resignation letter addressed to the Chairman of the party said he resigned from the party due to some “despicable injustices in the party.” Special Adviser to the Governor on Talent Development, Helen Bob, on his part was sacked by the governor for what he called anti-party activities. The question on the minds of political observers in the state is what went wrong? What could have made the APC the beautiful bride at this stage? The Board of Trustees (BoT) of the PDP, which met last Thursday, called for probe of what led to the loss of the Bayelsa and Kogi elections. BoT Chairman, Senator Walid Jibrin said the board “viewed the accusations and counter accusation among our members on the behaviour of some of our members both in Kogi and Bayelsa, especially in Bayelsa. “We advised that we will not jump the gun, we have to make thorough research before we come into conclusion of who did what and suggest remedies.  Therefore, we recommended to the NWC that a very serious investigation must take place.” The board Chairman recalled that a committee was set up when the party lost the presidential election in 2015, which came out with useful recommendations. “We came openly to blame certain people,” Jibrin recalled. Bayelsans however, accused Dickson of nonperformance during the nearly eight years of his administration. This is mainly in the area of human capital development. The governor is said to have owed civil servants and pensioners several months salary and pension. Their protests were often visited with attacks by hired thugs.   And in a attempt to reform the civil service, some workers were laid off. Some of them who are now doing menial jobs promised to reward him during the election. This was what they did last Saturday by voting against his candidate. Then, there was the issue of fee hike in the state owned university, Niger Delta University (NDU) in Amassoma, Southern Ijaw Local Government. The school fees were increased by over 200 per cent in 2017, which led to students’ protest and subsequent closure of the institution.  Even the host community revolted against him for abandoning the policy of employing indigenes of the community into the institution as part of the benefits for having the school sited in their area. Two persons were reportedly killed and several others injured last year when government wanted to quell the protest.   Other issues were Dickson’s controversial civil service reforms aimed at stopping fraudulent collection of salaries, where government reduced workforce from 55,000 to 27,000. Though well-intentioned, those thrown into labour market formed the army against Dickson.   Dickson was said not to have managed crises very well. APC candidate is from Southern Ijaw Local Government, and the party was able to exploit these issues during the campaign. APC chairman, Adams Oshiomole said ahead of the elections that APC’s victory at the poll would restore hope to the people of the state and rebuild their confidence in governance.   “I understand that my dear friend, the outgoing governor of Bayelsa, is already visited by the withdrawal syndrome facing any governor close to the end of his tenure. I want to assure him, on behalf of our candidate, Lyon, that he is not coming to chase him away or witch-hunt him; our candidate is only coming to correct his wrongs.”   Thouhg there were some violence cases of complicity by the military against the PDP in the election, the   APC candidate who might be new in politics seemed to enjoy the goodwill of Bayelsans, especially ex-militants. Most of them were said to have benefited in the security of pipeline contract he was awarded by the Federal Government.   Whereas the only fear Bayelsans expressed was that his governorship might be Sylva’s second term in office, observers hope that other PDP governors on their second term in office would learn from these self-inflected injuries by choosing popular candidates who will pursue party interest.  