* Wada raises alarm over ballot box snatching Muhammad Bashir, Lokoja Ayigba, the commercial town in Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State, saw it’s own share of election day violence when unknown thugs attacked a polling unit close to the Igala Unity Square. Also a vehicle conveying journalists, who were going around to monitor the exercise was not spared, as the car was pelted with stones. The occupants of the vehicle, an editor with the state-owned Kogi Radio, Sunday  Omachi and the State Correspondent of Leadership, Mr Sam Egwu, however, escaped without injuries. Omachi said they were saved by the timely intervention of security personnel drafted to keep  peace in the area. Some polling units along Ayingba road had commence the voting process early, while some polling units at Odu/Okpakele in Dekina were yet to sight election materials as at the the time of this report. New Telegraph reports that a Hiace bus conveying four suspected fake policemen in uniform was intercepted and the occupants arrested by men of the SARS. The intercepted vehicle was  said to be negotiated the Unity roundabout heading towards the ancient town, before they ran out of luck. Meanwhile the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governorship candidate, Engineer Musa Wada, alleged the snatching of ballot boxes by some APC thugs in some areas in Dekina. Wada made the allegation shortly after casting his vote at Odu Ward 4, Unit 001; he also accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of sponsoring the violence ” It is their (APC) stock in trade to snatch ballot boxes. There was an attempt by one of their hooligans here but he was repelled, but you know they will always go to regroup and come back. “I have advised the voters to stay and defend their votes very well,” he said. He said the heavy security presence at Ayingba was very important because of the volatile nature of the area. “The police have to be everywhere because Ayangba is very volatile and their chief thug, Ahmed Atta is there. As long as he is there, his own is how to snatch ballot boxes, scare away voters. As I speak to you he is being questioned,” he added. Meanewhile a former governor of the state, Captain Idris Wada, has called for electronic voting in subsequent elections in order to forstall electoral violent and other related offenses. 