Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, yesterday promised to ensure the completion of Kabba – Ayetoro Gbede – Islanlu – Egbe – Ilorin road to allow free flow of motorists plying the road. Governor Bello who is the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for the November 16 gubernatorial election, yesterday took his is campaign train to the ancient city of Isanlu, the headquarters of Yagba East Local Government Area to seek for re-election. Bello whose promise came along with a caveat, urged the people of Kogi West Senatorial District to return Senator Smart Adeyemi back to the Senate to enable him push for the completion of the road, since he (Adeyemi) during the previous administration, facilitated the rehabilitation of the road which was abandoned. While assuring that he would not fail the people of the state but to transform the state for the betterment of all, Governor Bello noted that the completion of Ajaokuta steel complex would go a long way in creating jobs for the people of the state, commending the effort of President Muhammadu Buhari in that direction. “We are going to execute developmental projects that will impact positively in the lives of the people if we are given the mandate. We will also focus on youth employment and job creation to secure the future of our youth,” he said. Bello further urged the people of Kogi West to let their support for APC translate into massive votes for the party and Senator Smart Adeyemi on November 16. ....as crowd received governor   G overnor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has assured the people of his state that his second term would give more focus on development if elected. The governor, who is seeking re-election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for the November 16… In "News" The alleged imposition of Senator Smart Adeyemi as the candidate to fly Kogi West All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial ticket in the 2019 elections, was yesterday met with protest as a group known as ‘Concern Okun Youth Forum’ threatened to dump the ruling party. Adeyemi, who had served for two… In "News" Kingsley Olorunfemi Fanwo is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Mopamuro Local Government Area of Kogi State and also the Director General of Media and Publicity to Governor Yahaya Bello. In this interview with WALE ELEGBEDE, he speaks about his governor’s achievements, upcoming elections in the state… In "Politics"