Stakeholders gathered in Onitsha recently to deliberate on how the inland water ways which dot the country could be put to use and reduce the pressure on highways and the carnage occasioned by dilapidated roads. OKEY MADUFORO captured all that transpired when the new Managing Director Nigeria Inland Water ways (NIWA) Chief George Moghalu visited Onitsha Port on facility tour   Importers and business men in Nigeria have continued to tell tales of woe following the challenges they face in transporting goods to its respective destinations. Goods that berth at the Apapa and other international ports in the country most of the time do not reach the end users due to the deplorable state of the Nigeria’s Federal High Ways.  Mr. Pius Nwokoye is an importer who deals in building materials and his colleague Mr. Kaodilinye Festus is a motor Spare Parts dealer. In the last two years they have been facing litigations as a result of loan facilities they took from commercial banks and are yet to liquidate.  “I took the loan to import and deliver to three of my customers last year but the goods had problems along the Lagos – Shagamu Express way. “One of the trucks carrying my forty feet   container fell down and crashed into a ditch and I lost half of the contents.”  “The banks took me to court for not paying back the loan and my customers could not get the full consignment they requested for. I had to sell one of my lands at 33 Road Onitsha to at least service the loan and the court granted me my prayers that I should be given some time to pay off the debt”, Nwokoye lamented. Kaodilinye Festus had a more bitter experience when his container got stuck along Benin 0 Ore highway as the truck spent one week before it was dragged out of the deep gully. But before then, some miscreants had stormed the area at night and made away with some of the goods as the location had no presence of security operatives. “I could not believe what I saw on that day. The driver claimed that he was attacked by the thieves with a machete and he ran for his life, hence giving the urchins enough space and time to operate and I lost over N7 million as a result of that”, he said.  The duo of Festus and Nwokoye are just a few of the countless business men and women who have continued to experience the horror which Nigerian highways have become. Apparently government’s efforts at reconstructing the country’s high ways is yielding positive results though the predicament of Nigeria’s business community deepens. In the last one month, there have been incidents of petrol tanker fire in Lagos and in the South East; especially Anambra State and they left on their trail, pathetic and horrifying experience of tears, sorrow and death. The fall of those tankers have been traced to the pitiable state of the Nigerian Highways and incidentally commuters do not have any other alternative but the dilapidated roads.   The lamentations of the South East and South-south businessmen were well captured when the new Managing Director of National Inland Water Ways Authority (NIWA) Chief George Moghalu came on a facility and fact finding tour of the Onitsha River Port, Anambra State,. Ven Chris Orajekwe who spoke at the stakeholders meeting with Moghalu said: “We wonder what has happened to the water transportation sector. In other countries of the world their water ways are busy with commercial activities. But here in Nigeria it is a different ball game. All these cases of trucks and other vehicles getting stuck on their way, is not helping our economy and people lose millions of Naira and even precious lives due to the absence of an alternative means of transportation.  “With a good water transport system one can go to Abuja through our water ways and get to Lokoja and the complete   the rest of the journey to Abuja on road”. Anambra State chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chief Basil Ejidike noted that the economy of the country is not getting the required boost do to what he called the dormancy of the country’s water ways and its inland ports. “When you understudy commercial towns that house the inland ports, you will discover that they are not growing. You can imagine the multiplier effect on the micro and macro economics of these towns if our water ways are working optimally”.  The Obi of Onitsha during Moghalu’s courtesy’s visit to his palace could not hide his displeasure over the fate of Onitsha the commercial hub of sub Saharan Africa. “Most people who do business in Onitsha are not resident in Onitsha because of poor basic amenities that encourage trade and commerce.   Should we have a working water ways with functional inland ports Onitsha will not be like this. It would also create jobs for our youths and expand economic opportunities in the South East. It is my hope and strong belief that with your appointment as the Managing Director of NIWA things would get a lot better” he said. For Chief Moghalu it is a call of duty in salvaging the fate of our water ways.  According to him; “I share the same sentiment with you, for  example our Inland Waterways is about 10,000 kilometers as we speak and slightly over three thousand is navigable all year round and our waterways is accessible across twenty eight states which means we have water access to about 28 states.  So what we need to do is to develop the water transportation routes, once we do that, there is a lot of advantage that come with it, it is not only the cheapest but also one of the safest and again if I may say, it will reduce pressure on our roads because most of our roads you will agree with me are not designed to carry the weight they are carrying and unless we reduce this weight, we will continue having this problem.  You and I know today that the Apapa gridlock that we have been suffering over the years is like a recurrent decimal and the only way to address it is through water transportation. If the waterways are open today, I can assure you that over 50% of the cargo that goes to Apapa wharf can as well go to the hinterland because we have a River Port in Baro, Onitsha, and we have jetties across the country up to Yauri and up to Lake Chad.  So if we open our waterways for all year navigation, I can assure you that the gridlock in Apapa will become history.  “Naturally like any other serious business, it is capital intensive, because it is not only capital dredging but we also have to do maintenance dredging to make sure that the channels are all year round navigable, we clear it and make sure there are no wrecks and any blockages and also clear water hyacinth and dredge them so that we can achieve the needed depth for barges and small vessels to move all year round.  So what we need actually first of all, is governmental support, then the will, before we talk about the funds if there is the will to make this work, it will generate commitment. “We have room for Public Private Partnership (PPP) what you must understand also is that we have to show the way and the private sector will key in.   Government has to initiate the process, government has to create the enabling environment and Government has to show that it works. “I am confident the moment we do the basic things, the needful and what we are supposed to do, the private sector will be asking us to be part of what we are doing.”  The Coordinator Children of Farmers Club, Prince Chris Okwuosa added a new impetus to the need to improve on the country’s water ways. “We have a creek at Ogbaru-Uli-Ihiala- Ndoni water ways that cuts across Imo, Anambra and Rivers States. It passes through Idemili-Akwu – Ukwu Ozubulu to Ose akwa down to Oguta and Nnodni in Rivers States. “The Agro- technocrat village is being developed along that creek and if the water ways are well developed it would improve the ecotourism in the area both in transportation and one can travel through seven states in the federation comfortably”. Similarly former Imo State Governor, Chief Ikedi Ohakim noted that the South East is not land locked.  “Igbo land is not land locked at all and the coastal lines of Oguta and Ogbaru are sure link to the world and that was what I tried to develop before I left office and I urge the respective governors of the South East to cue into this idea for posterity” he said.  It is expected that Chief George Moghalu is at home with the challenges of the waterways and the inland ports in the country and should the powers that be create the necessary enablers for NIWA to be turned around.