The Provost of the College of Medicine University of Lagos, Prof. Afolabi Lesi  has called for appropriate diagnosis of malaria before treatment in other to reduce prevalence of the disease in the country. Lesi who made the call while declaring open the1st international Malaria Miscroscopy Course in Lagos, said proper diagnosis of malaria would lead to effective treatment. The event held recently at the Dr. D.K. Olukoya Central Research Laboratories at the University of Lagos (UNILAG). The 12-day course, which brought together participants from Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), was organised by the ANDI Centre of Excellence For Malaria Diagnosis domiciled at the College of Medicine University of Lagos (CMUL) in Idiaraba, Lagos. He said, “Malaria diagnosis is one of the key pillars of malaria prevention and control. “Without accurate diagnosis, we cannot make proper treatment because not every fever is malaria. We need to make right diagnosis to be able to treat malaria appropriately.” While lamenting the high prevalence of malaria in the country, Lesi said,  “Malaria is quite common. So, it is easy to think that once you have fever it is either malaria or typhoid. That has to change,” Lesi stressed. According to him, going by the recommendation of the World Health Organisation (WHO), the standard now is to diagnose malaria before treatment, adding that is why the global community was recording reduced incidence of malaria. Coordinator of the ANDI Centre of Excellence For Malaria Diagnosis, Wellington Oyibo, a professor of parasitology, said one of the problems of tackling malaria was that there were other causes of fever and “many times people take malaria to be the cause of fever. Hence, he urged people that present with fever to demand malaria test at facilities before treatment, adding that malaria was always over diagnosed. According to him, “If we have capacity built people will know how to properly do the laboratory investigation of malaria. “We can quickly detect other fevers that are not malaria and manage them as such and once we confirm the ones that are malaria, we can apply the appropriate therapy to deal with it.” Oyibo said the expectation of the workshop is that the participants should go back to their different centers and Improve malaria diagnosis within and outside Nigeria. The director of UNILAG Consult, Dr. Ademola Oremosu said the training was focusing on the laboratory aspect of fighting malaria. “Hopefully with that we are able to help the teaming population of people right across Africa,” Dr. Ademola stated.