…as trial reaches advanced stage  There are indications that six personnel of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) standing trial in connection with the death of former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh, risk maximum jail term of two years, if convicted. Investigation by New Telegraph revealed that the military personnel, comprising a Squadron Leader and the late CDS’ Aide-de-Camp (ADC) and Flight Sergeants, are facing charges bordering on negligent performance of duty and conspiracy. They were arraigned before a Court Martial sitting at a fortified facility in Abuja, a few weeks ago. The late retired fourstar General, who was once a Chief of Air Staff (CAS), was killed on his way back from his farm located along the Abuja– Keffi expressway, on December 18, 2018. The NAF had maintained that the late senior officer had “always been provided with the full complement of personal staff and security personnel commensurate with his status”. This was as it had vowed to work with other sister agencies to bring the perpetrators of the dastardly act to deserved justice. Speaking with our correspondent over the weekend, an informed source said trial of the personnel had reached an advanced stage. The source, who pleaded anonymity, said already the prosecution had called four witnesses, with trial expected to continue today before the court martial comprising the President and nine members. “So far, the prosecution has called four witnesses. The matter is at an advanced stage. “The matter is adjourned till Monday for continuation of trial, and for the prosecution to call further witnesses,” the source said. According to him, “Those standing trial are one Squadron Leader and five Airmen, Flight Sergeants. “The charges cut across negligent performance of duty and conspiracy. The court martial has President, nine members and two waiting members. “And, by the provisions of the Armed Forces Act (AFA), the charges are punishable with maximum of up to two years imprisonment, or any lesser punishment. That is, in the event of conviction.” As at the time of filing this report, the NAF had yet to reply to a text message seeking confirmation on the ongoing trial of the suspects.