T he Senate, yesterday, alleged that Nigeria lost a whopping sum of $649 million or N250 billion in 2017 alone, to cybercrimes.  Consequently, it urged the Federal Government to increase budgetary allocation to the Information and Communications Technology (ICT), to enhance the nation’s digital economy and cyber security. The Senate also mandated its Committee on ICT and Cybercrime to re-establish engagement with stakeholders in order to ensure a comprehensive and broad-based approach to addressing Nigeria’s digital technology and cyber security crises.  The apex legislative chamber further directed the committee to embark on strategic engagements with Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) with a view to ascertaining their ICT shortfalls, cyber security constraints, data management challenges and possible remediation measures.  The Senate made these resolutions sequel to a motion entitled: “The growth of digital technology and the challenge of cybercrime: urgent need to safeguard the future of Nigeria,” sponsored by Senator Oseni Yakubu (APC, Kogi Central).  Leading the debate on the motion, Yakubu urged other senators to be worried that the gains of digital technology were being eroded by rapid evolution of cyber security threats and increased attacks in both sophistication and severity.  The lawmaker hinted that available reports showed that there was currently a dramatic rise in cybercrime such as the “ransomeware epidemic, the refocusing of malware from personal computers (PCs) and laptops to smartphones and mobile devices, the deployment of billions of under-protected Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and the legion of hackers-for-hire.”  He said that there were increasingly sophisticated attacks on governments, businesses, educational establishments and defence infrastructure.  He further stated that criminal cyber-related activities were already costing the world huge losses in trillions of dollars. “Recently, the NotPetya malware caused billions of dollars in damage in many industries around the world. Global ransomeware damage alone has been predicted to cost the world over $11 billion in 2019 and $20 billion in 2021. “It is also predicted that a business will fall every 14 seconds in 2019 and 11 seconds in 2021, and that overall cybercrime is predicted to cost the world over $6 trillion annually from 2021.”  He lamented further that Nigeria was already plagued with the destructive cyber-crises, saying, “Reports indicate that in 2017 alone, the country lost about $649 million (i.e. over N250 billion) to cybercrime activities.” According to him, “The 2018 report of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) indicates that there were 37,817 reported fraud cases within the year, out of which 59.2% were Internet and technology based, costing businesses in Nigeria several billions of naira.  “It is also indicated that over 81% of cyber security incidents in the country are either unreported or unresolved, leaving room for the proliferation and escalation of illicit cyber activities.” He added that: “In fact, federal allocation to the ICT sector of the economy can only be considered as lip service, compared to the enormity of challenges therein. Even in Africa, Nigeria is at the bottom of cyber security manpower ratio to total population. “Our institutions of learning do not seem to understand the world we live in today. Indeed, our cyber security consciousness and awareness rating does not come before that of any other country in the world.”   He also noted that the world has moved into the blazing digital ecosystem accelerating at the speed of thought, “with very effective concepts and disruptive innovation models such as Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, Robotics, Machine Learning, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and blockchain implementation and other emerging technologies, achieving rapid improvements in the knowledge society.”   Other senators, who contributed to the debate, supported the motion, thereby approving the prayers when the President of the Senate put it to voice vote.