Ayomide Sanya, an indigene of Odogbolu Local Government of Ogun State, attended Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State. He was called to Bar on 12th December, 2017. She shares her experience, pupilage, others with JOHN CHIKEZIE   Background Sanya, Ayomide hails from Odogbolu Local Government of Ogun state. She attended Anglican Primary School, Isawo, Ikorodu and also obtained her O’ levels degree at Topville College, Isawo, Ikorodu, Lagos. She obtained her Bachelor at Law Certification (LL.B.) from Olabisi Onabanjo University in 2016 and thereafter attended the Nigerian Law School, Lagos Campus. She was called to Bar on 12th December, 2017.   Ayomide has also obtained other professional certifications from notable institutions like the World Intellectual Property organization academy where she obtained a General Course on Intellectual Property Certification in the year 2018.  Pupilage  She has worked with the Nigerian Copyright Commission, Ibadan as an Intern at the High Court of Justice, Ikorodu as a law school extern under the Pupilage of Hon. Justice Lawal Akapo. She was also at L’Tulip Solicitors as a law school extern under the supervision of Mr. Levi Adikwaone, the Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Ikorodu branch as he then was and then Sterling Bank Plc. Ayomide is presently under the pupilage of Olukayode Enitan SAN at Enitan Associates.  Besides, she also worked in some leadership positions like being the Vice-President of the Litigation Group in the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) Legal Aid Community Development Service in the year 2018, Assistant Coordinator of the Planning and Logistics Department and the Sisters’ Coordinator at the place of worship (OOU Ago Iwoye, Ogun State).   In 2018, she emerged as the 1st Runner-Up in the Business Idea Competition initiated by Sigma Pensions at the NYSC orientation camp, Iyana Paja, Lagos.   Career The legal profession has been my most desired profession from childhood. The attire, wig and gown were the initial thing that got me inspired as a kid. And as I grew much older, I observed I was exhibiting a certain level of inquisitive and analytical skills, and that made me so determined in becoming a judge.  My parents and siblings were fascinated to see me with such keen interest and enthusiasm; a unique and first of its kind in my family, hence, their support and encouragement from day one.  My interest and determination to study law was further deepened after I studied  the biographies of some judges such as Rtd. Justice Ishola Olorunnimbe, alongside some female judges. I was resolved and inspired to get to the Bench to administer justice. Specialization  I have a keen interest for Criminology, Administration of Estates law and Civil practices.  Criminal law is my major interest in the study of law. This is because I love investigations and the idea of being a detective. I like to detect the main perpetrators of evil and ensure that they don’t go unpunished, rather than punishing those who know nothing about a crime.  I’m very much aware that this aspect of law is faint-hearted but I like the truth and always stand for the truth  However, I’m presently into general practice of law, where I handle all civil matters. And I trust God that the vision will soon get clearer.  Judiciary and justice delivery system I believe the judiciary as an arm of government is trying its best to ensure that justice prevails but the other arms of government are restricting them in the name of checks and balances; the hands of the judiciary are tied!  It has over time turned out that the Judiciary could not ensure justice against the government, especially on the parameters of “you cannot bite the hands that feeds you.” And if the independence of the judiciary can be ascertained, then there is hope for justice to prevail over all.  Judicial independence does, however, mean that judges must be free to exercise their judicial powers without fear or favor, without interference from litigants, the State, the media or powerful individuals or entities.  The aim of this is to ensure the supremacy of the rule of law. The following are some of the points I think will assist in ensuring an independent judiciary: Fair and independent appointment – I think only persons with integrity, who are qualified, with the capacity and an outstanding active practice should be appointed as judges.  Guaranteed tenure until retirement or expiry of office – judges should only be removed or suspended from office for reasons of incapacity or if their behavior renders them unfit to perform their duties or official functions. The principle of separation of power – I see this as the most important way of ensuring judicial independence. There must be limited contact with the Executive arm of government to security, financial and administrative powers. Judicial independence serves as a safeguard for the rights and privileges provided by the Constitution to prevent executive and legislative encroachment upon those rights. Under an independent judicial system, the courts and its officers should be free from inappropriate intervention in the judiciary’s affairs.   Immunity – judges should be given legal immunity from prosecution for any acts they carry out in performance of their judicial function. They do not have to worry about being sued for something they say or do while carrying out their duties. Judges should ensure that their integrity is maintained; they should always stand for the truth and ensure the prevalence of the rule of law. Enough of seeing judges that are recreant in the name of protecting the interests of those who can fire them. Making a difference The word God gave to me when I was called to the Nigerian Bar was Deuteronomy 1:17  “Do not be partial in your judgments. Hear the cases of those who are poor as well as those who are rich. Don’t be afraid of anyone’s anger, for the decision you make is God’s decision. Bring me any cases that are too difficult for you, and I will handle them.” These have been my watch word and my driving force. However, some of the things I would ensure is done differently are the fact that lawyers must have a due notice whenever my court is not sitting. This will portray good integrity and also enable lawyers to plan their day rightly. Also, I won’t give room for lawyers’ sharp practices and my court will always promote the maxim “equity does not aid the indolent but the vigilant.” In summary, I will ensure that the height of indiscipline is reduced in courts.  