Ogun State Government may spend N32.4billion on the construction and rehabilitation of township roads in the 2020 fiscal year. This indication came as Governor Dapo Abiodun said his administration would devise a system of strategic allocation of resources to ensure policies, projects and programmes have optimum impact on the people. Abiodun spoke at the 2020 Treasury Board Meeting/ Budget Retreat organised by the Ministry of Budget and Planning held at the Obas’ Complex, Oke- Mosan, Abeokuta. The meeting was held to consider the year 2020 Advance Proposals and Draft Estimates of Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the state government and prepare the ground for harmonisation of the appropriation bill and subsequent appearance and defence of all MDAs at the state House of Assembly. The governor’s Consultant on Works and Infrastructure, Ade Akinsanya, while presenting his agency’s estimates, disclosed that N32, 463, 069, 709.35 will be expended on roads. Akinsanya, who stated that the proposed figure was inclusive of capital, overhead and personnel cost, said over N200billion was required to fix deplorable roads across the state. However, the governor’s Chief Economic Adviser, Dapo Okubadejo, explained that part of the funds needed to fix roads would be spread over the next few years, adding that public-private partnership arrangement would be critical to the development of infrastructure in the state. In his address, Abiodun said the treasury board meeting afforded the opportunity to further consolidate on the gains of democracy for the entire people of the state. He said: “We must realise that our responsibility to the people of our dear state goes beyond channelling a routine pattern for the use of public resources. “We must devise a system of strategic allocation of resources which ensures that policies, projects and programmes of government will have the optimum impact on the people, who are the real essence of government. “Let me say that all the expenditures are going to be targeted at programmes and projects aimed at continued development of our dear state and creating more prosperity for the people. “If indeed we are going to be serious about attracting investments to Ogun State, it is important that our township roads, our connecting road between Ogun State and border states are in conditions that will facilitate people being able to move in and out of the state with relative ease. “We have since realised that for the majority of our people, if all we focus on are the improvement of our township roads, they don’t seem to care about anything else, because our people have gotten to a point where they feel that government has completely disconnected from them because of the state of township roads. We are going to be placing a lot of premium on roads.”