The Director for WHO Africa region, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti has advocated that the prevention of sickle cell disease (SCD) should be prioritised. He  spoke at the three-day conference organised by Dr. Sickle Cell – Center for Sickle Cell Disease in association with Olusegun Obasanjo Foundation and supported by World Health Organisation (WHO), Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH), amongst other sickle cell foundations across Africa Moeti who was represented at the event by Prof. Jean-marie, the, Coordinator of Non-Communicable Disease Primary Prevention and Integrated Management also addressed the need for setting priorities for national, regional and global SCD prevention and control programme. Also, speaking at the event, former President Olusegun Obasanjo reiterated the need for more collaborative efforts to foster better education and awareness about SCD just as he stated that people living with sickle cell needed empathy not sympathy. Speaking as the grand patron of the First African Congress on Sickle Cell Disease (ACSCD). Obasanjo also emphasised the fact that every sickle cell sufferer has a unique story behind the pain they go through therefore, needed empathy and not sympathy. The event which was indeed a huge event for the sickle cell community in Africa and was attended by delegates from Ghana, Zambia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Cameroon, Zimbabwe, Namibia, India, Netherland, Egypt, Belgium, Canada, United State and United Kingdom (UK). The co-chair ACSCD Congress, Dr. David Ajaere stated during his welcome address that the burden of sickle cell disease can not be overcome by any single organisation or individual, it takes an hoslitic approach whereby partnerships are forged between organisations and relevant stakeholders with aligned interest and vision in a bid to overcoming sickle cell disease in Africa. The Kabaka (King) of the Buganda kingdom in Uganda who was represented at the congress by his Minister of Health, Dr. Prosperous Nankindu also shared insight on the fight against sickle cell disease in Uganda and how they have successfully made Ugandans more aware of sickle cell management by puporlarising the need for genotype screening before marriage. The First lady of Lagos State, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu who was represented at the congress by Dr. Mobolaji Johnson gave a welcome address to the local and international delegates at the Congress.