F or many years, the Lagos Advertising and Ideas Festival (LAIF), has continued to push the frontiers of advertising in the country, creating elaborate and robust atmosphere in the sector.  This year edition, the 14th in the series, tagged ‘Tori Tori of LAIF’, focuses on telling the Nigeria story, culture. It will hold on Saturday, December 14 in Lagos.   During a roundtable, the Chairman, Lagos Advertising and Ideas Festival (LAIF) Management Board, Steve Babaeko, disclosed that the award has lived up to its billing.   “We are super glad that the tradition has remained unbroken. We are looking for more participation from new/young agencies, and if we cannot get the younger agencies to be part of it then what is the point and guarantee of the longevity we plan for the industry to have,” he said.   Put together by Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN), the award ceremony which has become the authentic award for the adverting agencies in the country has turn out to be much more exciting where the best of experience come to judge the best of work in the country. Kudos to the experienced jury: Yaa Boateng (Ghana), Irene Donati (Ghana), Kayode Olowu, Ekenena Ezaga, Gbemi Sagay, Toni Kan Onwordi, Dave Chukwuji, Sunny Mohammed.   “It is going to be a mixture of some of the veteran in the advertising sector, and the current people who are active in service. We have seen that there is benefit to blend both the young; we started experimenting on this for about three years ago. The veterans bring a very refreshing perspective. They have nothing to lose; they have no alliance with any agency, while the young people bring contemporary knowledge to the business.”   Babaeko, who was a jury member at the New York Advertising Festival held in 2016, 2017, hinted that the award for the Advertiser of the Year which is the new category will see brand, company that have supported, invested to see a robust adverting is created will be rewarded.   “It will help stimulate other clients to support, not just advertising, but creative advertising because at the end of the day, it is about creativity and efficacy of communication. We are trying to push that strongly for clients who support advertising and, who support their agency to be more creative. We will single them out and honour them appropriately.   “This will be a beckon for other clients to see that if LAIF begins to reward clients who support creative advertising they too should be doing the same,” he said.   Speaking on the theme ‘Tori Tori of LAIF’ and its impact on the campaign, Babaeko said that storytelling has become a global phenomenon. “Sometimes we get   the shaft when we follow the trend globally; the thing is you jump in the deep end when you start to behave like they do abroad… I understand this trend and I am going to look at it from the local perspective. We have decided to do exactly that by using our own culture to tell the story for the audience to see and relate with.”   Babaeko further stated that the recipient will be rewarded for work done in 2018 and up till July 2019. “We encourage young agencies, there is nothing like a big agency, which is my personal philosophy. There is either a creative agency or agency that is not creative, some agencies abroad who have just started are giving existing agencies a run for their money, and there is no reason why it should be different in the country. I expect younger agencies to be hungrier and want to take on the so-called giants. They should come out and through their heart in the ring and fight for the position because the so-called big agencies today were small agencies many years ago, so they should come out and fight that is what we want to encourage.”   Highlighting on the benefit, Member LAIF Management Board, Bolaji Alausa said: “From inspiring the youngest creative who inspire to be on the stage and to see his work celebrated to having clients, CEOs having to make it as part of their Key Performance Indicator (KPI), that apart from delivering on the product we should also deliver on the Public Relations angle that means we should do well regionally, globally in terms of awards, only LAIF awards have been able to do that for us because people come, invite clients to the award ceremony and they see other campaign been celebrated, while their own work is not seen, it makes you feel that next time when I give brief to an agency, apart from the fact that the campaign move the country so much that it become something so big that can be awarded.   “That way it is a win-win for them, and at the end of the day you have something to put on the shelf, and it became a good reference point.”    