Latest data released by the  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), showing rising credit  to the private sector,  suggests that the apex bank’s efforts to encourage deposit money banks (DMBs) to increase lending to the real sector, especially SMEs, seem to be yielding results, writes Tony Chukwunyem    I f recent Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) report is anything to go by, banking system credit to the private sector is clearly on an uptrend. Rising credit to private sector   In its October 2019 economic report released last week, for instance, the CBN stated that “relative to the level at end-August 2019, banking system credit to the private sector rose by 2.6 per cent at end-September 2019, compared with the growth of 2.2 per cent apiece at the end of the preceding month and the corresponding period of 2018.   “The development was attributed to the 1.7 per cent and 9.0 per cent increase in claims on the core private sector and claims on the state and local government, respectively. Over the level at end-December 2018, banking system credit to the private sector grew by 12.1 per cent, compared with the growth of 9.3 per cent and 3.0 per cent at the end of the preceding month and the corresponding period of 2018, respectively.”   Similarly, the apex bank disclosed in its Q3’19 economic report released a fortnight ago, that “on quarter-on-quarter basis, banking system’s credit to the private sector rose by 0.3 per cent to N24.83 billion at end-August 2019, compared with the growth of 3.2 per cent at end-June 2019. The development was attributed, wholly, to the 1.0 per cent increase in claims on the core private sector. Over the level at end-December 2018, banking system credit to the private sector increased by 9.4 per cent at end-August 2019, compared with the 9.0 per cent increase at end-June 2019.”   Indeed, in recent times, leading banks in the country have been announcing significant increases in the volume of credit that they have granted to the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) sub-sector. First Bank   Specifically, First Bank of Nigeria Limited recently disclosed that between 2017 and October this year, its financial support for SMEs (comprising the loans given to the SME segment irrespective of product type) amounted to N170.3billion. The Tier 1 lender, which  also announced that it has supported 70,703 SMEs over the last 3-7 years, had in August this year, held its “SME Week” during which  customers and non-customers of  the lender participated in a wide range of SME-focused events and activities.   The highlight of the week was the launch of the SME portal, a platform through which operators of SMEs can access the lender’s solutions that have been designed to equip them with the essential tools needed for the growth of their business. Commenting on the event, Deputy Managing Director of the bank, Mr. Gbenga Shobo, said that following extensive research by First Bank, the lender identified seven strategic pillars to be essential for the sustainability and growth of the SMEs. According to him, these include access to infrastructure, access to talent, capacity building, policy and regulation, access to resources, access to market as well as access to finance. He stated: “The FirstBank SME Week is driven to promote the Bank’s SME proposition, thereby having SMEs across the country optimally enlightened on how to plug in. We believe this will help SMEs bolster their contribution to the growth and development of the economy.   “FirstBank has over the years, been at the forefront of supporting Businesses, especially the SMEs as we recognise that the SMEs are the engine of the economy. We are committed to ensuring that we leave no stone unturned as we connect with them in their continued contribution to national development in terms of the employment opportunities they create as well as their contribution to the nation’s GDP amongst many economic values.”  Fidelity Bank Similarly, leading Tier 2 lender, Fidelity Bank Plc, has also been playing an active role in the SME funding space. In a chat with journalists in late 2017, for instance, the Chief Executive Officer of Fidelity Bank, Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo, revealed that the lender had disbursed N2.5 billion of the funds that the CBN set aside for that purpose, to 500 SMEs. He said: “SME banking is in our DNA, giving people money does not solve the problem. Empowering the youth discourages crimes and enhances GDP growth. Fidelity has supported over 500 SMEs, we’ve disbursed N2.5 billion of loans and we have gotten repayment of about N1.8 billion. “The notable thing is that we have not recorded any non-performing loans there and this speaks to the quality of advisory services that our people have been able to give.” The Tier 2 lender recently held an SME Funding Grants Competition that had over 2,500 successful applicants participating and the winner carting away N2 million cash prize. Speaking at the event, Okonkwo, who commended the winners of the competition, emphasised the importance of Micro Small Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to the growth and development of the Nigerian economy. “MSMEs employ over 80 per cent of the country’s total 90.5 million labour force, contribute 48 per cent to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and constitute over 80 per cent of registered exporters in Nigeria,” said Okonkwo. According to industry analysts, the rising banking system credit to the private sector does appear to show that the CBN is succeeding in its efforts to encourage DMBs to increase lending to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Initiatives   The regulator has, over the years, citing the critical role SMEs play in the development of any economy, especially their potential for employment generation and promotion of indigenous entrepreneurship, introduced several initiatives to boost funding for the sub-sector.   In 2010, for instance, the CBN approved the investment of the sum of N500 billion debenture stock to be issued by the Bank of Industry (BOI) with effect from May, 2010,  out of which, N200 billion would be applied to the refinancing/restructuring of lenders’ existing loan portfolios to the Nigerian SME/manufacturing sector.  Similarly, in August 2013, the CBN launched the N220billion Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Development Fund to address the existing huge financing gap in the sub-sector. According to the apex bank, 10 per cent of the fund would be devoted to developmental objectives such a grants, capacity building and administrative costs while 90 per cent commercial component will be released to participating financial institutions (PFIs) at two per cent for on-lending to MSMEs at a maximum interest rate of nine per cent per annum.   It also stated that eligible activities to be financed under the initiative included agricultural value chain, services, cottage industries, artisans, trade and commerce and any income generating business prescribed by the CBN from time to time.   LDR hike In fact, although DMBs are recording impressive successes in boosting funding for small and medium enterprises, analysts note that recent measures adopted by the CBN have significantly helped to extend banking system credit to MSMEs. Notably, the CBN had in a letter dated, July 3, 2019, directed all DMBs to maintain a minimum LDR of 60 per cent by the end of September 2019. The LDR is the portion of customers’ deposit that is given out as loans. The apex bank also warned that failure to meet the LDR requirement would lead to a levy of additional Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) equal to 50 per cent of the lending shortfall of the target LDR. This means 50 per cent of a bank’s deposit will be immediately sent to the CBN.   At the expiration of the September 30 deadline, the CBN debited the accounts of 12 DMBs to the tune of N499.18 billion for failing to comply with its directive even as it announced that it was raising the LDR target upwards to 65 per cent, which lenders  must achieve  by December 31, 2019.   Despite concerns in some quarters that the LDR policy will lead to an increase in banks’ Non-Performing Loans (NPLs), the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has vowed that the apex bank would sustain its implementation. He said: “We will continue to compel banks to undertake their statutory licensed roles of financial intermediation. In this regard, the recently announced policy to raise the domestic loan-deposit ratio from 57 per cent to 60 per cent by end-September and to 65 per cent by end-December 2019 would be sustained, intensified and resolutely implemented. This we believe will help to support greater growth and improved investment into the Nigerian economy.”   Conclusion However, with the December 31, 2019 CBN deadline for lenders to comply with 65 per cent LDR policy drawing closer, the opinion in industry circles at the weekend was that many DMBs seem well positioned to escape the apex bank’s sanctions.