Over 50 per cent of persons in need of rehabilitation in the country are unable to access such services due to several factors including paucity of funds, poor communication and coordination in the health sector. REGINA OTOKPA writes on the way forward  As the years go by, the number of persons in need of medical rehabilitation has increased tremendously,  as a result of disabilities arising from accidents, mental and psychological disorders or non-communicable diseases such as stroke, diabetes, cancer, amongst a host of others in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa. These group of persons need special treatment and training to have another shot at living normal lives either physically, socially, psychologically or in vocational sense. As a matter of fact, although a good number of adults need medical rehabilitation, children with congenital diseases such as down syndrome, cerebral palsy, autistism spectrum disorder to mention the least, form a significant portion of rehabilitation users in many countries and are the largest group in need of rehabilitation. Sadly, they are not getting the required attention due to several reasons. These includes ignorance, uneven distribution of service capacity and infrastructure, lack of access to rehabilitation, a complex referral system, inadequate personnel, poor investment, quackery, lack of communication and collaboration among the different sectors within the health ministry. The Registrar/CEO, Medical Rehabilitation Therapists Board of Nigeria (MRTBN), Dr. Akanle Taibat, insists that one way to tackle this issue is the establishment of at least one state- of-the-art equipped one-stop national rehabilitation centre in every geopolitical zone in the country. MRTBN is a regulatory board established to regulate and control the training and practice of seven professions: physiotherapy, speech therapy, occupational therapy, audiology, prosthetics and orthotics, chiropractic and osteopathic medicine professions but most importantly, it is saddled with the responsibility of solving the rehabilitation issues by removing all barriers to improve access to health services, strengthening and extending  rehabilitation habitation, assertive technology, assistance and support services and community based rehabilitation. At the 2nd International Conference of Medical Rehabilitation Professionals (ICMRP), Taibat lamented that in Nigeria as a whole, there is no well established medical rehabilitation center as found in other parts of the world “It is long overdue for Nigeria to have well established medical rehabilitation center. This will reduce prevalence of disabilities because it comprised of early intervention and  treatment so if you don’t have a well established medical rehabilitation it increased prevalence of disabilities, because some conditions that could have been prevented were not prevented as at when due. “Also, it will help identify disabilities in the hospital because some conditions that lead to disability are some times confused. Without proper diagnosis there cannot be proper treatment. Unfortunately the accessibility of rehabilitation centres is low, because we only have it in  teaching hospitals, federal medical centers and some general hospitals but we are supposed to have them in the grassroot level so that when a patient  with ailment like stroke is discharged from a teaching hospital, he or she can easily move to a nearby primary healthcare centre  to access the facilities.