The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has slammed the governor of Bayelsa State, Hon. Serieke Dickson on the allegation that the Federal Government has refused to license the state airport for operation. Oshiomhole, who spoke yesterday in Abuja said the airport constructed by the Bayelsa State governor has entered into Guinness Book as the most expensive airport in the whole world and that it is a fraud. Oshiomhole who said that the Bayelsa State governor would account for his wrong deeds to Bayelsa people, said beyond the high cost of the airport, it was substandardly built as it is being flooded after rain. It would be recalled that Governor Dickson at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship campaign ground finale on Wednesday in Yenogoa, capital of Bayelsa State, had accused the ruling APC of playing politics with the licensing of the airport. But responding to Dickson’s statement yesterday in Abuja, the National Chairman of APC, said the facility is of low quality that even the governor cannot fly on it. Oshiomhole speaking further on the airport that he said cost over N100 billion said, “I think the media should not just take statement from people’s mouth. You know the fact that Bayelsa airport has been flooded. Is it Buhari that flooded the airport? Because the runway is below the ground level. They ought to have carried out proper survey. So, the runway is flooded with water because it was not built properly. “Now, if President Buhari was to stop it, what stopped the governor by himself, flying his private flight to do a testing flight on the airport? He himself doesn’t fly there. We challenge Dickson to use his own plane to test run and land on that airport. We challenge Dickson to prove that when the airport was flooded, that the flood was caused by Buhari. We challenge him to show the kind of control tower he has built. “Truth is, we challenge, whether it was Buhari who asked him to inflate the contract because there are different versions of the actual cost. That contract, I put it to my dear friend and brother, Dickson that it has entered Guiness book as the most expensive runway ever built anywhere in the world. “Even the one they built from the river, from the sea, it didn’t cost half of that. So, it is an endless project. He shouldn’t throw blame. But you the media should also interrogate when these people make all these unsubstantiated allegations. “So, the truth is, he is in trouble. He cannot tell his people why he will spend close to N100billion for a facility such as that. Yet, he himself cannot land on it. You people should not allow merchant of half-truth to get away with blue murder. Dickson must account for that money not because of election but he owes his people.”