Dr. Benjamin Anyene is a medical doctor and microbiologist with over 30 years of experience.  He is also the Chairman,  Health Sector Reform Coalition (HSRC) and the Legislative Network for Universal Health Coverage (UHC). He speaks on the implication of untimely budget release, prioritising the health of children, increasing investment on health, among other issues. REGINA OTOKPA reports  What is the implication of untimely release of budget on health? It is a shame that both people in government and parliament do not understand that budgets are not just rituals; budgets are to deliver on targeted interventions that will solve problems. A budget that was supposed to be passed in December the year before this year was signed in June, rather than to be operational since January 1st, first of all it is already truncated and secondly when the budget is finally signed into law, the bureaucracy from the time it is signed to the time it is released to the institutions to use them is a huge black hole which is difficult to navigate because of what I must call bureaucratic madness. We know how much is budgeted; we know how much we need to spend. Even if it is quarterly, you release it at the beginning and not at the end of the quarter so everybody should work in tandem to ensure that they are released as at when due not when an Individual thinks he has to release it. It has been a perennial issue at levels of government and so the issue of transparency and accountability at that level is very critical. It is even worst at the state government level because it is the governor that decides who gets and who doesn’t get. We cannot be hoping that Nigeria will be a first world nation without ensuring that we strengthen these institutions to be accountable, transparent and do what others do. Tuberculosis, malaria, HIV/ AIDS, Immunisation funding in this country are paid for by partners so what do we pay for in this country because these are critical things. In 2001 African heads of states met in Abuja under the chairmanship of President Olusegun Obasanjo and they all agreed that 15 per cent of the national budget should be committed to health.But that  was not done we are not committed to it. What could be responsible for the consistent decline in the 15 per cent commitment to health budget? It is lack of seriousness, commitment and understanding of what government is all about. To be a government of healthy people you have to invest to make sure they are healthy. 70 per cent of our health problems are in the primary healthcare sector; it presupposes that 70 per cent of our investment should be there but 70 per cent of the federal is at the tertiary level, there is a mismatch. How can 95 per cent immunisation be achieved in Nigeria? We already know that we have this number of children, why is it difficult for Nigeria to make money available to make sure their vaccines are provided? We don’t have to beg government to do that.Why doesn’t government donate five days of oil production to that and that money will be enough to pay for all these, why can’t they make such investments. Another aspect is Nigeria celebrates childbirth so much yet nobody takes responsibility for that. In the immunisation data you see ‘missed children’ how can they be missed, why can’t someone take responsibility to immunise those children. But again, even if someone takes the responsibility, the vaccines may not be there. Governmental, parental and community responsibility are all part of the problems associated with immunisation. Private sectors may have the vaccines whereas government does not have it is sold then for as high as N10, 000 yet they are supposed to be free. Did the private sector import it themselves or is it the government that is importing. People have to take responsibility. If there is nothing government can do at least from birth lets protect this children and if we protect them we can reduce at least 25 per cent of deaths of children because things like tuberculosis, diarrhoea will not be there. It costs N14,000  to immunise a child, do you think Nigeria can take up full responsibility of immunising 7.4 million children by 2021? Why shouldn’t we. Are other countries not doing it?  We can even do it next year if the vaccines are there and the equipment, storage spaces, people who vaccinate, the preservation facilities are functioning. The vaccines we need next year have already been paid for and booked this June. It takes at least six months lead to get vaccines and nobody will manufacture vaccines for you except you pay down for it. We ought to be able to know how much we need, time the money, pay for it so that manufacturers can manufacture for you so that by December you are taking delivery and by January the vaccines are available. Do you see the government taking up this responsibility? It is what I call administrative laziness; somebody is not doing his work. It baffles and embarrasses people like me that these things that we should take as given are not given.  Out of N144 billion if states are to pay 100 per cent each state will pay about N3 billion. How much are they spending in frivolities, security votes, trips governors make to Abuja every time with huge convoys and all. I have seen these things for the past 30 years and it is not changing but it should change because people out there are laughing at us because they know you have it. European Union (EU) said it will stop giving money to Nigeria because they have money and we do have money. The thing is how do you manage that money to be able to pay for the needs of your people. There is need to have the right people at the right time and at the right place; so that we can do the right things like eliminating corruption. How has out-of-pocket-spending affected Nigerians? More people are dying now from nutritional and health issues because prices of drugs have tripled yet our income has not tripled. Where the system is properly organised, everybody will be on health insurance but here everybody is on his own. The insurance that is more than ten years old is just covering about 2.8 per cent of Nigerians. We invest in health we will contribute but we need to have a system where if I contribute that system should be able to use it efficiently to my health and that system is  the social insurance scheme where everybody will be catered for. It is done in all Europe, Ghana has started it, Rwanda and other countries are doing it. So, why can’t we do it. Nigeria is about the only country where you can buy any drugs at the counter, even in the Republic of Benin you cannot if it is not prescribed but here you can buy anything off the counter. It shouldn’t be that way. It is a systematic collapse and nobody is doing anything about it. Nobody wants the system to work because somehow some people are benefitting from it. There are vested interests everywhere in this country that things should not work and until we break ourselves from these vested interests, things will not work. This omission and commission we make in the health sector kills people. If we go in terms of health statistics Nigeria seems to be worst. Even small countries are all better than us because we are not making the appropriate investments. If we aggregate the amount we spend on health in the public sector they may be huge but through which holes do they go and why should people be paying out-of-pocket to pay for their health. Nigeria expends $1bn dollar on health tourism annually. How do we put an end to this? It is true and I think that is an understatement of how much, I think it is about five times more. Nigeria flies all over the world and it is fixed to the quality of health care delivery and Ghana doesn’t have that. In fact they are setting up health tourism now where they expect Nigerians to come to. At the end of the day you want to live and if you can’t get what you want you go for alternatives in the private sector including herbalists, churches.