P articipants from Senegal, UK, South Africa, Canada, Brazil, Ghana, Portugal and Nigeria are expected in the 2019 edition of Lagos Fringe International Festival.   The six-day festival, organised in partnership with Multichoice Nigeria, British Council Nigeria, Freedom Park and the Alliance Francaise, is scheduled to take place on 19-24 November 2019 at various venues across the city of Lagos.  The second edition of the multidisciplinary open access arts festival is scheduled to take place in two separate venues; the first venue will be the Alliance Francaise/Mike Adenuga Centre which will present a programme curated with the idea to celebrate Women in the Arts and Creative Transitions for the Performing arts culture in Lagos. The programme will include an official festival launch ceremony, live shows and plays, panel discussions, playwriting classes, screening of short films and documentary films that were selected from local and international film makers. “The film screenings and performances at this venue will be free to the public for 19 and 20 November 2019. All non-English films will have subtitles. The    second venue will be Freedom Park – segmented into 15 mini venues which will present a very exciting programme that includes seminars and conference on topics regarding Arts & Health with Julian Caddy CEO Brighton Fringe, Rea Mokone; a representative from our partner Vrystaat Arts Festival South Africa and the British Council. The discussions will tackle practices which bring together the skills of both Arts & Health professionals. The venue will also be a home to film screenings and performances in music, spoken word, games, talent shows, alternative music concert, comedy and plays from 21 to 24 November 2019.”   The Festival Director, Kenneth Uphopho who is also a founding member of the Guild of Theatre Directors noted that “since last year, the participants and show producers at the Lagos Fringe Festival have consistently brought together a wide variety of eye catching plays and bold new works that remove barriers between actor and audience, creatively using space and intimate storytelling to intensify the audience experience. The events are always presented in repurposed spaces and not necessarily focused on the conventional. Lagos Fringe Festival productions are timely and relevant, whether free or ticketed, inspiring a sense of community/ownership, engaging conversation, and prompting audiences to reflect on the stories long after they have left the venues”   The 2019 Lagos Fringe Festival will also be presenting awards to deserving members of the creative industry who have distinguished themselves as advocates in their respective fields. The members of the Lagos Fringe Advisory Board are the Jury which will review all the shortlisted candidates– that are in-competition and announce the winners of the Lagos Fringe Awards at the Official Launch Ceremony.   There is also a cash prize to be won at the Lagos Fringe CentreStage Open Mic talent show. The goal of the prize is to raise awareness for the festival and inspire standards for young aspiring local performers.   The Fringe Producer, Brenda Fashugba said: “We are revolutionizing the creative industry with the introduction of the Lagos Fringe CentreStage talent show. From our early days of developing the theatre festival till now, our objectives have been reinforced on the development of capacity and education for the young and aspiring creative. We encourage collaboration and co creation among artistes, professional and amateurs. We are focused on fostering a community of daring creatives that will lead the world in innovation in the arts and consistently create breathtaking experiences across all genres.”   Lagos Fringe is an initiative of the Performing Arts Workshop & Studios (PAWSTUDIOS), a media and productions company based in Lagos, run by Kenneth & Brenda.sss