…orders C’ttee to relate with confirmed Board  The Senate, yesterday, rejected outright, the continued existence and operation of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), headed by Dr. Joy Yimebe Nunieh. Consequently, the apex legislative chamber said that it would henceforth, have nothing to do with the IMC of the Commission, thereby, directing its Committee on NDDC to relate with the Board it confirmed recently. The Senate insisted that the 15-member Governing Board, whose nominations by President Muhammadu Buhari, were approved by the Red Chamber, should be recognised to relate with the National Assembly. The Upper Chamber made the declaration following the forwarding of the 2019/2020 budget of the Commission, received from President Buhari on Tuesday, to its standing committee on NDDC for consideration and approval. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, after approval by Senators through voice votes for the budget to be forwarded to the Committee on NDDC, warned that only the approved board should be recognised for that purpose. “The Senate Committee on NDDC should ensure that only the 15-member Governing board forwarded to the Senate by Mr President, screened and approved by us , should be   related with as far the  budget of  the  agency is concerned and other official matters”, he said. He further directed the Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (PDP, Delta North)-led Committee to expeditiously engage the recognised board on the budget proposals and submit its report in two weeks. Those in the NDDC Governing board recognised by the Senate are: Dr Pius Odubu from Edo State as Chairman; Bernard Okumagba from Delta as Managing Director; Engr. Otobong Ndem from Akwa Ibom State as Executive Director, Projects and Maxwell Oko from Bayelsa as Executive Director, Finance and Admin. Others are: Prophet Jones Erue from Delta, member, Victor Ekhator from Edo, member, Nwogu Nwogu from Abia State, member, Theodore Allison from Bayelsa, member, Victor Antai from Akwa Ibom, member and Maurice Effiwatt from Cross River, member. Other members of the board include: Olugbenga Edema from Ondo State, Uchegbu Kyrian from Imo State, Aisha Murtala Muhammed from Kano State, Shuaibu Ardo Zubairu from Adamawa State and Ambassador Abdullahi Bage from Nasarawa State. Buhari had, on Tuesday, forwarded to the Senate through a letter dated November 21, 2019, the 2019/2020 NDDC budget. However, immediately after the letter was read, the Senate Minority Leader, Senator  Enyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia South), drew the attention of his colleagues to the fact that members of the NDDC board duly confirmed by the Senate were yet to resume official duty. Rising under Order 43 of the Senate Standing Rules, Abaribe said that the failure of the executive to swear in members of the board confirmed by the Senate might threaten early consideration and quick passage of the 2019/2020 budget of the Commission. He added that the Interim Committee of the NDDC, led by Dr. Joy Nunieh, “is an illegal contraption that lacks the backing of law to defend the commission’s budget”. “Having regard to the fact that this Senate has confirmed members of the board of the NDDC and they are yet to resume office. “I fear that we may run into a problem of delayed budget again since nobody will come to defend this budget. This Senate, having confirmed the board of the NDDC, will not countenance any illegal contraption coming to represent NDDC. “To prevent a late budget for NDDC that is helping Nigeria on revenue and development of the region, it will be better for us to prevent this issue from coming.” In his comment, Lawan, who sustained Abaribe’s point of order in his ruling said, “We are receiving the budget of the NDDC for the year 2020 at the right time. “This is the first time ever, and this is a good sign that we are operating on the same frequency with the executive arm of government; that we are in a hurry to deal with matters of the budget because it is an issue that will bring about development in the country. “As far as we are concerned, this Senate knows that we have confirmed the request of Mr. President on the board membership of the NDDC, and we have communicated that. “The next logical thing to do by law is for the appointments of the members of the board to take immediate effect. I believe that the executive arm of government will attend to that quickly so that we have the right people to defend the appropriation request of Mr. President.”