Members of the federal parliament are currently debating finance draft bill forwarded recently to them by President Muhammadu Buhari.  Abdulwahab Isa, in this report, examines contents of the legislation aimed at deepening tax collection and encouraging investments  Sourcing revenue to finance budget is a headache for government. Overtime, government had depended on oil revenue to fund substantial portion of fiscal budget. Often too, government gets disappointed with the outcome from oil derived    revenue. This is because both crude oil price and the quantity produced are beyond government control. To fill the deficit gap created by reliance on oil revenue, government is exploring alternative revenue sources in taxes and other non-oil sectors to fund future budgets. The paradigm shift from oil to tax revenue has begun with introduction of finance draft bill pending before members of the parliament. For the first time in Nigeria, means to funding  every budget would be articulated by a piece of legislation to be submitted along with fiscal budget document to  members of the parliament. Presenting the 2020 budget proposal to the joint sitting of the National Assembly on October 8 2019, President Muhammadu  Buhari pledged among others, to forward finance bill that will ensure  optimal funding of the budget. Beyond the hike in Value Added Tax (VAT), which finance bill espouses, one important area the finance draft bill is targeting is broadening incentives for infrastructure  and investment in the capital markets. For tax reforms, the bill envisages a number of reviews. These include Company Income Tax Act, 2004 to broaden domestic taxation earned by non-resident companies in Nigeria through dependent agents and online market platforms. Value Added Tax Act, 2007, which seeks to improve the efficiency of Nigeria’s VAT system, expand VAT coverage by addressing critical issues such as taxation of digital economy, VAT registration thresholds etc, Customs and Excise Tariff (Consolidation) Act, 2004, to subject certain imported goods to excise duties in a similar manner with locally manufactured counterparts, Personal Income Tax Act, 2007 (as amended) to provide clarity and efficiency in the administration of individual income taxes in Nigeria; Capital Gains Tax Act, 2007 to prevent abuse of the provisions of the Act on group restructuring. Stamp Duties Act, 2007 to increase revenue generation from duties on electronic stamps. Tax for budget funding The very many complex dynamics associated with crude oil revenue have made its reliance very unpredictable in funding budget. Over the years, eggheads crafting the budget have had cause to go back to the drawing board to either tinker with the crude oil price benchmark for oil or alter production quantity forecast all together due to sudden changes not fathomed. It’s a recurring scenario with previous budgets anchored on revenue from crude oil.  Taxes are not only predictable; their targeted assumptions are always surpassed. The finance bill when passed into law will permit government to raise the country’s VAT from five per cent to 7.5 per cent.  Unlike oil revenue whose  volatile and unpredictable nature easily have telling effect on the budget, thus making revenue target unrealistic, tax revenue is always met and surpassed. For instance, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) had set tax revenue collection target of N8.3 trillion for 2019, a higher collection figure from N5.32 trillion realised in 2018. The agency collected N1.11 trillion through VAT in 2018, N972.30 billion in 2017 and N828.19 billion in 2016. E-stamp duties collection alone stood at N15.66 billion in 2018. The amount from VAT collection would be much higher with percentage increase in VAT to 7.5 per cent as envisaged by finance bill. Justifying the hike in VAT, the President said:  “The draft finance bill proposes an increase of the VAT rate from five per cent to 7.5 per cent. As such, the 2020 appropriation bill is based on this new VAT rate. The additional revenues will be used to fund health, education and infrastructure programmes . “As the states and local governments are allocated 85 per cent of all VAT revenues, we expect to see greater quality and efficiency in their spending in these areas as well.” However, he added that not all items were to be surcharged with VAT. According to him, the VAT Act already exempts pharmaceuticals, educational items, and basic commodities, saying the exemptions are being expanded under the Finance Bill, 2019. President Buhari listed specific items that would be exempted from the proposed VAT to brown and white bread; cereals including maize, rice, wheat, millet, barley and sorghum; Fish of all kinds; flour and starch meals. Other items, according to him, are fruits, nuts, pulses and vegetables of various kinds; Roots such as yam, cocoyam, sweet and Irish potatoes; meat and poultry products including eggs; milk; salt and herbs of various kinds; and natural water and table water. According to the president, the bill has five strategic objectives of promoting fiscal equity, reforming domestic tax laws and raising revenue. He said government intended to raise the threshold for VAT registration to N25 million in turnover per annum, such that the revenue authorities can focus their compliance efforts on larger businesses, thereby bringing relief to Micro, Small and Medium-sized businesses. “It is absolutely essential to intensify our revenue generation efforts, “ he said. Providing perspective to the debate on the bill recently, Senate Majority Leader, Sen. Abdullahi Yahaya (Kebbi), added that beyond VAT increment, the finance draft bill also aimed at providing incentives for investments in infrastructure and capital markets. Mitigating investment risks The finance draft bill isn’t all about VAT hike and taxes. It has other laudable provisions, which include attracting investment into infrastructure and the capital market. Speaking recently in Abuja at the Business Day Investment and Capital Market Conference, which had as theme: Market Recovery, Innovation and Regulation in Nigeria,” Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, noted that  aside from tax reforms,  finance draft bill is also meant to complement existing Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations for securities lending transactions on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). “On tax laws, we reconstituted the National Tax Policy Implementation Committee (NTPIC) to review various tax laws and produce a single draft Finance Bill 2019 to support FGN’s 2020 budget.  This strategic objective recognizes the crucial relationship between fiscal policy, the regulatory environment and the strong capital market we all seek to ensure in Nigeria. “We plan that, going forward, the annual budget will always be accompanied by finance bills to enable the realisation of revenue projections. Future finance bills will therefore also provide us with additional opportunities to incrementally improve the fiscal policy and regulatory/legal environment in order to further strengthen our domestic capital market, and ultimately ensure sustained and inclusive growth and development,” she stated. Highlighting the priorities and economic agenda of the ministry, Ahmed said: “Integral to achieving our collective goals under the 11 priority areas is the need for a significant push towards mobilising domestic revenues, increased coordination and alignment of fiscal, macroeconomic, monetary, and trade policies, and the prudent management of emerging fiscal risks.” She disclosed government’s readiness to continue to innovate in domestic capital market to guarantee transparent conduct of market transactions. She listed five priorities areas of the ministry under her watch to include enhancing revenue generation, collection, monitoring through continued implementation of the strategic revenue growth initiatives (SRGI); reconciliation and monitoring of revenues by the Presidential Revenue Monitoring and Reconciliation Committee;  review of current tax laws and development targeted at fiscal policy reforms to coincide with the annual budget cycle; and the deployment of innovative information communication technology (ICT) solutions such as the Ministry’s ‘Project Lighthouse’ aimed at leveraging and mining big data to enhance revenue tracking for informed decision-making. Last line Currently being debated by members of National Assembly, the finance draft bill is a deserved legislation that will complement existing capital market regulation and recovery, attract investment in infrastructure and more importantly, expand Nigeria’s existing tax revenue base.