…heads NACCIMA committee on dumping of toxic vehicles  I nnoson Vehicles Manufacturing Company’s third plant and most advanced and automated; has opened in Nnewi, Anambra State. This came as the Chief Executive Officer of Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Co Ltd, Chief Innocent Chukwuma has been appointed head of the Automobile Committee of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) against dumping of obsolete and toxic vehicles into the country.  The President of NACCIMA, Hajiya Saratu Iya – Aliyu dropped this hint at the official commissioning of INNOSON Vehicle’s ultra-modern automated production line Nnewi, Anambra State.   She said “the essence is to monitor and inspect vehicles being imported into the country and ensure that the country does not become dumping ground for used and obsolete vehicles.   “When you look at the vehicles being imported into the country as fairly used you cannot clearly confirm that those vehicles are good enough for our people and you cannot be sure that it would last so Innoson being a manufacturer is in a better position to find out if those vehicles still have life in them,” she said.   She urged the Federal and State governments as well as the private sector to ensure that there is a conducive environment for business like Innoson to flourish, adding that it holds potentials for job creation and reduction of unemployment as well as contribute to the Gross Domestic Product and fast track industrialisation economy.   Speaking earlier, Chief Innocent Chukwuma said: “The major attendant benefit of this automated plant is that it will definitely reduce production cost. I am glad to announce that this newly installed plant has successfully reduced the cost of a brand new 15-17 seater Hummer bus from N16 million to N9 million.   “We intend to duplicate the success of this production line to other production lines. We shall not stop until an average Nigerian can comfortably purchase a brand new vehicle,” he said.   Recall that second hand and fairly used vehicles dealers across the country recently protested what they described as uncontrolled flow dumping of obsolete vehicles in the country, lamenting that Nigerians are being ripe-off. They added that such vehicles are a threat to the lives of Nigerians.