President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent remarks at the 2019 Farmers’ Day in Obie, Rivers State, that local farmers are now the driving force behind the country’s self-sufficiency in food production and also saving the country billions of dollars spent on food importation, have divided Nigerian farmers. Taiwo Hassan reports   On paper, the country’s agriculture sector is manifesting semblance of growth following the current administration’s advocacy to prioritise it since assuming office in 2015. There is no doubt, Nigerians have to given kudos to President Muhammadu Buhari for taking bold step to resuscitate the economy around through agriculture, manufacturing and solid minerals, as attention shifts to non-oil sector. In order to justify the administration’s patronage and support for Nigeria’s agriculture value chain, the Federal Government took some far-reaching policy decisions; both fiscal and monetary to bring about the ‘change mantra’ in the sector by ensuring it becomes the lead enabler of the country’s economy. Not done yet, the administration went as far as to close the country’s borders with her neighbours. With the current situation, one could say that the Buhari administration has done well to right the wrong in the country’s agric sector in line with its diversification agenda to promote non-oil sector. Amid these efforts, one fact that cannot be taken away is that many Nigerian farmers are still struggling to align with the changes in the sector, except for only rice farmers, who are reaping from the restructuring. This has led to some divergent views among members of All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), who are of the view that the administration is pushing for rice at the detriment of other crops. Farmers/herdsmen crisis The fallout of the incessant attacks by herders on farmers has rendered many of them homeless with destruction of their farms. To some of the farmers, it is an exaggeration for the president to say all Nigerian farmers are enjoying his patronage and support for agriculture and also contributing to food sufficiency in the country. In fact, the administration is fully aware that the incessant attacks by herders on farmers have been a national issue that is posing a great threat to food production in the country. Realistically, it is alarming that the administration has not deemed it fit to reward affected farmers who suffered in the hands of Fulani herders with many of them abandoning their farmlands for safety. Floods This year, there was threat to the country’s food production following havoc caused by ravaging floods on many farmland. No doubt, the rising cost of food items nationwide has also cast doubt on the administration’s commitment to the development of the country’s agriculture sector. Besides, many of the farmers have complained to government for compensation are helpless as no sign of bailout in sight. In fact, many of the flood victims are still struggling even though the Federal Government has always assured that it will continue to support Nigerian farmers by providing financial assistance to affected farmers in case of disasters. Buhari’s position President Buhari had lauded Nigerian farmers for their efforts toward ensuring that Nigeria attains food security, while also saving the country billions of dollars spent yearly on food importation. He said this while speaking at the 2019 Farmers’ Day in Obie, Rivers State, recently, saying that farmers are the driving force behind the country’s self-sufficiency in food production. Buhari said: “Agriculture guarantees employment to millions of people, particularly the youth, engenders better living standards, enhances the income of people, and ensures food security.” Savings He said that the funds saved on food importation were deployed in other developmental projects, particularly infrastructure and that farmers are the country’s present and future authentic heroes. President Buhari noted that the Nigerian economy in 2015 was in a perilous state, with oil prices crashing internationally and many other challenges daunting the nation, but agriculture had come to save the day. According to him, the agriculture sector has insulated the Nigerian economy against recession, stating that the economy no longer crashes anytime oil prices dangle in the international market. Fortunes He also stressed that farming had brought fortune to millions of Nigerians, who embraced it. “The real wealth of the country lies primarily in farming, livestock, foresting and fisheries,” he said. President Buhari, while stating that Nigeria has been blessed with abundant rains and good harvests in the past four seasons, urged farmers to take precaution against bad harvest. Last line However, agric stakeholders are saying that it is not yet uhuru for many Nigerian farmers and that only those  into rice business are reaping from the administration, thereby casting doubt on the true position of the country’s welfare for farmers.