An aspirant for the position of the National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Samaila Dahuwa spoke to select journalists on the state of the party. He said the party would field an acceptable candidate in 2023 presidential election. JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM was there and reports   Why do you think Bauchi State should produce the National Secretary, when your state seems to be in the hands of the opposition?   Like I said last time, my view about political party office is different from political office. Party office is given or allocated in order to give the party political advantage because the main essence of any political party is winning election. If it doesn’t matter, there will be no internal democracy. Having said that, the reason why Bauchi is now agitating for the position of National Secretary is simply because Bauchi State is now a highly disadvantaged political state.   As you all know Bauchi State used to be an APC state which was at the forefront of electing Mr. President, giving him the highest votes in almost all his elections. But all of a sudden due to some reasons Bauchi suddenly became at the governorship level, a PDP state, but I want you to know that the Senate, the House of Representative and the State House of Assembly all belong to the APC. This is the reason we said they should give us the National Secretary position so that we will have a point where our politicians will rally around and take back our mandate at least come 2023.   We all know that as it stands today in the whole region, Bauchi State is the most disadvantaged state. We don’t have any position at the National Working Committee level. We don’t have any position in the leadership of the National Assembly; at least we don’t have it now.   We also don’t have any of our leading politician holding any position in this government and you know the politicians are actual foot soldiers; they are the people that go round the villages, communities canvassing for votes and if you don’t have a politician around with a position of authority and influence that the politicians can rally around him, very easily our opponent can take that position. Don’t forget PDP is working round the clock in order to make sure it entrenches its successes because these successes and all they are doing is gearing towards 2023.   As someone who has an interest in administering the party at the secretariat level, one would like to know what you think are presently the challenges of the party after the 2019 elections?   Well, you see after the election and indeed it is normal for political parties to have rancour and challenges especially after winning elections and I don’t think what is going on in APC today is any different from what has been going on in all the parties in Nigeria when they are in government. So that is not a main problem and I don’t think it is right to say that there is any serious problem in APC in terms of leadership.   However, the fact that our last National Secretary has left, he has done his best and we are just here clamouring to come and fill in his large shoes, to continue with the good works he started.  I don’t think we have any serious problem in terms of leadership that is different from any other party and don’t forget leadership is more challenging when you win the election and no one admits your successes but concentrate more on your shortcomings.   So shortcomings are normal and I don’t think we should dwell on our shortcomings. We want to reposition ourselves so that we can face the shortcomings and prepare for 2023. The last time I spoke to the media I told them 2023 won’t be an easy ride for APC because a lot of politicians rode on the back of President Muhammadu Buhari’s integrity, honest and the respect most Nigerians have for him but in 2023 such thing won’t exist.   It is very important we start to strategise now. The first thing is to put our house in order, all the positions that are not filled we should endeavour to fill them with prominent APC faithful that can do it and we move on.   Six months after the general election 2023 is already being discussed within APC, PDP and all the political parties. When are Nigerians going to benefit from the last election?   Let me say that unfortunately the government in Nigeria is the prime mover of the economy and despite all the efforts Mr. President has put in for us to be self-reliant and stop depending on government. However, there are some loopholes we are yet to address and because of that everybody wants to be in government; everyone wants to get political appointment and four years is nothing for people. They just want to get it and they can start working for it from today. As long as the people depend heavily on government clamouring political offices will continue. Secondly, the other part of your question I don’t think it would be fair to say that we haven’t been seeing the result of what we have elected. Nigeria and Nigerians will be fair to accept that Nigeria is not what it used to be. A lot of things have changed.   All the indices of development, security, economy and other things have improved but we have a long way to go. We are not saying we are there, we are trying and the government is trying and I believe very soon, things will pick up again. We have just heard what the President just came back from Russia with and how things will pick up. I think we need to be patient a little, the foundation has been laid. Our hope and prayer is that we will not allow this development to be truncated.   You struck a good point when you said the image of President Buhari will not help anybody in 2023. How best do you think the party would be in fighting shape to retain leadership ahead of 2023?   It is just that we in Nigerians easily forget things, but if we remember where Nigeria has been before. Even to sit down and be talking the way we are talking now is almost impossible five years ago, everyone was so afraid even afraid of their next door neighbour. All those things have changed. Changing from the situation we found ourselves to a better situation is not going to be easy; it is going to be difficult. Don’t forget that they are working day and night to discredit any kind of gains that this government has achieved. We have achieved a lot and all you need to tell any Nigerian are: Do you want to go back to the days of bombing? Do you want to go back to the era of importation left, right and centre? Do you want to go back to the era of insecurity and despondency? And I believe everyone would say no. We have a lot to say to Nigerians that we must not go back to that situation. What do you think is the best route for the APC to take in choosing its next presidential candidate for 2023 in terms of zoning?   Well, I don’t think it is time to start talking of where the presidency should go to. What I can only say to you now with all honesty is that APC will field the best candidate that will win election for the party and will be accept to all Nigerians. That I can tell you without any doubt but I think it isn’t time for us to talk about where the presidency is going to be zoned to but I think we should position ourselves so that we can effectively bring in a candidate that will be acceptable to all Nigerians. As a party chieftain, you are aware that there is zoning in the party offices. We are made to understand that the North-East the position of National Secretary is zoned between Yobe and Borno and not your state, which is Bauchi?   Positions were zoned to the North-East and they were divided within the North-East through consensus. Now the condition that led to all those decisions are no longer there and since the conditions have ceased to exist we believe those zoning agreements have also ceased to exist.   As I said earlier, party offices are zoned in order to give the party political advantage. I will give you an example, when the National Youth Leader position in the APC was zoned to Bauchi and Gombe, we the people of Bauchi decided without anybody asking to tell the people of Gombe to take the position of the National Youth leader and at that time Bauchi State had APC government and Gombe State had PDP government.   We believe in giving the position to Gombe will facilitate and give emphasis to the party in the state to work hard and take the government which they did and was actually positive. What we are saying in Bauchi now is as it stands Yobe State has government and Senate government, Borno State where APC is in government apart from other appointments produce the Chief Whip of the House of Representatives. Gombe State where APC is in government, produced National Youth Leader of the APC, Adamawa State doesn’t have APC government but it produced the National Vice Chairman of APC and they also produced the Secretary to the Government of the Federation as a politician.   Let me conclude by saying you can lose Kano State or Lagos State and still win the presidency of the country. Since Tafa Balewa up till today there has never been a candidate that won presidency without winning Bauchi State.   Can you assess the government of Bala Mohammed in your state? How would you compare it to the immediate past APC government?   He hasn’t done anything well. I want you to know that Bala Mohammed has won a rigged election. He has won as the tribunal level now but we have appealed the judgment. I won’t like to talk about it now because it is in court. All I know is that we lost Bauchi State because we were rigged out and we didn’t do anything because we are law abiding citizens. APC won in 15 out 20 local government areas and lost elections in only five local governments and lost the whole election which is not something that you can mathematically say is possible. Would you say that the rumoured presidential aspiration of APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu, is right and proper?   Nigeria is nation that is premised on the principle of federal character by our founding fathers and proponents of democracy and these principles, though not directly enshrined in our constitution made our nation balanced, considering the multi-Ethnic nature of our nation.   It is unfortunate that this principle has been trampled upon by the present administration just like other things has been changed.