Children of the late Women Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mrs Salome Abuh, who was reportedly killed by hoodlums in a post-election violence in Kogi State, has said it was painful they only saw their mothers’ ashes and skull. The first child of the slain women leader, Mrs Tavershima Eikojonwa, while addressing newsmen during a protest organised by Womanifesto on Friday in Abuja, said it was saddening and terrible not to know how their mother died. According to her, the late Abuh who she described as agile, full of life, hospitable, a philanthropist and an influencer, did not deserve to die the brutal way she did.Eikojonwa, who called on President Muhammadu Buhari, to give justice to the slain PDP women leader and her family, urged women not to be deterred from venturing into politics as they need a voice to stand for them. She said: “Indeed she was my mum and she deserves this. The way she died was uncalled for and I pray justice be given to these women for the sake of late honorable Mrs Salome. We were not there; she was in our family house in the village. All I was told was that the family house was on fire and no one could tell where she was. They only found a burnt skull with ashes there. She was physically a woman but she was 10 men in a woman. “We can’t even say how she died; it’s terrible. President Buhari please arise for us, don’t be comfortable in your seat, let there be justice for Salome and the entire Abuh family.” The Convener, Womanifesto and Executive Director of Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC), Dr. Abiola Akiyode- Afolabi, who led women to tender a five-demand Womanifesto to the Minister of Women Affairs, called on government to declare a state of emergency on violence against women in the country. According to her, the five demands cover the issues of violence against women, women political participation, women peace and security, sexual and reproductive right, women and poverty and above all, Justice for the late Salome Abuh, and an increase in the annual budget for the Ministry of Women Affairs. “For almost two years we have been talking together as women in Nigeria. The first demand we are making is the need for government to increase the budget of the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs to be able to work effectively. “Secondly is that there is the need to declare a state of emergency on violence against women in Nigeria. We are also concerned about the situation of the IDPs. So, we want the minister to strengthen her efforts, we know she is doing a lot but we still need more so that the women can have their lives back. On women political participation there is a need for us to move further.” Addressing the protesters, the Minister of Women Affair, Mrs Pauline Tallen, said the President, who was worried over the violence that trailed the Kogi governorship poll, which led to the death of Mrs Abuh, was committed to ensuring that the perpetrators of the brutal act were brought to book. Tallen further assured the women that the five demands as contained in the Womanifesto were already being addressed by President Buhari and the ministry, to ensure justice and equal participation for women. She said: “I want to state clearly that Mr President is committed to see that the five issues are addressed. The issue of our sister, Salome that was killed brutally in Kogi State some few days back, Mr President responded condemning it. “Mr President is very worried and committed to this matter and he has made a statement and is fully committed to seeing that justice is done to this issue and similar issues. “The five demands presented to me in this Womanifesto; I want to assure you that I will address it and follow it judiciously. Already, I have got the nod of the president and all the issues here are being addressed and we will make everything possible to make sure that we stem the tide.”