The Lagos State Government, yesterday, ordered street traders, squatters, occupiers of shanties and commercial vehicles presently on the stretch of outer Marina to immediately vacate the area or get arrested. Among those dislodged were occupants and traders along the State House Marina to the Pedestrians Bridge at Apongbon. They were all given next week to vacate the premises or face the wrath of the law. The State Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr Tunji Bello, who gave the order, in a statement, said the State Government through the Lagos State Parks and Garden Agency would commence work on the beautification and landscaping of the whole stretch of outer Marina. Bello, who said that it has become expedient to clear the area, added that operatives of the State Task Force of Environmental and Special Offences, will move to the area next week and commence enforcement of the state laws on all offenders, including commercial vehicles that stop and pick passengers indiscriminately in Marina. Bello urged all commercial vehicle operators in Marina to henceforth move their vehicles to the designated Park in Marina, warning that any vehicle seen picking, dropping passengers as well as those stopping at the foot of the bridge along the road in Marina, causing traffic snarl, will be towed away and the owners prosecuted. Bello said that officials of the State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) would be deployed to the location to arrest anyone who endangers his life by crossing the road. He emphasised that the State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, intends to restore the greenery and beautified nature of the whole stretch of Marina, just as he intends to do to all parts of the state. He added: “The State Task Force on Environmental and Special Offences will soon be moving to Ikoyi and Victoria Island to clean up the areas of environmental nuisances.” He restated his warning to street traders in all different parts of the state that no area would be left out of enforcement by the present administration.