A 20-year-old man, Gabriel Chimaeze, yesterday, stabbed his townsman, Kelechi Onyekachi, to death over the ownership of an MP3 Media Music player. Chimaeze and Onyekachi, both in their twenties, were both apprentices and both came from Ibeme community in Obingwa Local Government of Abia State. It was gathered that Chimaeze had confronted Onyekachi, claiming that the Media Music Player (MP3) in dispute, belonged to him. He insisted that he must collect it from the deceased. Onyekachi, who lived in the same compound with Chimaeze at No. 204 Ikot Ekpene Road, Ehere, Ogbor Hill, was said to have resisted the suspect’s move and a fight ensued. During the fight, Chimaeze, a mechanic apprentice grabbed a knife and stabbed Onyekachi in the stomach. Onyekachi happened to be the only son of his parents, who are based in Calabar, Cross River State. The deceased, a wielding apprentice, collapsed and was later rushed to the nearest hospital. He died on the way to the hospital. Chimaeze was immediately arrested by policemen from Azuka Police Station and presently being detained. The roommate of the late Onyekachi, who simply gave his name as Promise Sunday, told our correspondent that before the incident, there was a cold war between the suspect and the deceased. Sunday said: “Before today’s (Monday) incident, the two young men had always been quarrelling and threatening to kill each other over every minor incident. The present quarrel, which took my room-mate’s life, was over MP3. Onyekachi had an MP3 Media Music Player and Chimaeze confronted him, insisting that it belonged to him. The deceased resisted Chimaeze’s move to collect it and a fight started.  The suspect reached for a knife and stabbed Onyekachi in the stomach. As we were taking him to hospital, he died.” The Abia State Commissioner of Police, Ene Okon, while confirming the incident, said the suspect had been arrested and moved to the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigations Department (SCIID), Umuahia, for further investigation and prosecution.