Operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Ikeja, Lagos State Police Command, have arrested two suspects, who were invited to kill a man at the Iyana-Ipaja area of the metropolis. The two suspects, Abbey Kolawole, (40) and Ikenna Eze (30) are also alleged to be members of Aiye and Eiye Confraternities. They were arrested by RSS on Friday night after a failed attempt to kill their target. According to the two suspects, they were invited for the assassination by one Femi, who is presently at large. The suspects were alleged to have trailed the victim to Iyana-Ipaja, where he was having a private discussion with a friend in a vehicle. The victim and his friend had locked themselves in the car before the suspects got there. According to Eze, Femi, the leader of gang, brandishing a gun, ordered the occupants to alight from the car but they refused. Eze continued: “He shot into the air, and threatened to shoot the occupants. He was attempting to fire the second shot when the locally made double barrel gun got jammed.” The sound of the gunshot, attracted residents, who came out to check what was happening. The robbers fled in different directions, leaving the gun. While Femi escaped, Kolawole and Eze were not so lucky. They were caught by residents, who handed them over to RRS Operatives that had responded to distress call. Eze said: “It was Femi, who invited us out to the house of a resident of Shagari Estate, at Iyana-Ipaja, with the intent of killing him. One of the occupants of the vehicle had threatened to kill Femi. The man we came to attack, had earlier besieged Femi’s residence in Agege Abattoir in company of cult members and threatened to kill him. Femi, in retaliation, wanted to maim the man first. Our plan was to first shoot his leg, but after firing the first shot into the air, the gun got jammed. And before Femi could reload, residents had converged and moved toward us. Femi knew the terrain and escape, but we, total strangers in the community, were arrested.” Recovered from the suspects were a locally made double barrel gun cut to size, three live cartridges and one expended cartridge. Commenting on the development, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, thanked members of Shagari Estate, Ipaja for cooperating with the police in the arrest of the robbers. He urged communities in the state to partner with the police in crime fighting. The suspects have been transferred to Gowon Estate Police Station, Ipaja.