O peratives of the Department of State Services (DSS) yesterday dispersed protesters the Aso Drive area of Abuja, calling for the release of the convener of #Revolution Now, Mr. Omoyele Sowore.     Reports say the operatives, who arrived in their numbers, had allegedly fired tear gas canisters, forcing the protesters to scamper in different directions.   Security within and around the headquarters of the secret service (Yellow House), was said to have been beefed up, to avoid any untoward situation.    DSS officials reportedly attacked rights activists and journalists with live ammunition.   A Guardian Newspaper reporter, Oludare Richards, was also assaulted by the masked and heavily armed operatives.   The leader of the protesters, Deji Adeyanju, said the DSS operatives fired live ammunition at the protesters for demanding that the agency should obey court order.   He said: “We were attacked in a barbaric manner. This can only happen in a nation where the rule of law means nothing.”  Adeyanju, in a previous statement he issued, had accused the DSS of playing to the gallery for refusing to obey valid court order to release Sowore.   He said: “For the umpteenth time, the DSS has failed to release Mr. Omoyele Sowore and Olawale Bakare despite two valid court orders served on them to do so.   “Despite the embarrassing and unprofessional statement credited to the DSS, Nigerians, comprising of activists, lawyers, families, friends and citizens came out on Saturday morning to receive the duo. As expected, but quite unfortunate, the DSS yet again failed to release them, under the excuse that we came on a weekend.”   Sowore, who is also the publisher of Sahara Reporters, is facing a seven-count charge bordering on treasonable felony and money laundering.   The protesters wanted Sowore released from the custody of the DSS, based on an order made by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court in Abuja.   The DSS had disclosed that steps were being taken to comply with the order; even as it also expressed concerns that nobody had come forward to take Sowore.   The DSS Public Relations Officer (PRO), Dr. Peter Afunanya, said in statement that nobody had come for Sowore.   He said: “The Department of State Services (DSS) wishes to confirm that it has received the court order for the release of Omoyele Sowore.  “It is important that the public notes that since the receipt of the order, no person has turned up at the DSS to take delivery of him. This becomes imperative for reasons of accountability.     “The court has been properly briefed on this development and the steps being taken to ensure compliance with its order.”   The DSS did not respond to request to confirm the dispersal of the protesters.