R esearchers in the United Kingdom (UK) have found an innovative blood test that could help detect breast cancer five years before any symptoms become apparent.  The findings were presented at the 2019 National Cancer Research Institute conference, which took place in Glasgow this year.  Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women globally. Latest World Health Organisation (WHO) data shows that globally, there were over two million new cases of breast cancer and over 600,000 deaths from the disease, in 2018. Every day, Nigeria records 32 deaths from breast cancer.  However, most types of breast cancer are very treatable, and survival rates are high for those whose cancer doctors detect early and treat immediately. The problem especially in developing countries is that most are detected very late when it would be difficult to salvage the condition.  Recently, researchers from the University of Nottingham in the UK hypothesised that a blood test that screens for the presence of certain antibodies could help detect breast cancer early and easily.  They explained that when cancer is present, it produces antigens. These are substances that induce an immune response. The immune system then tries to counteract these substances by releasing autoantibodies, ‘The Medical News Today’ reported. So, the team started developing a blood test that would be able to detect those autoantibodies in the blood and indicate whether or not breast cancer is present.  They first developed panels of tumour-associated antigens (TAAs) specific to breast cancer. This allowed them to screen for the presence of autoantigens in blood that are associated with a response to breast cancer-specific TAAs.  For the new study, the researchers collected blood samples from 90 people with breast cancer and 90 volunteers without cancer (the controls). The team used specialised screening methods to look for autoantibodies generated against 40 TAAs they already knew were associated with blood cancer and 27 TAAs that were not known to have a link with this type of cancer.  According to study co-author, Daniyah Alfattani: “The results of our study showed that breast cancer does induce autoantibodies against panels of specific [TAAs].” Alfattani is a doctoral researcher at the University of Nottingham.  She added that they “were able to detect cancer with reasonable accuracy by identifying these autoantibodies in the blood.” This innovative blood test could help specialists detect the presence of breast cancer up to five years before any visible symptoms occur.  In total, the team developed three panels of TAAs that allowed them to screen for autoantibodies that respond to them. And, the investigators noted that the more TAAs present in a panel, the more accurate the blood test results.  The panel featuring five TAAs facilitated the correct detection of breast cancer in 29 per cent of the samples from people with breast cancer. It also confirmed the lack of breast cancer in 84 per cent of the samples from the control group.