 T he Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate in Saturday’s governorship election in Kogi State, Engr. Musa Wada, yesterday, rejected results so far announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).   Wada, at a press conference in Lokoja, described the election as not only a scam, but a replica of war orchestrated by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and security agents deployed to the state.   He decried a situation, where armed policemen led APC thugs to snatch ballot boxes and materials at areas where the APC was losing.   He, however, noted that he and his party have rejected the results and outcome of the election in its entirety.  His words: “As far as my party and I are concerned, this election is not only a scam, but more like a war because there was connivance between the ruling party and security agents to perpetuate widespread malpractices through intimidation of voters, snatching of ballot boxes, thereby subverting the will of the people.  “If this kind of election continues, I think there should be no need for election as just allowing people to come out to vote is a mere formality. What they did at the collation centres is not the true reflection of the electorate’s choice.”  Wada accused the Commissioner of Police in the state doing government’s bidding throughout the exercise.   “A situation where the Commissioner of Police in Kogi State had to go to a collation centre at Dekina and stayed there from 11p.m. of Saturday till morning of Sunday, going in and out, with mission unknown, I think he was there to carry out the APC’s directive,” he said.   Raising alarm on the result from Okene Local Government Area, where Governor Yahaya Bello hails from, the PDP candidate said the council has never produced the kind of figure it recorded during the poll.   His words: “Look at a place like Okene, with less than 50,000 accredited voters turning out 120,000 accredited voters. Never in the history of Okene has the place turned out 40,000 or 50,000 votes. There are lots cases they will answer at the tribunal and we are getting set to ensure that justice is done. Elections have been controversial since the coming of the APC in the country. They have taken us back to the dark days of 1999.”    Wada insisted that the entire results from the 21 local government areas of the state were not the true reflection of the people’s choice, adding that the results were written by the APC and accepted by INEC. According to him, true results from polling units across the state shows that he is the winner of the election.   “I, Engr. Musa Wada, won the November 16 gubernatorial election in Kogi State and I have all it takes to prove my case when the time comes.   “If they take away the fake results from Okene, Adavi and Okehi, of course the APC will not have come close to the votes I genuinely polled. They rigged the election with the votes of the Central Senatorial district,” he claimed.