L agos State government yesterday told owners of hotels, night clubs, leisure homes and religious centres shut for noise pollution to get approval from the Residents Associations of their host communities before they could be reopened.   It was learnt that with the new development, any night club bar, karaoke centre, church and mosque in the state shut owing to noise pollution will henceforth not be reopened until a letter of guarantee is issued on their behalf by the residents’ association of such area.   This is in addition to the other penalties and sanctions the shut centre must have been slammed with by the relevant agencies.   The Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello, said in a statement that the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) had been mandated to apply the full weight of the law on those engaged in noise pollution.   Bello said that on a continuous basis, LASEPA officials would be going round such centres/homes and anyone found to have exceeded the allowed level of sound output would be closed down and the appropriate sanctions applied.  He added that the action became imperative because his office had been inundated with complaints and petitions from many residents and residents’ associations all over the state about the obnoxious noise levels of many of the leisure centres and religious homes.   The commissioner explained that it was also discovered that many of such leisure centres/religious homes, after being reopened, usually go back to the same noise pollution for which they were earlier axed.   This, according to him, prompted the involvement of residents’ associations.   The commissioner advised the affected leisure centres to procure soundproof equipment which would lessen the decibel of sound going out when such leisure or religious homes engaged in business.  Bello emphasised that government would not allow any business concern to put the wellbeing of the residents at peril because it wanted to operate or be in business.