Chief Martin Onovo, the presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) during 2015 general election, in this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE speaks on the Supreme Court’s ruling in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari, governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states and 2023 presidency, among other issues   What is your take on the last week’s ruling of the Supreme Court, which affirmed the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari in the February 23 presidential election?  From the fundamental principles, we must insist that the Supreme Court is the final authority. We must also insist that justice must be done and must be seen to be done at all our courts and even more importantly, at the Supreme Court. Only the Supreme Court can reverse itself. No other authority can reverse a judgment of the Supreme Court. We must accept the judgment, whether we like it or not. We must insist that the Supreme Court must be respected. On the reasons for the judgment, it may be too early to express an opinion since the judgment has not been published yet. However, we suspect that it goes against the facts that we know, but we will wait for details of the judgment to confirm our suspicion.   Some of the facts include, the inability of President Buhari to show that he has the minimum academic qualification of West African Examinations Council (WAEC) or its equivalent to contest for the position; the issue of perjury over his certificate that even his own witness implied; the alarm raised by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) about the intimidation of the judiciary; the pre-election harassment of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, that led to his resignation; the pre-election polls conducted by independent organisations; the reports of local and foreign observers; the inability of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to demonstrate impartiality and transparency;  the refusal by INEC to allow full inspection of election materials equipment and records; the refusal by INEC to justify the disputed results.   Others are the impossible results published by INEC for Yobe, Katsina, Borno, Kaduna and Kano states; the mourning mood of the country after INEC announced the results; the reports we got from across the country through our monitors; the desperation of INEC to conceal the evidence in its server; the exit polls conducted by independent organisations; the weak defense presented by the ruling party; the irregular selection of the judges on the panel is also an issue for some opposition parties; the despondency and rejection that followed the ruling of the Supreme Court.   Prior to the judgment, Mr. Timi Frank, a former national officer of the ruling party alleged that, the justices on the panel were handpicked in connivance with the presidency to do the bidding of the presidency on the appeal. Also, most prominent international constitutional lawyer and legal colossus, Prof. Ben Nwabueze (SAN), has published that the judgment violates Section 36 of the Constitution and is therefore ‘null and void’   What do you think Nigerians should learn from the ruling of the Supreme Court?   We should re-learn from the ruling that the Supreme Court is the highest and final judicial authority in Nigeria. We should also re-learn that the Supreme Court is not infallible. We should re-learn that we must accept the authority of the Supreme Court and that we must promote separation of powers and not allow the executive arm to intimidate or suppress other arms of government.   With the ruling of the Supreme Court, which seems to have laid to rest issues surrounding the 2019 presidential elections, what is your advice to the ruling party and opposition party on the ruling?   All political parties must agree that we have no alternative to the Supreme Court. We must accept the ruling whether right or wrong. The judicial process is over.  The battle for 2023 seems to have started, considering the ongoing agitations on which zone should produce the next president. Should the president remain in North or should it come to South?  It may be too early to start the politics of 2023. Zoning of the presidency is a democratic requirement in Nigeria. It is practiced at all levels: village, ward, local government, state and federal. It is not a requirement of our laws. Representation of component units is very critical to every democracy. We believe in zoning. Many other heterogeneous countries also practice zoning.   Today in Nigeria, zoning has also become a moral imperative as regions that have benefitted from zoning have lost the moral voice to oppose those that have not benefitted. Since President Buhari is from the North, then if ever we have elections in 2023, then, a Southerner should take it. That Southerner should be from the South-East since both the South-West, which produced Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and the South-South, which produced Dr. Goodluck Jonathan have produced the president and the South-East has not.   You said South-East should produce the next president but the contest for presidency in the South for 2023 is now being agitated for by both South-West and South-East…   Categorically, the South-East should produce the president in 2023. It is clear that to minimize domination, minimizes political rivalry and tension, promote national cohesion and unity, uphold democratic representation, promote peace, ensure synergy and national development; the South-East should produce the president in 2023. Again, we should be more worried about integrity, justice and good governance now than about 2023. We can start to discuss 2023 in 2022.  But considering the voting population of the North and division in the South, do you see the North stopping the South from producing next president if both regions present formidable candidates for the election?   Some of the reported votes from the North are false. A good example is Borno State. Before the elections, the Shehu of Borno reported that, ‘Nobody can dare move out of Maiduguri by 10 kilometres without being confronted and attack by Boko Haram.’ After the elections, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo reported that, ‘a large area of Borno State is still not accessible to health care workers because of the activities of Boko Haram.’ Clearly, Boko Haram made most of Borno State inaccessible for INEC for the elections, yet Borno State with insurgency and desertification had total votes well beyond densely populated and peaceful Imo and Abia states put together.   How did INEC return almost a million votes from the same Borno State? It is either Boko Haram members cast the votes for INEC or Boko Haram conspired with the ruling party to suspend their insurgency so that Borno State indigenes could vote because, from the testimonies of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo and the Shehu of Borno, Boko Haram was active and controlled large areas of the State before and after the elections.   Similarly, Yobe, Katsina, Kaduna and Kano states also returned false and outrageous total votes. So, falsified results cannot be accepted as voting population. We also have records and photographs showing underage voters. Remarkably, many Northerners understand the need for national cohesion, democratic representation, peace, unity and national development.   Former Governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa and many other Northerners have been insisting that the next president should rightly come from the South-East. The Movement for Fundamental Change has published irrefutable justifications for the zoning of the presidency to the South-East.  What is your take on the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states?  INEC has performed terribly in Nigeria, particularly during the 2019 general elections. INEC has a terrible reputation. INEC has failed Nigeria. INEC must use the opportunities of Kogi and Bayelsa elections to start repairing the damage it has done to our democracy and regain the confidence of Nigerians.  Do you have confidence in INEC and do you see people’s votes count in Kogi and Bayelsa states, considering outcome of past elections?   We have no confidence in INEC after the 2019 charade presidential elections. INEC is one of the greatest enemies of democracy in Nigeria.   There have been calls from different quarters for reduction of political parties in Nigeria. What is your take on this?   We believe that there are too many parties. We suspect that INEC registered so many parties in connivance with the ruling party deliberately to divide the opposition to the ruling party. Any attempt at the reduction in the number of political parties must be conducted in strict compliance with the Nigerian constitution.   In recent times, there have been several calls for reduction of number of lawmakers as well as need for unicameral legislature. What is your take on this?  We disagree with both calls. We do not need to reduce the number of lawmakers. We need a bicameral legislature. Democracy requires representation. Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa. Nigeria is also a very heterogeneous country with over 300 sub-tribes in 774 local government areas. It is important that we have adequate demographic representation for good governance.   A bicameral legislature ensures better lawmaking, more effective oversight and demographic inclusion and diversity. This ensures better democratic representation and participation in government. It also improves the separation of powers and promotes checks and balance, which is critical for democracy. To achieve the reduction in cost of governance that we want without sacrificing the quality of governance, we can simply ensure that no legislator gets any allowance outside the lawful allowances as established by the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Allocation Commission (RMFAC).