The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus has urged the people of Bayelsa State not to allow the All Progressives Congress (APC) to take over the state, hinting that the APC-led Federal Governmnent does not like the state but was only interested in their oil.
Secondus, who was speaking on Wednesday in Yenagoa during the PDP’s mega rally and presentation of party flag to the party’s candidate Senator Douye Diri ahead of next weekend’s gubernatorial election, stated that for four years, the APC-led administration was not able to bring any federal project to the state maintaining that ” Nothing from the Federal Government for four years. They only succeeded in taking over power from your son.”
He said as soon as they took over power, everything collapsed adding that hunger took over while the electoral system and everything else also collapsed
Disclosing that the APC candidate in the state, David Lyon cannot represent the state at the international community, he, however, asked the leader of the party Timipre Sylva to apologise to the people of the state and Nigeria as a whole for bringing a candidate he said will be looking for people to speak on his behalf.
Speaking earlier, the Bayelsa State Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson had said that his candidate, Senator Douye Diri was more qualified to win than the APC candidate.
He therefore urged the people of the state to come out enmass on November 16 to vote for PDP adding that PDP was the only party that can win election in Bayelsa state.
He said: “Unlike the APC that used to borrow people from outside, they have already lost the election.
“Even their leaders said their candidate was not validly nominated. Our candidate is more qaulified than their candidate.
Our candidate is a tested and trusted public servant.”
Collecting the PDP flag from the National Chairman of the party, Senator Douye Diri thanked all for choosing him to fly the flag of the party adding that he was somebody from a low background from one remote village.