The Chairman Campaign Council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Kogi State election and Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde alongside the party’s gubernatorial candidate, Engineer Musa Wada, Friday afternoon escaped possible abduction by men wearing police uniforms in Lokoja, Kogi State. Deputy Commissioner of Police Operation, Kabiru Gworzo, who confirmed the incident, said they have already swung into action to apprehend the suspects. According to reports, about 40 men wearing hoods were said to have invaded the Suitorial Hotel where the Oyo State governor, the PDP candidate, including the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, and other chieftains were lodging. Some of the men were said to have jumped the hotel fence and started heading towards the apartment were the PDP chieftains were lodging. It took the intervention of the heavily armed security personnel attached to Makinde to repel the attackers. Reacting to the incident, Ologbondiyan described the attack as shameful and last kick of a dying man. Ologbondiyan, who urged the Police to quickly investigate the matter, claimed that the gunmen were fake policemen doing the bidding of government. “We have been raising the alarm long before now that the APC government in the state has been importing security hardware to the state, to legitimise their thugs. What happened today was a clear evidence of all the complaints we have laid. “They were almost 50 in number, some of them jumped through the fence, while others surrounded our hotel. A real policeman should not be wearing hood to carry out operation, but because these men are fake that was why they wore hoods. We are very lucky that the security men attached to the Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde rose to the occasion and chased away,” he added. Meanwhile, a businessman and PDP chieftain,  Dr Alex Ayodele Delex, who is also the proprietor of the Suitorial Hotel, was on Thursday abducted by unknown gunmen. Delex is a philanthropist from Mopamuro Local Government Area of Kogi West and a strong supporter of the PDP in the state.