In a masterstroke move, the coming together of all blocs in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State ahead of next weekend governorship election may have boosted the chances of the party’s candidate, Senator Douye Diri, reports WALE ELEGBEDE   T he coast appears clear for the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State ahead of the November 16 governorship following alignment of forces in the state chapter of the party. The PDP, which has been strategically managing its affair in the state, has its governorship candidate in Senator Douye Diri. Diri became the PDP candidate after a competitive primary election held in Yenagoa, the state’s capital after defeating no fewer than 21 other contestants. The primary poll was conducted by Taraba’s Governor Darius Ishaku-led state governorship primary election committee and interestingly, there was little or no dust raised on the outcome of the election considering that the PDP is the party that holds the ace in the state. To show his political foresight and not keep any political prisoner of war, the state governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson, directed officials of his government who resigned to participate in the gubernatorial primaries of the PDP to return to their offices with immediate effect. The Governor said in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, that the directive followed his decision to reject their applications for resignation from office after due consideration. For political analysts, the decisions by Dickson to co-opt officials like Secretary to the State Government, Kemela Okara; the Chief of Staff, Government House, Chief Talford Ongolo and the Chairman, Bayelsa State Internal Revenue Board, Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei, back into the state executive, was actually a major tension dousing move which has eventually enhance the position of the party in the state. Of course, there were few dissenting voices who were opposed to the emergence of Diri but those in support of his candidacy appears to have more mileage at both the party and state level, thereby drowning the interest of those opposed to him. For some stakeholders, the ability of Diri, who represents Bayelsa Central, to pull a major victory over the popular former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), and later a Presidential Adviser on Niger Delta Affairs, Mr. Timi Alaibe, was a reflection of how the main election would be. But not taking anything any chances, Diri and his running mate, Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor,  have since their emergence has been crisscrossing the state to feel the pulse of the people, mending fences and urging a sense of renewal, preaching his gospel of prosperity and assuring the populace of a new dawn of purposeful leadership in the state. For the initiates, Diri, representing Bayelsa Central in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly, is no new player in the politics of the Niger Delta. Perhaps a good reason why Dickson felt he should hand over to someone who is familiar with the terrain. The 60-year-old Senator from Kolokuma/Opokuma area of Bayelsa State, before joining active politics taught in several governments schools in the rural areas of the old Rivers State and was the First National Organising Secretary of the Ijaw National Congress (INC), the foremost organisation of the Ijaw Nation. He was also the Executive Secretary, Centre for Youth Development in Bayelsa State between 2000 and 2002 and later the Commissioner for Youth and Sports (2005-2006) before his appointment as Council Member, University of Maiduguri (2008-2012). He was also the Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Disciplinary Council, Bayelsa State (2012). In 2012, when Dickson emerged as the governor of the state, he was appointed the Deputy Chief of Staff, Government House, 2012 and the Principal Executive Secretary (2013-2014). Diri won elections to the Federal House of Representatives to represent Kolokuma/Opokuma, and Yenagoa Federal Constituency, 2015, and to the senate at the last general election. With Dickson firmly behind the PDP candidate and the campaign for the party’s continuity in the state, Diri, who represents Bayelsa has in his several public speeches highlighted the need for all the party leaders to work with one voice so as to confront the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). For all it is, the APC which controls government at the centre, decided to pick David Lyon as its candidate for the governorship poll. While many averred that Lyon’s entry disrupted the APC political calculation, others argued that he is a political neophyte who is not well-known or played active party politics before his emergence. For those in this line of thought, the APC and its candidate cant move any needle in the Nov 16 election with Lyon except if the so-called federal might is input into the election or the electoral umpire is compromised. They averred that aside from Lyon’s antecedent of being a business man and oil contractor, he lacks the requisite experience expected for the position of an executive governor in a state like Bayelsa which needs a round peg in a round hole. Regardless of the uneven balance between the two leading candidates which appears to give Diri an edge, party leaders of the PDP in Bayelsa State, led by Governor Dickson, decided to put on their strategic and futuristic caps with the intent of maintaining the party’s leadership position in the state since 1999. To keep the momentum, Governor Dickson said on Sunday that he and the leadership of the PDP will present the party’s governorship candidate, Diri, and his running mate, Ehwrudjakpo, to former President Goodluck Jonathan. The governor said in a statement by Soriwei, that the decision was borne out the high respect he had for Jonathan as a leader. Sequel to the outcome of the primaries, insinuations were rife that the former President was not in support of Diri as the PDP candidate, and it was even speculated in some quarters that the former Bayelsa governor was working to see the APC emerge on November 16. The speculations arose from the perceived frosty relationship between Jonathan and Dickson over alleged political differences. The former President has since described the allegations as untrue. Speaking when the Ogbia Restoration Caucus of the PDP, from Jonathan’s Ogbia Local Local Government Area, visited him for an interactive session, Dickson said the presentation would take place at the earliest convenience of the former President. While describing the former President as his elder brother and leader, the governor noted that he was deeply appreciative of the mutually beneficial political alliance and relationship spanning over 17 years between the two of them. Dickson told Jonathan’s kinsmen that he visited the former President on 15 occasions out of respect to comparing notes with him and to agree on a candidate to support collectively which unfortunately did not happen during the transition period. He said: “If the rest of this state, the rest of the Ijaw nation, the rest of Nigeria, supported us and worked with us, then the least we can expect is that we in Bayelsa and Ogbia, in particular, should be faithful to the PDP.” The governor said that those making allegations against him in the bid to rationalize defections and ingratitude to the PDP should make bold to tell Nigerians that they were leaving in pursuit of money and Federal appointments being dangled to them. He further condemned the way and manner the name of the former President was brought into a governorship contest where all aspirants were his people. He said: “Nobody here is Dr. Jonathan’s mate in Bayelsa. He was a former President of Nigeria but some people around him are always dragging his name into the local politics of the state, the politics of the local government area just to have their way, and when they fail, they spread the propaganda that the former President is sidelined. I have been silent all along for respect for the man that I respect as my oga any day,” he said. With days to the highly anticipated election, the renewed collaboration and rejuvenation among all the forces in the PDP in Bayelsa State including former President Jonathan, might perhaps lock the doors against the APC and its candidate.