 T he Federal University of Technology (FUTA), Akure, Ondo State, has suspended six students of the institution indefinitely over their alleged involvement in the bullying of a 100-level female student.   It was gathered that the suspended students were caught in a viral video at one of the off-campus hostels at the weekend, bullying their mate identified as Bolu.   The students were alleged to have stormed Bolu’s room, over an alleged altercation with a school daughter of one of her attackers.  In the viral video, which is currently trending across social media platforms, a male student and five female students identified as Popoola Olaniyi Agboola (300L), Oluwadare Faith Tobiloba ( 200L), Nandi Yohanna Jessica ( 200L), Ajuwon Tolani Emmanuella (100L), Emmanuel Funmilayo Taiwo (100L) and Alao Olabimpe Cecilia (100L) were seen beating Bolu, a 100Level student, on the allegation that she called one of them, ‘runs girl,’ otherwise known as prostitute.   The institution’s Deputy Director, Corporate Communications, Adegbenro Adebanjo, in a statement said: “Following the ugly incident of bullying of a female student by some students and as a result of preliminary investigation, the affected students have been placed on indefinite suspension with immediate effect.”   The University, after a disciplinary panel constituted over the incident, which has continued to receive condemnation also stated that, “as a consequence of their suspension, they are precluded from all academic and related activities indefinitely and barred from the University and its precincts forthwith.”   Adebanjo added: “At the conclusion of the on-going investigations, the full weight of the law of the University, as contained in the handbooks and oath of Matriculation, which all students are made to sign and subscribe to, will be visited on those found culpable.   Adebanjo said that the University Management was already providing medical and counseling support for the affected student.  The image maker further added: “The University deplores such behaviour and reiterates that all those found to be culpable will be visited with the full weight of the law, under the extant rules and regulations governing students’ behaviours and conduct off and on the campus.”  Adebanjo continued: “The University reiterates its abhorrence of any action or behaviour by students that are inimical to the well-being of others, and will continue to sanction students who run afoul of its rules and regulations. For the avoidance of doubt, only students who are worthy in learning and character can lay claim to and be addressed as FUTA students. The University will not tolerate any form of indiscipline or breech of University regulations.”   Meanwhile, the incident has continued to generate outrage from various quarters, with many insisting that the suspended students should be handed over to the police.    Also, some students of FUTA, who described the action as barbaric, stated that such offence, according to the institution’s Rule Book, stipulates outright rustication, which they stressed must be the fate of the affected students.