Champions League holders Liverpool collected another victory in their relentless campaign by sneaking past Genk 2-1 at a subdued Anfield. Jürgen Klopp’s side lost to Napoli in their opening Group E game – their only loss in any competition this season – but have picked up three straight wins to move towards the knockout stages. Georginio Wijnaldum stabbed into the roof of the net from close range after captain Sebastian Dewaest made a mess of clearing James Milner’s low cross. Liverpool move top of the group ahead of Serie A side Napoli, who were held to a 1-1 draw by Red Bull Salzburg. However, the biggest talking point a couple of hours before kick-off was Liverpool’s decision to play their Carabao Cup quarter-final at Aston Villa and Club World Cup semi-final in Qatar within 24 hours of each other, fielding two separate teams. Klopp had previously ruled out this possibility but the club said in a statement that although it was “not an ideal scenario” the outcome was reached in “the best interests of the competition”. From November 23 to January 2, the Reds face an arduous period of 12 games in 37 days across three competitions – the Premier League, Champions League and Club World Cup – with an FA Cup third-round tie still to be determined in the first week of 2020. And Erling Haaland scored again for Red Bull Salzburg, preventing Napoli from becoming the first team to qualify for the Champions League last 16. The Norwegian, 19, became just the fourth player in Champions League history to score in his first four games. His spot-kick gave Red Bull Salzburg the lead after 11 minutes before Napoli’s Hirving Lozano equalised. In Germany, Achraf Hakimi scored two second-half goals as Borussia Dortmund overturned a two-goal deficit to beat Inter Milan in a thriller at the Westfalenstadion. The 21-year-old right-back pulled one back off his shin before firing the winner in the 77th minute, after Julian Brandt equalised for the hosts. First-half goals from Lautaro Martinez and Matias Vecino had given Antonio Conte’s side a 2-0 lead. Dortmund move above Inter into second spot in Champions League Group F. The German side are just a point behind leaders Barcelona, who were held to a surprise goalless draw at the Nou Camp by Slavia Prague. But the tie of the night took place at Stamford Bridge where Chelsea mounted a stirring fightback from 4-1 down to earn a crucial Champions League point as Ajax ended with nine men on a night of high drama. The Dutch champions, semi-finalists last season, were in calm control and looked on course for victory when Donny van de Beek gave them a three-goal lead 10 minutes after the break – but in a chaotic closing period Chelsea completed a remarkable recovery as the visitors lost their discipline. Having pulled one back through Cesar Azpilicueta’s close-range finish to make it 4-2, the game turned on its head in 60 seconds of high drama in the 68th minute. Daley Blind fouled Blues striker Tammy Abraham, referee Gianluca Rocchi allowed play to continue and a shot then hit Joel Veltman’s arm in the 18-yard box. Rocchi awarded a penalty, went back and showed Blind a second yellow card, with fellow centre-back Veltman also sent off seconds later for the handball. RRESULTS GROUP E Liverpool 2 – 1 Genk Napoli 1 – 1 RB Salzburg GROUP F Barcelona 0 – 0 Slavia Dortmund 3 – 2 Inter GROUP G Zenit 0 – 2 RB Leipzig Lyon 3 – 1 Benfica GROUP H Chelsea 4 – 4 Ajax Valencia 4 – 1 Lille