H undreds of traders yesterday stormed the Lagos State House of Assembly to protest the demolition of the Ikosi/Isheri produce market in Lagos. The protesters, mostly women, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), arrived at the Assembly en masse, chanting different songs and carrying placards with various inscriptions.  The inscriptions on their placards included:  “Re-modeling is a political coined language to sell our market, we say no to it,” “Nigerians of conscience should come to our help,” “Governor Sanwo-Olu, please help us.” The leader of the protest, Mrs. Adebukola Adejuwonbi, said the market was being destroyed without proper notification from the appropriate body.  Adejuwonbi indicted the Chairman, Ikosi/Isheri Local Council Development Area, Mr. Abdulfatai Oyesanya, as the prime mover of the demolition of the market. She said: “We came from Ikosi/Isheri fruit market. I am one of the sellers at the market. On Friday morning, caterpillars came to demolish our market without any notice.”  Another trader, Mrs. Yemisi Balogun, urged government to come to their aid by helping them to get their market back. Balogun said that their livelihood depended largely on the market to cater for the needs of their children and households. Responding, Mr. Rotimi Olowo, representing Somolu Constituency 1, expressed dissatisfaction with the demolition allegedly without due process. Olowo, however, assured the protesters that the House Leader had directed the council chairman to stop the demolition. He said: “I am assuring you that the Speaker, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, and other colleagues, will be interested in this case and they will call the chairman.  “We have told the chairman to stop the demolition and I am sure we are going to resolve it.” I know you will get justice. “If we want to move Lagos forward by doing it in a modern way, we have to do it methodologically, we cannot just rush into it. “Even if that market is to be used for housing purposes, it behoves on the local government chairman and the state to have understanding with you.”