Today, in a supplementary election to conclude the November 16 rerun of the Kogi West senatorial poll, senators Dino Melaye of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Smart Adeyemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a host of other candidates will battle for 46, 127 votes in 53 polling units. The supplementary rerun, which is holding simultaneously with the rerun for Ajaokuta Federal Constituency, will affect seven local government areas and 20 registration areas. The supplementary election became necessary following the declaration of the November 16 senatorial rerun election as inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). While the Kogi West supplementary poll involves a total of 46, 127 registered voters, no less than 73,836 registered voters in Ajaokuta Federal Constituency will elect their representative into the lower chamber of the National Assembly. The Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja had on October 28, sacked the APC House of Representatives member representing the constituency, Mohammed Lawal Idris, ordering a fresh election in 21 polling units. INEC had on Sunday November 17 declared the Kogi West Senatorial rerun election, which was held simultaneously with the state governorship poll inconclusive because the margin of win was less than the total cancelled votes. While announcing the results of the senatorial poll, INEC Returning Officer for the election, Prof. Olayide Lawal, said Senator Adeyemi scored a total of 80,118 votes while Senator Melaye polled 59,548 votes. He also declared that the margin between the APC candidate and that of the PDP is 20,570. Prof. Lawal while declaring the election inconclusive said he decided not to declare a winner because of the slim margin between the two leading candidates. He disclosed that the total margin between both candidates was lower than the number of registered voters in the 53 polling units where elections were canceled. The elections in the 53 polling units, which spread across the seven councils in the senatorial district, were cancelled as a results of violence, killings, ballot snatching, snuffing of ballot boxes and other electoral malpractices, which forced INEC not to reckon with results from some of the polling units. Though about 24 parties are contesting in today’s supplementary election, the contest had been narrowed down to the two major contenders, Adeyemi and Melaye. While Adeyemi had urged INEC to declare him as the winner based on the released results, Melaye, who had been calling for the outright cancellation of the election, said a postponement of today’s supplementary poll is necessary in the interest of justice. Kogi West Senatorial District is divided into seven local government areas with a 432, 515 registered voters in the senatorial zone. But only 46,127 voters will participate in today’s supplementary election. The election will take place in seven local governments; Kabba/Bunnu, Ijumu, Lokoja, Kogi/Koton Karfe, Mapomuro, Yagba East and Yagba West.According to the results announced on November 17 by INEC, Adeyemi won in five local government areas while Melaye won two. The APC candidate won in Kabba/ Bunu, Ijumu, Lokoja, Kogi/Koton Karfe and Mapomuro while PDP won in Yagba West and Yagba East. Adeyemi won with margin in Lokoja, Kabba/Bunu and Kogi/Koton Karfe, polling 19,788, 15,037 and 14,168 votes as against Melaye’s 12,712, 8,974 and 9,9786 votes in the three councils. The APC candidate also won in Ijumu Local Government Area with 11,627 votes to defeat PDP candidate, who scored 7,647 votes. Adeyemi also coast home with victory in Mapomuro council by polling 4,874 votes as against Melaye’s 3,704 votes. Senator Melaye defeated Adeyemi in Yagba East Local Government Area with 7,745 to 6,683 votes. He also won in Yagba West council polling 8,980 votes as against APC’s 7,941 votes in the area. For many political analysts today’s supplementary election is going to be a test of might between Senator Adeyemi, who is already leading comfortable with 20,570 votes, and Senator Melaye who is battling to return to the Senate. It is expected that the popularity of both candidates couple with their political parties structures and many factors such as power of incumbency and political structure will determine where the pendulum will swing today in determining who will represent the Okun (the Yoruba speaking part of Kogi State), which made up the Kogi West Senatorial District in the Red Chamber of the National Assembly.