O fficials of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Kaduna State, have reportedly arrested a Sharia Court judge, Murtala Nasir, for officiating a wedding.   Also arrested along with the judge were a former Chairman of Peugeot Automobile Nigeria Limited (PAN), Alhaji Sani Dauda, who is the father of the bride, and his son, Shehu Dauda.   While Sani was arrested for giving out his daughter, Nasiba Dauda, for marriage after an alleged failed marriage, the judge’s offence was conducting a new marriage between Nasiba and Abdullahi Kaluma.  They were all being detained at the SARS office.  The new marriage took place on Saturday, at the Magajin Gari Sharia Court in Kaduna North Local Government Area of the state.  Trouble started when Nasiba’s former husband, Abubakar Musa Abubakar, allegedly ordered the arrest of the judge, the former PAN chairman and son.  But Nasir said he followed due process in line with Islamic laws and the Nigerian Constitution while joining the new couple.  Besides, he noted that there was no existing order restraining Nasiba or her family from conducting a new marriage after her first marriage with Abubakar failed.  He said: “The marriage between Nasiba, the daughter of Alhaji Sani Dauda, the chairman of ASD Motors and her former husband, Abubakar Musa Abubakar, ended since January 5, 2018.  “Since then, there was no problem or was there any existing order restraining her or her family from conducting a new marriage.  “So, on Saturday, November 9, I conducted a new marriage between Nasiba and her new husband, Abdullahi Kullama.  “Surprisingly, on Monday, November 11, about 4p.m., I was with Alhaji Sani Dauda and many others at his compound when police operatives surrounded his compound, saying they were there to arrest us. “The officers invited us verbally to the police command headquarters without any warrant of arrest.   “Later on, we were transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) office where we were detained.”   Meanwhile, addressing journalists on Tuesday, lawyer to the former chairman of PAN, Sani Katu, alleged that his client’s arrest was masterminded by Abubakar.  On his part, the bride’s father, Sani, explained that he gave out his daughter to her new husband after she had officially divorced her first husband, Abubakar, since January 2018.   The state Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Yakubu Sabo, did not pick his calls to react to the arrest.