The Executive Vice President, American Federation of Labour Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), Tefere Gebre, has called on African governments to set up standards favourable to its working population, in order to ensure foreign investments were of maximum benefit to indigenous workers. Gebre, who made the call at the 4th Ordinary Congress of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC-Africa) with the theme ‘Unite and Make a Difference’  in Abuja, lamented that despite the huge mineral and agricultural resources at Africa’s disposal, the continent has continued to give out more than it receives from wealthy countries in the form of credit or aid. According to him, the only way to change what he described as a  sad narrative, was for  Africa to change the rules, change its habits, get rid of corruption and corporate greed and have a mindset to create a shared prosperity so that people could prosper in their own countries. The unionist, who raised concerns over migrants, who endanger their lives in search of greener pastures, maintained that Africa had the power and the capacity to create a future that guarantees good quality of life, expanding opportunities, and genuine human centered economic development for its workers. In his words: “As the continent with the richest array of mineral and agricultural resources, Africa is at the centre of the global economy in ways you all know, and in ways the multinational banks and corporations know as well. It is estimated that if you take the value of goods and services along with the repayment of loan debts, Africa gives more to the wealthy countries of the world than it receives in credit or aid. “Therein lies the problem: Africa does not benefit from the true value of its resources. Trade agreements are skewed in favour of the wealthy countries. Multinational companies are looking to make deals to pay little to no taxes, to pay much less than a living wage, if to pay any wages at all, and forcing the nations of Africa to compete against each other for lowest prices on goods and the lowest wages. This is a competition none of us will win. “Today, we have to convince our governments that although its good and great, investment does not mean that anybody who wants to come in to invest in your country can just do that without that investment being of benefit to the workers. Think  twice about it. “If we all unite as countries in Africa and we have a standard, corporations have to live up to that standard because they don’t invest in your country because they care about your country; they invest in your country because they are going to profit out of your country but we have to share in that profit that has to be the demand that we have to make. “They are profiting out of us and it’s time for our people and our governments to demand return for the general public back.” President, Coalition of Black Trade Unionists (CBTU), Terry Melvin, who called on all trade unions in Africa to face the issue of Migration head on, noted that most companies were not interested in workers wellbeing but in getting the “lowest common denominator of workers to do the most work for them and that is why we have to look at this issue as a global issue as trade unions.” “We need to stand together as trade unionists in solidarity to do what we can to bring up the lives of the workers here on the continent of Africa because if we bring up the workers condition here, that will help workers across the globe.