Although there are three fixtures taking place today, however, the stand out tie of Match Day 12 weekend of the Premier League is undoubtedly the one taking place at Anfield where leaders Liverpool host champions Manchester City in a clash that ultimately might determine the final destination of the trophy come May 2020.   Clearly the two outstanding teams of the past two seasons, it was City’s win over the Reds last campaign that ultimately ensured that they became only the second side after Manchester United 10 years ago to successfully retain their trophy after they were pushed all the way by Jurgen Klopp’s side.   Though Liverpool’s Premier League heartbreak was somewhat mitigated by the Reds’ going on to lift the Champions League in June, for millions of Anfield fans it is the League that is their Holy Grail – especially as it has now been 30 years since they last lifted it.   Last season, Pep Guardiola aware of the pedigree of Klopp’s team broke with his usual style of playing his own game and instead setup not to lose at Anfield which on hindsight proved a smart decision because the point the Citizens left Liverpool with was enough to get them over the line at the end of the season.   Klopp will be aware of this and will undauntedly press on his players not to allow the team from the blue half of Manchester leave with a share of the spoils in order to extend their already considerable points’ advantage to nine.   On his part at least a draw is very imperative for Guardiola especially as it appears the current Liverpool side will not be dropping too many points this season, so bridging such a gap may be near mission impossible for even a talented side like his.   Unbeaten since they incidentally lost to City on January 3, Klopp’s side has only dropped two points once this campaign – and that was at Old Trafford last month, and last weekend showed their new found never-say-die spirit when they dug deep to beat Aston Villa 2-1 courtesy of a late rally.   On their part, City has already lost twice, but also showed their grit and determination last weekend when like Liverpool, they had to come from behind to beat Southampton 2-1 to keep on the coattail of the leaders. Both were in Champions League action in midweek with Liverpool beating Genk while Manchester City had to dig deep in leaving Italy with a point in their game against Atalanta.   Historically both sides have met a staggering 213 times since their debut showdown in 1893 with Liverpool having won a majority of them – 104 to City’s 56 but failed to beat them in the league last season although they did edge them in the Champions League.   No matter how one sees this, the onus is clearly on Klopp and his Liverpool to push for a win in this encounter – if for anything to not only lay a marker that they are ready to finally claim a first Premier League trophy, but more importantly to increase the gap between them and their closes rivals to nine points.   And for those who love stats – City have won just one match at Liverpool since Boxing Day 1981, and that was back in 2003!   Also seeing action today, Manchester United will be hoping to bounce back from last weekend’s 1-0 reversal at Bournemouth which ended a run of three games unbeaten and once again brought gloom to the fallen giants of English football.   The defeat marked the worse points return for the 13-time champions with only (13) after 11 games and anything short of a win over Brighton, which is two places and two points above their hosts, will definitely increase the unease amongst the fans.  While Ole Gunner Solskjaer’s side was slumping to a fourth defeat, Brighton’s revival under manager Graham Potter continued as they deservedly overcame struggling Norwich City 2-0 at Amex Stadium for their second successive league win.   The million naira question is, which United will show up this afternoon – the one that beat Chelsea in the Carabao Cup or the one that lost meekly to Bournemouth last weekend?   And in the final game today, 11th placed Wolves host Aston Villa which is five places and two points below them.