 Mr. Dapo Akinosun, a legal practitioner, is the Managing Partner at SimmonsCooper Partners. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on recent rulings by the election petition tribunals, the 2023 presidency and need to strengthen the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), among others   What is your take on the Supreme Court ruling, which upheld the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari in the February 23 presidential election? At the Court of Appeal level, it was very clear what the judgement was and if you understand what the petition was all about, the main plank of the petition was that there was a server, which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had and from which Atiku Abubakar got the result. Buts, INEC came to court and said ‘we do not have a server like that.’ Atiku said ‘we would prove you had a server.’ They brought a witness and the witness said he couldn’t ascertain whether the server exists. That was the main plank of the petition itself, but they dabbled into other areas about the age of President Muhammadu Buhari and whether he has the qualification to run. The Court of Appeal had interpreted that already. What the constitution says is that you must have education to secondary school level; nowhere in the constitution does it say you must present your certificate and they clarified that. So, I believe that petition was brought in dead; it was not even dead on arrival, it was already dead before it was brought into court. The answers were clear, so there was no way it was going to fly. President Buhari recently travelled out of the country without handing over to his vice and some people even said the President can govern from anywhere. What is your opinion on that? There is no law that says the President must hand over if he is traveling. He is the president; he determines what he wants to do and when he wants to do it. The power of the president is executive and unchallengeable; he can exercise it whichever way he wants. However, there is an argument that if he is going to be away for a period that will be longer than 21 days, then he should handover otherwise the legislature could look into it and determine a way forward. Ordinarily, the president determines where he goes and when he goes; he is not bound by any rule in the constitution to hand over. How would you respond to the perceived internal wrangling in the presidency? I will say that the perception is wrong. There are issues like in every organisation about realignment and repositioning, but I don’t think there is any serious wrangling in the presidency. But recent developments in the polity tend to show that there are moves against the vice president.. I don’t know the moves you have seen? First, he was removed from heading the economic team, some of his aides were sacked and in some places he was meant to represent the president, others did that… The President determines who represents him and where he would be represented. If I say you should represent me, it is in my interest to determine who is representing me. What about the intent to whittle down the power of the vice president? What are the powers of the vice president? The constitution is specific about the powers of the vice president and what the vice president can do and I am not sure anybody has taken what the constitution said the vice president can do. The constitution is also clear that every other thing dependent on what the president says he (vice president) can do. But as far as the constitution is concerned, his powers have not been tampered with. Are you saying there is no wrangling in the presidency? I believe so. But, this is not how he was treated some years ago considering the relationship that existed between him and the president. I believe the relationship between the President and his vice is very cordial. The Vice-President enjoys the mutual respect of the President. You heard that when the Vice-President visited the President’s hometown, the Emir of Daura said he is the best man and we have that kind of comment from people who are seated in some kind of spiritual or local authority over the President. They have always commended the Vice-President. I suspect that it is even the media that is creating the hype in the relationship, which is however intact. Some people are saying that what is happening in the presidency is all about the politics of 2023, how true is that? I think the rush towards 2023 is being too much in a hurry. We are still in 2019, there is still, 2020, 2021 and 2022; we still have more than three years to 2023. I think we should let people do the work that they were elected to do. The problem here is the way the media are hyping 2023. Let them do the work for now and I am sure the Vice-President has shown consistently that he is not interested in all this stuff. He has consistently been doing the work and I think everybody should emulate that. But campaigns for the 2023 presidency have already started… I have not heard of it and I am not part of it, but I do know that there are works to be done before then. What can help them to come back in 2023 is the magnitude of work they are able to do between now and 2023. It is not about the campaign, it is about the result of what they did. If people are happy, they will vote them in the next election. If they are unhappy, they will not vote for them. No matter the campaign, if you have not governed well, there will be no comeback. How do you see the battle for the presidency between the South and North? It has always been a battle between the South and North on who should be the next president. The North says it is their turn, the South says it is theirs. They said there is a sharing formula agreed within the party; that is internal politics. If I am in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), I don’t have to align with what All Progressives Congress (APC) says; each party has its own zoning policy. Is rotational presidency healthy for our democracy? Every geo-political zone has a potential president, so I don’t think it should be restricted by reason of where you come from, but it should be more about your capacity to lead. We should be looking at capacity now not where you come from really. There is an allusion to that in the recent court judgement that said students should not be admitted into schools based on geo-political zone, changing their choice of school or give preference based on where they come from. We should look at capacity. How would you react to the call that Nigeria should adopt unicameral legislation and that cost of governance should be reduced so that the country can have more money for capital projects? I quite agree with that but who is going to make the law? The legislature will make the law. I have said it at some fora before that legislators always say that they have constituency projects to embark on, they are taking money so that they can take care of their constituencies and I have asked: ‘Your constituency has been complaining that your allowances are too much.’ I have never heard them once debate that. Maybe we should encourage them to debate the allowances and encourage them to examine the actual value of having a legislator. I was at a forum where one legislator said many of the legislators are not really educated, trained or understand what democracy is really about and they need to be trained consistently. The questions are: ‘Can’t we increase the educational qualification required to be a legislator; can’t we reduce the amount and make it part-time? There are different modules, but we still have to go back to the legislators to change it. Nigerians seem to be going through difficult moments over the closure of the borders by the Federal Government. What is your view on that? I honestly thought it was a bad thing to close the border. However, listening to people like the manufacturers and importers, who should be the ones complaining; they are the ones commending the government that they are happy with the border closure. And I have looked at it that the arguments are either way. There are some people saying what has been the effect. We said we are protecting our local industry and I will take cement as one of the examples that have been used. At a time, we closed the boarders against importation of cement, now we have a lot of cement being homegrown. So, the fact that we shut down our border can also help us to develop our rice industry. The other question is that even the cement we do now, is it cheaper than what we were importing before and will the rice become cheaper ultimately. But those are questions we can only find out with time and then we can review policy, but right now, we need to be able to manufacture and grow it in our country. What is your view about the speculation of President Buhari is scheming for a third term? It is only a funny speculation. The man has not even done 2020; we are talking about 2023. Let them do the work they need to do now. Some people are also saying there is need for a six-year single tenure… I don’t agree with six-year single tenure. I think there should be opportunity for a man to come back and test his popularity if he has done well. Looking at the issues surrounding some of the outcome of the 2019 elections; rulings of the court, malpractices and electoral fraud, how do you think we can strengthen INEC? It is a multi-throng approach. The first thing is to make sure that crime does not pay and unless people are punished for bad behavior, they will always behave badly. But because punishment takes a long time to come, people still get away with crime. Our judicial system should first of all be strengthened and corrected. The real challenge of the judiciary is that they are underfunded and underpaid and it is easier to compromise people when they are not well paid. We should therefore restructure the judiciary and make sure that they are well remunerated. Then you will find out that whenever there is situation that needs to be adjudged without any bias; they will give the right judgement.