Tragedy occurred on Wednesday when a gas cylinder exploded in a shop at Ajegunle, Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area of Lagos State. Many were injured with over seven people said to have died since that day. ISIOMA MADIKE, who was at the scene of the explosion on Friday, brought back stories of victims, who either lost relatives or properties to the unfortunate incident    An aged sickly woman, who lost her only child in the gas explosion that rocked 2, Aduke Street in Ajegunle, Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area of Lagos State, is yet to be informed of what happened on that fateful Wednesday. Sources told Saturday Telegraph that the decision to keep the tragic incident away from the old woman was taken after the immediate family met to deliberate on the incident. “We felt the best thing to do at this critical time is to keep it away from her. She is sick, apart from her age. Telling her of what happened at this time would have meant sending her to her own grave because she might not be able to handle that. The child is her only surviving of about seven children. “The challenge before us now is even how to tell eventually. We might need to involve the elderly from our larger family and some of her close friends who are experienced on issues of this nature to help break the sad news to her. For now, we would have to see that her failing health improves so as not to cause unintended harm to her. We are all devastated by the unfortunate death of our son,” the source said. Recounting his own ordeal, one of the landlords of the buildings that was affected by the explosion, Segun Paul, said the incident has left him and his family homeless as everything he had got burnt. He said: “Apart from my building, I lost all my property; I and my family are now homeless. A Good Samaritan is the one housing me and my family since the unfortunate episode. This trousers and top are all I have left on me, the same with my family. My wife had only her wrapper on without the top at the time. “When we heard the explosion, we had to run for our dear lives, no one remembered anything like property at that time. We were lucky we had clothes on by then; otherwise we would have been going about naked now. “However, my building was at the back of the one in which we had that explosion, but because gas is highly inflammable, it took little time before the whole compound was engulfed and subsequently reduced to rubble as you can see. Mine was on 24, Abdul Rashidi Street, while the other one was on another street. We will be happy if the government and other Nigerians could come to our aid now. We need assistance to enable us to start life anew.” Also speaking about the incident, the landlord of the building on Aduke Street, Odujoko Olajide, said he was in Victoria Island, when the explosion occurred. He claimed to have inherited the building comprising 11 shops and seven rooms from his father. Olajide, 59, told this reporter that seven people have so far been confirmed dead. He said apart from the two children that died on the spot, five additional people, who made it to the hospital, have also died between Thursday and Friday morning. “I was in V/I when they called me to announce what I was not expecting to hear. It was one of my younger sisters that called me around 6pm on that fateful Wednesday, and I had to rush down. But before I got home, the entire building had been reduced to rubble with many of my tenants sustaining serious injuries. Two people died instantly while the surviving ones were rushed to hospitals. “The fire was caused by the carelessness of one of my tenants who used his shop to sell gas. We had warmed him on many occasions but he kept assuring us that nothing would happen. The day the incident occurred I learnt from eyewitnesses that he was answering calls while refilling a cylinder for a customer. Unfortunately, the bigger cylinder, according to other tenants, was leaking, and it didn’t take long before it exploded. “The lady who caused this, initially sold kerosene before she graduated into gas dealer; it was greed that pushed her into that. Like I said, I insisted at the initial time but she kept sending people to beg me; those I could not say no to. The building was 45 years old, and that was the only property my parents left for me and my siblings. I am not the first but because I am the only one around here, my siblings agreed that I should be the one to manage it.” Olajide’s younger sister, Mrs Abiodun Olushola, recounting what happened, also said that her family lost a 16-yearold girl to the gas explosion. She said that the girl was an apprentice under the hairdresser, who had a shop in the building.“She was my elder sister’s second daughter. Her death has dealt a serious blow to the family apart from the building we lost to the incident. We could rebuild the burnt house, but how do we replace this adorable child? You can now understand our pains from that perspective. I don’t know how my sister could get over this. The hairdresser was injured too but I can’t say for now how serious her injury is because I have not been able to visit those injured in the hospital,” Olushola said. There was equally the story of a woman, who sold provision in one of the burnt shops. She was said to have escaped the fire when it started but suddenly ran back to her shop to pick some valuables and money sold for the day and got trapped. According to one of our sources, “she was severely burnt when she ran back into the raging fire. We were all surprised to see her run back because we could not reason why she had to do that. We pray she survives because we learnt her injury was severe.” It was gathered that properties worth millions of naira were destroyed with the entire community still counting their losses from the tragic incident when Saturday Telegraph visited on Friday. Two persons, according to what the paper was told, were initially confirmed dead while 23 others suffered severe degrees of burns when the gas exploded.Residents of the area, who were seen gathered in sombre mood discussing the tragedy with some still fighting to control their emotions, confirmed that the gas cylinder shop in the building had exploded as a result of leakage. The paper also learnt from reliable sources that the fire ignited as a result of a call made by an unidentified resident, which escalated to other nearby shops and a bungalow behind the shops. Confirming the causality figure, the Director-General, Lagos Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, had said that those who suffered burns have been evacuated to the Burn Unit, Gbagada General Hospital. He added that of the 23 persons injured, five persons including three children and two adult females were seriously burnt and currently admitted at the general hospital. Oke-Osanyintolu had also said: “Unfortunately, two children (Male and female) lost their lives and multiple burnt casualties were recorded. The casualties were rushed to a nearby hospital for immediate medical treatment while one of the fatalities (female child) had been moved away by the families before the arrival of the LRT. “The second body met at the scene (Damilare Afolabi) was bagged by the LRT and handed over to the family. The entire area has been cordoned off and post disaster assessment ongoing. As a result of visible cracks and intensity of fire, it is advised that a controlled demolition should be carried out on the burnt structure in order to prevent any secondary incident.” Officials of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) were also seen on Friday helping the landlords and other residents to evacuate the rubble and clear the pathway for other road users. Although, they declined comment on their mission to the site, a man who claimed to be the leader of the team declined to give his name but said they were at the scene to take stock and to make sure there are no further injuries from the debris. “We are here to take stock and to see how best we can assist those who lost their properties from the burnt building. We will forward our report to the relevant quarters for immediate action. Our core value is to assist when there is disaster of any sort,” the official said.