Securing gallery representation could seem an arduous task for artists. While it is possible to do it alone, it is hard to understate the importance of a supportive, dedicated gallery. LASMARA has come to bridge the gap and much more with Impart Artists Fair. The maiden edition which took place at Alpha One, Eko Atlantic, Lagos, spans the entire art circle with an elaborate ceremony. The décor, sight and sounds during the opening at Eko Atlantic make everyone feel deeply with art, and the pool of artists from around Africa comprising Kenya, Zimbabwe, Cameroun, Ivory Coast, Sudan, and Ghana among many other African countries proved that art traverses globally. “We want to really put African art on a global scale; we have to use the tools we have as Africans. Also, to be part of the global picture, the tool we have now is technology,” the founder of LASMARA, Hana Omilani, said. She added: “What we plan is to go to different cities in Africa. We will be going to another city shortly, but we need to secure some of the logistics. “The plan is to go to more cities in Africa, if we do it once a year it is not enough, some artists came even though the application has closed months ago, many came physically with their works. It is important we do it in Africa, Nigeria first, we can go somewhere else after telling our story first from here.” Tagged ‘Art meets Tech’, the show indeed boasts of the latest technology. Many who could not be at the fair physically enjoyed live streaming from the fair ground. The fair has many interesting activities: workshop sessions, among others. “We want people to see and experience art the way they have never done before; in a more relaxed atmosphere,” the enthusiastic Omilani who is from Eretria, East Africa, and married to a Yoruba, said. She reiterated that with Impart Artists Fair, they want to play a positive and catalytic role in advancing the dynamism of the arts and culture scene in Africa through a series of engaging and technology-enabled programmes and events across Africa and beyond. “We want to help artists who do not have an online presence to get on board, bring them out of the wood, assist them, make sure that the contract is in their best interest and that is what the fair is all about. “And create a platform for democratising art across Africa by making art available to everyone and providing emerging artists with much needed exposure to local and international markets. If a gallery wants to sign an artist, that is fine. “All they need do is to talk to us. We have more than hundreds. It is not just the galleries; it is also for institutions and museums.” For the participating artists it was a dream come through. The works in the fair show painstaking efforts put in the realisation of the project, both in terms of selection. Haneefah Adam, a Nigerian self-taught multi-disciplinary artist who specialised in food art, proved her expertise with mind-blowing works. The artist explores issues related to identity, culture, and representation in the society. Her works include: Ewa Agoyin (medium, fried plantain, beans, red pepper, ugwu stalk, leaf), Abula. Works by a Nigerian artist, painter, writer and photographer, Uche Edochie, were also on display at the fair. His themes, characterised by the dominant human forms, emphasised the importance of personal conviction, capability and responsibility in reimagining and redesigning reality in an increasingly uncertain world. His pieces, ‘Adana/Pride of Blackness’, Acrylic on canvas; ‘Chaos and Calm’, Acrylic on canvas; and ‘Money, Power and Paranoia’, adore the wall of the fair venue. From Sudan comes Omar Kamal. The artist who grew up in El-Gezira State in Sudan is fascinated by the local markets that took place every Friday, only having access to a pencil, he started sketching and his art journey began. Today, Kamal paints with acrylics, and he still finds the scenes of the market fascinating. His works in the fair dwell on culture and surroundings. Also from Sudan is Hussein Mirghani. The artist came prepared. He believes representation art is the foundation of other art forms, and paints every day scenes in and around Sudan. He finds that watercolor paints best represent these scenes because it closely resembles how the human eye and mind sees the world. Fitsum Berhe, born and raised in Addis Ababa and later Asmara, is an Eritrean artist living and working in Nairobi Kenya. He explores the authentic African portrait in this post-colonial, digitalised, interconnected and globalised era in Africa. His works include ‘Questioning Identity 1’, ‘Questioning Identity 3’, among others. Imomoh Asemokha’s works are predominantly in the painting and print media where he uses colours to communicate several metaphorical allusions. His broad spectrum oeuvre spans across a number of thematic range which seems to be borne from a certain creative restiveness. His is a path rooted purely and guarded by intuition, a path where he seems to constantly reinvent the self. Other artists whose works were on display include: Joseph Obanubi, Ibe Ananaba, Ato Arinze, Barak Eleziolu, Kobina Nyarko, Mark Noina, Chukz Okonkwo, Rafat Omar, Abdelmgeid Afifi, Romeo Temwa, Victor Asowata, and Azuka Nnabuogor.