If the  sharp drop in rates on Nigerian Treasury Bills (T-bills), occasioned by the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s)  decision  to restrict individuals,  local firms and  non-bank financial institutions from investing in its Open Market Operations (OMO) auctions, is anything to go by,  lenders’ income from securities trading looks set to decline, writes Tony Chukwunyem.    A s widely predicted by analysts, the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) announcement on October 24 that it had completely barred individuals, local firms and non-bank financial institutions from investing in both its primary and secondary Open Market Operations (OMO) auctions, meaning  that only foreign investors and lenders are allowed to participate at such auctions, has led to a sharp drop in Treasury Bills (T-Bills) rates.  Decline in rates   According to traders, stop rates on treasury bills fell across tenors at the primary market auction conducted by the CBN last Wednesday.  Specifically, the rate on the 91-day bill cleared at 9.49 per cent, the lowest since June 15, 2016, while rates on 182-day and 364-day bills cleared at 10.45 per cent and 11.50 per cent, respectively.  These rates, the traders pointed out, compare with 10.80 per cent, 11.00 per cent and 12.94 per cent on the 91-day, 182-day and 364day bills at the previous T-bills primary market auction.  In the wake of the CBN OMO ban announcement, analysts had pointed out that the move had narrowed investment choices for Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and fund managers in the country to treasury bills and stocks.   However, the latter is not considered much of an option for the money managers due to the poor performance of the Nigerian stock market in recent years.  This means that they would have to increase their investments in treasury bills and other government securities to be assured of good returns on their funds.  As analysts at Cardinalstone put it: “The most suitable alternative for OMO bills will be investment in government T-bills as they are similar in tenor and have been largely interchangeable in recent years. We expect to see increased demand in the bills market and at subsequent NTB auctions through the year.”  However, if the sharp drop in  stop rates on treasury bills across tenors at the primary market auction conducted by the CBN last Wednesday is anything to by, deposit money banks [DMBs) in the country could be set to  take a significant hit in the coming months.   Veritable source of income  Reason: In the last few years, DMBs have been deriving a sizeable percentage of their income from investment in treasury bills.   In a report  it issued in October 2017, one of the world’s leading credit rating agencies, Fitch Ratings,  had disclosed  that  Nigerian banks averaged a 7.5per cent margin on treasury bill (T-bills) yields in the first half of 2017 (1H17). According to the rating agency, banks had been investing heavily in T-bills since second half of 2016 improving interest income and maintaining margins.   It noted: "High yields on T-Bills are part of the Nigerian authorities’ attempts to control inflation and manage demand for foreign currency. By providing a remunerative, relatively low-risk, naira-denominated investment (interest payments are tax-free), they (CBN) hope to encourage naira retention and dampen demand for US dollars.”   Indeed, following the CBN’s publication of its first quarter 2018 treasury bills issuance programme in early January last year, which indicated that the apex bank was slowing down on T-bill issuance, Fitch issued a report predicting that the development could hurt banks’ profits. The agency stated at the time that the CBN’s action would make it more difficult for Tier 1 lenders to sustain profitability in 2018.   It said: "We expect falling T-bill yields and lower issuance to put pressure on Nigerian banks’ profitability in 2018. The CBN’s latest issuance schedule shows N1.1trillion of rollovers in first quarter of 2018 against N1.3trillion of maturing bills. In 2017, rollovers fully covered maturing bills.   "Performance metrics at all banks will be affected by weak demand for lending, falling T-bill yields, lower foreign-currency translation gains and rising loan impairment charges, but the largest banks are best placed to withstand these challenges.”   New Telegraph’s findings, for instance, show that Tier 1 banks-GT Bank, Zenith Bank, FBN Holdings, Access Bank and UBA – posted combined earnings of about N451.8 billion from treasury bills and government bonds in their 2017 nine-month results compared to N270 billion earned same period in 2016.   While the five lenders made a combined N1.4 trillion in interest income for the first nine months of that year, compared to N1.1 trillion in the same period in 2015, 33 per cent of the amount was from Treasury Bills and government bonds compared to 25 per cent in the same period in 2016.   Furthermore, an analysis of the 2018 full year results of four of the Tier 1 banks – UBA, GT Bank, Zenith Bank Plc and FBN Holdings Plc. – reveals that they raked in a total sum of N309.48 billion from government securities, which was higher by N40.7 billion, when compared to N268.78 billion interest generated from treasury bills and bonds in the financial year ended December 31, 2017.  CBN stance  Significantly, although the treasury bill slowdown by the CBN  was part of a change of strategy by the  Federal Government to reduce its domestic borrowing costs  while  increasing  its financing from external sources and longer-dated domestic issuances,  the apex bank had in recent times introduced a number of measures aimed at  putting pressure on DMBs to increase lending to the real sector rather than  investing heavily in treasury bills.  As part of such measures, the CBN had barred DMBs from buying treasury bills for their own accounts at an open market auction held on July 18.  According to traders, the banking watchdog told lenders that their bids must be backed by customer demand. In the past, banks bought government debt rather than assume risk by lending.  In addition, before that move, CBN had limited the size of interest-bearing deposits it would hold for banks via its Standing Deposit Facility (SDF).  The regulator’s tough stance on the issue of  DMBs’ lending to the real sector sparked speculation in some quarters that it was planning to bar the lenders from investing in treasury bills.  However,  addressing journalists at the end of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting in July this year, CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, said  that although  the regulator  did not intend to bar DMBs from treasury bills auctions and OMO,  it would take steps to ensure that lenders listen to its plea  to lend to the real sector rather investing heavily in  government securities.  He announced that going forward, CBN would be introducing special auctions to provide special signal and direct the focus of actors in the financial market to where it wants them to go.   CBN’s LDR move   In fact, in a move it said was aimed at ramping up growth in the nation’s economy through adequate funding and investment in the real sector, CBN had in a letter to all DMBs, dated July 3, 2019, directed them to maintain a minimum Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) of 60 per cent by the end of September 2019. The LDR is the portion of customers’ deposit that is given out as loans.   The regulator also warned that failure to meet the LDR requirement would lead to a levy of additional CRR equal to 50 per cent of the lending shortfall of the target LDR. This means 50 per cent of a bank’s deposit will be immediately sent to the CBN.   Emefiele restated CBN’s position at the opening of the 12th annual Banking and Finance Conference in September.  Warning DMBs  against excessive investment in government  securities instead  of financing  the real sector, he charged the banking sector to live up to its core responsibility of stimulating the economy by advancing credit to employment generation sectors of the economy.   Emefiele, who was represented by CBN Deputy Governor, Economic Policy, Dr Joseph Nnanna, said unemployment remained the biggest challenge in the country and appealed to the industry to assist government in addressing the challenge.  He said:  "We cannot conceive an economy without banks and neither can we conceive banks without an economy. The days of armchair banking, playing in the Treasury bill space are right behind us. The Central Bank of Nigeria is bullish and we have in fact taken our responsibility very seriously.”   Although CBN, at the expiration of the  initial September 30  LDR deadline, announced that it had raised  the LDR target upwards to 65 per cent and directed lenders to comply by December 31, 2019, it still went ahead to debit the accounts of 12 DMBs to the tune of N499.18 billion for failing to comply with its original deadline.   Analysts point out that CBN introduced the  OMO ban in October after it learnt that DMBs  who were  desperate  to ensure that they comply with the LDR directive, were giving loans to their customers who, in turn would invest such funds in government securities.  FDC’s advice   The CBN’s OMO ban has, however, elicited divergent reactions from stakeholders. While real sector operators seem to welcome it,  Financial Derivatives Company Limited (FDC) warned that the move could lead to funding of CBN’s secondary market bills being "the sole prerogative of the foreign investors (hedge funds) i.e. ‘hot money’.”   It also stated that "if the international investors who are volatile and jittery flee the market, the FGN debt will be funded mainly by CBN (ways and means advances).FPI is hot money and is not sustainable for the economy. It could fizzle out at the slightest sniff of crisis.” It further warned that the decision "could trigger currency weakness as investors shift to the foreign exchange market.”  Conclusion   However, the focus of industry watchers at the weekend was on the sharp drop in treasury bill rates. A trader, who did not want his name in print, told this newspaper that should the rates continue to head south, DMBs would have to look for another source of income that will be as lucrative as their investments in government securities.