The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the result announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in November 16 senatorial election in Kogi West was that of 2015 general election.
The party elders from Kogi West senatorial zone, at a press conference yesterday in Abuja said the November 30 rerun would not have been necessary if INEC had discountenanced invalid votes in some local government areas.
Zonal Chairman, Chief Kola Ojo, who read the text of the conference, noted that the previous election was characterised by intimidation, allotment and manipulations of figures.
The press conference, which was attended by the PDP candidate, Senator Dino Melaye, the PDP governorship running mate Bamidele Aroh among others, said Kogi electorate had to contend with the combination of Governor Yahaya Bello’s police and the conventional police in the last governorship and senatorial election.
Ojo said the conduct of the elections fell short of the minimum standards for credible elections worldwide as attested to by all national and international observers.
“In Kabba town of Kabba-Bunu LGA, collated results as announced by the returning officer indicated that the number of accredited voters was 26,660 and the total number of cancelled votes were 22,293 votes leaving a total of 4,367 valid votes.
“However, the electoral body still went ahead to allot over 15,000 3 votes to the APC candidate, and 8,084 votes to the PDP candidate. Incredible!
“The votes recorded and announced in Iyara, ljumu LGA, where the APC candidate comes from, was clearly an allotment. There were also incidents of vote manipulations in Odokoro, Ayetoro-Gbede, lyah/Ayeh and Okedayo/Egbeda.
“Specifically, the results announced in respect of Odokoro/Araromi/Okoro Ward, code 05, and Iyah/Ayeh Ward, code 05 were those of 2015 elections as reflected on the result sheets. This is despite the protestation of the PDP Agents at the LGA collation centre,” he noted.