T he Nigeria Football Federation appears to have good intentions but their pursuit of Ebere Eze will hopefully not end in tears. If we go by recent history of similar situations, there is a pattern that ultimately leads to Nigeria being left red faced. Eze, born in England to Nigerian parents 21 years ago, is doing great at Queen’s Park Rangers at the moment and there is nothing wrong in wanting a player of such quality to feature for the Super Eagles, especially as he plays in attacking midfield which is a problem area. But the attempt to get these boys to switch to Nigeria needs to be subtle, more strategic.  A few years ago, a big deal was made of Nigeria’s attempt to get Jordon Ibe to play for the country. The then Liverpool forward was a huge prospect and the NFF pursued the youngster openly, broadcasting every move they were making to get Ibe to switch allegiance from England. Phone calls and visits were made and there was a picture in circulation of NFF representatives with the wide forward at Liverpool’s Melwood training ground.  Despite all the overtures, Ibe turned down the chance to play for the Super Eagles, instead holding out for an England opportunity which never came.  That Ibe did not get much joy with England or that he has since fallen from a rising Liverpool star to a Bournemouth bench warmer does not matter. What concerns us is that he said a firm ‘No’ to Nigeria.  Three years after the 2015 Ibe snub, the NFF went aggressively after another player who was eligible for Nigeria and England. Tammy Abraham, the Chelsea striker, was in fine form then on loan at Swansea and he caught the attention of Super Eagles handlers. NFF President Amaju Pinnick vowed to get him to choose Nigeria, citing his relationship with Tammy’s father back when he (the father) was in Delta State.  Like in the Ibe case, there was a lot of noise around the pursuit of Abraham. The British press got involved and Abraham was pressured into making a public declaration. The young man pledged his allegiance to England in newspaper interviews. The public badgering was a little too much to handle and he went with the most convenient choice at the time, even when he would most likely have made the Super Eagles World Cup squad had he chosen Nigeria. Abraham’s Chelsea teammate Fikayo Tomori also got dragged into the Nigeria versus England tussle, although to a much lesser degree. He too preferred England. Now it is Eze’s turn.  Eze is having a brilliant season, continuing his impressive work from last term. There had been approaches from the NFF and Nigeria head coach Gernot Rohr but Pinnick took it up a notch on Saturday. The NFF President was at Craven Cottage as Eze featured for QPR in their Championship fixture. Fulham came from behind to win 2-1 but Eze had a decent game.   The day after the game, the NFF official account gave detailed information (plus a photograph) of how Pinnick met with Eze after the game at the stadium and received the player later at a private residence in London. While the purpose of the publicity might be to show that the NFF is working hard to get the best players for the Super Eagles, it might just be putting unnecessary spotlight on the young man.   It is indeed this attention that might undermine the attempt to get Eze to wear Nigeria’s colours. The British press will pick up on the story and articles on how he is England’s future will start appearing. Having already played for England U-21s (he made his debut last Tuesday), Eze already has a glimpse of what being an international for them feels like. If he believes that Nigeria are desperate and gets convinced that there is a shot, however remote, of getting a senior England nod, he can only go one way. Nigeria will likely lose out again.   The truth is public display of affection doesn’t always work. It’s sometimes a bit over the top making a public show of the pursuit, as too much pressure can be counterproductive. Also, so long as there is a chance of playing for England or any of Europe’s big countries, 90 percent of players of Nigerian heritage would go with the Europeans. Let us be honest, how many of those who have opted for Nigeria over the years had genuine shots of playing for these European countries? Reuben Agboola, George Abbey, Leon Balogun, William Troost-Ekong, Victor Moses and Alex Iwobi have all played for Nigeria in recent years despite having dual nationality. In fairness to them all, they did and have done well with the Super Eagles, but they were never going to get senior England, Germany or Netherlands caps.   Those who had/have Nigerian blood but with hopes of playing for England – Chris Armstrong, Ugo Ehiogu, Dele Alli, Ross Barkley, Gabriel Agbonlahor, Tammy Abraham, Fikayo Tomori and Patrick Owomoyela (Germany) – had no second thoughts about their choices. They opted for the big European country they felt was best for their careers. A bit of noise and photo ops might look great for public relations but it’s not what will persuade a player to choose Nigeria.