National Leader of the  All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has described the triumph of the ruling party in the governorship elections held in Kogi and Bayelsa States as evidence of the growing acceptance of the APC across the country. This is just as the ruling APC congratulated Nigerians, its teeming supporters and members for the hard-fought election victories, stating that the victories were as significant as well-deserved. The APC had a double victory in both states at the weekend’s governorship elections with as Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State securing his re-election while Mr David Lyon won the election in Bayelsa State. In a goodwill message to the victors, Tinubu said  the outcome of the elections showed  that the people of Kogi and Bayelsa States  believed  in the direction that President Buhari and the APC wish to take Nigeria. According to him, the electorate in both states have demonstrated faith in the progressive reforms and vision of the party. Tinubu also congratulated  to the National Chairman of the APC,  Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Chairmen of the party in Kogi and Bayelsa States   and other APC  leaders in the two states on the twin-victory. “Their victories stand as testament to the growing acceptance of our party, the quality of our leadership and governance and the credibility of our promise to lead the people and the nation to the Next Level. It shows that people have no appetite to return to the failed policies and practices of the past. “David Lyon’s election represents a significant shift in the politics of Bayelsa State. By voting APC, the people of Bayelsa have voted for progressive reform and Asiwaju joins them in their belief that David Lyon is the man to deliver the needed and desired reform.” On its part, the APC in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa- Onilu, said, “we dedicate our party’s election successes to the good people of the two states, with a solemn promise that our victorious candidates would justify the confidence reposed in them.”