Last week, protesters braved all odds and stormed the headquarters of the Department of State Services (DSS) to demand the release of journalist and politician, Omoyele Sowore, from custody. CALEB ONWE reports  The headquarters of the Department of State Services (DSS) located by Aso Drive, Maitama,  is fondly called Yellow House because of the colour of the  buildings. For any casual visitor, you do not need to be reminded that you are in a high security zone.  The high-walled perimeter fence stretches for as far as your eyes can go  and is  fitted with  barb wires,  camera,  lighting and other security features.  It is a well guarded fortress with multiple check points along the exclusive route leading to its gates. Although the gates are wide, they are not  open except to authorised visitors.  Around this vicinity, movement is restricted and unfettered access,  merely a dream.   There are several armed and  masked security operatives at strategic points and one must have to undergo a thorough check before gaining entry. Therefore, it must have been a calculated high  risk for members of the Concerned Nigerians, who chose to go there for a protest,  calling for the release of the  Convener of #RevolutionNow, Mr. Omoyele Sowore. The detainee is  the publisher of Sahara Reporters as well as the presidential candidate of  the African Action Congress (AAC) during the 2019 presidential elections.  He is facing a  seven-count charge bordering on treasonable felony and money laundering. The protesters, who were led by civil rights  activist, Mr. Deji Adeyanju, want Sowore released from the custody of the DSS, based on an earlier order made by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court in Abuja. But acting on a tip off, security was beefed up at the Yellow House  just before   the protesters  arrived the scene.  More  armed security personnel were deployed to the  Aso Drive intersection  road,  apparently  to forestall  any security breaches. As soon as the protesters arrived and were about to commence the march to the gate, security operatives fired teargas canisters towards them,  forcing the protesters to scamper in different directions. Many of the protesters were said to have sustained various degrees of injury while the journalists who accompanied them were allegedly manhandled by security operatives. In an interview with journalists after the encounter, Adeyanju alleged that the security operatives fired live ammunitions at the protesters. He accused the DSS of disobeying a court order on the release of Sowore and described the situation as an affront on the rule of law and democracy. “We were attacked  in a barbaric manner. This can only happen in a nation where the rule of law means nothing. For the umpteenth time, the DSS has failed to release Mr. Omoyele Sowore and Olawale Bakare, despite two valid court orders served on them to do so. “Despite the embarrassing and unprofessional statement credited to the DSS, Nigerians, comprising  activists, lawyers, families, friends and citizens came out on Saturday morning to receive the duo. As expected but quite unfortunate, the DSS yet again failed to release them, under the excuse that we came on a weekend.” It could be recalled that the DSS had told Nigerians  that necessary steps were being taken to comply with the court order. In a statement by its Public Relations Officer, Dr. Peter Afunanya, the DSS had said: “The Department of State Services (DSS) wishes to confirm that it has received the Court Order for the release of Omoyele Sowore. “It is important that the public notes that since the receipt of the Order, no person has turned up at the DSS to take delivery of him. This becomes imperative for reasons of accountability. The Court has been properly briefed on this development and the steps being taken to ensure compliance with its Order.” The DSS also debunked claims that it was holding a former National Security Adviser Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd), as well as leader of the proscribed Islamic Movement of Nigeria, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, illegally. The secret service said Dasuki and El-Zakzaky had, during separate court rulings, pleaded to be left in its custody, rather than being remanded in correctional centres (prisons). Afunanya, said the detained convener of #Revolution Now, Mr. Omoyele Sowore,  had chosen a similar path. According to Afunanya, the decisions by the trio to be held in the intelligence agency’s custody, was eloquent testimony to the claim that the “Service’s holding facilities are good and within acceptable international standards”. To buttress the position, Afunanya said the service allowed them access to their families, choice of foods, telephone calls among others. “There has been outcry about alleged illegal detention of some notable persons undergoing trials at the Courts and disobedience to Court Orders by the Service. To put the records straight, the Service wishes to avert public attention to the circumstances that warranted the custody of Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd.) and Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky in its facility. “For the avoidance of doubt, the duo had appealed to the Courts to be left in the custody of the Service instead of being taken to the Correctional Centres. Well meaning Nigerians are equally witnesses to the case of Omoleye Sowore, who, on a similar order of the Court, was to be remanded at the Kuje or Suleja Centre, but preferred to be kept at the DSS. “Everyone, also, saw what eventually played out with El-Zakzaky, when he opted to be returned to the custody of the Service even as the Court had granted him leave to seek medical care in India. These were choices these personalities made on their own volition. “Since their stay, the Service has continued to extend the best courtesies to them. They are allowed access to people and use of other facilities like telephones, gymnasium, TV, newspapers and medical facilities. “Among others, their families and trusted persons bring them food of their choices on daily basis.  There could not have been better treatments than these”, Afunnaya said. He stated: “Against the wrong perception that the Service held these persons in defiance to Court Orders, it is obvious, by the above explanations, that they rather chose to  be looked after by the DSS. “The reason for such choice is not farfetched. It is simply because the Service’s holding facilities are good and within acceptable international standards”. While assuring of its readiness to conduct affairs within the confines of the rule of law, the service reiterated its commitment towards continuous partnership with the media and other relevant stakeholders. “It is not in the character of the DSS to join issues with persons or groups. Yet, silence should not be golden at a time like this. For its compliance to democratic norms, the Service owes the Nigerian public a duty to explain some of its activities.  This is more so that these are oftentimes grossly misunderstood or misrepresented. “Once again, the Service restates its commitment to a strong partnership with the media and other stakeholders, including opinion leaders. It is not averse to criticisms and therefore welcomes constructive engagement from all and sundry. “It will continue to conduct its operations within the bounds of the law and importantly be guided by that time tested axiom of Usman Dan Fodio that conscience is an open wound and only the truth can heal it”, the spokesperson stated.