The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has advised telecommunications operators in the country to be prepared for the implementation of the Africa Continent Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), which Nigeria signed recently. The commission said the agreement comes with lots of opportunities as well as challenges for telecommunications business in Nigeria. With liberalisation of telecommunications as one key area of the continental agreement, the NCC said operators in the country would need to invest more in infrastructure to remain competitive in the liberalized African market, which also offers them the opportunity of providing services for 1.2 billion people in the continent. Speaking in Lagos yesterday at a workshop organised by the commission on the implications of the agreement on telecoms business, the Board Chairman of NCC, Senator Olabiyi Durojaye said: “At the NCC, we recognise that the Continental Free Trade Agreement means that we now have access to extend communications services to 1.2 billion people across the African continent. “With a larger proportion of this population made up of young people, whose hunger for data and mobile services continues to grow, there is no limit to achievement by innovative operators/investors in terms of business opportunities. “Just the way we recognise the opportunities for investors in the African market, we also know that there are challenges, not to say threats. Operators and investors within the communications ecosystem must fully appreciate these dynamics, in order to ensure that they prepare adequately for them. Hence, the need for this sensitisation workshop,” he said. Durojaiye added that the commission would continue to strive to improve the performance of the rapidly-evolving industry by encouraging more investments in the industry, engaging stakeholders on issues of common interest, and charting viable courses for the growth and development of the industry/economy. Speaking earlier, Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbata, noted that with the ratification by 22-member states of the African Union, the Continental Free Trade Area is now the largest trading bloc in the world in terms of participating countries, since the creation of the World Trade Organization (WTO). “What all these means, therefore, is that, with the AfCFTA, the hitherto business algorithm in Africa is going to change, as it will become difficult for any country to be regarded as the largest market in Africa, since the African continent is now going to be seen as one single international trade bloc,” he said. Danbatta, who was represented at the workshop by NCC’s Director of Policy and Authorisation, Mohammed Babajika, said the workshop was aimed at examining how it could improve the competitiveness of the over $70 billion Nigerian communications sector market for the Continental Free Trade.