At least eight people have been killed in the last one week in parts of Edo State in the renewed cult war involving three fraternities. The latest reign of terror involves members of the Maphite, Black Axe popularly called Aye and Eiye confraternities. The killings started last Friday when a 200 level student of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), Moses Adeshina popularly known as Aficionado, was shot dead. The students were having jeans carnival, which led to the suspension of all social activities within the university by the management. Shortly after Aficionado was buried on Wednesday, two persons were reportedly attacked on Wire Road, and Siluko Road. While the victim on Wire Road identified as Osasuyi aka 190, died, the one on Siluko Road, Moses Oboh, was severely injured. A day after the killing of Aficionado, which was on Saturday, one person was reportedly killed around Isior area of Benin City. In the evening of the same day, another person was said to have been killed around Osasogie area of Ugbowo. Another person was reportedly killed on Sunday night around Adolor area of Ugbowo while yet another person was murdered at Uwasota. Also on Wednesday night, two persons were reportedly killed on Gani Fawehinmi Layout, Isinoro near New Benin. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, said yesterday that only two deaths had been recorded while one arrest was made. He said: “At the University of Benin, it was reported that one person was killed as a result of cult-related activities; that is as a result of cut fight. Then about yesterday (Wednesday) Oba Market Police reported the killing of a young man. “The operatives went into these two places, they evacuated the bodies. On Siluko Road, one person was arrested. The person who was arrested was having evidence of being part of the fight; he was given a severe injury on the two knees. His name is Moses Oboh aged 20 years. “This is the available information. The command is aware. The Commissioner of Police, Danmallam Muhammed, has actually sent out the command operatives. Then the tactical teams are also out to ensure that this menace is stopped. “We hope that the general public should equally assist us in giving us information as regards these activities of cultists.”