 F ollowing the problem of gas flaring in Erhoike community of Delta State, the Commissioner, representing Ethiope East, Ughelli North and Urhobo communities in Patani Local Government Area in the Delta State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (DESOPADEC), Okakuro Okiemute, yesterday appealed to the people to remain calm.  This was as he assured the people that the state government was on top of the issue and would take a swift action to address it.  Okakuro gave the assurance at Erhoike community in Kokori, Ethiope East Local Government area while inspecting the degree of the smoke emanating from the gas flaring, which he described as hazard and health challenge to the residents of the area. The Commissioner further explained that the Delta State Government would engage the services of Heritage Oil Company on the best way to solving the health challenging problem and save the people from any epidemic resulting from the gas flaring, which has caused serious damage to residents of the area.  Responding on behalf of Erhoike community, the Supervisor of Integrated Pipeline Security Services Company (IPSSC), Mr. Sunday Ogedegbe, said that the fire was caused as a result of negligence on the part the Heritage Energy Operational Service Limited (HEOS), operating in the area. He told the Commissioner and his entourage that the fire was caused by a faulty flaring nozzle which resulted in flares pond over flow into surrounding.  According to Ogedegbe, the people of the community had notified the company, but expressed surprise one of staff in the Production Department of the company came to light the flares pond which caused the fire disaster. He said fire had destroyed property worth several millions of naira, including cash crops, fish ponds and other agricultural products.  But, the Commissioner, who further reacted on the development, commended the people for being peaceful and enjoined them to remain calm as the state government will reached out to the management of the company. Okakuro said he was not satisfied with what he saw on ground; because the management of Heritage ought to have barricaded the spot and put safety measures in place to avoid re-occurrence as crude oil product are all over the area.