Slowly but steadily, the issue of sexual offences is becoming a hot topic in Nigeria. Since the British Broadcasting Corporation, BBC ran the sex-for-marks documentary few months ago; the decibel has gone a notch higher with several efforts being made across the country to arrest such indecency. Currently, an online petition is being collated by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) – Exam Ethics Marshals International (EEMI). It has received 1,700 signatures online on petitions to fast track the passage of the Sexual Harassment Bill before the National Assembly. According to  Ike Onyechere, the founder of the organisation, in a statement issued in Abuja on Monday, 56 per cent of the petitioners are women, while 44 per cent are men. “This indicates that men and women are equally concerned about the sex-for-grade pandemic in the tertiary institutions,” he said. He said that the objective of the NO-TO-SEX-FOR-GRADE Campaign was to get one million people to sign the petition to the National Assembly. He noted that the first effort to pass the Sexual Harassment in Education Institutions Prohibition Bill started in 2016, but it died with the termination of the 8th Assembly. “1,700 change agents have signed the online petition to Nigeria’s National Assembly to fast track action on the passage of the sexual harassment in educational institutions prohibition bill as at Monday, November 18, 2019. “The petition to fast track the sex-for-grade prohibition legislation, activated on November 1; EEMI is in continuation of the Exam Ethics Campaign launched in 1996 to promote exam ethics and combat exam malpractice in education in Africa. “Sex-for-Grade is one of the 33 types of exam malpractices that have been the focus of the campaign,” he said. According to him, Sex-for-Grade is the practice of male lecturers blackmailing, forcing, intimidating and demanding sex from their female students as condition for awarding them pass marks in their courses. He further explained that the petition had inspired other petitions for the passage of similar sexual harassment prohibition laws in educational institutions in seven other African countries. According to him, these countries include: Ghana, Liberia, Tanzania, South-Africa, Benin Republic, Egypt and Rwanda. “In addition to signing the petition, some petitioners are also sharing their experiences. Ex-female students have narrated stories of their traumatic experiences in the hands of some of their male lecturers. The story paints the picture of invasion of tertiary institutions by sexual predators masquerading as lecturers,” he said. It is not only at the national assembly that the battle is on. Even at the ivory towers themselves, sexual offences are now serious issues. At the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) for instance, the Vice-Chancellor,  Prof. Charles Igwe, warned lecturers of the university to avoid sexual harassment of their students or be prepared to face serious sanctions. Igwe gave the warning on Tuesday at a symposium entitled, “Sexual harassment in tertiary institutions: Time for action is now”, organised by UNN Gender and Development Centre in collaboration with Women’s Aid Collective (WACOL). He said his administration had zero tolerance for sexual harassment and would not hesitate to sanction any lecturer found guilty after thorough investigations. “Under my watch in UNN as VC, the institution will maintain and respect the motto of the university, which is to ‘Restore the Dignity of Man.” The VC commended the organisers of the programme, saying that it came at a period sex-for -marks in tertiary institutions had become a national discourse. Igwe, who was represented by Prof. Pat Okpoko, the Deputy VC (Administration), also advised female students to avoid indecent dressing, with the intention to lure lecturers with low moral standard. He said: “UNN has beamed its searchlight on both staff and students that will involve in sexual harassment. “Female students should dress well to avoid sexual harassment as provocative dressing most times lead to sexual harassment. The reason why your parents sent you to school is to read so as to graduate with good results and not to seduce men with indecent dressing.” The Founder of WACOL, Prof. Joy Ezeilo, who spoke on the theme of the symposium, said that research by the group showed that in every three female students in any tertiary institution, one was sexually harassed.                                   She said that victims were not always ready to speak out because of the fear of victimisation or stigmatization. “Female students are always more vulnerable when it comes to sexual harassment as recent research shows that one in every three female students, one is sexually harassed. “The law, religion, tradition and morality are against sexual harassment, but unfortunately this has become a cankerworm in our tertiary institutions,” she said. Ezeilo, who is also the Dean, Faculty of Law, UNN Enugu campus, therefore, challenged administrators of tertiary institutions to spearhead the fight against all vices in educational system particularly cultism, sorting and sexual harassments. “Sexual harassments have devastating effect on learning and the capacity of persons graduating from tertiary institutions in the country. “We must seek for effective ways to curb this menace and restore the dignity of men and women and build a conducive learning environment, where academic discipline and freedom reigns supreme,” she said. Earlier, Prof. Anthonia Achike,  Director Gender and Development Centre, UNN, expressed concern over the rising cases of sex-for-marks in tertiary institutions in the country. Achike commended the National Assembly for its move to enact legislation against sexual harassment in tertiary institutions and society at large. “It’s unfortunate that some victims have refused to report cases of sexual harassment for fear of losing their jobs as well as the public stigma it will bring to their image. “When we talk of sexual harassment, it is not only men harassing female students but sometimes female lecturers also sexually harass male students. “To tackle this societal menace that has become a serious hindrance and setback to academic excellence, all hands must on deck,” Achike said. At the House of Representatives, the Committee on Women in parliament is proposing a legislation that would recommend death penalty for rapists in the country. Chairman of the committee, Hon. Taiwo Oluga (APC, Osun), disclosed this, at a media briefing on the forthcoming “Women Week” Conference, organised by the committee and due for November 24th. Oluga added that apart from the proposed law, the committee is in talks with the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) on the possibility of creating a special Anti-Rape Unit to clampdown on rapists. “We (the committee) are even proposing that the penalty for rape; by the time we finish with the motion and the Bill, it will be difficult for any man to go into rape because it is very sad the way it is going; in fact I would like that death should be the penalty of any man that tries to rape,” she said. “The rate at which our girls are being ridiculed; molested, is saddening. Since I came on board, I have made some steps, which I will like you to know. For example, I have been able to speak to the Commandant of Nigerian Civil Defence Corps, that I want him to work with our office; women in parliament, that we would like them to create a unit for us, and what will that unit be? It will be called Anti-Rape Unit. I want them to create a special unit for us, called Anti-Rape Unit”, she stressed. Also, the Deputy Senate President,  Ovie Omo-Agege, has called for tougher laws against rape and sexual abuse in Nigeria . Omo-Agege who was represented by his Senior Special Assistant on Electronics and New Media, Lara Owoeye-Wise, made this known at the launch of the campaign against rape and sexual abuse in Abuja. The event was  organised by Federation of West African Freelance Journalist Association, FWAFJA, in collaboration with National Council of Women Society, National Orientation Agency(NOA), Ministry of women Affairs among others. Omo-Agege condemned the rising cases of rape, describing it as sexual harassment, bestial acts, that should be stamped out of Nigeria. “The challenge of rape and sexual harassment of the Nigerian child is still very much with us; it seems to me that the problem has persisted either because the laws leave a lot of loopholes or the prescribed punishment is not stringent enough or both. “Many parents and families for that matter are wary of stigmatisation which their child or children may suffer, sometimes for a life time; should it become public knowledge that they have been defiled. According to Omo-Agege, such non-disclosures most times do not obviate the psycho-social damage which such predatory acts inflict on the child, sometimes following the victim for the rest of his or her life. “We at the National Assembly are looking at these setbacks, with a view to making our laws more potent. We should also as a matter of national reorientation have a change of attitude with regards to stigmatising victims of child rape,” he said. Also, speaking, Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu,  wife of the Lagos State Governor, said that rape or sexual abuse was a bad act that should be stamped out of Nigeria. Sanwo-Olu, represented by Mrs Motolani Ladipo, Senior Special Assistant to the Lagos State Governor, said that the survivors of rape usually face very excruciating difficulty, painful emotions and experiences. “For us in Lagos State, sexual abuse is an evil that must be confronted frontally, and we are leaving no stone unturned in naming, shaming and sanctioning perpetrators in line with the law.”