After the verdict of the Appeal Court last week on the governorship election in Oyo State, SOLA ADEYEMO writes that the last may not have not been heard about the polls which brought in the high performing Governor Seyi Makinde    I n every electoral competition, there is bound to be a winner and loser (s). So also is the room for loser to challenge the opponent’s victory to certain maximum level within the ambit of the law. When the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State presented Chief Adebayo Adelabu (a.k.a. Penkelemesi), a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), as its gubernatorial candidate for the March 9, 2019 election, the goal was to elongate the unprecedented two-term administration of the then ruling party till 2023 at least. When the result of the election was however released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Engineer Seyi Makinde of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) defeated Adelabu, the status quo was visibly shaken.   The emergence of Adelabu among about thirteen aspirants who were made to step down for him to be the standard bearer of the party, coupled with the palpable acrimony and disunity in the APC consequent upon the defection of the teeming loyalists of former governor Lam Adesina from the party being led by the then governor Senator Abiola Ajimobi, contributed in no small measure to the defeat of the party. Conversely, the last minute emergence of Makinde through consensus arrangement of about four parties, with former governor, Senator Rasidi Ladoja leading, as well as, the fact that many of the electorate in the State wanted a change of government, pragmatically advanced the victory of the PDP. Makinde according to the announcement by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), defeated Adelabu with 515,621 votes to 357,982 to emerge the governor who was sworn in on May 29, 2019 at the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium.   The APC and Adelabu would however not take the defeat with the spirit of sportsmanship (an enshrined right in law, though) and so filed a petition before the Election Petition Tribunal challenging the victory, declaring that the INEC erred by declaring Makinde as the winner in spite of his alleged non-conformity with electoral process.   Three issues were raised by Adelabu and the Oyo APC, including: first, whether Makinde scored the majority of lawful votes cast during the March 9, 2019 governorship poll or not. Whether the result was in compliance with the election according to the provisions of Electoral Acts 2010 (As Amended), as well as, Extant Guidelines and Regulations. The third issue was on whether the election was not invalid by reasons of corrupt practices occasioned by the respondents and the identified irregularities. After hearing the arguments of counsel on both sides, the three-man Election Petition Tribunal headed by Justice Suraju Muhammadu, has Justices Musa Bazza and Elizabeth Orji as members, on September 16, 2019 affirmed the INEC’s decision by declaring Makinde the authentic winner of the election.   The legal team of Mrs M.A. Essong (SAN) and Nathaniel Oke (SAN) represented the PDP; Dele Abolarin represented the INEC while Akinola Oladeji stood in for Mallam Yusuf Ali (SAN) for the petitioners. The tribunal found that allegations of over-voting, non-accreditation, improper and inaccurate ballots accounting, disenfranchisement of some voters were not proved, noting that law was trite and the onus lay on the petitioners to prove their case with relevant documents and other evidence beyond reasonable doubt.   Dissatisfied with the tribunal judgment, Adelabu and the State APC went further to the Appeal Court and on Monday, November 4, 2019, a very controversial judgment which left room for confusion was delivered. The Appeal panel allowed the appeal filed by Adelabu because in their wisdom, there were issues of miscarriage of justice at the lower court. The panel however added that a judgement must be given after considering the situation in its entirety. Three of the four-person panel of the Court of Appeal resolved all issues in the favour of the appellants. But there was a dissenting judgment from a judge with a proviso that the panel could not nullify Makinde’s election, as according to him, the 180 days mandated for the tribunal to deliver its judgment in election petition had lapsed and there was consequently no reason to touch the ruling of the lower court.   The court presided over by Justice Abubakar Yahaya therefore ordered status quo in the lower tribunal’s judgment, meaning that the return and declaration of Makinde as winner of the March 9,2019 governorship poll in Oyo State remained. The decision raised a thick dust as both parties went into a frenzy of jubilation, claiming to have been favoured by the judgment. There was therefore a political tirade between Makinde and the PDP who maintained that since there was no consequential order from the court against them, “Makinde remains and remained the governor of the Pace Setter State”.   The APC counsel led by Mallam Yusuff Alli (SAN) had given indication that the team would approach the Supreme Court for interpretation of the Appeal judgment, believing that the candidate and the party would eventually be declared winner. However, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN),    representing Makinde had said that the declaration of Makinde as governor “has not been affected in any way. The Court of Appeal in their wisdom said they did not agree with the lower tribunal. They did not also say that they did not agree with INEC. So, INEC’s declaration is sacrosanct and it remains until any other pronouncement from the court.   Going by the barometer with which Sunday Telegraph has measured the feeling of the majority of the electorate in the State, should the Supreme Court reverse the victory of Makinde, possibility of crisis erupting is highly possible. This is because according to discreet interviews conducted by this reporter, salary which is now being paid unfailingly on the 25th of every month to workers and the entitlement of pensioners which has also been enjoying the new regime, might be jeopardized if the APC that was found to have failed in these areas during Governor Abiola Ajimobi’s eight year administration were to come back to government.   Aside this, parents and guardians who are now savouring the relief from payment of school fees on behalf of their children and wards would never pray for a regime that would take them back literally to Egypt. Free books are now being distributed to students and grants are being released to management of schools to cater for the needs of the staff and students.  To an electorate, “the worst will be an order for conduct of fresh election. If that happens to be the case, it will be a vote of vengeance from the majority because masses will vote overwhelmingly for Makinde. We cant allow any party to take us back to a season of agony and starvation”, he said, preferring anonymity. Fingers of everyone are now crossed while looking forward to the final decision of the Apex Court.  The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has lost its ruling status in Oyo State to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as Mr. Seyi Makinde of the PDP yesterday emerged winner of the March 9 gubernatorial election in the state. Makinde defeated the governorship candidate of the APC and former… In "News" Ahead of the March 9 gubernatorial election in Oyo State, the opposition party candidates and leaders in the state yesterday met in Ibadan, the State capital, strategizing on how to form an alliance to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Chief Adebayo Adelabu. The meeting was held on… In "News" The Aso Rock Presidential Villa Council chambers was today thrown into a hilarious atmosphere when President Muhammadu Buhari asked the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi and his communications counterpart, Adebayo Shittu, to pray at the opening of the Federal Executive Council meeting. Ministers began to laugh loudly in the chambers… In "National news"