It is often said that health is wealth. The significance of good health as a decider of the other indices of development and wellbeing cannot be overlooked. Little wonder it tops the priority of most government programmes. Obviously, the development and progress of any community or family depend on it.  It is therefore not surprising that House of Representatives member, Nkiruka Onyejeocha brought a free medical programme to her constituents. The ill health of citizens is compounded by the pervasive excruciating poverty so any leader who provides free medical service to the people would have endeared himself indelibly in their hearts. Lawmaker Onyejeocha (APC) is the Deputy Chief Whip of the Green Chambers and member representing Isuikwuato/Umunneochi Federal Constituency, Abia State.  She recognizes the peculiar challenges of her constituency as rural local government areas and embarks on projects and programmes that have direct impact on them. Little wonder she has consistently won the election to represent them since 2007. Since she became a federal lawmaker, Onyejeocha has organized yearly free medical outreach for her people every June. This is in addition to the scholarship scheme to indigent students and employment for her people. She was at home to personally supervise the free medical outreach.   The outreach cut across all ages. The old and the young benefited and both sexes. During an interaction with journalists in her country home, Isuochi, during this year’s medical outreach, Onyejeocha said: “I organise free medical every June. But we discover that there are many diagnosed with one sickness or the other who could not complete treatment until October. That is why we continue until they are all attended to.” The fourth term House of Representatives member said she was impressed with the turn out for the programme.  She said about 50 patients had surgeries on the first day, while 48 had their s the following day. In order to preserve the items and equip- ment for the medical outreach, which she lamented, were either damaged or vandalized by the next medical session, Onyejeocha built a facility named after her grandmother, Madam Suzana Mba Health Center, at Isuochi, her home town. She said the challenge the programme had was, among others, convenient and secure venue as a result of which she had to provide fresh facilities and equipment every year.  “Each time we had the outreach, the facilities and equipment are vandalized. The result is that every year we will need to provide everything again from the scratch. That is why I decided that the best thing will be to build a permanent medical facility, that’s why I built this.”  The outreach, this year, was a huge success. Hundreds benefited from the surgery and treatment of other ailments. At the Madam Suzan Mba Health Center on the Amuda-Umuaku Road, beneficiaries lined up for medical attention for the number days the outreach lasted. One of the beneficiaries who identified himself simply as Mr. Eke said he underwent surgery in the eye the previous day for what doctors described as tenebrous. Eke said: “The surgery on my eye yesterday, was a success.  It’s free indeed with drugs. I’m grateful to her.” Also, Okereke Chukwudike Bennett, a medical laboratory scientist and one of the over 30 medical personnel attending to the patients, said that by the second day 50 patients had been attended to while 48 others benefited the previous day, while many were still seated waiting to be attended to.  “In all, it has been a successful outreach, no casualty, no death,” Okereke said. Okereke further disclosed that over 30 medical personnel including doctors, nurses and medical laboratory scientists handled different ailments. With the modern facility built and equipped with state of the art equipment and quality drugs, the health needs of the people of Isuochi would have been permanently solved through the magnanimity of their representative, Lady Nkiruka Onyejeocha.