The leadership tussle over Amiyi Community , Ogbaru Local Government Area, Anambra State , got messier  Thursday, with allegations and counter allegations over an alleged  N1 million bribe  given to the Special Adviser  to the Governor on Chieftaincy Affairs  and Town Unions, Vera Okonkwo, in order to swing the election in favour of a candidate. A factional President – General of the community, Comrade Chike Ugboma had alleged that the Traditional Ruler and the current President – General of the community offered the said bribe to be returned as president. According to a release signed by the Traditional Ruler, Igwe Emmanuel Mbanefo and the President General – Prince Nwanze Afubera, the duo said: “It is also a blatant falsehood that the Special Adviser to the Governor on Chieftaincy and Town Union demanded and collected bribe of One Million Naira from Prince Afubera Nwanze Emmaunel for the said election. That publication is simply to blackmail this innocent, impeccable, honest and God fearing woman of high repute. “Amiyi Community is peaceful as people go about their normal businesses. The people of Amiyi are very happy with the present executive committee that has put smiles on their faces. “ I Prince Afubera Nwanze Emmanuel, the incumbent President –  General of Amiyi Town Union bluntly denied the false allegation made against my person of giving the sum of One Million Naira as an inducement to the Special Adviser to Governor on Chieftaincy and Town Unions (Barr Mrs. Veraqueen Okonkwo) for Amiyi Town Union election monitored by her office. “The allegation of Mr. Chike Ugboma against Mrs. Veraqueen Okonkwo) and me is false, malicious, baseless and meant to tarnish our image.” Afubera noted further:  “I am resident in my community and an honest farmer, so people who spent all their lives in the city without knowing what happens in our community should stop creating crisis where there is none. “The Election of June 24, 2019, was the most credible and freest election ever conducted in Amiyi. On that day, Amiyi people trooped out en mass and voted for the workaholic President- General and his executives for the various laudable projects they have executed. Namely: Building of  Amiyi Town Hall, New Ultra Modern Market with thirty open shops, Forty Two lock up shops with toilets and borehole with two overhead Tanks”. “The Amiyi Town Election was conducted on the 24 June, 2019 at Amiyi Town hall and not on 29 June at Amiyi Primary School. There is only one Town Union Executive led by Prince Nwanze Afubera Emmanuel. There is no parallel Town Union Government in Amiyi. My Community is intact and peaceful. There is no division among the youths. There are equally no plans to set the Community ablaze,” he averred.