The fifth edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon will witness influx of top runners around the world as the organisers have invited 35 gold label runners.  According to the General Manager of the race, Yusuf Ali, apart from the gold label runners, 42 silver label runners will also be taking part in the World Athletics Silver Label event.  The 42.1km race, the first to attain a silver label after fourth edition will witness over 60,000 runners running for the price money of 50,000 US dollars while others, who will be taking part in the 10km race will be fighting for a brand new Kia carsas top prize. Apart from the Silver Label accorded the race, this will be the first time participants would be paying to be part of the race.   Speaking at a press conference to herald the 2020 edition, the CEO of Nilayo Sports Management Limited, the patent right owner of the race, Bukola Olopade, while appreciating all the sponsors, said the sponsors have been able to secure forms to be given out while urging them to give forms bought to serious runners. According to him, title sponsor, Access Bank has purchased thousands of forms, likewise the Lagos State Government and other sponsors like 7up, among others.  “I am happy that even while we were skeptical that people might not want to pay to be part of the race, the sponsors have turned around to get the forms for their customers same as Lagos State government who already bought forms to be distributed among Lagosians,” he said.  “But even at that, so many Nigerians have been buying the forms which give me joy that the whole country already accepted the race as they are ready to be part of it.  “I want to beg the sponsors to give the forms to serious runners because in as much as we want the crowd, we want a quality race.” Meanwhile, Access Bank and Lagos State government have both reaffirmed their commitments to the race while other sponsors expressed their happiness to be part of the biggest one day event in Africa.  The race is scheduled for February 8, 2020, as the organizers promised another world class event as they look forward to receiving the Gold Label for the Marathon.