The Senate last week introduced a bizarre angle to the hate speech theory of the Muhammadu Buhari-led government with a bill sponsored by Deputy Chief Whip, Senator Sabi Abdulahi (APC, Niger North). The bill, which was introduced and read for the first time, provided life jail, five years imprisonment, depending on the degree of the hate speech for offenders. It also provided an option of a fine of N10 million for those found guilty of the offence of hate speech. Most curious of the provisions of the bill is the one that stated: “Any person who commits an offence under this section shall be liable to life imprisonment and where the act causes any loss of life, the person shall be punished with death by hanging.” The establishment of the “Independent National Commission for Hate Speeches” that will enforce the law on hate speeches in the country is also in the proposal. According to the sponsor of the bill, the objectives include ensuring the elimination of all forms of hate speeches; promoting the elimination of all forms of hate speeches against persons or ethnic groups; as well as advising the Federal Government on the matter. By his definition, hate speech includes comments “that insult people for their religion, ethnic, linguistic affiliation, racial contempt, among others.” We are aware that Sabi and his colleagues made a similar effort in the 8th Senate which fell flat on its face. Maybe, emboldened by the new drive by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on the hate speech theory, Sabi has brought it back. The minister had few weeks ago announced gleefully that the fines for hate speech by broadcast stations have been increased to N5 million. We are not worried by the cocktail of drama at the Senate over the theory. We are not even worried by the elevation of the so-called hate speech to a national issue. We are disturbed that such a flimsy issue should be of importance to the Federal Government and even the Senate. In a democratic setting, such a nebulous theory should not even be brought up. We are more disappointed that a government of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that rode to power with overbearing and even threatening messages against the then government of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, could turn around now to be legislating on hate speech. We cannot forget in a haste the use of languages like blood soaking the baboon and the monkey, body bags, drunken fisherman and all of such, used by the leaders of the party in the run up to the 2015 and 2019 elections. They were not considered hate speech advocates then by the government in power. We cannot forget also that it was the length the APC leaders went to paint the PDP as demons that eventually demarketed the PDP and brought hatred upon it by Nigerians. Perhaps, we may need to refer to a comment by an APC chieftain in Niger State, Jonathan Vatsa, last week, to remind the APC, the Senate and the executive of the depth of their slanderous campaigns against the PDP, which led them to victory. Vatsa was a former commissioner and Publicity Secretary of the APC in Niger State. He said: “We (APC) brought hate speech to Nigerian politics and I am one of them. As a publicity secretary of the APC, I know how we used hate speech to mobilize Nigerians against the then ruling party, and it paid off because Nigerians eventually hated the PDP… APC as a political party brought hate to politics in form of propaganda.” We couldn’t have captured it better than Vatsa. That is the core of the argument. The APC should not insult Nigerians with the hate speech theory. We believe that it is hiding from the truth. We believe that within democracy, free speech is key. Anything short of allowing Nigerians to express themselves freely is no more democracy. In the history of Nigeria, we cannot recall where the socalled hate speech has caused immense harm to the people. What has caused sorrow, pain and anguish to Nigerians is bad governance, grinding poverty and the cluelessness of successive governments on addressing issues affecting citizens of the country. Be it Boko Haram, banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery or similar vices, it goes down to bad governance, poverty and lack of space for survival for the teeming youths of the country. Hate speech has no role in any of those. We are inclined to believe that the hate speech theory is targeted at opponents of the government and the opposition. As the PDP pointed out last week, the Hate Speech ‘Prohibition’ Bill, was targeted at voices of dissent and opponents of the ruling APC. We are against any action that divides Nigerians or hate speech capable of stoking crisis. But legitimising hate speech shouldn’t be the priority of the Senate. Death penalty is already becoming an outdated punishment across the world. There are critical issues the Senate should focus its energy on. There are existing laws in Nigeria that deal with issues of hate speech. Nigeria has nothing to do with such fascist proposition from the Senate. We call on the Senate to give the bill the treatment it deserves – condemn it to the dustbin of history.