The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday urged Bayelsans to vote massively for the party in Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Oshiomhole, who spoke in Yenagoa during the grand finale of the party’s governorship campaign, advised Bayelsans not to make the mistake of voting for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which according to him, kept them in darkness for eight years. Accusing outgoing Governor Seriake Dickson of mismanaging Bayelsa State resources, the APC national chairman further alleged that the governor was intoxicated by power to the extent that he disrespected even leaders who helped him to power. He added that Dickson belongs to history because the election for his successor would be decided by the electorate and warned the governor against resorting to violence, saying such desperate move would further plunge him deeper into problems. His words: “Dickson is panicking. How can he not panic when the real Lyon has arrived? Who will not panic when you cannot point at the schools you have built and a Lyon is coming? “Won’t you panic when you borrow as much as Dickson has borrowed to do things that people cannot see and now a Lyon is coming to ask questions?” “He knows the meaning of poverty and he understands how poverty dehumanizes. He has struggled against forces and he is an example of what is possible when a man is focused. “I believe that the people of Bayelsa State by coming out to vote for Lyon, will be making a bold statement that in democracy anybody who is focused, determined and relate with people and community can be supported to a position of authority. “Dickson will soon find out that democracy is a leveler and an equalizer. In an election, you are either a winner or a looser. As we come out on Saturday, come out and cast your votes for APC. David Lyon is a home-bred man. He has been using his resources to take care of his people. When he becomes governor, Bayelsa will change.” Also speaking, a former governor of the state and Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, said Dickson has received over N1 trillion since he came on board, but there is nothing to show for it. Insisting Dickson’s government was a failure, Sylva accused the PDP of attacking APC members in the state and shopping for court judgements to stop the opposition from contesting the election. He said: “Governor Dickson said he had built an airport. A few days ago, he brought some people to come and walk on the tarmac. I thought he was going to bring planes to land on the tarmac. The biggest shame is that the airport is the most expensive airport in the world. “So far, Dickson has spent N91 billion. He owes N58.2 billion on the airport to banks. So, you can see why Dickson is very desperate because he knows that he has taken Bayelsa people for a ride. He knows that he had done nothing and he had taken us into debt more than anything else.” Lyon, in his speech, said he has what it takes to take the state out of the woods. “I’m close to you people and let me assure you that Bayelsa will see light under me. For eight years insecurity has been the order of the day, but I have what it takes to solve the problem of insecurity. APC is not coming to deceive you people like PDP did for eight years.”