The intriguing battle between Governor Godwin Obaseki and his estranged political godfather and National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adam Oshiomhole, leaves more than meets the ordinary eyes. The latest episode in the drama is indicative of the governor’s plan to free himself from the stranglehold of his predecessor, writes CAJETAN MMUTA   “M y second term is non-negotiable, I have worked for it and I’m demanding for it and I know the Edo people will give it to me.” With those words, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State identified the kernel of his current faceoff with his godfather, predecessor and National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.   In the past few months, his utterances were indicative of that of a governor who wants to break free from the stranglehold of his predecessor, who still called the shots even over three years after his tenure terminated. The issue took a new dimension early in June this year when the leadership of the state House of Assembly was constituted after the governor made his proclamation.   The election of the leadership by nine lawmakers at the Anthony Enahoro House while 12 members-elect were still hibernating in Abuja in the past five months, and obvious inability of some eminent individuals in the party and Presidency to settle the feud had laid the grounds for the current crisis.  At one of the functions in the state, Obaseki once lamented “As governor, I have not been able to make any federal appointment. They just called from the Senate before confirmation, ‘Mr. Governor, are you aware of this?’ But I kept quiet. Is it not embarrassing that we have this kind of crisis in a state where all the lawmakers are from the same party?  “We have one person at the top who is supposed to superintend over all of us. If your children are fighting, what are you suppose to do? Now if you failed in this regard what authority do you have as a father? I am the only APC governor in the South-South. Even if I’m a mad man, are you who are at the top not supposed to cover me?  “No matter how serious our problems are at home, will you go and tell outsiders to come and take over your home? Do you want me as your governor to keep quiet and allow this happen? Should I not fight back? We should not be afraid,” Obaseki said recently on ObjecTV, an online platform.  The political crisis rocking members of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is not new neither is it a child’s play. It has left the realms of mere feud between two brothers, the political godson Governor Obaseki and his estranged godfather, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, of same political family.  Though it has been raging over time, last week attack on the governor, Oba Rilwan Akiola of Lagos and other dignitaries by suspected thugs at Oshiomhole’s residence further put a wedge between the gladiators.  Oshiomhole, however, said on national television that the deputy governor, Philip Shuaibu, mobilized the attack on the quests.  This was not the first of such attacks. On October 13 this year, the state was awash with reports of an alleged late night attack by suspected hoodlums at the residence of Comrade Oshiomhole, on Okorotu road area of the Government Reservation Area (GRA) in Benin City. The incident was greeted with condemnations by concerned citizens.  The State Police Commissioner of Police, Mr. DanMallam Mohammed had denied any such attack, but Oshiomhole took the assertion with a pinch of salt as he pointed at his transducers. . He had quickly petitioned the authority of the Police Headquarters in Abuja, making the operatives to hunt for some aides of Governor Obaseki in the state.  Last two weeks, the state Deputy Governor, Hon Shuaibu, had spent over four hours at the Edo State Police Command waiting to secure release of Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Security, Mr. Andrew Momodu. Momodu was billed to be whisked to Abuja the following day, Monday, after his arrest by policemen from Abuja following a petition that he was among those that stoned the Benin residence of Comrade.   Others said to be on the list for arrest by the police for questioning are Special Adviser to Obaseki on Political Matters (Edo South) Hon Osaigbovo Iyoha; Head of Obaseki’s Public Works Volunteer (PUWOV), Mr. Murtari Osagie; Mr. Albert Obazee; Mr. Kelly Okungbowa and Augustine Edosomwan. The security operatives after about four hours overtures released Momodu on grounds that Shaibu would make him available for questioning in Abuja on Wednesday.   Momodu who later narrated his ordeal said the security personnel had arrested him over alleged conspiracy and attempted murder as well as other allegations. “One of them came behind me and kicked me. They said they would lift me up. There were other civilians inside the Hilux.   “We discovered that some persons were up to something. We will investigate and get to the bottom of this. We were elected on the basis of protecting lives and property which is enshrined in the constitution. Not even an appointee can be arrested without our knowledge. We will follow up to know what the issues are.”  Last week Saturday’s episode at Iyamho, Oshiomhole’s country home in Etsako West Local Government Area in the north senatorial district was just another dimension to the crises. An event as auspicious as the maiden convocation lecture of Edo University with the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, as guest speaker ended in chaos.  The fact that the entire crisis was about the 2020 governorship election in the state became manifest as the event turned to campaign turf with youths belching out staccato of political renditions laced with tantrums over “4+4 and 3+1,” that suggested the  resolve of supporters loyal to both Obaseki and Oshiomhole respectively.  Trouble started when Obaseki’s supporters were shouting four plus four, an indication that he deserves a second term, while Oshiomole’s supporters were also roared ‘three plus one, no more four.’ The commotion was further fueled by the huge presence of commercial motorcycle riders and other support groups out to shower solidarity for the Governor Obaseki/Philip Shaibu ticket for second term bid next year.  Competence of security agencies were put to test as the crowd defied all odds. However, the peak of the ceremony was successfully concluded on Saturday but for the attack by suspected thugs carried out at the residence of Oshiomhole, afterwards.  The odious impact of the attack on Governor Obaseki and other top personalities on his entourage including the Oba of Lagos state, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, Chancellor, Edo University, Iyamho, Dr. Aderemi Makanjuola and other eminent personalities, has elicited great condemnations.  Sunday Telegraph learnt that aside from preventing the guests from entering Oshiomhole’s palatial home, the hoodlums shattered windscreen of two vehicles in the governor’s convoy with stone. Obaseki, who was visibly disappointed by the incident, described it as unfortunate; pointing that he would not treated same way in the house of chairman of the opposition PDP.  “It is really unfortunate that we can’t feel safe at the house of our national chairman. I am not sure that if I went to the house of the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, they will attack me the way they did in the house of our chairman. It is really unfortunate that things have degenerated to this extent but we will continue to pursue peace and we cannot afford to lose the gains of the last three years”.  However, Oshiomhole through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Simon Ebegbulem, blamed the attack on Shuaibu, for allegedly deploying the suspected thugs.  “I want to state that the people who unleashed mayhem on vehicles were the thugs who invaded the university community on the orders of the Deputy Governor of the State, Philip Shaibu.”  But in his response, the Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagoe called on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to apologise to all the personalities affected by the attack carried out by youths in Iyamho community, because the attack was premeditated and executed with the alleged active connivance and directive of the former governor.  The state government also demanded that an unreserved and unconditional apology be tendered to all persons who were victims of this sacrilegious, treasonable and extremely embarrassing event.  A statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie, said: “Comrade Oshiomhole went ahead of his invited guests to his residence and obviously was aware of the build-up of thugs within his compound in advance of the arrival of the governor and the Very Important Persons (VIPs).”  On its part, the Obaseki/Shaibu Movement (OSM), traders’ union, market women and other groups within Edo State also condemned in strong terms the attack on the state governor and others at the event. Convener, OSM, Hon. Damian Lawani, said the attack on the governor and his visitor, the Oba of Lagos was a misrepresentation of the good people of Edo State. The groups further called on all well-meaning Edo sons and daughters to condemn the abominable action, urging the security agencies to as a matter of urgency investigate the matter and ensure perpetrators of the uncivilised act face the wrath of the law.  Leader of Market Women in Edo, Madam Blacky Ogiamen, said, “We are not only disappointed but irritated and disturbed by the actions of some youths who allow themselves to be used to achieve the plans of these ruthless politicians. We condemn this act in totality and urge parents to educate their children to stay off any activity that endangers the reputation of their families and the state.”  Observers have argued that the end of this continued feud between Obaseki and Oshiomhole is not in sight as new angles to it will be opened in the months ahead, when the governorship primaries of the APC would be held. Much as Oshiomhole would fight not to be humiliated, Obaseki too would put up his feet on the ground as he has declared that nothing will stop him from getting second term in the state.