Lukman Otunuga, Senior Research Analyst, Forextime UK Limited (FXTM), in this interview with Chris Ugwu, speaks on knotty issues affecting Nigerian economy   How would you assess the Nigerian economy since the beginning of the new administration?   The Nigerian economy still remains on a bumpy road to recovery in the face of volatile oil prices, US-China trade developments, Brexit drama and concerns over slowing global growth. Although the nation expanded 1.94 per cent during the second quarter of 2019, it is unlikely to meet the government’s three per cent growth targets this year. This sentiment continues to be reflected in the International Monetary Fund (IMF) which has projected Nigeria to expand 2.3 per cent this year and 2.5 per cent in 2020. Despite the push for economic diversification, 90 per cent of foreign exchange earnings and 70 per cent of government revenues are still attained from oil sales. Growth in the non-oil sector has been sluggish with approximately 1.6 per cent and 2.6 per cent expansion respectively in the first and second quarter of 2019. Overall, economic fundamentals have been mixed with Business Confidence increasing to 28.60 Index Points in August from 28.10 in July of 2019. However, consumer confidence decreased to 1.20 in the second quarter of 2019 from 4.80 seen in Q1. Given how manufacturers across the globe are feeling the heat from trade disputes, it is understandable that the Central Bank of Nigeria Manufacturing PMI dropped to 57.7 in September of 2019 from 57.9 in the previous month. While the Central Bank of Nigeria can be commended on its effort to promote naira stability, this has come at the expense of falling reserves which decreased to $42.1 billion in September. Further signs of reserves declining amid weak oil prices and repeated intervention by the CBN is likely to weigh on the Nigerian economy. If the CBN is unable to defend the naira from external and domestic risks, the consequences will ripple through all corners of Nigeria. Africa’s largest economy still has the potential to rock the global stage despite the unfavourable global macro and domestic conditions. However, key steps in the form of more diversification, monetary policy easing and swift implementation of the 2020 budget could set the economy on the right path.     What factors do you think account for investors either staying or exiting the market?   A key factor that will magnetize investors to the Nigeria market is the health of the economy. Consistent signs of improving economic fundamentals in key sectors, easing inflationary pressures and foreign exchange stability and transparency will be warmly received by investors. Given the unfavourable global macroeconomic conditions and gloomy predictions from major institution, robust core economic metrics should make Nigeria stand out from the crowd. Although Nigeria remains exposed to external shocks in the form of oil, an appreciation in the commodity will most likely stimulate economic growth. However, it remains uncertain whether Oil prices will ever be able to reach triple digits in the face of slowing global growth. Oil markets remain influenced by demand side factors revolving around trade uncertainty. Another factor that will weigh on Oil and the Nigerian economy is the fact that China’s economic growth slowed to six per cent during the third quarter of 2019. China is the world’s largest energy consumer and one of Nigeria’s biggest trading partners with total trade reaching roughly $10.3 billion in 2018. A fall in demand for crude and trade flows with China could threaten Nigeria’s fragile recovery consequently repelling investors to the nation’s markets. It will be unwise to overlook external drivers in the trade developments and health of the global economy. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has downgraded its forecast for global growth to three per cent this year while the World Trade Organisation (WTO) sees global trade volumes dropping to 1.2 per cent, down from three per cent in 2018. This gloomy outlook may encourage investors to avoid riskier assets. A scenario that will not only impact Nigeria, but other emerging markets across the globe. This is already being reflected in the Nigeria Stock Market with the NSE-All Share Index dropping over 15.5 per cent since the start of 2019.   Inflation in Nigeria remains above the 6 -9 per cent target range just as the latest report shows an increase. What are the implications of this on the economy and CBN monetary policy?   Rising inflationary pressures in Nigeria will certainly complicate the Central Bank of Nigeria’s efforts to cut interest rates to stimulate growth. The nation’s annual inflation edged up to 11.24 per cent in September 2019, its highest level in three months after falling to a three-and-a-half-year low of 11.02 per cent in August. Food prices jumped after the government partially closed its border with Benin to curb the smuggling of rice. Given how the CBN governor has already made it clear that inflation must hit single digits before a rate cut could be considered, it remains uncertain whether the central bank will cut interest rates before year end. A rate cut could inject the Nigerian economy with a welcome boost, as it stimulates consumption which accounts for roughly 80 per cent of GDP. But however, cutting the MPR when the inflation rate is at 11.22 percent risks further overheating prices. Like other economies, Nigeria may be risking thebe exposed to the impacts of a global slowdown but its economy is very different from the US’ which is currently experiencing anaemic price inflation. This may be why the Central Bank of Nigeria decided to prioritise reducing inflation to single digits and said it is in no hurry to reduce its key rate. In other effects, foreign investment and foreign currency reserves in Nigeria are likely to see benefits from the CBN’s decision to hold rates at 13.5 per cent. This is based on the argument that international investors may be looking for higher-yield securities than those in the mature markets, especially in the light of declin ing or negative interest rate environments in Europe and the US. In the absence of cutting interest rates, the CBN has raised the country’s loan to deposit ratio for banks to 65 per cent from 60 per cent. Making sure money is in circulation instead of being tied up in government bonds sounds like a logical way to keep the economy on the road to recovery. However, it remains to be seen whether this will be enough to promote growth.  Do you think the adoption of a more flexible exchange rate policy by the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) will boost capital market and the economy?  A flexible exchange rate may provide international investors with a fresh layer of transparency. This could result in an increase in foreign direct investment and Diaspora flows consequently boosting the Nigerian economy. Foreign direct investment in Nigeria increased by roughly $909 million in the second quarter of 2019 with FDI averaging a total of $1.23 billion from 2007 until 2019. While such a move will benefit the Nigerian economy in the longer term, it may create negative shocks in the short to medium term. It must be kept in mind that a flexible rate will most likely result in a sharp depreciation of the naira as the natural forces of supply and demand find an equilibrium value for the local currency. A depreciating naira will result in explosive inflationary pressures, ultimately exposing the nation to downside shocks in the short term. Inflation may eclipse the 18.72 per cent witnessed in January 2019 as the local currency sinks to an all-time low. If Nigeria could weather the storm of a weakening naira and runaway inflation, the outcome could be similar to the Egyptian economy which allowed its currency to float in 2016 but later recovered after two years.  How do you think the current administration will help revive the nation’s financial market?  The first step will be the swift passing of the 2020 budget before we enter the new year. It must be kept in mind that the IMF has stated that Nigeria’s “over-optimistic revenue projections have led to higher financing needs than initially envisaged, resulting in over-reliance on the expensive borrowing from the central bank to finance the deficit.” This will be a key theme global investor will be watching in 2020. According to the IMF, Nigeria’s economic growth is too slow to reduce poverty and the government must diversify from whole dependence on crude. A stronger push in diversifying away from oil reliance will boost attraction towards the nation’s financial markets. With a booming population and fertile land, agricultural policies aimed at boosting domestic production should create a solid platform for Nigeria to break away from the chains of oil reliance. There could be massive scope for the agriculture sector to provide substantially government revenues while also stabilizing the nation if overall spending is increased and the correct policies are implemented swiftly. While domestic drivers in the form of strong macroeconomic metrics, foreign exchanges stability and monetary policy easing from the CBN could stimulate appetite for the domestic markets, external themes must not be overlooked. US-China trade developments, Brexit and its impacts on Nigeria trade and oil prices have the potential to influence the nation’s financial markets.  What does Brexit mean for the Nigerian economy?    After more than 1200 days after Britain voted to leave the European Union, the country still remains in the trading bloc, pondering exactly how to leave. Although the October 31 “do or die” Brexit deadline has been extended to January 2020, this is simply kicking the can further down the road. With the United Kingdom set for general elections on December 12, this will certainly not be a quiet Christmas for Britain and the pound. It will be unwise for investors to rule of the possibility of the United Kingdom crashing out of the European Union next year given the unpredictable nature of Brexit. The seismic tremors created from such an unfavorable development will ripple far beyond the borders of Britain, with everyone across the globe feeling the heat including those in Africa. Given how Brexit adds to the growing list of geopolitical risk factors straining investor confidence, appetite for emerging market may diminish if the UK leaves the European Union without a deal. It is not only appetite for emerging markets that will be under threat but trade and diplomatic relations with Britain and Europe following the divorce. It must be kept in mind that trade deals with the UK and African countries are negotiated through the EU which plays a middle man. With the agreement becoming void when Britain departs from Europe, this presents significant disruptions and economic risk to African nations who trade with the UK. Britain’s top trading partners like Nigeria, Kenya and Egypt will most likely be punished by a no-deal Brexit. The UK was Nigeria’s 6th largest trading partner last year with total trade roughly $5 billion. In 2018, Nigeria exported £2.23 billion worth of oil to the UK, an improvement over the level of £1.1 billion in 2017.  But with the UK’s economy exposed to downside risks, the outlook for Nigeria’s oil sales appears less promising. Nigeria’s oil sales in the UK and Europe face another challenge. Over and above the UK’s declining economic circumstances is increased competition from the US light sweet crude oil industry.  In August, oil sales slowed to their lowest level of the year because US Shale oil flooded European markets.  In July, Nigeria’s oil sales to the U.S. fell to zero as US president Donald Trump’s administration powered up its energy dominance policy. It is essential for Nigeria to regain market share in the UK and Europe, which accounts for 46 per cent of its crude oil sales. As demand and supply side challenges grow, Nigeria could benefit from closer relations with the UK government, which points out that it has extensive experience in building and managing oil industry infrastructure. A trade deal which secures the UK as a guaranteed buyer of Nigerian crude oil could certainly support demand in the long term.  As part of its post-Brexit strategy, the UK government hopes to revive its relationships with the Commonwealth markets and has already begun talks with Nigeria to improve bilateral ties. In one example, the UK provided credit and finance worth £1.25 Billion to facilitate British companies to export goods to Nigeria, resulting in £76.5 billion worth of trade in the last 10 years. During the second quarter of 2019, British Foreign Minister, Jeremy Hunt, visited Nigeria promising a big pool of funds which could be invested in infrastructure. In other developments, the two countries launched an economic forum to explore mutual investment interests. The governments are already discussing the introduction of naira-backed financial instruments in the UK and expanding cooperation in the insurance sector. To wrap up, Nigeria’s post-Brexit relations with the UK are faced with several headwinds which could blow off course the priority to maintain and increase investments in the development of its oil-and-gas industry infrastructure. On the upside, it is positive that trade talks with the UK are deepening and there are pre-existing diplomatic and trading relationships which go back many decades.  