Less than two months after the Presidential Task Force on Clearance of Apapa Gridlock impacted positively on Apapa port access roads, decorum has again departed the corridor as over 3,000 empty container-laden trucks are back on the roads, leading to gridlock. Findings by New Telegraph reveal that delay by shipping lines to take delivery of the containers is mostly responsible for the current vehicular disorder that is gradually stretching to cover large part of the roads in and out of the nation’s gateway. Our correspondent gathered that majority of the shipping lines still lacked holding bay for containers despite several warnings by government that they should provide the facility to store their empty containers. The trucks came back as the presidential task force, headed by Kayode Opeifa, failed in its assignment to completely free the ports road from heavy traffic. It was also revealed that as at yesterday, the Lilypond Container Terminal, converted to truck holding bay by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), has been abandoned by the truckers. Commenting on the development, the President of Nigerian Shipowners Association of Nigeria (NISA), Mallam Aminu Umar, said that several companies had vacated the port environment because of the gridlock. He explained that port users had been staying on the road for more than four hours in the last two weeks to connect the port from Ijora. Umar said: “Movement in and out of Apapa is getting unpredictable. All what has been achieved in the last few months by the Presidential Committee on Apapa Gridlock has vanished suddenly in the last two weeks.” Also, the Vice President of National Association of Roads Transport Owners (NARTO), Dry Cargo section, Mr. Abdullahi Mohammed, told our correspondent that the delay in receiving empty containers by the terminal operators and the influx of the tankers had impeded smooth trade facilitation at the seaports. According to him, oil tank farm depots around the ports have also contributed to the problem. Mohammed said: “I can say there are three factors that are responsible for the sudden resurfacing of gridlock along the corridor, which have affected many link roads. So it makes the movement of trucks accessing the truck park/port difficult.” He stressed that no serious palliative measures had been taken by the road contractor from Coconut to Mile 2 axis as promised by the government. The vice president said there were pot holes, which make it difficult for trucks to access the port smoothly, adding that his association had been supporting government to fill the pot holes, assisting the task force in clearing the road of rickety trucks. Meanwhile, the NPA has decided to shut out port users without its port pass from accessing the port to carry out legitimate businesses. It was gathered that the authority had informed terminal operators, government agencies and labour of its intention to commence implementation on strict access control. A former Chairman of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) at Lagos Airport, Dr. Segun Musa, who frowned at the decision, explained that the authority had no reason to lock critical stakeholders out of the port. Musa noted that some members of various associations in the industry were busy playing sycophantic roles at the detriment of their members and businesses. He said: “Most of the leaders are not ready for selfless service again, but what they want to eat immediately.” The NAGAFF chieftain described the development as another litmus test to check the relevance of the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) as the umbrella body of the freight forwarders, and to determine if the leaders know what their roles are in protecting the interests of stakeholders. It was alleged that the authority did not inform the licensed customs agents and freight forwarders before the implementation of the port pass. Also reacting to the gridlock, a truck driver stranded on Wharf Road, Mr. Akanni Oladele, said that the sudden reappearance of queue at Ijora to port started when a driver was killed at the Lilypond holding bay. He explained that everybody was forced to abandon the bay for the bridge because of incessant extortion by miscreants and security operatives. Oladele alleged that both the presidential taskforce and other security operatives not assigned to monitor the road were using hoodlums as front. “They always come in the night to extort money forcefully,” he said. Oladele said that hoodlums had vandalised vehicles of those who resisted the illegal fee. Besides, he added that before they deserted the Ijora holding bay, some truckers stayed as much as three weeks without the call up numbers introduced by NPA. According to him, “We discovered that only those lining up illegally on the bridge get access to the port. This is after paying illegal fees of between N50,000 and N70,000 to security operatives to facilitate their access to the terminals. “Like before, we have started sleeping on the bridge. Here, you will eat and bath before dawn. We send our motor boys to fetch water and buy food at Ajegunle and Ijora,” the driver said. Another trucker, Mr. Mike Ikechukwu, who explained that the gridlock was created by security personnel just to extort money, lamented that everybody was helpless in savaging the situation. Ikechukwu added that there were rot in the system because of the free money they enjoy with impunity. The truckers also said that they paid demurrage on empty containers because of the congestion. He added that shipping companies, which should provide holding bay, were not doing so. On his part, a manager at Sceptre, Judah Jayeola, explained that lack of holding bay for trucks was the major factor affecting the road. He said: “If the two access roads to the ports are fully rehabilitated today without holding bays, gridlock will still continue around Apapa.”