● Jonathan happy with Lyon’s victory, say APC govs ● Dickson made our job easy – Sylva  The National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has described last weekend’s governorship election in Bayelsa State as the most peaceful in the state since 1999. Oshiomhole stated this after he was joined by the Chairman APC governorship campaign and Governor of Kebbi State, Mohammed Badaru; Chairman of APC Governors Forum, Atiku Bagudu and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Silver, to present Bayelsa Governor-elect of Bayelsa State, David Lyon, to President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. Lyon defeated the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Duoye Diri in the Bayelsa governorship election. Oshiomhole, who spoke with State House Correspondents after the meeting, commended the role played by President Buhari and other party members in APC’s victory in Bayelsa State. His words: “We thanked the President for his fatherly role as he insisted that we must ensure that while we are determined to win the election, we must play by the rule and ensure that the process is transparent. Above all, the President has always been concerned about peaceful election and we were proud to inform him that besides very isolated cases of snatching of ballot boxes, the election in Bayelsa can be described as the most peaceful. “I believe since 1999, you as very seasoned journalists, who have covered elections in Bayelsa in the past, will agree that this is the only time we can say the election is truly transparent and peaceful.” The APC national chairman, who also commended former President Goodluck Jonathan, who in line with his character of humane, simplicity and commitment, warmly received a delegation of the party’s governorship campaign for Bayelsa State, noted that Lyon’s candidature was easy to market because he is a good product. He said: “We went to present the Governor-elect, David Lyon, to President Muhammadu Buhari. As the President and our father, he has a brand new baby boy, who would be sworn- in on Valentine’s Day, February 14, 2020, as governor of Bayelsa State. “Again, our candidate attracts support from across the political divides. When you look at territories and communities, where his victory is being celebrated, you will agree that not only did he get the support of the APC family; he got support from beyond the APC family. “Of course, the President was very happy that we had a peaceful election in Bayelsa State. Overall, we are grateful to Almighty God for making this election successful. We appreciate the people of Bayelsa State, who have reposed confidence in our party and in our candidate. “For the Governor-elect, this is a call for selfless service, the more support you get the more the expectations. As they say, to whom much is given, much is expected. “When he takes over office in February, Bayelsans will see the difference between his government and that of outgoing Governor Serieke Dickson.” Lyon, on his part, assured that he will not disappoint the people of Bayelsa, promising to keep his pledge of tackling insecurity and providing unprecedented development. His words: “Today is one of the greatest day in my life. A great day because the great people of Bayelsa have spoken their minds by taking time to vote for our great party, APC. “It is indeed a welcome development because at our campaigns, we promised that when elected and sworn-in, security and development will be our key agenda and with the support of Bayelsans, they have made this possible. “On behalf of APC leaders, I promise Bayelsans that we will serve them and not for them to serve us. We also promise to respect leadership which is key for us. Today, their votes have been counted and the people of Bayelsa will be respected. “I am sincerely grateful to our father, the President of this country for his fatherly advice this afternoon (yesterday). As one of his sons in APC, I want to say that we Bayelsans will not disappoint APC. We will consult with our leaders, traditional rulers and I believe there will be positive change in Bayelsa State. The incoming administration will make Bayelsans to see positive developments and that is key to us.” Also speaking, Governor Bagudu explained that the election was not only free and fair, but that former President Jonathan was happy with the victory of the APC candidate. He said: “Many people worked hard in making this happen, most importantly, Mr. President, who has always shown the party that win or lose, we should aim for free, transparent and fair elections because, that is what will guarantee peace, confer legitimacy and support for elected persons to proudly execute the mandate that they are given. “In Bayelsa we have seen a demonstration of that. Everyone is talking about how free, transparent and fair the election was. We were in Bayelsa for over 72 hours and we didn’t see a tyre burning, we didn’t see people running, we didn’t hear a gunshot, everyone was celebrating in all the areas we passed, which shows acceptance of our candidate, our party and the process itself.” Governor Badaru noted that the election was substantially peaceful and reflected the wishes of the people, saying: “We want to thank Baylesans, they know what they want, they know when they are frustrated, how to act and they have acted right.” He added: “Like the chairman said earlier, we know the history of elections in Bayelsa and what they used to be, but for the three days of voting and counting, not a single soul to my knowledge was lost. Of course, there were pockets of violence, ballot box snatching, but when you look at the magnitude, they are so few compared to what use to happen in Bayelsa.” In his remarks, Sylva said the party’s victory was made easier by the party’s choice of an acceptable candidate and the mis-governance of the outgoing governor, Seriake Dickson. He noted that the victory now gives the APC more national look, with a footprint in the Niger Delta, which is very vital to strengthen the ruling party. Sylva added that “it’s been a very hectic week, but I will like to bring in this Eritrean proverb, that if you marry a wife well, you will be blessed with another wife. Governor Dickson made our job very easy because he married the wife very badly. “Of course this proverb pre-supposes that if you marry a wife badly, you will not get another wife. So, he did not marry the state very well and the state roundly rejected him. “Like it’s been said earlier, we had a good candidate and when you have a good product, it’s very easy to sell it. So, we went round and sold this good product to Bayelsans and the result was an overwhelming success. “We are happy with this victory because for us it is very significant. This gives our party a footprint in the Niger Delta, which is very key to us. It gives us more of a national outlook, we have always been a national party but this gives us even a bigger national outlook. “I have always said that if our party doesn’t have this much of a footprint in the bread basket of the country, it is not too good for us. But now we have it and I want to assure you that from a small seed, the biggest tree will grow. From here, we will gradually grow the party in the South-South and South-East. APC is a good product just like our governor and we intend to sell that good product in the whole of the South-South and South-East,” Sylva stressed.