Slums are normally on the outskirts of cities. In Lagos, however, it is not difficult to sight shanties, slums in almost every corner. The reason is not far-fetched- affordability of accommodation in a decent and dry environment seems to be out of reach of average Lagos residents. Consequently, most of the slums are overpopulated, lacking in many basic facilities. AWOTUNDE IBRAHIM writes   M ost of the slums that New Telegraph visited, lacked good and well paved roads, potable water, electricity, decent toilets, in fact, most of them do what is termed as ‘shot-put’. They pass faeces on used newspaper and throw inside the refuse around them. From a week observation, their lifestyles could be described as terrible, loose in morals and values, the crime level/ tendency is inexplicable. A child as young as 7-year-old understands facial signal to run away or deny a crime, when signaled to!   However, they seem to be contented with their lives despite the circumstances surrounding them. Although, they do not like it, they have accepted what fate brought across their ways and make the most of it. They have become used to the stench oozing around them. In fact, to them, it is their natural perfume. Gutter water flows around, under their shanty built rooms, yet they do not mind. And when nature-rain brings about flood their ways, they find a way to deal with it. To these set of people, they are determined to make the better part of the bitter taste life aims to throw or already throwing at them. Judging by their philosophy, if government refuses to come to their aids by giving them decent environments and basic amenities, they would find their way round it.   For residents living at the tail end of the Ola-Aina Street, Oke-Ira , Ogba , Lagos , it is a galore tale of woes or otherwise, the proverbial song of late Fela- ‘Suffering and Smiling.’ There are dingy corners of houses providing excellent sanctuaries for teeming multitude of malicious mosquito, heaps of refuse lying around, different stench oozing from the drainages, marshy pathways and remains of human wastes were seen carelessly all over the environment.   For Sunday Adeleye who live with his family within this slum, a creaky mud laden bridge leads the way to his half swamp filled house which on entering a first time visitor will think there is a fish pond in the sitting room which is actually the biggest room in the house. The occupants who still wish to continue to live in the house placed a strong wood across the room to serve as a bridge to move across the room. They are used to the constant sounds of frogs, toads and small fishes which have turned the stagnant water to their new home. The incessant flood had washed away the once beautiful green paint which is now a ghost of its former self as it is now a faint whitish green colour which most of it had scraped away. The flood had frustrated every effort of renovation as even the newly cemented door frame has been destroyed due to pressure of the flood and its residents had resorted to the use of a thick blanket to serve as their door. Mrs. Mary Adeleye, the woman of the house, said they have to wrap themselves up with insecticidal nets in order to protect themselves from their mosquitoes neighbours. The bedroom is a no-go area whenever it rains as they have to vacate the room to return only when the rain subsides and they have to scoop the water out before they can sleep on their make-shift beds made of bamboo trees with mats spread on them as they only desire to have a roof over their heads and a place to call home, not the luxury aspect of it.   However, the Adeleye’s are not the only one in this swampy situation, but the whole residents of the tail-end of the Ola Aina’s street, Oke-Ira, Ogba Lagos.   According to Mr. Adeleye, who said the place wasn’t originally a swampland when he and his family moved there in the early 2000’s as it was another developing area which they saw as aeconomic fertile area, believing people will soon come to join them to industrialise it. But their nightmare began during the second term of Governor Babatunde Raji Fashola when the area began to be flooded due to the blockage of the canal in the area l, but the then government came early to their rescue and cleared the canal giving them their own share of the governance.   Shockingly, their joy was short-lived when a new government came and decide not to focus on drainages but in other important things, making the people of this area living their worst night mare .Mr Adeleye who further lamented bitterly that the scenario would have been prevented if the local government in their jurisdiction which is the Ojodu local government have done something to help the people of its constituency as the stakeholders of the community had gone on several occasions to appeal to the local government officials but which all fell on deaf  ears.   Speaking to another resident, elder Adékúnlé Fasasi, 72, who said he has been living in the area for more than 22 years but the past six years seemed to be the worst of his life as it seems the government operating within those years have abandoned its people in the aspect of environment.   Mr. Fasasi who jokingly said that majority of the people living in the area are Yoruba’s as against the popular notion of the people of the surrounding areas that probably they are Ilaje’s who are probably used to living in such aqua – terrestrial environment. “But if I had known that this is what will happen here, would I have bought a land to live here? This flood turned swamp had wreck economic and physical havoc on us as majority of tenants living here had left when they couldn’t bear it any longer and as big as this community is, only two tenants live there and they don’t pay rent because who will pay for living in such condition!”  “This swampland has turned us into regulars at the hospital treating malaria and dysentery always and it has wrecked a lot of small businesses as nobody would want to come to a swamp to buy goods” The septuagenarian concluded bitterly.   Speaking to New Telegraph, another resident, a woman in her late fifties who doesn’t want her name in print lamented bitterly that the flood turned swamp has destroyed her business as it wrecked her vegetable farm where she plants varieties of vegetables to eke out a living for her family but she couldn’t continue her farm practices because the swamp has made the land unfit for agricultural purposes and the little arable land she has left her customers doesn’t patronize her again for the fear of the disease it might have accumulated from the surrounding swamp. While responding to if they couldn’t leave the area and migrate , the woman said they couldn’t abandon the houses they built and as the economy is now hard and there is scarcity of houses and lands in Lagos and the little left are expensive so they have to make do with what they have.   Meanwhile, when  moving around the swampy community, New Telegraph observed that there are lots of abandoned houses , many completed and some uncompleted, and it was gathered that the occupants of these houses had to abandon it when they couldn’t bear it any longer.   According to environmental specialists at the last United Nations convention held in New York, said it is due to the effect of climate change as it has resulted into an upsurge in the sea level thereby increasing the flood cases. They therefore advised governments to build more artificial water ways like canals so as to help control floods back onto the ocean and they won’t be stagnant on properties which may later turn into swamps which are not ideal for an hygienic environment.  