Senator Ibikunle Amosun is a former Governor of Ogun State. He is now representing Ogun Central Senatorial District in the Senate. He recently addressed the media in Abuja on his motion, calling for diversification of the economy through Agric and Solid Minerals sectors. He also speaks on his bill seeking to establish South West Development Commission, among others. CHUKWU DAVID was there and reports   You sponsored a motion on the floor of the Senate on Thursday, which you titled: “The need for continuous implementation of policy reforms for the diversification of the Nigerian economy through the Agricultural and Solid Minerals Sectors”. What is the background and motive of this proposal?   We believe that it’s better late than never because as a country, we are not where we should be, but truly we are on the right path. And in order to complement the effort of the executive arm, we believe that we in the legislative arm should provide enabling environment by way of legislation to back all the policies that the executive is initiating. That’s why I came up with this motion on the need for us to strengthen the agricultural, mining and solid minerals sectors. You all know that in the 50s, 60s, 70s and probably early 80s, this was not the way Nigerian economy was. Indeed, many things that you see, infrastructural development, education, health system, name it, were all funded with the proceeds of agriculture and probably some of our solid minerals, but today, lo and behold those critical sectors that will ordinarily employ our people are being neglected. But thankfully, and I am not just saying it because we are all part of this administration, if you look at the statistics, you will know that things are improving. If you know where we are, the contribution of agriculture to GDP between 2015 and now is different.   In the area of solid minerals, we are not yet there at all, but I think that we are putting the right policies in place, and we think we should complement the efforts of the executive. In those days, you know there was groundnut pyramid and cotton in the North, Cocoa in the South. Look at what happened with our palm oil; look at what Malaysia did with it and look at where we are now. That’s why we believe that we must put the necessary legal framework or law in place to ginger and encourage more our executive arm.   Why do you think that Nigeria abandoned these former viable means of income and got to a point where it’s difficult for her to fund her annual budgets?   It’s good that we discovered oil but it has made us so lazy; we are just looking for the easy way out. There are so many nations that all they have is all these minerals and look at what they are doing. Look at Australia, look at South Africa and even United Kingdom, look at their miners. They are using the God-given resources to improve their economy and the lots of their people. Look at agriculture, how many people does the oil sector employ? Very insignificant. And look at millions of our youths who don’t have anything doing. Clearly, the middle class is collapsing, and if you look at our budget, people will think that ten point something trillion a big amount. But just covert it to dollar; you will be shocked that there are some companies, some conglomerates that make far more than that, and look at our budget as a nation. But we are not magicians and we cannot give what we don’t have. If you don’t have the necessary revenue, where will the money come from.   Today, we are talking about our infrastructures – roads, power sector, education sector, health sector- we need money for all of them. These are the critical areas that will give us the funds that we require. And beyond giving us the funds, they will employ our youths; it will create wealth. Look at the small and medium scale enterprises, how many of them can play in the petroleum sector but imagine the number of people that will be actively engaged in those two critical sectors of agriculture and solid minerals. It think it is an idea that its time is long overdue, and I am happy that the President of the Senate mentioned that we are going to have a round table, am sure they will brief you on this. I think it will happen sometime in December and the Senate will officially brief you. I have to thank my colleagues, everybody supported the motion because they are all passionate to diversify our economy.   The long and short of this motion is the need to diversify our economy and move away from this monolithic economy that have been running, where everybody is depending on what the oil will give to us. So, am sure that by the time we look into those two critical sectors, agriculture and solid minerals Nigeria will have positive story to tell. And I want to envisage that in the next two to three years down the line, you will see our budget, may be it may be running to thirty to fifty trillion, once we have the necessary income to back it up.   You also introduced a bill seeking to   establish South West Development Commission (SWDC). What is the motive behind it and don’t you think that it’s now like a competition among lawmakers from different geopolitical zones because there is NDDC for the South -South and the North-East Development Commission (NEDC); and the South-East is also demanding for their own commission?   The objective of the bill is obvious and very clear. In fact, you know the answer. it’s for the development of our people and our area. If a part of a whole is not well, automatically, that whole will not be well. So, every part of Nigeria needs to be developed. And if all of us develop, of course we will have a beautiful country that we will all be proud of. To that extent, this is not just my bill; it is for all of us. The bill is being co-sponsored by all of us from the South West. If you even look at the demography of Nigeria, if you look at the population of Nigeria, just look at how many are we from the South West, and I am saying this with all sense of responsibility, there is no part of Nigeria that is not important. All of us are important; everybody has something they are bringing on the table but you notice that there is no way the Nigeria nation can be described without prominent mention of those from the South West and what we contribute to Nigeria as a nation.   Look at Lagos for instance. Look at the contribution of Lagos to Nigeria as a nation. So, I think that they should be some kind of special status to Lagos but not to Lagos alone. Of course it happens in Ogun State. I also say this with all sense of responsibility. As at today, Ogun State is the industrial hub of Nigeria. There are some parts of Nigeria like the North-East, we know it very well. There is no sane person that will not want to support them particularly with the destruction that has happened there. We don’t want any place to be left behind. But in doing that, we should not be oblivious of the fact that we need to develop too. And that is why all of us from the South-West are bringing this bill. It was read for the first time on Thursday. It is not just because a similar commission is in the North-East, South-South or being proposed in the South -East, everybody should look out for how we can improve the wellbeing of our people.   From the way we are going, we may end up having six development commissions. Is it not better we go for restructuring rather than creating commissions, so that each region can have enough to address its developmental needs? Well, these are questions that I know that at the appropriate time they will come to this place, and when they come, you will all know my position. But let me say this, yes am for restructuring but there is a caveat: I am speaking for myself now, any restructuring that we are going to do should be such that the indivisibility of Nigeria must be guaranteed. Once that is there, we can look at how we can do things better. I always say that there is no way a part can be bigger than a whole, if the whole is well put together. Yes, we can agree to look at the various areas of our country, with a viewing to improving on them but the indivisibility of Nigeria must be sacrosanct.   In your motion, one of your prayers talked about formalising the operations of illegal miners but a senator amended it to remove the word “illegal.” Does it mean that any private person engaged in mining is doing it illegally? What my distinguished colleague you are referring to was saying is that we should encourage those people that want to mine and that we should simplify the process because he spoke with me. But this is admission of failure. Ordinarily, it’s good to say this is what I want to do but doing it illegally is not good. What we are trying to do is to stop or reduce to the barest minimum the activities of the illegal miners. I believe that once the process and procedures of mining is simplified, we will no longer have illegal miners. You said earlier that one of the reasons why you are sponsoring the South-West Development Commission Bill is that if part of a whole is not well, then the whole is not well. You have been a governor, what do you think has made several parts of this country not to be well, of which you are now seeking remedy through legislation?   Of course, you know that the world itself is very dynamic just as human beings are very dynamic. I was here in 2003, and it wasn’t like this. The era of even before you are campaigning everybody is hearing what you are saying; it wasn’t like that. In 1999 when I joined politics, indeed when you leave one place for another place, the people there will not know whether you are coming or not, until when you get there. But it’s different now. Even before you leave for where you are going, everybody is posting it. So, to that extent, as we soldier on in our development as a nation, we will see need for us to improve on the way we do things; the way we put ourselves together, and the way we are as a nation. So, I don’t want to see it that this one is not good, that one is not good. Just see it that you want to improve from where we are at the moment.   Those who will come after us will probably look back and say what are they doing? This is the way we should do it. Look at what I observed while we were in chamber, I looked up to the gallery and saw that people were coming from Keffi and other places. I just asked myself, why can’t people just hop into the train from Abeokuta or Ijebu Ode or Illaro, where I come from and drop in Abuja and come to the National Assembly to come and observe what we are doing?   You notice that it is not that rampant for you to hear that these are people coming from Port Harcourt, Enugu and other far places. Do you know why? It’s because of infrastructural deficit. We have to agree with ourselves now. We have very huge infrastructural deficit. But it has been improving empirically and otherwise because you cannot develop without infrastructure. As we are here, if the AC is not working, everything will collapse immediately. So, we need infrastructure for any development to happen. And what are infrastructures, it’s not just the road; power, conducive environment, water and many others are the infrastructure are there. If they are not there, we will just be chasing shadow. The roads are not good. So, until we develop those things, whatever anybody wants to say, this was not how our infrastructure used to be. It’s now being improved upon; we are not there yet.   I admit there are very bad roads. Lagos-Abeokuta road is impassible but the same thing we are saying is impassible, now look at the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, it’s almost being fixed. Am sure by March 2020, to move from Lagos to Abeokuta may take just 50 minutes when it is finally finished. I was governor then and I know what happened. If you are going to Abuja Airport now for the first time, you can ride in your train and get to the airport. It has never happened. Now, it may be as if I am in London. So, when we are seeing some positive improvement, we should commend it.   Also, when we see areas where there is deficiency, we should be bold to say it too. I am here to tell you that we are not where we should be but we are creating the path to show that this is the way we should go. When I was here in 2003, immediately after the opening prayers in plenary, the media will be asked to go out. Today, the media men are there throughout. There is even a dedicated channel that relays what we are doing. So, there is an improvement in our system, and we are working towards having more improvement.