Mr. Kabir Akingbolu is a rights activist. In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on Hate Speech Bill, Federal Government’s plan to regulate social media, rule of law and sundry issues   The Hate Speech Bill which prescribes death by hanging for hate speech offenders has passed the first reading at the Senate. What is your take on the controversial Bill?   The issue there is that the nation is heading to anarchy. This is because when those in government want to start censoring people’s opinion, gag the press and ensure that all oppositions are silenced, then the nation is heading for a banana republic. I don’t also see this as part of democratic experience because as far as I am concerned, we are not yet in a democracy but in a civil rule and sadly for us, the civil rule is fast turning into a dictatorial regime.   There’s no way people will not express criticism of any government that is not performing to their expectations. However, what government labelled as hate speeches, most times, are only criticism of bad government policies.   As long as government takes decisions which one way or the other will affect people’s lives, criticism should be expected. If the economy is bad, if education is going comatose and people are disgruntled, there is no way they will not talk. They will not keep quiet. Nigerians will be happier if the Senate has come up with a law which prescribes death sentence for anyone that has stolen public funds. People will jubilate and clap for them. But, for the lawmakers to leave serious issues and start chasing shadows, it will only lead to creation of more problems for the people.   Instead of solving problems, the National Assembly is trying to create more problems for Nigerians. This is not the kind of law that we want, we desire a better law that will impact meaningfully on citizens’ lives.   When they are talking about hate speech, I have my fears that by the time the law is passed, every actions of the people will be categorised as hate speech. This is because everything will boiled down to who is in charge or who is interpreting what people are saying. It means nobody will be free to express him or herself again. By then, newspaper editorials will be categorized as hate speech, a teacher that speaks in the classroom will be seen as propagating hate speech and so on. So, as far as I am concerned, the Bill when it becomes law will seriously infringe on people’s rights to express themselves. The lawmakers approach to the issue is very wrong.   What do you think should be the right approach to tackle the menace of hate speech in the society? If the lawmakers are interested in curbing the incidence of hate speech in the society, there are better ways to do it.   The term ‘hate speech’ used in the Bill is the first problem. This is inappropriate because the presumption of innocence is no longer there for any offender.   Since the law is aimed at curbing unethical use of information, then it is wrong for the lawmakers to brand it hate speech Bill. There should be a better way to describe the Bill other than using the word ‘hate speech’.   Of course, I do not subscribe to the way lies are being peddled by people, particularly on the social media, but I will not be in support of any plan to demonize people through the use of the word ‘hate speech’.   We all know that that those in authority are always interested in protecting their interest to the detriment of the citizens. It does not even lie in the mouth of the lawmakers to categorize an action as hate speech. It is only the court that can so declare. The Federal Government’s plan to regulate social media activities is also generating reactions. Are you in support of the plan?   I am in support of Federal Government’s plan to regulate activities on the social media. But, I have my doubt as to the sincerity of government to follow its words with action.   A way of regulating the social media is to put a law in place that check people’s excesses on the various platforms. A lot of atrocities are being committed by people on the internet and these must be checked. So, I totally agreed with the Federal Government that activities on the social media should be regulated in order to have a decent and sane society.   Senate is pushing for special funding for judiciary. What is your take on this and how far do you think it will help in combating judicial corruption? The proposal is long overdue. It does not augur well for the third arm of government to continue to go cap in hand begging for money from the Executive all the time because this will create undue influence on the judiciary. The judiciary should have direct access to its fund in the budget and I am hopeful that in pursuant of this, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) will one day appear before the Senate to defend judiciary’s budget. Likewise, the Chief Judges of each state should equally appear before the various Houses of Assembly.   When the judiciary has direct access to its fund, it will be able to plan its own agenda in a way to carry out its functions effectively. This will go a long way in helping to curb judicial corruption. However to achieve all these, there must be an amendment to the Constitution mandating the independence of the judiciary, particularly in the area of funding. A situation whereby the Executive will have to approve money for the judiciary at both states and federal level to undertake a task is inappropriate.   The underfunding of the judiciary makes it prone to the whims and caprices of other arms of government, particularly the Executive. It is also an indirect way of stifling the functions of the judiciary. Concerns have been mounting on Buhari’s government’s penchant for disobedience to court orders as could be seen lately in the case of the Convener of #RevolutionNowgroup, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, who has remained in DSS custody despite a court order granting him bail. What are your thoughts on this?   When you talk of the rule of law in this country, it is completely dead under this government. There’s no regard for the rule of law in whatever form. What I noticed is that if a court’s order is in government’s favour, it will be quickly obeyed but if it against government, it would not be obeyed. Apart from Sowore, there are several other Nigerians who are in detention even when there are court orders freeing them. El-Zakzaky and his wife have been released many times by court orders. The same thing with the former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki, who was also released on bail by court but government has been adamant in obeying the order. The Department of State Services (DSS) is becoming an albatross on Nigeria. I have continued to ask myself, how do we found ourselves in this mess?  This government has perpetually disobeyed court orders and the court has no instrument or weapon to enforce its orders. In fact, judges are helpless when court orders are not obeyed. But, lawyers have a big role to play in this area. For instance, in the case of Sowore, his lawyers should return to the court and file contempt proceedings against the Director General of the DSS to commit him to prison for flouting court’s order for Sowore’s release.   The DG of DSS will be summoned to justify his agency’s action and in the absence of any justification, he should be jailed. When this is done, every other agencies of government will sit up and treat court orders seriously.   I also want to say that the on-going protest over DSS’ refusal to release Sowore is unnecessary. The lawyers should do the needful and everything will be resolved. To me, those protesting are just seeking unnecessary attention.   Besides, many people will be wondering why the Buhari’s administration has been persistently disobeying court orders despite the presence of so many senior lawyers in the government. But, I want to tell you that the moment your friend becomes a politician, he is no longer the friend you use to know.   Most lawyers in politics are no longer what they use to be before they became politicians. Once they are in government, they become something else. It then becomes an issue of if you can’t beat them, join them. The Vice-President is no longer thinking as a lawyer. The same thing goes for other senior lawyers in Buhari’s government. All of them are afraid to rock the boat. They will not want to criticize government’s policies because they are also involved.   Look at what happened during the screening ministerial nominees by the Senate. The AGF’s designate, Abubakar Malami, was there to justify government disobedience to court orders and the Senators did not even hesitate to ratify his nomination by the president. The question is why should such an individual be confirmed by the Senate? There was no justification for his confirmation.