The new Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, yesterday vowed to keep senior police officers and rank and file on their toes, in order to achieve a crime free city. Odumosu stated this after his predecessor, Zubairu Muazu, now an Assistant-Inspector General of Police (AIG), officially handed over the baton of the command to him. The new CP seized the opportunity to state that his mission was to reduce crime in the state and fight criminals to a standstill. He also vowed to do everything within his power to protect the lives and property of Lagos citizens. Odumosu added: “Today is not a speech making day, but I want to assure members of the public of my commitment in the fight against crime in Lagos. I am a firm believer in community policing. We’re going to involve the citizens in the war against crimes and criminals through community policing. We’ll keep our officers on their toes, because I am here to fight crime. I can’t be awake while my officers are sleeping. I won’t take it! My officers must be awake with me. We’re going to improve on the feats our predecessors achieved, especially the outgoing AIG. I have been in Lagos and I have the wealth of experience. I am going to deplore that residual knowledge to the crime pattern in Lagos and attack it. I’m coming to the table with measures to improve the security in the state. The strategies are not meant to be disclosed, but I just want members of the public to partner with us. Community policing is the basis of our successes. I need the assistance of the public; it’s a symbiotic relationship. I will put policemen on their toes to work round the clock. I can’t be a kerosine and expect a Divisional Police Officer (DPO) to be palm oil. They must be on the road. I am not just sitting in the office; so they must be on the road. They are my officers and we have to work together. It is for them to do what they are paid to do.  When I say on their toes, I mean they must work to ensure that the fundamental human rights of people are guaranteed.” Earlier, AIG Muazu charged officers and men of the Command to give Odumosu maximum cooperation as they did to him, adding that the fight against crime was not the CP’s business alone. Muazu added: “The war is for everybody. I want you to support him the way you supported me. One of the major challenges that are still confronting the command is the issue of cultism.” The AIG, however, told the new CP to fight cultism with all seriousness. “I want you to tackle cultism and kidnapping headlong, because bank robberies are things of the past in the state. I thank my predecessors, especially retired AIG Kayode Aderanti, CP Fatai Owoseni and CP Edgal Imohimi, whose templates in crime fighting, I consolidated and improved upon.”