Trauma is the leading cause of mortality in people under 45 years of age worldwide, accounting for about five million deaths annually. Appropriate planning, adequate health facilities, trained and motivated personnel and emergency care funding, among others, could turn the table in trauma care, curbing deaths while preventing morbidity, reports APPOLONIA ADEYEMI IFEOMA CHIMEZIRI   O ne indisputable factor Nigeria is known for both locally and at the international fora is  poor health indices. Based on this trend, it is common to hear that Nigeria has the second to worst maternal mortality ratio after India in the world. Similarly, the country has the highest number of child brides globally, according to data from UNICEF. Hence, it is not surprising that Nigeria with rapid population of almost 200 million, based on data from the National Population Commission (NpopC), has been recording high deaths from trauma.   Available statistics show that Nigeria has recorded over four million injuries and more than 200,000 deaths annually from road crashes, a major cause of traumatic injuries in the environment. This is one of the major highlights of the Trauma Conference 2019, which provided platform for debate and discussions in trauma care and emergency response management.   The trauma conference with the theme ‘Trauma Care: The Way Forward’ was hosted by The Trauma Care International Foundation (TCIF). Among stakeholders present at the conference were former Commissioner for Health in Lagos State, Dr. Jide Idris; President of Health Care Providers Association of Nigeria (HCPAN), Dr. Adeyeye Arigbabuwo; Chairman, Association of General Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (AGPMPN), Dr. Tunji Akintade; among others. Other participants are policymakers, senior government officials, the academia, media practitioners, corporate organisations, professional associations and scholars from various health and trauma-related disciplines.   In general, trauma can be defined as a psychological, emotional response to an event or an experience that is deeply distressing or disturbing. When loosely applied, trauma can apply to something upsetting such as being involved in an accident, having an illness or injury, losing a loved one or going through a divorce. However, it can also encompass the far extreme and include experiences that are severely damaging such as rape, torture, among others.   Sadly, people that had been or still facing traumatic experiences in Nigeria know exactly where the shoes pinch. For several factors including dilapidated health equipment, acute shortage of specialist doctors arising mostly from migration and brain drain of medical care team, poor commitment by care personnel, out-of-pocket payment, high cost of treatment, among others, many that experience trauma in the country do not get needed care and support. Consequently, the medical conditions of many trauma patients often result in preventable deaths.   In her welcome address, the Chief Executive Officer of TCIF, Dr. Deola Philip lamented that trauma has become a public health problem in Nigeria. She said TCIF has been actively involved in mass health and safety education and advocacy campaigns, voluntary blood donation initiatives, hospital endowment, and MEDICAID programmes.   “These programmes targeted at increasing the pool of skilled first responders, strengthening of existing health care systems and facilities with significant successes recorded.” She said, “It is a solution- based convention to emphasise the possibility of an absolutely adequate system for trauma care and emergency response in Nigeria and West Africa. To generate answers innovatively, which can be tailored to every level in the health care system.” According to her, the conference was aimed “To accelerate support for the existing health care structures in a robust, comprehensive and enduring fashion. “To fast-track education and advocacy for these in a sustainable manner. To re-awaken in health care providers the essence of stakeholdership in Trauma Care and Emergency Response, which is established to saving lives every day.” She disclosed that the conference was designed to significantly alter the narrative by facilitating the processes and systems that alleviate the burden of injury afflicting the individual citizens. The governments through viable principles are expected to improve stakeholder responsiveness, education of the populace and health care providers, the execution of innovative, indigenous and globally-accepted solutions as well as the provision of a veritable networking platform for trauma care, she said. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire who was represented by Dr. Mustapha Alimi, the medical director of the National Orthopaedic Hospital Igbobi Lagos (NOHIL), described trauma as the leading cause of death in individuals under 45 years of age worldwide, accounting for about five million deaths annually. He said, “The casualty figures and impact are lower in High- and Upper Middle-Income Countries (HUMICs) and generally much higher in Low- and Lower Middle-Income Countries (LLMICs), like Nigeria, where causative factors are legend and response systems weak or non-existent. “The affected age group in LLMICs is even younger. This is particularly significant as victims in all the age groups will mostly be aspiring and upwardly mobile family “breadwinners”, economically in, or still approaching the most productive years of their lives. The social impact of the loss of such figures is serious, because families, especially dependants of victims, are left more or less abruptly, without economic support.” He listed some of the factors making it difficult to address trauma as mainly out-of-pocket treatment of victims, lingering insurgency in the northeast, communal conflicts,  rising crime wave in all parts of the country, with the small arms proliferation in the hands of non-state actors, which all have caused the incidence of ballistic and diverse weapon-wounded-related injuries and deaths, to multiply. According to the Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe who was represented by Mr Mike Egboh the country director USAID, GHSC PMS at event, commended TCIF’s efforts in contributing to focusing the attention of key stakeholders in the health care delivery system on a crucial aspect of health care service delivery in Nigeria. He stated that trauma and emergency incidents and their associated challenges have been identified as one of the causes of deaths on a daily basis in Nigeria. “Most Nigeria highways are without plans for emergency rescue operations. I expressed my grievance towards the loss of lives due to negligence by healthcare providers, not wanting to administer treatment or first-aid to the victim immediately, instead they ask for police report, thus this lead to the death of  such victims He added that these efforts have the potential to positively alter the mortality statistics and improve the quality of care in “our hospitals and service delivery points.” Similarly, the Commissioner for Health in Lagos State, Prof Akin Abayomi lamented that the country was now experiencing a very high number of cases concerning trauma either due to road traffic accident or physical violence and “we are now gearing up to do something about mental health in Lagos State. As doctors, we are supposed to render help at all times irrespective of the individual involved.” Abayomi also said it was sad that health care workers were being trained in Nigeria and lost to developed countries, urging governments to value their workers. “It takes a lot of time, effort and money to build and train a doctor, a specialist and therefore they must be valued,” he said. In her Goodwill Message, wife of the Lagos State governor who was represented by Dr. Abiola mafe said  the governor Babajide Sanwo Olu was fully committed to addressing truama care in Lagos State. Both the Trauma Director at Shaarezedek Medical Center at Jerusalem, Dr. Alon Schwartz and Consultant Orthopaedic and Head Surgeon, Dr. Chris Otabor recommended that the three tiers of governments should provide necessary equipment in health facilities across the states to reduce distress arising from trauma.