Ahead of tomorrow’s gubernatorial election in Kogi and Bayelsa states, the Nigeria Police Force, yesterday, said it will on Friday withdraw all its personnel attached to governors and their deputies until the conclusion of the exercise. ]Deputy Inspector General of Police, Abdulmajid Ali, who stated this during a pre-election press conference at the state police headquarters in Lokoja, Kogi State, also said other security personnel attached to politicians and government appointees will also be withdrawn. The police boss said the force have undertaken security threat assessment in both Kogi and Bayelsa states and have identified possible risks, located trouble spots and classified individuals and groups that could constitute security challenges to the process. He said: “The outcome of this intelligence-driven initiative guided our election deployment plans and informed our post-election security projections. “Let me emphasize that our strategic plans are guided by our invaluable experiences in previous engagements and are designed to achieve four key objectives. First, is to create an environment that is secured and peaceful enough to give confidence to the political actors to undertake their campaigns and other political activities and for the citizens to freely exercise their electoral franchise. “Second, is to emplace adequate security for all INEC personnel, Ad-Hoc staff – NYSC, agents, domestic and international observers during the entire process.” He further said that by virtue of the provisions of the Constitution and the Electoral Act, the Nigeria Police is the lead agency in the electioneering process. He, however, added that the police mandate is being exercised in close conjunction with INEC leadership and other sister security agencies under the auspices of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES). “In furtherance to these, we shall be deploying a total of 66,241 personnel on the election security operations in both Kogi and Bayelsa States. The breakdown shows that a total of 35,200 personnel will be deployed to Kogi State, while a total of 31,041 will be deployed to Bayelsa State. “The police deployment shall involve the conventional police personnel who will be complemented by the special units including the Police Mobile Force, Special Protection Unit, Counterterrorism Unit, Special Forces, Intelligence Response Unit, Special tactical Squad, Mounted Troops and K9 Section, Airwing and the Marine detachment. There shall also be massive logistics mobilization to support the operations while complementary Forces shall be pooled from sister security agencies.” “It must be emphasized that the heavy deployment of all these security operatives is to make the elections a success in the two States, and not to intimidate the electorates and the general public. “It is noteworthy to also state in order to ensure an effective command and control framework, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu has ordered the posting of very senior police officers including Deputy Inspectors-General of Police (DIGs). AIGs, CPs, DCPs and ACPs to all senatorial districts and Local Government Areas within the two states to monitor security arrangements during the elections.” He said the force shall not hesitate to identify, isolate and bring to deserved justice any person or group of persons that attempt to threaten the democratic order in Kogi and Bayelsa States. “Our message is being relayed here loud and clear that in securing the law-abiding citizens during the elections, we shall not hesitate to deploy our potent assets to deal firmly and decisively with electoral deviants. Consequently, we call on political actors and indeed all citizens to assist the Police and other law enforcement agencies in sustaining the gains we have recorded as a nation in our democratic journey.”