The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi has explained why it appears that Nigerian doctors and nurses were wicked, unfriendly and inhuman while relating with patients in hospitals. Professor Abayomi, who  is a specialist in Internal Medicine, Oncology, Environmental Health and Biosecurity, said that unlike other developed countries, Nigerians and Nigerian government don’t prioritise the welfare of the health workers enough, saying that they were better appreciated, honoured and well-taken care abroad than in Nigeria. He said: “You know doctors or any profession there is an established number of working hours and established number of contacts that any professional can have without exhausting the profession. It is not confined to health alone, it is a workforce regulation. You can’t force somebody to work beyond necessary. It is like a pilot; you can’t force him to fly for unusual hours. Once he does one flight, he gets up with his crew and a new crew comes in. Medicine and flight are very similar. The profession is crucial; once you make a mistake, people are dead! “How  can you allow a pilot to do just a flight and ask him to get up and go and relax with his crew in a five star hotel? But you make a doctor work for 34 hours, 48 hours and three days in terrible condition? No rest, working day and night looking after people with no resources. Why do you think they are leaving for developed countries? Why do you think they are bad tempered? “Although it is not an excuse but when you have a doctor working for 48 hours, he hasn’t slept, he hasn’t eaten, if you see where he will sleep you will be shocked yourself. He has no food, nobody is looking after him and you expect him to meet you with a smile, and you bringing somebody that is close to death? The renowned specialist insisted that just like  a tired pilot can’t be forced to fly a plane, so are the doctors who are being forced to operate diligently in an unfriendly and difficult situation. “If I asked you  to be writing articles  for 48 hours continuously, you will be writing rubbish. Our spellings and syntax will be wrong. Why do you think you can’t read their handwriting?” He added that unless something urgent is done to improve the welfare package of the Nigerian doctors, the issue of exodus of doctors may get worse, adding that most doctors in the country now prefer to practice in Lagos only to travel out after sometimes. “We have got a big problem and we have to pay attention to the welfare of doctors and health care professionals. Doctors and nurses are not just ordinary professionals, I ‘m telling you this free of charge, because there is nobody that comes to tell them good news all throughout the day. They have to deal with the sick.