  N igerian football suffered a deep setback at weekend as the country’s U-23 team failed in its bid to secure a ticket to the football event of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games.   The sad development came just few weeks after the country’s female team, the Super Falcons, failed in their bid to make it to Tokyo.   Two weeks ago, we warned that picking a ticket to Tokyo Games football event won’t be easy because there was no hiding place for Nigeria as defending champions of the event which is taking place in Egypt.   With top African football countries like Cote d’Ivore, Mali, Ghana, Cameroon and South Africa on parade, we knew the tournament would be tough. We advised the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to give the team all the motivation the players needed to excel in Egypt because the Tokyo Games could produce next generation of Super Eagles stars and the U-23 qualifiers should be taken seriously in the interest of football development in the country.   No doubt, the chieftains of the federation did not heed our warning as the Olympics Eagles crumbled in the preliminaries. In the first match, Nigeria lost 1-0 to Cote d’ Ivoire, bounced back to beat Zambia 3-1 and in the decisive match against South Africa, Nigeria again failed to get the desired result by playing a goalless draw with a team already on four points while the U-23 Eagles were on three points. Nigeria needed an outright win to move on but got a draw to crash out as Cote d’Ivoire and South Africa booked a semifinal berth while host Egypt and Ghana achieved similar feat in the other group. Three of the remaining four teams will earn automatic slots for Tokyo while the 4th team will engage in a playoff with an Asian representative for a final chance to get the ticket.   We must state clearly that the ouster of the U-23 team is unacceptable based on the talents available to coach Imama Amapakabo and by extension, the NFF. Sad enough, the Ivorien boys edged the country out in the race for the male football event just as the U-23 female team of same country denied the Falcons a place at the Tokyo Games.   We make bold to say poor planning and bad decisions administratively and technically affected the two teams in their bid to play Olympics football next year. Since 2008 in Beijing, the Falcons are yet to play at the Olympic Games. The male team that won the U-23 AFCON four years ago under coach Samson Siasia and went ahead to clinch Bronze at the Rio 2016 Games also failed. It is indeed a shame.  In the first match against Cote d Ivoire, two key players skipper Azubike Okechukwu and Taiwo Awoniyi were not available due to club commitments but we recall telling coach Amapakabo not to fully rely on the professionals for the battle in Egypt. FIFA do not reckon with Olympics football and so if the coach was not sure, he should have arranged for reliable options. We expected the coach to have built his team around some home based professionals and some players in the just concluded Higher institution football league.    Top players like captain Azubuike Okechukwu (Turkey), defenders Anthony Izuchukwu (Turkey), Sincere Seth (Turkey) and Olisah Ndah (Remo Stars), midfielders Kelechi Nwakali (Spain), Muyiwa Olabiran (Turkey) and Ndifreke Effiong (Norway), and forwards Taiwo Awoniyi (Germany) and Orji Okwonkwo (Italy) were in the final list for the event but they lacked cohesion and understanding needed to excel in Egypt.   It is important to state that other teams still in the race have a better structure than Nigeria. Zambian team that crashed out along with Nigeria had been together for over one year. We hereby charge the NFF to use the last U-20 team to form the nucleus of the next U-23 team. They could add more players from academies and higher institutions to beef the team and groom the players for not less than two years through periodical camping and friendly matches.   Some of the players who featured in Egypt for Nigeria should be monitored as they could break into the Super Eagles. Nwakali, Awoniyi and Okechukwu are players in this category of prospective Eagles stars. Coach Amakapabo has had a bad run in the past two months. Under him, Nigeria failed to make impact in WAFU Cup, crumbled in the preliminaries of the CHAN competition and now, he was also in charge as the U-23 team failed to win a ticket to the Olympics. Amapakabo should be sent out on coaching course abroad because it is obvious he is deficient like many other Nigerian coaches.   It was good to read the reaction of Minister of Sports Sunday Dare who has vowed to take administrative and technical steps to stop the strings of poor run in the country’s football.   We enjoin the NFF to focus more on schools and the grassroots to develop football rather than always be dependent on players abroad to achieve results. With good planning, we believe this can be done with ease. 