I n renewed efforts to address public health threats, the Federal Government has pledged its commitment towards prioritising and mobilising the needed resources in order to strengthen the nation’s health security.  Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire who made this known at a 5-day workshop organised by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Friday in Abuja during the mid-term Joint External Evaluation (JEE) of International Health Regulations (IHR) in the country, noted that results of the evaluation would be made available and extensively discussed by relevant ministries and agencies.  The findings from the JEE show that Nigeria has made some progress since 2017. Capacities to prevent, detect and respond to public health threats, a new average JEE score of 46 per cent for Nigeria has been announced. This is a  seven per cent increase from the 2017 score of 39 per cent.  According to the minister, the JEE, which captured 19 technical areas coordinated by the NCDC, would equally offer better guidance for the implementation of the World Bank Regional Disease Surveillance Systems Enhancement project (REDISSE 2), which was supporting activities in both the human and animal sectors in what he described as  the spirit of ‘One Health’.   Highlighting the gains of the evaluation, he revealed that the the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) has designated various points of entry across major parts of the country, improved laboratory capacity and also developed its work on anti-microbial resistance since the first JEE was conducted in 2017. Community Health & Advocacy Initiative (CHAIN) has appealed to the Federal and state governments to make provisions for free testing and vaccination for Nigerians, since this is the surest way to check the spread of hepatitis.   CHAIN is also advocating for increased commitment by the Nigerian government in pursuing… In "Health" Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole has linked public health threat or emergency was linked to national security as globalisation has made outbreak or threats of diseases easy to spread across national borders.   The minister made this known while speaking as a guest lecturer at the National Institute of… In "Health" Nigeria has dropped from second to the fourth country worst hit by the Human Immuno Virus (HIV) epidemic in the world, as the results from Nigeria HIV/ AIDs Indicator and Impact Survey (NAIIS), shows that 1.9 million Nigerians are presently living with the virus. Before now, about 3.2 million people… In "News"