Residents of Isheri-Olofin community in Ogun State have called on the management of Osun-Ogun River Basin Development Authority (OORBDA) to ensure that the communities along the river are not flooded each year the dam is opened. The residents, whose community was flooded recently, addressed journalists at Isheri-Olofin on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. They said the management of the River Basin should strive to exploit the best practice in monitoring the Oyan Dam to check flooding in communities in Lagos and Ogun states. The Chairman, Riverview Estate Residents and Stakeholders’ Association Mr. Abayomi Akinde, said the initial design of the Oyan Dam was to store water for supply to Abeokuta township and the Lagos State Water Corporation, its height later increased to accommodate water for irrigation and next for turbines power generation. He said: “The rain fails issue the management claimed caused the flooding was meant to confuse the public, as the level of rainfall could only arise from extreme weather annual rainfall in the catchment area of the dam. “As we cannot control rainfall occurrence, the only flood control measure available to the River Ogun is through proper management of the water levels and of the release of water from the reservoir.  The flooding in 2018 was around the communities along the River Ogun. But that of 2019 was greater than the previous year. “’There is only one major channel of the River Ogun all year round which is adjacent to Lagos flood plain. When the huge volumes of water are released from the dam automatically it flows into Ogun and Lagos communities.” Akinde added that the plain land which, according to him, the Isheri and other parts of Lagos fall to, are the disaster areas created by the management of the River Basin in order to release water from the dam”. He said: “We have lost billions of naira to four weeks flood; we also lost a journalist who resided in one of the estate to the flood. There are also displaced people from the community, even some people are not planning to return to their houses.” Corroborating Akinde’s views, a resident, Dr. Akintola Omigbadun, said the flood had brought an untold hardship on them for four weeks now. Omigbadun said they had gone through a lot in the community emotionally and physiologically as a result of the flood. He said: “In our community, we cannot boast of government infrastructure. We have paid different revenues to both Lagos and Ogun states.” Yet, we cannot point to a meaningful project in our area for over 13 years’ existence of the estate. “If the estate is fully developed, hundreds of millions of naira will go to government. But they are only looking at now; they don’t look at the future prospects of the area. We have about 1,500 houses and companies, government can generate revenue if they can open the place up. “Some of us are sleeping in hotels and you know what that means. Those who couldn’t afford it had to take their children to their brothers and cousins’ houses, while some are sleeping in their churches. This is hardship we have gone through. Both Lagos and Ogun states should look into our plight.”