 F or allegedly defrauding First City Monument Bank (FCMB) of N450million, managing director of a Lagos company, Hometel Hospitality Developers Limited, Tony Ossai, was at the weekend docked before an Ikeja Special Offences Court. Osaai was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, alongside the same company’s Chief Operating Officer, Chinwe Odife.  The duo are standing trial on a three-count charge of conspiracy to commit a felony, stealing and obtaining money by false pretence.  According to the EFCC prosecutor, Ayanfe Ogunsina, the defendants allegedly committed the offences sometime in June 2014 in Lagos by obtaining and dishonestly converting to their personal use the sum of N215million FCMB’s property. Ogunsina said that the offences contravened Sections to 8.1 (3) of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act No.14 of 2006.  However, in a petition dated 10th August, 2016 by Bijoux international services, Ossai was accused of approaching FCMB in 2013 for a N450 million facility to construct a 1000 car park bay at the FAAN premises in Ikeja.  The petition, signed by one Ifeanyi Onyimadu (managing consultant) revealed that “the facility was disbursed on 30th June, 2013 and had a 36 months tenor with 3 months moratorium to allow for the construction of the park. The car park on completion was meant to be managed by Hometel Hospitality Facility developer‘s Ltd. It reads: “Due to some logistics issues, Hometel Hospitality facility was unable to complete the car park and the initial moratorium elapsed and was increased by FCMB, from 5 months to 10 months and later to 13 months.   “An additional sum of N38million was disbursed to increase the total facility amount to N488, 000,000.00 (four hundred and eighty eight million naira) not including already accrued Interest by the request of the customer. “This loan was meant to be repaid through a cash collection arrangement with Bankers’ warehouse to ensure that all collections made at the park was safely lodged into Hometel Hospitality facility limited account with FCMB.   “It is pertinent to note that one of the reasons FCMB disbursed the loan was on the strength of the agreement between Hometel Hospitality facility Limited and FAAN lkeja, which was that all existing parkers would be moved to the new car park on its completion, Inclusive of monthly/annual tenant parkers such as oil companies and private firms.   “FAAN, however, did not honour this agreement but rather constructed another car park and labelled it Commercial Car Park where they diverted cars that were meant to be parked at the approved car park. This led to a shortfall as intake from this represents 40% of the projected cash flow for this project. “This loan was restructured by FCMB in December 2015 for 6 months to enable Hometel hospitality Facility Limited conclude on the various workout plans they were pursuing which included a further tenor extension of the agreement with FAAN.   “FAAN however in June 2016, took over the management of the car park from both Hometel hospitality and facility limited and no payments were made to the bank. “There is also a possibility of FAAN commissioning a newly completed multi-storey car park which is closer to the terminal and this would render Hometel hospitality and facility limited car park redundant and lead to heavier loss of revenue.   “The current balance on the account is N417, 283,107. We cannot over emphasize the impact of this diversion to the bottom line of the bank and would solicit the intervention of the commission to resolve this matter.” However, Justice Josephine Taiwo adjourned the matter till December 16 for continuation of trial.