Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has said that the Death Penalty slammed on kidnappers in the State is the only remedy to the problems, this is even as he boasts that the State Penal Code remains the most comprehensive in Northern Nigeria due to frequent review of its provisions to suit prevailing situation.   The Governor stated this at the opening ceremony of the National Executive Council Meeting of the Magistrate’s Association of Nigeria, held at Bristol Palace Hotel, Kano.  Ganduje represented by his deputy, Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, revealed that his administration ordered the review of the punishment for kidnappers to death penalty in its effort to address the menace of the immoral act.   “To curb the increasing rate of kidnapping in the State, I recently ordered the review of the punishment for kidnappers to death penalty during the inauguration of Commission of Inquiry on the Kano 9 abducted children that were sold and converted to another religion,” he said.   He announced that the administration had given assent to the State’s Administration  of Criminal Justice Law in order to ensure speedy dispensation of justice and decongestion of Correctional facilities across the State.   According to him, one way to decongest Correctional facilities is to reduce crimes and this explains the reason why the State established Advance Police Control Room equipped with modern digital equipment for the reduction of criminal activities within the State.   “We have equally empowered the State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission as quasi-judicial organization to enhance the administration of justice in our dear State.   “ In addition to the appointment of capable leadership to the Commission, 160 staff were employed and offices were opened at the 44 Local Government Areas, which enables people to patronize the commission on daily basis,” he explained.   On the magistrate’s NEC Meeting, Dr. Ganduje attributed the choice of Kano to host the meeting to the cordial working relationship that exists between the Executive and the Judiciary arms of Government in the State.   He therefore assured the Magistrates of the administration’s support to serve the people of the State as court is the last resort to the common man.  The State Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice, Ibrahim Mukhta,r implored the participants to make the best use of the deliberations towards enhancing their performance as magistrates.   In his remarks, the National President of the Association, Sa’idu Safiyanu, explained that despite the vital roles play by the judiciary in policy making, Magistrates in some states continue to suffer neglect by working under deplorable conditions.  Earlier, the Chairman Magistrates Association of Nigeria, Kano Branch, Muhammad Idris Sani said the NEC Meeting which has the theme “ Anti-Corruption Crusade: the role of Magistracy “ was designed to discuss on relevant matters as they affect the life of Nigerians especially on the issue of judiciary.