Hon. Taiwo Olukemi Oluga represents Ayedaade/Irewole/Isokan Federal Constituency of Osun State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and is Chairman of the House Committee on Women in Parliament. In this interview with PHILIP NYAM, she speaks on the forthcoming women’s week, women participation in politics, rise in rape cases and other residual issues   The women’s week has been schedule to hold in Abuja; what is the week all about?  The women’s week is a programme that started as far back as 28th of February, 1999. The first meeting was held at New York by the Socialists Party and since then, it has been a tradition. Since then, women all over the world come together to celebrate and sensitise ourselves, and share ideas and chart a way forward on how we can support ourselves. We explore avenues where we can all work together and support women both in low and high places. We work to see how we can grow little businesses for women at the grassroots.   So, this year’s week is coming up on Sunday, November 24 and all hands are on deck to ensure that we have a successful event. We have provided transportation that can bring people to Abuja; we know that not every woman will be opportuned to attend but at least, every section will be represented.  There will be representatives of women leaders, youth leaders, and women who are holding appointive positions and those who have been in the parliament at the state level and all invited to come and speak. We have invited all the female ministers, chairmen of local government councils who are women. It is a round table, where every woman is free to air her views.   Looking at Nigerian women and the progress they have made in politics and other areas of human endeavour, would you say they have arrived?   I would say that we are better off than where we are coming from even though we are not yet where we want to be. But I believe that the future is very bright for us, so we are not discouraged by some of things we see. Instead, we are gingered to do more. In fact, we are focused more than ever before; and Sunday is the arrival with women from all over the country coming into Abuja and Monday, the programme proper takes off. We have invited our leaders including the first lady of the nation, Her Excellency Hajia Aisha Buhari and at the end of the round table; we shall come up with a communiqué. And to us, it is not just celebrating women every year, but what are the achievements and who is benefiting. How are our women faring? How are their businesses moving? Are they making any impact? Don’t forget that we are in politics and we are supporting ourselves; and we are interested in getting more women to participate in decision making when it comes to government at the top. This is very important because no women no nation.   From 2015 to date, it seems the number of women in parliament is on the decrease; are you not worried by this trend of events?   The representation is not encouraging and we are not happy about it. At the 8th Assembly, we had more women but as we speak now, we are just eleven. And from statistics available, we have only 48 women in the state Houses of Assembly across the country. It is certainly not encouraging, but like I have said before, we are not discouraged. We believe we can improve with good planning; we believe we can move forward through enlightenment and awareness and with the support of our leaders, governors’ wives etc.   Do you think the women have a fair deal in the 2020 budget considering the proposed allocation? Are you satisfied?  I want to give kudos to the Minister of Women Affairs for the great job she has been doing. But we are yet to rub minds with her to find out what is in the budget for the women. I can say it authoritatively that a great percentage of what has been earmarked for the Ministry of Women Affairs is going to the women at the grassroots.   For example, in the 2020 budget; there are trainings and empowerment programmes lined up for the women and we are going to follow it up. In other words, there is going to be proper monitoring to see that what is appropriated gets to the target beneficiaries and it is well utilised so that by the time we are doing the assessment at the end of the year, we will have cause to celebrate. And I want to say that the Women in Parliament committee of the 9th Assembly is going to be different.   The girl-child seems to be an endangered species in Nigeria as cases of sexual abuse, rape and in some instances unfortunate cases of abandoned children, teenage pregnancy etc. what is your action plan on this? It is unfortunate that these have become so prevalent in our society today. When I was campaigning the main issue on my agenda was to pursue girl child rights and I did not even know that I was going to chair a committee like this. So, by chairing this committee, it is an honour for me to be in a pole position to continue with what I promised my constituents that I would pursue as a lawmaker.   This committee is going to be proactive on the issues of girl child rights and in the Legislative Agenda of the 9th Assembly, it is clearly stated. Since I came on stage, I have made a lot of efforts towards protecting the rights of women. I have met with the Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and we are talking on the possibility of creating a special unit for women like we have anti-robbery and SARS. We want an anti-rape unit with the NSCDC. So, I went to him to create the anti-rape unit so that some of the officers will be specially trained for that purpose.   You know that when ladies are raped, due to the psychological effects, it is always difficult for them to come out and report; but if we have security people trained in that area, it will be easier for such victims to open up. We have turned our attention to the NSCDC because the police have its hands full because if there is a robbery incidence, it is the police that is called upon; if it is fight, it is the police, if there is an accident, it is the police that is called. So we decided to go the NSCDC on behalf of the committee. We are also proposing that the penalty for rape should be death sentences and we believe that if this is done, it will be difficult for any man to go into rape. But, I also have to caution matured ladies to mind the way they dress. They should not wear sexually provocative dresses, because sometimes, you find out that the womenfolk too contribute to this problem of rape. But there are also instances where you cannot blame the women because when you talk of a man raping a one year or three year old baby that goes beyond dressing. What has the baby done to attract a man? Again, if you go into our tertiary institutions, the dressing is simply appalling and sometimes in places like banks.   There is a general impression that women hate themselves – that women would rather support a man than line behind a fellow woman. A good example was some years ago, when a female presidential aspirant was rejected by all the women delegates in one of the party’s presidential primaries here in Abuja. How do you intend to address this anomaly?   First of all, let me correct the impression that we women do not like ourselves. It is the men that are using divide and rule tactics to cause confusion among women. As we speak, we have sensitise ourselves enough for women to support themselves. In the case of the presidential aspirant you are talking about, maybe there was not enough sensitization or campaign by her to let the women know.   Again, there is need for women who want to contest for elections to make adequate preparations because he who fails to plan, plan to fail. Perhaps, some of the women were just seen her picture at the election or convention venue. But we are working on that to ensure that women see the need to support themselves. We only need to intensify our efforts.   The point is that the men started politicking before us and we are just waking up. In the past, we women were like the tail and not the head, but now we are saying the women should also occupy positions of authority where decisions are taken because we are the most populous gender. When it comes to election, it is the women that come out to cast their votes.  