…denies shooting at protesters …accuses Falana of ‘subverting state authorities’  The Department of State Services (DSS) has assured of its readiness to release the convener of #RevolutionNow, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, from detention, once those that stood as sureties for him, come forward. This was as the DSS denied reports that its operatives opened fire at a group of protesters who staged a protest for the release of Sowore on Tuesday in Abuja. This was the first time the secret service was speaking on the development, which has continued to generate diverse opinions. The Service reiterated its adherence to due process and the rule of law, in the conduct of its operations. In a statement yesterday by its Public Relations Officer, Dr. Peter Afunanya, the intelligence organisation called out a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Femi Falana, accusing him of not only playing to the gallery, but mobilizing miscreants to subvert the Service and other state authorities. “The DSS wishes to state that its operatives did not open fire on alleged protesters who had stormed its facility on 12th November, 2019. “As a normal global security practice, the operatives stood in defence of their facility when some group of persons made unruly attempts to forcefully break into the place and effect the release of Omoloye Sowore. “Despite serial and unwarranted provocations, the Service, as a professional and responsible organisation, did not shoot at the so-called protesters. It could not have done so. “For emphasis, the Service reiterates its avowed readiness to release Sowore once the processes are concluded. It maintains that the appropriate persons have still not turned up to take delivery of Sowore,” the DSS said. According to the Service, “While all those that have so far shown up are not directly concerned with the matter and, therefore, unqualified, many others have either chosen to grandstand or politicise it to achieve hidden interests. “In the last few days, the Service has continued to witness deliberate campaigns of calumny, threats and aspersions against it. It will not, for any reason, join issues with its mudslingers. The media is called upon to be neutral and remain champions of the truth.” On Falana, the DSS noted that: “It is only appropriate that those who stood surety for Sowore present themselves and have him released to them. “It is even more disappointing that Femi Falana, who is a senior lawyer, would wrongly guide his client and supporters. “He is rather playing to the gallery and mobilizing miscreants to subvert the Service and other state authorities. He has excellent relationship with the DGSS. But in the circumstance, he has refused to reach out to him over the case like he had on previously related ones. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Service restates its commitment to the rule of law and particularly respect to the court. It, therefore, calls for calm, but states that it will not be intimidated or harassed into hasty actions.” Accordingly, it reassured the public that it will not waste a second to release Sowore if the proper processes are followed.