Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of an Ikeja Special Offences Court, yesterday sentenced three men, who kidnapped the traditional ruler of Iba in Lagos State, Oba Goriola Oseni, to both life imprisonment and death by hanging. The judge convicted and sentenced the three men – Duba Furejo, Reuben Anthony and Yerin Fresh – on a seven-count charge bordering on conspiracy, murder, attempted murder, armed robbery and kidnapping. The trio, alongside Ododomo Isaiah (now late), abducted the 74-year-old monarch in his palace at Iba about 8p.m. on July 16, 2015.  The convicts also shot dead two people, a palace guard, Sunday Okanlawon and a commercial motorcyclist, Joseph Okeke. The prosecution team led by the Solicitor General of Lagos State, Titilayo Shitta-Bey, said that the convicts also attempted to murder Abosede Oseni, wife of the monarch and took away her cell phone. Shitta-Bey said that the offences contravened Sections 223, 230, 297, 299, 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. According to the judgement of the court, the trio is to serve a total prison sentence of 153 years; 30 years for each of them for conspiracy to commit murder, armed robbery and kidnapping, while 21 years each was slammed on them for kidnapping. The convicts were further sentenced to life imprisonment for both attempted murder and armed robbery. While pronouncing her judgement, Taiwo said the defendants, who appeared to be first time offenders, clearly understood the gravity of the offences and the consequences of their actions. She said: “I have no doubt in my mind that the defendants were involved in the crime. I also have no doubt that the defendants knew that their actions would cause injuries to the victims, especially by the use of weapons, as proven by the prosecution. The prosecution has proven its case beyond reasonable doubt and I find the three defendants guilty as charged. “A clear message needs to be sent to people who think they can get away with such actions. Families of victims are made to look for ransoms just to save their loved ones and this must be stopped. Such crimes don’t only affect the victims, but also the society at large. Lagos is not a lawless society. I hereby sentence the defendants to 10 years each on Count 1 (conspiracy to commit murder); to death by hanging on Count 2 for the murder of Sunday Okanlawon and Joseph Okeke (a security guard); to life imprisonment (attempted murder) for shooting the Olori, Abosede Oseni, in the abdomen on Count 3; to 10 years in prison for conspiracy to commit kidnapping on Count 4; to life imprisonment for armed robbery on Count 5; to 10 years each for conspiracy to commit armed robbery on Count 6; and to 21 years imprisonment for kidnapping on Count 7. “This would send a clear warning to like-minded persons, like the defendants, that such acts are not acceptable in Lagos State.”