Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Niger state, has challenged Governor Abubakar Sani Bello to make his assets declaration between 2015 and 2019 public before inviting the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the $181million loan reported to be unaccounted for.   While welcoming the challenge thrown by Bello to invite the EFCC to examine the state records, the PDP through its Legal Adviser, Isah Mustapha told our Minna Correspondent on Saturday, that the invitation even though dubious and auspicious is a welcome development.   According to him: “Governor Sani Bello should make his asset declaration form for 2015 and 2019 open to the general public for scrutiny, or hasn’t he been paraded on several news fronts as the richest Governor in Nigeria? What business does he do to earn so much?   “Before the EFCC arrives, we challenge Governor Abubakar Sani Bello to throw the state accounts  open, let the people know what he did with the hundreds of Billions of Naira that have accrued to the state in the past 5 years with no single project commenced or commissioned.   “Governor Bello should know better that he doesn’t need the EFCC to prove anything if he is transparent; all he needs is to commission just one project worth N2billion or N3billion  “The PDP finds it funny and dubious that a simple act of integrity has not been obeyed talk more of inviting EFCC to check for $181 million Islamic Development Bank Loan.”   It would be recalled that dew days ago, the Governor had said “based on the allegation on the loan meant for fixing Bida – Minna road, we did not meet any money in government account when we came into office neither has there been any money of such received by the government.   “For this, we are inviting the EFCC to come and probe this government and the other government to see who is lying among us. But I still say that we did not meet anything in the account. EFCC should come and find out if the money has been released from that time till now.”   