Federal Government’s bid to reduce wage bill through aggressive implementation of Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) across ministries, department and agencies has pitched it against recalcitrant university employees,   Abdulwahab Isa reports  Nigerian public sector is averse to positive reforms. Every policy initiated to deliver efficiency and improve the system is either thwarted or subverted by government employees. This is not the scenario with the private sector where end result of policies is measured by the level of efficiency it infuses into the system. Government employees’ aversion to efficient policies can be located in the fierce rage against implementation of Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), a mechanism conceived to capture employees and to block fund leakage in the system. Introduced in 2007, 12 years down the line, IPPIS is yet to be fully embraced by some MDAs and a section of the education sector. Some recalcitrant government employees, who are feeding fat on unstructured payment system through wage bill padding, dubious multiple salary earning are abhorrent   to IPPIS’s implementation. To enforce compliance, Federal Government set October 2019 as deadline for  MDAs to enlist on IPPIS platform. President Muhammadu Buhari had, during the 2020 budget presentation at the National Assembly on October 8, ordered that all public sector workers must register for IPPIS to save cost and fight corruption by blocking leakages in Federal Government’s salary payment structure. Prior to President Buhari’s declaration,   Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, at the presentation of Medium Term Expenditure Formwork (MTEF) document for 2020 budget, admonished government workers yet to enlist on IPPIS to do so on or before October ending. She said whoever failed to register would forfeit October salary. The minister said IPPIS was critical to blocking leakages and reducing recurrent expenditure of government. According to her, “personnel cost (inclusive of pension costs) at over N3.0 trillion has continued to rise; the FGN is, however, taking steps to contain the rising personnel costs, including an October 2019 deadline by Mr. President for all MDAs to implement IPPIS on the expenditure side of the framework; we have tried to keep most expenditure items as low as possible.” All MDAs have complied, leaving Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). The body of academicians opposed the President’s directive, saying IPPIS negated the law of university autonomy. Justification for IPPIS In the old system, MDAs presented padded wage bills that rarely reflect actual number of personnel in nominal pay roll. Prior to 2007, government was burdened with huge, unacceptable wage bill.  The wage bill kept burgeoning with varying figures month after month. The wage bill got escalated so much that 80 per cent of government earnings went into   overheads and personnel cost servicing. The government took decisive step in 2007. It invented IPPIS as an integral part of holistic reforms targeted at public sector. Office of the Accountant General of Federation (OAGF) is the implementation agency for IPPIS. As of September 2018, 506 MDAs with total staff strength of 344,625 were on IPPIS platform translating to gross pay in the sum of N49, 071 million.  IPPIS is a distinct department superintended by the director at OAGF. Regularly, officials from IPPIS unit conduct data capturing of MDAs not yet captured on IPPIS platform. The system gives government the exact number of entire personnel in the payroll, including the cost of wage bill. Speaking recently, Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), Alhaji Ahmed Idris, said IPPIS saved for government N274 billion.  He said the N274 billion cumulative savings was achieved on the platform between 2017 and 2018, two years span of its enforcement. Battle line Since its launch 12 years ago, IPPIS is yet to go full cycle across MDAs.  To ensure all MDAs embrace it, the Federal Government gave October deadline for all agencies to enroll or forfeit October salary. Government appointees use every forum to pass on the message on the importance of IPPIS to MDAs. Ahmed, as recent as last week, informed all MDAs that are yet to enroll their staff on IPPIS to do so without further delay. Ahmed reiterated that for umpteenth time, President Buhari had directed that staff of MDAs not captured on the automated payroll system would not be paid their salaries at the end of October and subsequent months, until they are enrolled. Both military and para-military institutions have enlisted into IPPIS leaving university as one of few institutions still foot dragging. One of the many complaints put forward by ASUU is that IPPIS does not capture the peculiarities of the structure of the establishment of the university system, which is flexible and pragmatic. Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, the National President of ASUU had said: “The system does not, for example, capture the remuneration of staff on sabbatical, external examiners, external assessors, and earned academic allowances. It does not address the movement of staff as in the case of visiting, adjunct, part-time, consultancy service, which academics offer across universities in Nigeria.” He also said IPPIS as currently implemented required staff to travel to Abuja for physical biometric data capture if by any chance such staff could not be available during the time the IPPIS personnel visited for the exercise. “The implementation of IPPlS in Nigerian universities will further localise their operations and perspectives, thus negatively impacting their ranking in the global academic community,” he added. The Office of the Accountant General of Federation (OAGF) , Coordinator of IPPIS, punctured ASUU claim. In a statement signed personally by the AGF, Mr. Idris Ahmed, he accused ASUU of fact distortion. Enumerating several interface between his office and ASUU on IPPIS, Ahmed  recalled that “several meetings have been held with the leadership of universities comprising of vice chancellors, registrars, bursars, National University Commission (NUC) and the four unions (NASU, NAAT, SSANU, and ASUU), where the workings of IPPIS system have been explained and demonstrated as to accommodate all government approved peculiarities of tertiary institutions such as retirement age, sabbatical, visiting and other peculiarities.” ASUU has already mobilised for show down, but suspended the action for wider consultation with members and by extension other relevant stakeholders. Besides, the union insisted that not even the government’s plan to stop their monthly wage bill would compel the dons to withdraw their initial stand. Addressing journalists at Bayero University, Kano (BUK) at the weekend, the coordinator in Kano, Professor Mahmoud Lawan, contended that the union unanimously rejected the use of force by government to enroll its members on the IPPIS platform, which was not supported by extant laws. According to Lawan, enrolling the teachers on IPPIS negates university autonomy and will also erode extant laws establishing universities in Nigeria. Urging Nigerians to hold the government responsible for whatever resulted from its decision, the ASUU coordinator vowed to sustain the union’s rejection of IPPIS. “The use of IPPIS in the universities lacks legal basis as it contradicts the existing legal frameworks upon which Nigerian universities are established. “These laws are the Nigerian Universities Miscellaneous Provisions (2003) Act, which granted the governing councils of universities absolute right and freedom without let or hindrance to govern universities for the common management, growth and development of the universities. “In addition to this, the Universities Miscellaneous Provision (2003) Act, each university has its own peculiar act establishing it and the act provides for the council to be the governing body of the university and is responsible for the control and superintendence of the policy, finance and property of the university,” he said. The union called on government to, without further delay, address the problems allegedly instigated by Dr. Wale Babalakin in the renegotiation committee and conclude the renegotiation “for the betterment of our education systems and stop misleading the ill- informed public with the issue of IPPIS as if it is the solution to myriad problems facing our universities.” Last line Except sanity prevails, ASUU’s body language signals aversion to IPPIS.   Regardless of stack opposition against its enforcement, IPPIS is the antidote to tackling     corruption associated with huge wage bills in public sector.