…blames jet lag for slow start against Lesotho …salutes Eagles’ doggedness  Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, wants contract talks with his employer the Nigeria Football Federation sorted out before the end of the year. Sources close to the German disclosed that the 66 year old wants the issue trashed out before December. Rohr has been in charge of the Eagles since 2016, during which time he has won 21 matches, lost 10 and drawn seven, but he declared after Sunday’s 4-2 win away to Lesotho in the second match of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers that he could now discuss the contract after the victories against Benin Republic and Lesotho last weekend The former handler of Niger Republic wants it discussed before the next AFCON match in August 2020, according to a source close to him. “He wants his future sorted out as soon as possible so that he will concentrate on the job of building a new team. He has spoken to them (the NFF)  about his desire to continue on the job and encouraged his employers to sort everything out before the end of the year,” the source said. Rohr has admitted he would love to continue with the Eagles, especially as he is happy to see his band of youngsters doing well, but he hinted further that the choice on whether he stays or not depends on what the NFF’s hierarchy have in mind and what they would ultimately put on the table for him to peruse. ”I enjoy coaching this team of course. We have a project also, we have young players, we are progressing and we started very well the qualifiers and the qualifiers will continue after the end of my contract. The ball is in the camp of the officials now,” Rohr submitted. The Eagles came from a goal down to record an emphatic 4-2 win over Lesotho on Wednesday and the German blamed his team’s slow start on jet fatigue after they arrived Maseru, the venue of the match, only few hours to the start of the game. “We know that it’s difficult to win in Lesotho especially when you concede the first goal. They played very well in the beginning, but we had to take the game in our hands. “We had a long travel at night and you can see that at the beginning, my players were not fully concentrated, he said. He praised his players for their doggedness after they came from behind to claim victories in their last two games. “Some matches, you score the first goal and in some matches you concede first,” Rohr told reporters after the game. “We scored first against Brazil and Ukraine but we didn’t win, so I prefer to concede first and win the match. “This has proven that my players have a good spirit because they never give up.