 Nigeria yesterday became the first West African country to experiment the deployment of 5G technology as MTN Nigeria carried out a successful trial in Abuja. The telecommunications operator said the trial was the result of a strong collaboration between the Ministry of Communications Technology and Digital Economy, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), MTN and technology vendors, Huawei, ZTE, and Ericsson. 5G refers to the fifth generation of internet technology which delivers superfast speed higher than that of 4G, which is currently being deployed by telcos in the country. MTN said immersive demo and experience would travel across three Nigerian cities to showcase the capabilities of 5G and its potential to enable economic growth and social inclusion. “By working together,MTN and its partner – Huawei, were able to provide a glimpse into a range of 5G use cases and applications at a test lab designed to show proof-of-concept in Abuja,” MTN said in the statement. Speaking shortly after the demo, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, underlined the potential of 5G for sustainable growth. “I believe as long as we are able to handle the potential challenges, the deployment of 5G is very critical to our economy, because of so many advantages of 5G, the issue of latency, speed and many more,” he said. Stressing the importance of an enabling regulatory framework and protecting telecommunications infrastructure, Pantami stated that on the instruction of the President, he has signed a draft Executive Order declaring telecommunications infrastructure ‘critical national infrastructure’ which has been forwarded to the Office of the Attorney- General of the Federation for review. The minister referred to the proposed Executive Order as a short-term measure, stressing that the President has instructed that a proper legislation be facilitated to deal conclusively with threats to telecommunications infrastructure. Highlighting the importance of partnerships that led to the demo, the Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria, Ferdi Moolman, said: “Pushing boundaries is easier when your aspirations are supported by likeminded people. We are here today because of the support and guidance of the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy and the NCC who provided the trial spectrum used for this. “Also key to this achievement are our equipment vendors who shared our vision, and whose capabilities were brought to bear in making the 5G trials across the country a reality. We are grateful for these partners, our customers and everyone who made it possible. Today’s success underlines the fact that we are good together.” Also speaking, Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mazen Mroue, stated that: “In collaboration with our technical partners and the support of the Federal Government, we are proudly putting Nigeria on the 5G technology map. As we continue to invest in technology solutions to meet the wide needs of our customers, MTN will continue to strengthen these partnerships as we move to build our 5G capacity in future, guided by the standards and spectrum set by the Nigerian Communications Commission.” “In addition to the bandwidth increase for seamless video streaming or the next social application playground, 5G technology supports real-time, ultrareliable communication between massive numbers of devices.” Chief Technical Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mohammed Rufai, said that 5G offers tremendous benefits in terms of speed, latency (less delays), efficiency and security. “This pilot offers a unique opportunity for us to explore use-cases and applications in Nigeria, and we are excited about its potential for our country and our company,” Rufai said. Following the successful demonstration in Abuja, the 5G-demo train moves to Calabar and Lagos. In addition, the 5G trials will run in four other cities across the country. The 5G trial will run for three months utilizing trial spectrum allocated to MTN by the NCC. Dignitaries at MTN 5Gdemo launch include the Chairman of NCC board, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye; NCC’s Executive Vice- Chairman, Prof. Garba Danbatta; Chairman, House of Representatives’ Committee on Communications, Hon. Akeem Adeyemi and others.