The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to include the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Natasha Akpoti and his running mate, Adams Khalid in the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State. Akpoti had approached the court to challenge the excluding of her party from the said election. Delivering judgement in the matter, the trial judge, Justice Folashade Ogunbiyi-Giwa, held that the INEC was wrong to have disqualified candidate of the SDP. The court further held that INEC has no power to disqualify any candidate for an election, as it is the exclusive reserve of a competent court of law. According to the judge, the provisions of sections 31(1) and 83 of the Electoral Act, which holds that INEC cannot disqualify or reject candidate nominated by a political party for an election, is aimed at ensuring that it does not lie within the executive realms of INEC to determine who participate in an election. Justice Ogunbanjo-Giwa also ordered INEC to include the names of the governorship and deputy governorship candidate of the SDP as well as the party’s logo on the ballot in the governorship poll in Kogi State. A Federal High Court sitting in  Abuja yesterday fixed November 7 to deliver judgment in a suit filed by the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP Natasha Akpoti, challenging her exclusion from the forthcoming governorship election in Kogi State. The trial judge, Justice Folasade Ogunbiyi-Giwa fixed the date… In "Politics" Commission publishes lists today     Some political parties disqualified by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have threatened to go to court to challenge the electoral body’s action.   That was as INEC prepared to publish the final list of candidates for the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi… In "News" Senatorial candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Kogi Central, Kogi State, Natasha Akpoti, has rejected the result of the Presidential and National Assembly elections held in the state last Saturday. According to her, the election was marred by disruptions caused by thugs, alleged biased Independent National Electoral Commission… In "News"