Justice Jude Dagat of a Federal High Court in Lagos has sentenced a trader, Mrs. Ezeano Deborah Ifeoma, to five years imprisonment for trafficking in a hard drug known as Methamphetamine. Deborah popularly called Mama Chika, was arraigned before the court in 2014 by the National Drug Laws Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on a count charge bordering on unlawful export of the hard drug following her arrest in Otto market, Lagos Mainland Local Government Area, Lagos, where she plies her trade. She however denied the alleged offence. In the course of her trial, the NDLEA called seven witnesses among whom are the investigating officer and forensic analyst, while the seized drug as well as the result of a laboratory test conducted on the drug were also tendered as exhibits. The defendant also testified to prove her innocence. Delivering judgement in the matter after about five years of trial, Justice Dagat held that the prosecution has successfully proved the charge against the trader beyond every reasonable doubt. In pronouncing the defendant guilty as charged, the judge held that the defence put up by her was not enough to absolve her of the charge. Prior to the sentencing of the convict, her lawyer, E. U. Okenyi, pleaded with the court to tamper justice with mercy by not awarding the maximum penalty prescribed for the offence. Justice Dagat after listening to the convict lawyer’s plea for mercy, sentenced her to five years imprisonment. The charge against the convict reads: “That you Ezeano Deborah Ifeoma, Female, Adult on or about the 12th day of November 2014 at Sahcol Cargo export shed of the Muritala Mohammed International Airport, lkeja Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, without lawful authority exported 5.0 Kilogrammes of Methamphetamine, a narcotic drug similar to Cocaine, Heroin or LSD and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 11(b) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act Cap N30 Laws of the Federation 2004”.