 I rate youths have launched violence on Ogan community in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State. On Saturday, the angry youths set fire to at least nine houses as well as vehicles over disagreement between members of the same family. The outbreak of violence has also forced the Duke (the Enogie) of Ogan community, HRH George Igbinovia, to flee the community. The youth reportedly planned to lynch the monarch.  Hundreds of residents have also fled the community. It was learnt that the youth had chased away Igbinovia after soldiers one of his sons allegedly invited to the community shot dead a boy identified as Agharuwa Pulley.  The youth, a witness said, had mobilised to the Enogie’s palace to demand money realised from the burrow in the community when one of his sons drove in with armed soldiers. The soldiers were said to have shot sporadically into the air. One of the bullets hit Pulley, who died on the spot. A source in the community said the crisis erupted over struggle to control the burrow between eldest son of the Enogie and his stepbrothers. But Igbinovia told journalists that his eldest son instigated the community against him over money realised from the burrow pit.  He said: “They have driven me away; it is only these clothes on my body that I have left. My son said I am old.” On his part, the monarch’s eldest son, Prince Daniel Igbinovia, denied the allegation. According to him, the boy was killed by soldiers brought by his stepbrothers.  He said: “I never instigated anybody. I was in Brigade Command when the incident took place. I don’t believe in violence. I believe in peaceful resolution.” A resident of the community, who did not want to mention his name, said the pit belonged to the community and the Enogie’s sons. He said they had not seen any money paid into the community account. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, said yesterday that investigation into the incident had commenced. Nwabuzor warned the youth to desist from taking laws into their hands.