The Inland Container Depot (ICD) in Kaduna, commissioned last year to facilitate import, export of raw materials and equipment for importers in northern states and landlocked countries, has failed like others that never moved beyond their foundations, BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports   T here was jubilation among shippers in 2006 when the dry port or Inland Container Depot (ICD) concept was introduced by the Federal Government.   Dry port model has gained widespread importance in international transportation as a result of container revolution and introduction of door-to-door delivery of cargo.   Dry port  Inland Container Depot is the equivalent of a seaport located in the hinterland and receives containers by rail from the seaports for examination and clearance by customs.  The Federal Government, while conceiving the idea had said that the dry port would bring cargo clearance nearer to land locked states and countries.  However, 13 years after, the dry port projects located across six states in the country are still facing some challenges due to inabilities of the concessionaires and government to put them into use.  Some of the dry ports were concessioned by the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) in 2006 under the Build, Own, Operate and Transfer (BOOT) agreement to six companies.   Presently, the country has six non-functional ICDs located in IsialaNgwa, Aba;  Erunmu, Ibadan;  Heipang, Jos; Zawachiki, Kano; Zamfarawa, Funtua and Jauri, Maiduguri. They have all been idle since 2006 but for Kaduna, which was commissioned by the Federal Government but still came to a sudden halt.   In 2006,  Duncan Maritime Services Limited was commissioned to build one in Jos;  Eastgate Inland Container Terminal Limited, Isiala Ngwa;  Dala Inland Dry Port,  Kano ; Migfo Nigeria Limited,  Maiduguri ; Catamaran Logistics Limited, Erunmu at Ibadan  and Equatorial Marine Oil & Gas Limited,  Funtua (Kaduna).  Complaints  Worried by the low spate of development of the ICDs, the Executive Secretary of Nigerian Shippers Council, Barrister Hassan Bello, had warned the concessionaires in 2016 that government would cancel their licences if they fail to show some level of commitment in the development of the depots.  However, the concessionaires blamed their non-performance on their financiers and technical partners, who were reluctant to support the projects because of security challenges in some states.  Also, they complained that some of the host governments had not been able to meet their obligations in the agreements they had with them.  Outstanding   Nevertheless, only the one operated by the Inland Container Nigeria Limited (ICNL) at Kaduna commenced operation in January, 2018. The dry port was commissioned by President Mohammadu Buhari to bring trade facilitation nearer to interior importers and the land locked countries.   As soon it was inaugurated, the president warned Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and port officials against frustrating business, commercial and industrial enterprises at ICD with unnecessary bureaucracy.   One year after the warning, the dry port has been abandoned by importers, northern state governments, shipping lines and Niger Republic over non- recognition as port of destination.  Dilemma   Justifying why the port was abandoned and persistence examination of transit cargoes to the ICD by the NCS, the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) explained recently that the Kaduna Inland Dry Port (KIDP) and other dry ports were yet to be approved as port of destination by the Federal Government.   Challenge   For instance, the council said that it would constitute a security risk for cargoes to be moved out of the seaports directly to Kaduna without checks by customs irrespective of the owners of the cargo.   The Chairman of Research and International Liaison of CRFFN, Mr. Increase Uche, who is also the National President of National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF),observed that inland container depots  in the country were not being patronised, despite the fact that they were established to reduce the pressure on port terminals.   He noted:  “Today, there is no ICD that has been approved as a destination port in the country.   According to him, Kaduna ICD had not got the approval of web results of the International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA), which is the umbrella of freight forwarding globally and the International Maritime Organisation (IMO).   He noted: “We are yet to carry out the relevant moves that would enable them identify Kaduna ICD as a destination port. Now, any cargo meant for the ICD that lands at our port, ordinarily cargoes landed from the vessels need to undergo pre-scanning.”   Also, the National President, Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Mr Tony Iju Nwabunike, explained at a round table forum recently in Lagos that stakeholders, who were supposed to make the place viable did not understand the principles of dry port in the country.   He said that the dry port lacked adequate logistics to move t cargoes.  Issue  According to him, the KIDP was made a port of destination operated with True Bill of Laden (TBL) just like the Apapa seaport and any other port.  However, the national president noted that the TBL was the source of problems for dry port, stressing that shipping lines that are supposed to give importers TBL were not doing it.   Nwabunike stressed that the shipping lines had failed to issue the TBL because they did not have logistics to transport cargoes from Apapa port to the hinterland.  He noted: “The shipping lines do not have the capacity to get the trucks, there are no locomotives and wagons from Nigerian Railway Corporation, so these have become the bane.”  Foreign shipping companies are expected to charge importers freight rates and deliver their cargoes to the final port of destination.  Last line  The way the ICDs were planned from the beginning appeared like projects that were doomed to fail as the rail system that was supposed to be a vital part of the project was never revitalized nor new rail tracks put in place.   However, considering the fact that government is currently working zealously to improve on the country’s rail system, it is advisable that stakeholders in the maritime sector begin a widened collaboration with relevant bodies to factor in the ICD project, which fortunately had already started even though they have not been functional.