 A viation, probably more than any other mode of transportation, is greatly affected by weather. From thunderstorms to reduced visibility due to hazy conditions, every phase of flight has the potential to be impacted by weather. Commercial aviation in West Africa must deal with these adverse types of weather regularly, and the cost is a significant budget item. One of the perennial weather phenomena that have adverse impact on flight is the hazy condition known as harmattan. To forestall danger during the harmattan period, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), yesterday, issued Advisory Circular to intimate pilots, operators and other stakeholders about dust haze and safety approach to adopt.   This advisory circular AC: NCAA-AEROMET-28, dated November 12, according to the aviation regulatory body, is intended to alert pilots to the hazards associated with dust haze which is a dry and dusty wind that blows south from the Sahara across Nigeria. It said this situation is expected to persist till March 2020.   As issued by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency in its Seasonal Rainfall Prediction Bulletin-2019, the cessation of the rainy season is predicted from mid-October (in the Northern part) to early December, 2019 (in the Southern part). Spokesman for NCAA, Sam Adurogboye, in a statement, said with the issuance of this circular, Advisory Circular AC: NCAA – AEROMET 27 dated March 26, 2019 is accordingly cancelled. He stated that pilots/operators are, therefore, directed to note that air-to-ground visibility may be considerably reduced due to dust haze; aerodrome visibility may fall below the prescribed operating minima and in severe conditions, dust haze can blot out runways, markers and airfield lightings over wide areas, making visual navigation extremely difficult or impossible.   He equally stated that flights are bound to be delayed, diverted or cancelled where terminal visibility falls below the prescribed aerodrome operating minima. On the other hand, Adurogboye enumerated that pilots, operators and air traffic controllers should exercise maximum restraint when severe weather condition is observed or forecast by NIMET; flight crews/operators and Air Traffic Controllers (ATC) shall ensure adherence to aerodrome weather minima. NCAA urged pilots to obtain adequate departure, en-route, destination and alternate aerodromes weather information and briefing from the aerodrome meteorological office prior to flight operations.   The agency said all operators are all requested to ensure that necessary measures are put in place to cushion the effects of flight delays or cancellations on their passengers. Adurogboye added that the regulatory authority will expect strict compliance from all stakeholders as violation will be seriously viewed.