*Three lawmakers also in defection mode Kunle Olayeni, Abeokuta Barely three weeks after their secret talks, Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, and the governorship candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC) in the 2019 election, Prince Gboyega Isiaka, have again met to strike a “political alliance.” The alliance may see Isiaka and his loyalists dump their party for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the coming days. Three members of the state House of Assembly, including Jemili Akingbade, Wahab Egungbohun and Adegoke Adeyanju, elected on the platform of ADC, may also join the APC in the emerging rapprochement. On Monday night, the governor and the opposition chieftains met behind closed doors at the Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta to discuss modalities for collaboration. Isiaka was accompanied by some leaders of his political group, The Believe Movement (TBM), including Elder Joju Fadairo, Hon. Nurudeen Olaleye, Olootu Dipo Sofowora, Arc. Kola Ogunleye, Hon. Razaq Oduntan, Chief (Mrs) Mary Ogunjobi and ADC state legislators. At the meeting, Abiodun was said to have expressed satisfaction about working with Isiaka and his political structure. “I am very comfortable with this group, I want to work with you and I am reiterating my commitment to an inclusive government,” the governor was quoted to have said. Briefing reporters after the meeting, Isiaka confirmed the readiness of his group to “graduate” relationship with the governor and his administration. The ADC standard bearer said he has total confidence in the incumbent government’s bid to build a better future for people of the state, adding that the alliance would bear positive results and take the state to greater heights. On whether he would defect to APC alongside his loyalists, Isiaka simply said a decision would be made known to the public within the next couple of days. He said: “I am not here on behalf of the ADC, but I have come as a leader that led a political movement into the ADC a few months ago and so I have come here on the platform of that political movement. Majority of us are members of ADC, but I am not here to talk of ADC because the party has its procedures. “I have come with the leadership of my political structure all across the state. It is to signify the fact that we are very confident and happy with the way the government is going about putting the state on a higher pedestal and which aligns with our own values. “From what we have seen in five months, I believe the governor is on the right path. If we had not seen positive signs, we would have never thought of graduating our relationship with this administration.” 