President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidates in Bayelsa and Kogi states in last weekend’s governorship elections in the two states, David Lyon and Governor Yahaya Bello, respectively on their victory at the polls. The President also commended APC supporters in particular and Nigerians in general in both states for exercising their civic rights in a peaceful manner notwithstanding the pockets of unrest recorded in some locations during the polls. While condemning the loss of lives, the President commiserated with the families of the victims, saying: “Violence during elections vitiates our commitment to demonstrate to the world and upcoming generation that we are a people capable of electing leaders in a peaceful and orderly manner.’’ The President noted that while officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies did their best within the ambit of the law to ensure free, fair and credible elections, it was unfortunate that pockets of unrest, mostly sponsored by desperate politicians, were recorded during the polls. Buhari said he looks forward to working with the incoming governments in the two states to improve the lives of the people, while ensuring the security of lives and property of all citizens. President Buhari urged Bayelsa State Governor-elect, Lyon, to carry other divergent interests along in the next phase of governance, imploring those not satisfied with the outcome of the poll to seek redress through the constitutionally established channels. On APC’s victory in Kogi State, the President in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina described the election and emergence of Bello as “a race well run and a victory well won.” He also commended APC supporters in the state for remaining steadfast and resolute even in the face of isolated incidents of violence. President Buhari however consoled with families and loved ones of those who lost their lives as a result of regrettable acts of violence by thugs doing the bidding of their political sponsors. According to the President, “all political actors and stakeholders must take deliberate steps to eschew electoral violence as a peaceful and orderly process is vital to our quest for enduring democracy.” President Buhari urged Bello to see his renewed mandate as another opportunity to build on the foundations already laid towards improving the lives of the people of Kogi State. He also enjoined the governor to imbibe the spirit of magnanimity in victory by extending a hand of partnership to opposition candidates, while urging those dissatisfied with the outcome of the election to approach the courts.