President Muhammadu Buhari has finally given reasons for his approval of the sack of about 35 aides working with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The President in a statement yesterday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said the decision is part of ongoing overhaul of the seat of power, Aso Rock Presidential Villa. Garba said the process is to streamline decisionmaking, cut down multiple authorities and reduce the cost of administration.  He said: “The Presidency wishes to confirm that there is, on-going, an unprecedented overhaul of the nation’s seat of government, arising from which a number of political appointments have either been revoked or not renewed in the second term.  “The exercise, which has been ordered by the President is to streamline decisionmaking, cut down multiple authorities and reduce the cost of administration.  ‘‘It is also an appropriate response to the general perception that the Presidency has an oversized and bloated workforce, which acts as a drag on efficiency,” the statement said. According to the presidential spokesman: “As may have been noticed by discerning members of the public, a number of political appointees among the few that served in the office of the President were not returned for the second term.” Garba said: “The office of the Vice President, His Excellency Yemi Osinbajo, has in compliance with the directive of the President, equally been shed of a number of such appointees. “In carrying out these ex- the overriding objective is to save taxpayer money and deliver needed service to the public.  As far as the President is concerned, there is no scope for an excuse for administration after getting a huge mandate to run the country for four more years.” The presidency explained that there is currently no rift between President Buhari and his Vice, Yemi Osinbajo. “In the light of this, the Presidency wishes to strongly deny rumours of a rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The relationship between the two leaders remains excellent and trusting. Together, they will script a glorious future for the nation.