TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports on tomorrow’s Kogi West Senatorial District supplementary election, which is a renewed contest between candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Smart Adeyemi and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) counterpart, Senator Dino Melaye   About 40,000 voters in Kogi West Senatorial District will return to the poll tomorrow to conclude the process of electing their representatives in the Red Chamber, over the inability of a winner to emerge in the November 16 senatorial rerun election in the district. The supplementary election is a renewed contest between the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Senator Smart Adeyemi and his opponent in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Dino Melaye. Though about 20 candidates are contesting the senatorial poll, the contest has been narrowed down between the APC and PDP candidates. The supplementary poll became necessary because the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the November 16 senatorial poll inconclusive. INEC had on Sunday November 17 declared the Kogi West Senatorial District rerun election, which was held simultaneously with the state governorship poll on Saturday as inconclusive because the margin of lead between the frontrunners was less than total cancelled votes. While announcing the results of the senatorial poll, INEC Returning Officer for the election, Prof. Olayide Lawal, said Senator Adeyemi scored a total of 80,118 votes, while Senator Melaye polled 59,548 votes. He also declared that the margin between the APC candidate and that of the PDP is 20,570. Declaring the election inconclusive, Prof Lawal, said he decided not to declare a winner because of the slim margin between the two leading candidates. He disclosed that the margin between both candidates was lower than the 43,127 registered voters in 53 polling units of 20 registration areas in the zone, where elections were canceled. Voting in the 53 polling units, which spread across the seven councils in the senatorial district, was cancelled as a results of violence, killings, ballot snatching, snuffing of ballot boxes and other electoral malpractices, which forced INEC not to reckon with results from some of the polling units. Kogi West Senatorial District is made up of seven out of the state’s 21 local government areas. The councils are Kabba/Bunnu, Ijumu, Lokoja, Kogi/Koton Karfe, Mapomuro, Yagba East and Yagba West. According to results announced by INEC, Adeyemi won in five local government areas, while Melaye won in two. The APC candidate won in Kabba/Bunu, Ijumu, Lokoja, Kogi/Koton Karfe and Mapomuro, while his PDP counterpart won in Yagba West and Yagba East. In Lokoja, Kabba/Bunu and Kogi/Koton Karfe, Adeyemi polled 19,788, 15,037 and 14,168 votes, respectively against Melaye’s 12,712, 8,974 and 9,978 votes in the three councils. The APC candidate also polled in Ijumu Local Government Area with 11,627 votes to defeat the PDP candidate, who scored 7,647 votes. Adeyemi also coasted home to victory in Mapomuro council by polling 4,874 votes against Melaye’s 3,704 votes. Senator Melaye defeated Adeyemi in Yagba East Local Government Area with 7,745 to 6,683 votes. He also won in Yagba West council, polling 8,980 votes as against APC’s 7,941 votes in the area. The outcome of the election and its declaration as inconclusive led to accusations and counter-accusations between political parties and key players, who blamed each other for disruption of the process and cancellation of results. While some believed that the election was credible, free and fair, others were of the view that it was fraudulent and not a true reflection of the wishes of the electorate. The claims and counter-claims, notwithstanding, INEC in a statement by its National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Mr. Festus Okoye, last Thursday, said the commission has fixed November 30 for the conduct of supplementary and re-run elections for Kogi West Senatorial District and Ajaokuta Federal Constituency, affecting 22 polling units, respectively. According to him, the decision was taken at a meeting held in Abuja the day he issued the statement. He said that collation procedures shall be in line with extant Guidelines for Collation at the Supplementary polls, adding that the list of affected registration areas and polling units would be uploaded on INEC website and communicated to the stakeholders in the respective registration areas and polling units. “We enjoin all the political parties and stakeholders to cooperate with the commission for conclusive free and credible elections in the affected areas,” he advised. The supplementary election without any iota of doubt is going to be a renewed battle between Melaye and Adeyemi, who have been squaring against each other since 2015 for the Kogi West Senatorial District seat. They faced each other during the 2015 and 2019 National Assembly elections, so both of them are not new in the senatorial race and it is expected that their respective personalities and political structures will determine the outcome of the supplementary election. Melaye is not a novice in the politics of Kogi State. He was first elected into the House of Representatives in 2007 to represent Kabba/Ijumu Federal Constituency and was re-elected in 2011. In 2015, he ran for Kogi West Senatorial District seat on the platform of APC and defeated Adeyemi who was then the incumbent and ran on the platform of the PDP. Due to the internal wrangling in APC, which led to massive defection of some of the party’s chieftains at the federal and state levels, and having fallen out with Governor Yahaya Bello, Melaye defected to PDP and contested for a second term during the 2019 general election on the platform of his new party and was declared winner by INEC. He also contested the Kogi State PDP governorship primary, but lost the party’s ticket to Engr. Musa Wada. While in the Senate, Melaye served in many committees and is a former chairman, Senate Committee of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). But a court of appeal ruling, which sacked him from the Senate, cut his stay in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly short on October 11. Adeyemi, on his part, is aspiring to return to the Senate. A former President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), he was first elected to the Senate in April 2007. He served on committees on Privatization, Industry, Federal Character & Inter-Government Affairs (Chairman), Federal Capital Territory and Appropriation. He was also appointed vice chairman of the Northern Senators Forum. Adeyemi won the PDP primary to contest for re-election as Kogi West Senator in the April 2011 elections and won the poll, but his aspiration to remain in the Senate beyond 2015 was truncated by Melaye. He, however, dumped PDP for APC and served as the Director-General of the Bello/Onoja Campaign Organisation during the Kogi State November 16 governorship election. At is it is, none of the contending parties is leaving any stone unturned going into the supplementary election because the outcome means a lot to each of them. Also, there is no doubt that both parties will use the election to settle political scores in the state. The ruling APC is strategising to use the senatorial poll to maintain its edge in Kogi politics by ensuring that it occupies all the three senatorial seats in the state, having produced Senator Oseni Yakubu (Kogi Central) and Jibrin Isah (Kogi East) in the last National Assembly poll. The PDP is however not resting on its oars to reclaim the Kogi West Senatorial District seat. The opposition party having lost the governorship election would want to double its effort to ensure that it wins the senatorial poll for it to remain relevance in Kogi State politics. The two candidates would be battling for about 43,127 votes in the supplementary election with Adeyemi leading comfortably with 20,570 votes. But irrespective of what happened during the November 16 poll, the political calculation seems to have changed in Kogi State with there- election of Governor Bello for a second term. Therefore, thesupplementary election isgoingtobedeterminedbyalotof factors, whichare party’s structures, power of incumbency and state might, among other issues. This means that APC will be going into the poll with power of incumbency since the party is the ruling party at the state and national level. Governor Bello is very interested in the election because Senator Melaye is regarded as one of his political opponents and critics in the state. It is therefore expected that the governor will not relent in his effort to ensure that his party wins the Kogi West Senatorial District seat. Considering the rivalry between Governor Bello and Senator Melaye, the senatorial battle will not only be a straight one between Melaye and Adeyemi, but also between him and the governor, who many belief has a score to settle with Melaye, who once attempted to occupy the Lugard House. The issue of performance will also be a major yardstick for the senatorial poll as the electorate may use the 12 years records of Melaye and Adeyemi to determine who should represent them in the Senate. Both the APC and PDP senatorial candidates have represented their districts in the last 12 years and their constituents would have taken cognisance of their records and performance as the basis for choosing their senator. Irrespective of the odds in favour or against the gladiators and their respective parties, the question many have asked is: Will Melaye return to Senate or will Adeyemi continue from where his successor stopped? The outcome of supplementary poll will determine.