The Director-General, Articulated Agenda 2019 Worldwide, Chief (Dr.) Emeka C Kalu, in this interview reflects on the outcome of the recent Supreme Court verdict on the appeal of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar and some national issues. BIYI ADEGOROYE brings the report    You and your group were one of the major support groups for the Atiku/Obi ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 presidential election. How do you see his loss at the Supreme Court?   The word “loss” in this context is relative. You are a Nigerian just like I am and we saw all that played out from the election conduct to the tribunal. We heard the reports from AU, UN and other important bodies from around the world over the outcome of the election. Therefore, lying beneath the word “loss” are all that the Nigerian system has become under the present administration. It is up to us to be proud of it or say things the way they are.   Actually Abubakar Atiku did not lose, but democracy won and the people also won, having come out to make a statement of fact through their votes. But it is unfortunate that the power grabbers of our nation could not allow their voices to be heard. Yet I am relieved that at the end of that process, the world was able to see the rot that has overtaken the Nigeria judicial system. The world has seen the conquer of everything we hold dear, where impossibility was upheld for the interest of one man. But Atiku remains unscathed; he is stronger and has also proven that he is a true democrat and incomparable leader, he allowed only the rule of law to guide his actions to the end. Monkeys and Baboons did not swim in blood.  We supported him based on our conviction of his ability to steer Nigeria aright, as I speak now, I am happy we took that decision because we have been vindicated. Atiku did not lose, the people won.   Why did the Atiku’s camp think the case should have gone the other way at the Supreme Court bearing in mind that in the history of Nigeria, no candidate declared by INEC had lost a case at the Apex Court, more so as your principal was fighting against an incumbent?   In the history of Nigeria like you said, if the opposition has never defeated the incumbent even in the face of overwhelming evidence, then we are doomed. This is not about incumbency and holding onto power by all means; this is about the precedence we are setting for our nation and the future we may be inclined to regret if nothing is done about it.  Take for instance, if I may accept the other anomalies, how would you explain the trend that was established by Appeal Court that a man whose certificate is in question was “eminently” qualified to contest in an election to the extent of telling us that his experience is the only qualification even when our constitution stated otherwise? Lawyers now have new citation to quote from.   What about the disparity between “Mohammadu” and “Mohammed” in the certificate controversy? How would you address all these lacunas upheld by the “men of integrity?” Therefore, saying that incumbency is above the law in Nigeria is another way of upholding the rape on the Judiciary and and democracy by the fourth estate of the realm which you represent.  I want you to know that it is not about who lost or who “presumably won”, but it is about the anomaly that has been rationalised by the last hope of common masses. The future is uncertain.  Now that the Supreme Court has given its verdict, what do you think should be Atiku’s next line of action? Do you see him going for the 2023 presidential election or retiring from active politics?    That decision lies solely with him not me. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is the candidate to beat at any time and my belief is that he is the man with the requisite experience and political knowhow to galvanise Nigeria for the purpose of putting Nigeria on the path progress. In order words, 2023 is still far from today when we are still basking in the pains of what Nigeria has come to become. Yet we cannot give up on Nigeria, knowing full well that power is transient. When the time comes and Atiku declare his intention to contest, I am assuring you that more Nigerians will gladly atikulate more than you have seen today. Trust me on this.  What do you think should be the way forward for the PDP?  Like I have said before, a house that is divided against itself can never stand. We have systematically nurtured our party on the threshold of “individualism” as against ‘party first,” which is the only way a party can stand the chances of making impact.   PDP is a party with the highest potentials and remains the largest party in Africa. We need to go back to our drawing board to redraw our approach to internal party structuring and unification. Party faithful should be “party men” who places interest of the party above individual interest. We should not always see PDP as just a platform to take over political power and dump her, we should always think of ways to strengthen her after and before the next election.   I saw a situation where the party abandoned ship with Atiku too early leaving him to carry on alone as if the legal battle was his alone to fight. No support, no backup, nothing. But it is a good thing that he never gave up to the end. We should learn our lessons from the 2019 experience or we may continue to play only opposition on end.   What is your take on the on-going campaign for president of Igbo extraction in 2023?   It is a step in the right direction because Igbo are part of the Nigeria project. It will be good if they are given the opportunity to man the affair of the nation. You will agree with me that Igbo are enterprising people that if given the opportunity to lead this nation will transform her fortunes in a matter of years. Igbo have been successful anywhere they find themselves and the same prowess can be translated into governance.   I support the emergence of president of Igbo extraction if it will help Nigeria move forward. But I lay more emphasis on performance. I support giving the best heads the opportunity to move the nation ahead. We must always place emphasis on meritocracy over mediocrity. But I know Igbo have the best men that can change Nigeria for good. Eastern Union (EU), a political pressure group of the old Eastern region, in efforts to arouse interest in the emergence of president of Igbo extraction has listed over 20 Igbo politicians and technocrats who qualify to fly the presidential flag come 2023. What do you think of the group’s efforts?  I will think of the group if only they can harness and articulate their cause. One of the problems of Igbo people producing the President is that we play politics of individualism and tribal alienation. We field too many candidates who think they are the best, thereby never considering sheathing our swords and bringing out one person that will carry the interest of many.   Also, we always fail to build bridge with other ethnic groups, forgetting that Nigeria is a multi-ethnic setting and the Igbo-phobia of other Nigerians is a monster we must fight. What is the essence of naming up to 20? What happens to doing your homework and selling one or two out of the lot to the Nigerians as well as making efforts to bridge the relationship with other regions?   To me, I think the group can do more if their interest is really about Igbo projection for the presidency and not a plot to position themselves for the gains of 2023 using the popular demand of the people to their advantage. That’s all I can say for now.   Why do you think the efforts of the group are yet to be well accepted by Ndigbo? Don’t you think Ndigbo should support such genuine effort to bring the Igbo presidency to the front burner?  The word ‘genuine” is relative in this context. That is why I elaborated earlier. A group wanting acceptability would do their research and home work to sheave the chaff from the wheat. For instance, are 20 Igbo men going to become Nigeria President? No! Are only the Igbos going to contest for the position while the other tribes stand by and watch? No! So why list 20 men when you could narrow it down to your best one or two and start marketing them. So I am not saying their effort is ill-conceived. I am saying the method is not right. They will end up overwhelming Nigerians with confusion of close substitutes of their goods.   Take for instance, the Yoruba race has been talking about Asiwaju Bola Tinubu since 2015 and possibly Vice President Yemi Osinbajo if what is being rumoured becomes reality. So that gives them a focused options narrowed down to two men. During the 2015 and 2019 elections, the Hausa race fielding and supported Buhari and Atiku until one emerged.  For a while now, Governor Nasir Rufai has been renting the air until its either him or they bring another and back him up 100 per cent.   So when Igbo begin to talk about 20 men in a contest that will produce one leader among over 7000 ethnic nationalities is far from reality. It is on this argument that I still insist that the vision is not yet clear. If we don’t play the card well, the other people that play well will still win the game. It is as simple as that.  A northern political elite, Dr. Junaid Mohammed, has said that the North would not allow an Igbo to rule until the Igbo assures them of their commitment to one Nigeria and that they could be trusted. What is your take on this?   Junaid is a man known for much talks and I am sure he is entitled to his opinion on issues of national interest. Saying the North will not allow Igbo to rule is assuming that he owns Nigeria and decides who rules, that is a very wrong mindset in a nation that belongs to all of us and I disagree with that pettiness.   This particular argument is the reason Nigeria has remained backward close to 60 years of independence. No tribe in Nigeria has paid greater price for one Nigeria more than the Igbos in every ramification of the word “sacrifice.” So it will be insensitive of any man or woman to stand up and claim commitment to one Nigeria as if it is a monopoly while sidelining the people paying more.  