 A one-year-old boy, Gold Kolawole, has allegedly been abducted at a popular church, Sotitobire Miracle Centre, in Akure, Ondo State. The boy was said to have gone missing during Sunday service at the church located at Oshinle Quarters in Akure.  Sources in the church said the boy, who was at the Children’s Department of the church, could not be found after Sunday’s service when his parents went to pick him. The boy’s mother, Mrs. Modupe Kolawole, a member of the church, yesterday said that she suspected foul play over the disappearance of her son.  Modupe explained that the Children’s Department of the church, where her son went missing, was manned by 14 teachers.  She explained that despite reporting the kidnapping to the church authorities, Police B Division, Oke-Aro and Anti-Kidnapping Unit at Alagbaka, Akure, nobody had been arrested or interrogated by the police.  She said: “When it was 5p.m. that day, they ended the service and they reported the matter to Pastor and he said I should not worry that they will see my son.   “He even told me and my husband that we should go home and sleep that we should not make noise. Later I called my sister and I reported everything to her and she rushed down from Ondo town to Akure and we all started looking for him.   “I personally went to Sotitobire and started begging him that the disappearance of my child occurred in his church but he said we will see him. But up till now we have not seen him.  “As I am talking to you now, Prophet Babatunde Alfa has not called me. Nothing has been done to get my child back. I want my child. If I see my child I will end the case. I am begging everyone to help me find the child.”    All efforts to speak with Alfa were abortive as he did not pick his calls neither did he respond to text messages sent to his phone number.  But the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Femi Joseph, said investigation had commenced into the matter. The PPRO promised that detectives from the state command would rescue the toddler.  Joseph, however, explained that there was no formal report of the incident from any quarters, based on the understanding between the parents of the missing boy and the church leadership.   He said the leadership of the church reported the incident the following day when the father of the missing boy, Temitope Kolawole, allegedly mobilised some thugs to the church and destroyed the church property and were about setting the church on fire when police were mobilised to the scene.   The PPRO appealed to some of the aggrieved relatives of the victim who invaded the church not to take laws into their hands. He urged them to allow the security agents to carry out their investigation.