…says other countries have interest in him …ready to consider options from Jan. 1  The frosty relationship between the Nigeria Football Federation and Super Eagles manager Gernot Rohr appears to be getting worse by the day as the German coach has again spoken with the press just a day after he was warned against doing such by his employers. Rohr had earlier in the week granted interviews to the press, the highlight of which was him revealing that he is being owed by the NFF. The Glass House midweek consequently cautioned him, declaring that his act violated his contractual terms. The NFF, through its Technical Director, Bitrus Bewarang, said Mr. Rohr’s new-found love for disclosing information beyond technical matters to the media was highly unprofessional and against the spirit and letter of his contractual relationship with NFF. The high point of Rohr’s initial interview which the NFF frowned upon was the coach revealing he is owed $100,000. The NFF in response said: “As at today, the only money that the NFF is owing Mr. Rohr is the differential in his new contract (about $30,000) which our financial advisers have to align and interface with AITEO before payment (as the improved contract came into effect in the last half of the year), and which process was concluded on Friday last week. He will soon be paid.” However, in what is widely seen as a defiant move, the former coach of Gabon soon after granted another interview to the media where he claimed he is already in talks with a host of countries who are in need of his services. Rohr’s contract expires next June but he can sign for any other country from January 1 even though he will have to see out his contract with Nigeria which ends on June 30, 2020. “A number of countries (which he did not name) are in talks with me. They want me to come and coach them but I want to see out my contract with Nigeria. “I have about seven months left in my contract but I can sign for any country as from January 2020.” Rohr declared his love to continue to work with the Super Eagles, stating he has built a relationship with the talented players over the years but he was quick to point that the NFF has been playing hide and seek with him concerning the possibility of getting another contract extension. There are strong indications that the 65-year-old coach, who guided Nigeria to a third-place finish at this year’s AFCON in Egypt, seems to have made up his mind to take his coaching skills elsewhere and knowing the cat and mouse relationship between him and NFF president, Amaju Pinnick, he is unlikely to get a new contract. A sources told New Telegraph that left for Pinnick, Rohr would have been given the boot but for the fact that sacking him before the end of his contract means the NFF will pay a huge severance package which they are not ready for.