Former Chief of Army Staff (COAS),  Lt. Gen. Azubike Ihejirika,  has attributed the successes recorded in the war against the Boko Haram insurgents during his tenure on  the rapid increase in the capacity  of the Nigeria Army at that time. Ihejirika who stated this at a Reunion and Gala Night of 18 Regular Course of the Nigerian Army  in Abuja, disclosed  that the strength of the Nigerian Army was increased by 25 per cent  within a  span of three years. He said that  with increased capacity, the challenge  of insecurity was properly diagnosed and clear strategies adopted towards  the  prevention of other  challenges that could have escalated the level of  insecurity  in the country. “We were able to identify the nature of and complexity of the problem.  We went ahead to quickly increase the strength of the army by 25 per cent in  a span of three years. “Without that, it would have been a major issue because of several commitments both internally and externally when Nigerian Army was involved in foreign operations,” he said. In addition,   Ihejirika said,  the Nigerian Army Language Institute (NALI) was established at Ovim in Isuikwuato Local Government Area of Abia State  to facilitate  the integration of the soldiers   with their contemporaries in  other neighbouring countries. “The idea was to give Nigerian Army the capacity to collaborate with other countries. Nigerian being a nation surrounded by francophone countries, we needed  our  soldiers to be able to interact with their colleagues from other countries,” he said. According tohim,  the Language  Institute was also meant  to help Nigerian soldiers on peace keeping missions overseas  to  communicate fluently with their counterparts from other countries. Ihejirika explained that the concept was developed after observing the poor nature of communication between the Nigerian soldiers and their colleagues from neighbouring non-English-speaking countries. “With time, other foreign  languages of interest will be taught but it is important to note that since the Nigeria  Army has gone further to make different languages part of the requirements for the promotion of junior officers,” he said.