There are indications that the inability to effectively implement the ECOWAS Trade Liberalisation Scheme has caused no fewer than 80 per cent of West African countries not to comply with the ECOWAS protocols, leading to setbacks in intra-African trade. Nigerian exporters revealed to this newspaper in Lagos that non-compliant level and other challenges were threatening the successful implementation of the protocol in West Africa and consequently hindering smooth trade facilitation between Nigeria and her counterparts in the sub-region. Speaking on the current status of implementation, a local exporter and member of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria Export Promotion Group (MANEG), Kola Awe, said that only very few countries like Benin Republic, Ghana and Cote D’Ivoire were the ones currently being favoured, adding that the non-compliance had caused great economic loss to Nigeria as goods were turned back without getting to their destinations. Awe faulted that Federal Government’s National Approval Committee under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for not resolving challenges in compliance among others. He said: “The major challenge in ETLS is compliance. More than 80 per cent of the countries in the region don’t comply. The only country that complies with the ETLS comfortably is Benin Republic. ETLS is not about having the certificate. There are other adjoining documents you need to have to make you actually qualify for the ETLS so the certificate alone is not enough. “If you carry out an informal export and you don’t have the SDG from Nigeria, there is no way you can apply for the ETLS or the ETLS will be granted to you. There are lots of documents that need to be put in place including your ECOWAS certificate of origin. “The National Approval Committee needs to come out with the way of making other countries comply with it. Benin Republic, Ghana and Cote D’Ivoire are very perfect. You do a shipment to Ghana, Ghana will take you under the ETLS as long as your document is concerned and the problem also we face in Ghana, majorly is HS code. I will say that the customs officer who follows the inspection for the ETLS is not conversant with the HS code procedure. Companies are bound to make mistakes when it comes to the HS code. So you find some countries rejecting ETLS because the HS code is not the same for that particular product. “So we need to have more experienced customs officers that understand HS code for raw materials and finished products to be able to educate people that this your HS code is wrong you know Nigerians are found of giving different HS code for duty reasons,” Awe added. Reacting to the development, Kabir Nazid of Ministry of Foreign Affairs explained that President Muhammadu Buhari was committed to the programme on ease of doing business in the country and infrastructural policy to make it easier for micro, small and medium enterprises to sustainable economic activities. He said: “Concerning the current status of implementation of ETLS, it is significant to mention that Nigeria has made a giant stride by setting up presidential committee on check point domicile at the Office of Secretary of Government of the Federation to address the challenges along the Nigerian corridor connecting other WA countries. Indeed, Nigeria has exhibited strong political will by addressing the barriers to free movement of persons and goods in Nigeria. “As our corridors and borders are managed in accordance with relevant producers of ECOWAS protocols regulation, it is worthy to notice that Nigeria is the foremost country with the highest productive capacity and industrial base in the community as well as highest share of approved products and enterprises under the ETLS.”