  Lawyers: Special funding’ll free judiciary from executive’s grip   Senate’s push for a special intervention fund for the judiciary has been seen by lawyers as a step in the right direction. This, they said would relieve the third arm of government of inadequate funding which has continually hampered its independence. AKEEM NAFIU writes   L awyers at the weekend spoke with a voice and commended a call by the Senate for a special intervention fund to rescue the judiciary from the abyss of paucity of fund. For the first time in a long while, the issue of autonomy and financial independence of the judiciary which has been under siege was a fortnight ago brought to the fore at the Senate.  Concerns had mounted over the problem of paucity of fund bedeviling the third arm of government which had been taken its toll negatively on its operations. However, as a way out of the dearth of fund for the judiciary, the red Chambers is advocating special funding which it said will allow judicial functions to be carried out effectively.  This was raised by Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Senator Michael Bamidele, who made the call during the screening of Justices John Tsoho and Benedict Kanyip as Chief Judge of the Federal High Court and President of the Court of Appeal, respectively.  Bamidele’s request was hinged on the Committee’s belief that underfunding had negatively affected judiciary’s operations while also fuelling corruption in the third arm of government.  While noting that underfunding had made judiciary vulnerable to compromise, the Senator emphasized that democracy could not grow or survive in any country with a compromised judiciary.  “The problem at hand is that the judiciary is corrupt and it is time for Nigeria and Nigerians to rise and rescue the judiciary with adequate funding.  “As it is with the nation’s judiciary today, even if saints are appointed from heaven to serve as justices and judges in our courts, it is only strength of character that can prevent them from being corrupt and dispense justice as required. Extra-budgetary provisions will help the judiciary to function properly.  “I believe this will be an issue for both the legislative and executive arms of government to address most speedily, beyond the current budgetary provision, a special intervention fund.  “As elected representatives of the people, it is not yet uhuru. A lot still needs to be done. “And for us to be able to catch up, there is need for special intervention fund, details of which we believe the leadership of the legislature will have to work out with the executive arm of government.  “After the special intervention fund, we can then agree on how there can be consistent increase on an annual basis in the annual budget of the nation as far as the judiciary is concerned.   “Something urgently needs to be done about the plight of the Nigerian Judiciary.  “For so long, has the story dominated our political space that our judiciary is corrupt? “As far as we are concerned, it is time for Nigeria to change the narrative, it is time for Nigeria to show that we are serious and we understand the full and true meaning of the independence of the judiciary, a cardinal aspect of it is financial independence,’’ Bamidele said. Executive’s intervention  Prior to the Senators’ call for a special intervention fund for the judiciary, the executive has equally demonstrated its resolve to ensure that the third arm of government gets what rightly belong to it in terms of fund. A Bill granting financial autonomy to States Judiciary and Legislature was on 8th June, 2018, signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. The move was seen by many as a way of halting   the activities of state governors who have been observing Section 121(3) of the Constitution which clearly spelt out how funds due to the third arm of government should be disbursed in breach.   Section 121(3) of the Constitution states: “Any amount standing to the credit of the judiciary in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the State shall be paid directly to the heads of the court concerned”.   Implementation Committee   About 9 months after signing the Bill granting financial autonomy to States Judiciary into law, President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated a Committee to fashion out strategies and modalities for implementing the law in line with the dictates of Section 121 (3) of the Constitution.   After about 3 months of carrying out its assignment, the Committee which was chaired by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) submitted its report to the president. Highlight of their recommendations was the need for President Buhari to sign an Executive Order for the immediate take-off of the implementation of the autonomy for states judiciary.   Addressing journalists, Malami said: “Well, substantially, arising from the position of the president relating to the deepening of democracy relating to upholding the provisions of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, within the context of governance, Mr. President had sometimes back in March, 2019, precisely, put in place a Committee.  “So, today, the committee has concluded its assignment substantially by way of making available to the President, an interim report indicating the modalities this should follow with due observance of the provisions of the Section 121 and due observance of the sustenance of the independence of the States Legislature and Judiciary.  “It is about the Constitutional order, it is about the sustenance of the requirements of the Constitution as it relates to the independence of the Legislature and the Judiciary and the Committee has presented its report to Mr. President.   “The independence has already been established by the Constitution so, it is now about the implementation of the modalities and amongst the recommendations made to Mr. President is an Executive Order by the President designed to give effect to the implementation of Section 121 which Constitutionally establishes the independence of the two arms of government.   “The recommendations clearly spelt out that if uniform modules for implementation of financial autonomy for the state legislature and state judiciary are approved for implementation across 36 states, it will no doubt strengthen Nigeria’s democratic principles, practices and public governance.   “So, it is about the application, operation and enforcement of the provisions of the Constitution and with the signing of the Executive Order, l believe the necessary formalities of the wholehearted implementation of this provisions will come into effect”. Lawyers speak    Some senior lawyers have thumbed up the Senate over its pursuit of special intervention fund for the judiciary.   The lawyers while speaking on the issue with New Telegraph Law at the weekend, however, opined that more funding for the judiciary does not guarantee an end to corruption in the third arm of government. In his submissions, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Mike Ahamba, said the judiciary is in desperate need of special intervention fund to cater for many things that were left undone.   He said: “I think the need to fund the judiciary for efficiency should not be mixed with corruption in the third arm of government. “However, I agreed with the Senators that judiciary is underfunded. I am in total support of the idea of special funding for the judiciary. It is unfortunate that in this times and age, our judges are still writing court proceedings in long hands. Recording of proceedings at the various courts should be done electronically.   “Issue like this and several others needs to be urgently addressed and in doing so, funding is desirable. This may not however in anyway affect corruption in the judiciary. Corruption is a matter of the mind, conscience and honour”. In his own views, Mr. Seyi Sowemimo (SAN) also threw his weight behind the Senate’s call for the judiciary to enjoy special funding.  “It is a welcome development and will help if properly applied. l have no knowledge of what is being proposed,” the silk said.  To Chief Emeka Okpoko (SAN), underfunding has remained a cog in the wheel of judiciary’s independence. He called for a legislation to back up Senate’s demand for the special funding. He said: “Special funding is a welcome development. Lack of Financial independence remains a major albatross to the independence of the Judiciary.  “When Heads of our courts almost go cap in hands before securing funds from the executive arm is a clog to the independent of the judiciary. For me, much as this is a step in the right direction, one still hopes it will be codified and be made a part of our law. Indeed, there is still a need for a constitutional amendment so as to enshrine it in our constitution”.  A former President of the Campaign For the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, believed judiciary’s independence is a factor of how well it is funded. “I think that the issue of underfunding is a recurrent decimal with respect to most institutions of government. This is understandable because the budgetary process in Nigeria is completely anihiliated from not just the beneficiaries but the operators of those institutions.  “But, I do think that the independence largely touted for the judiciary can only be measured or sustainable by the funding of that institution. Funding is ever relevant and necessary.  “However, it will not completely erase the issue of corruption because anyone who is corrupt becomes more corrupt with more money. If there were still incidents of theft and corrupt practices when there are little fund, it will magnified when there are bigger fund. “Therefore, I would be advocating for a stringent applications of the code of conduct for judicial officers and the strengthening of our prosecutorial institutions, including the self-regulatory body within the judiciary, which is the National Judicial Council (NJC). This will make it possible to unravel, not just the cause but the dimension and implication of corrupt activities in the judiciary.  “What I am saying in essence is that other factors aside funding must be considered in order to tackle corruption in the judiciary”, he said. A Lagos-based lawyer, Mr. Destiny Takon, was of the view that proper funding of the judiciary will free the third arm of government from the grip of the executive.  He said: “It is good that the Senate is moving for financial autonomy for the judiciary. If that is done, it would be one step away from the issues that have made the judiciary an appendage of the Executive but beyond how the judiciary is funded are other disturbing issues like the mode of appointment and discipline of perceived errant judges.  “The NJC needs to be reconstituted and given immunity from arrest or prosecution/persecution by any sitting regime. The envisaged protection should be throughout the tenure as a member and for life.  This is to ensure that persons who are recommended for appointment as Judges, can be disqualified where necessary by the NJC without any fear of arrest or persecution of any sort.  “Same would apply where Judges are referred to it for discipline of any sort. A fearless and dispassionate NJC would ensure that misfits or half baked persons, do not end up on the bench and grow up to the appellate courts, like we have today. “There should also be a legal bar against the arrest or prosecution of any serving Judge except recommended by the envisaged reconstituted and legally protected NJC.  “This would embolden upright Judges to make declarations and orders against any serving government that acts against the letters of the constitution, without the fear of being removed or persecuted. “The issue on the table if dealt with alone, would be typical of seeking a cure for a leprous hand, you do not heal one finger and suppose that the whole hand would therefore become healed. Truth is that the healed finger would relapse or probably get infected by another finger’s peculiar ailment. That is why the approach must be wholistic, as I have herein opined”.  To Mr. Mohammed Fawehinmi, the Senate’s demand should be captured in a Bill sponsored by both the Senate President and Speaker of House of Representatives.  “The proper thing to do is to sponsor a Bill known as the Adjudicature Act which involves the funding of the entire judiciary. The Bill should be sponsored by the Senate President and the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives jointly in both Houses. “In the Act, the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission would be duly notified for the necessary disbursements into a special account. This is the first step to the judiciary of this great nation being independent”, he said. 