The annual international campaign to challenge violence against women and girls on the platform of ’16 Days Activism’ against Gender-Based violence has kicked off  with the theme:  ‘Orange the World: Generation Equality Stands against Rape.’ OLUWATOSIN OMONIYI writes   Girls, women and even men across the world are falling victim to sexual assault, rape, and human trafficking. In response, some women, individuals and non-governmental organisations (NGO) in large numbers are rising against it especially as they mark the ‘gender-based- violence week with different activities across the world. The most common acts of violence against women in Nigeria include sexual harassment, physical violence, harmful traditional practices, emotional and psychological violence, socio-economic violence and violence against non-combatant women in conflict situation. A study recently commissioned by the ministry of women’s affairs and social development and the United Nations Population Fund (UNPFA) Nigeria with support from the Norwegian Government found out that 28% of Nigerian women aged 25-29 have experienced some form of physical violence since age 15. The study also reports that 15 per cent of women experienced physical violence within 12 months preceding the survey further, the level of exposure to the risk of violence varied based on marital status, and that “44 per cent of divorced, separated or widowed women reported experiencing violence since age 15, while 25 per cent of married women or those living with their spouses have experienced violence. Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, founding director of Women Advocates Research and Documentation Center (WARDC) said that the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence (GBV) is also a time to remember victims and survivors of GBV and further re-evaluate the effectiveness of interventions currently in place to address the problem. “We call on the Federal Government of Nigeria to create more institutions that can address the root causes of gender-based violence, the impunity that often goes with the scourge, implement policies and enact laws, for a stronger national response that can support victims and survivors of violence,” she said. The European Union, (EU) and United Nations, (UN) has planned to spend  $10m per year in the next  four years to end  all forms of gender based violence in Nigeria. Mrs. Hadiza Aminu, the  EU, UN Spotlight Initiative Coordinator,  said this in Kano on Monday during a media dialogue Stoplight Initiative on ending violence against women and girls in Nigeria. Aminu  highlighted that  43 per cent  of girls were married before the age of 18 and 17 per cent  married before 15, while 20,000 new cases of obstetric fistula occurred yearly, according to the National Demographic Health Survey of  2013. She said that  the project  would start in five pilot states of  Adamawa, Ebonyi,  Cross Rivers,  Sokoto and Lagos as well as the  Federal Capital Territory and Splits. She said that violence and other forms of harmful practices against women and girls were reported to be of epidemic proportions and this trend was on the rise in the country. She noted that there was a need to have the right people to discuss social norms. Aminu said the country had the problem of a lack of data  but that with the structures in the states, data could be generated with proper training. She said that the groups would support government agencies in- charge of data  generation. She added that the EU and UN  would  ensure that states had family courts  to handle cases of violence. Mr Danladi  Bako, a former Commissioner for Communication in  Sokoto State,  said that  most women did  not report violence due to different reasons  which might be cultural,  religious or fear of the future. Bako said that poverty could increase  violence with social vices, adding that the issues of violence and rape had not been taken  seriously in the country. Bako advised that EU and UN should  have people in radio and television stations, adding that there was a need for more men to be involved in the campaign against violence. ”There is a disconnect  between what the men want and what the women want;  so there  must be a way to harmonise  things to arrive at a point, ” he said. Bako said that the country needed to fashion a way for men to accept gender equality and called for the political will from the government to address the issues. He advocated an educational system that would be used to educate people on anger management as 80 per  cent  of violence  was based on provocation. He  also advised that traditional leaders be involved in the fight against violence. Mr James Ibor,  a human rights activist and member of Basic Right  Counsel Initiative, said the issue of discrimination against women was common and the situation must change by creating strong awareness. Ibor said Nigeria ratified the Convention for The Convention on Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) in 1985 but international treaties could only go into effect when parliament put in a corresponding domesticated law. He urged the media  to promote  the  values of gender equality. Mrs Hapsatu Isiyaku, Assistant Director, National Population Commission,  said  that  violence against women and children was a monster that required synergy and collaboration to eradicate violence in the  society. She advised the media to dedicate part of the news and other programmes to sensitising members of the public  to the rights of women and children, also to have birth certificates for their children. Meanwhile, at the unveiling of the Nigeria Sexual Offenders Register in Abuja, November 25, the UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, has assured Federal Government of the world body’s commitment toward ending all forms of gender-based violence in the country. The UN deputy secretary-general said that the 16 days activism against gender based violence with the theme “Generation Equality Stands Against Rape’’ was a call for all to speak out against rape and other forms of violence, as well as ensure necessary actions were taken to curb the menace. New Telegraph gathered that the Sexual Offenders Register is aimed at documenting names of sexual offenders and will provide database of persons who have been convicted of sexual crimes. According to Mohammed, the UN is committed to supporting governments across the world, including Nigeria, to save girls and women from violent acts. She explained that the EU and UN launched an ambitious partnership called Spotlight Initiative toward eliminating all forms of violence against women and girls worldwide, in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The initiative aims to mobilise commitment of political leaders and contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and specifically Goal 5 on gender equality and Goal 16 on inclusive and peaceful societies. She said that it is an initiative backed by an initial dedicated financial envelope of 500 million Euros from EU, targeting large-scale investments in Asia, Africa, Latin America, the Pacific and the Caribbean, aimed at achieving significant improvements in the lives of women and girls. “It is also encouraging that here in Nigeria, the government is making efforts to bring to book those caught in violent acts against women and children.’’ She noted that reports of sexual violence and abuse against girls and women in IDPs camps, tertiary institutions, forceful marriages and demeaning jobs needed to be urgently tackled by ensuring access to quality education for the girl-child to enable her to make informed choices. Leymah Roberta Gbowee, a 2011 Nobel Peace Laureate from Liberia and Founder of Gbowee Peace Foundation, stressed the need for government, relevant authorities and other stakeholders to ensure that people at the local level were educated about the sexual offenders register. Gbowee said “Mainstreaming Response to Gender Based Violence in the National Discourse,” also emphasisied the need for sustainability and continuity of the Sexual Offenders Register, which she said would bring an end to all forms of gender based violence. Bob Arnot, the Programme Director, Justice, Security and Conflict, British Council, said the effort was to serve as deterrent to potential offenders and contribute to the reduction of cases of sexual assault, especially against women and girls. Hajiya Amina Bello, a Gynaecologist and wife of Niger Governor, said children exposed to sexual abuse and violations were at the risk of havingc mental disorder, risky sexual behavior, juvenile delinquency, drug abuse and others. Bello, therefore, stressed the need to ensure that sexual assault victims had access to both mental and physical treatment, particularly treatment for STDs, prevention of pregnancy and others. Adding his voice to the 16 Days Activism on GBV was the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, who called for identification, punishment of culprits of GBV and adoption of preventive measures to end the scourge in the country. Osinbajo made the call during the launch of the Nigeria Sexual Offenders Registry and Guidelines for Sexual and Gender Based Violence in Abuja Monday, November 25. The launch is in line with the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence. It is in response to the numerous abuse and marginalisation faced by women and children across the globe because of their gender and vulnerability. The vice president, who was represented by Mr Dayo Akpata, the Solicitor-General of the Federation, therefore, urged countries around the world to look beyond just legislation to fix the problem, saying “look at the deep, systematic dysfunction of cultures and social norms that do not prevent sexual violence.” “We must ensure that culprits are identified and punished, the greater part of our efforts should go into ensuring that we do all in our power to prevent the abuse from happening in the first place, by proactively identifying risk factors and intervening decisively to deal with them before they happen. “There are steps that we all can take to end all forms of abuse and these include: challenging demeaning or degrading references to women; opposing a culture of blaming victims. “We also need to teach boys a sense of masculinity that respects women and accepts no type of gender based violence and if you witness a sexual assault, call the police or contact the sexual and gender based violence response team in your state.” Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, reiterated the commitment of government toward ensuring that women, children and the girl-child benefit from this administration’s agenda of women empowerment. She said “we would intensify collaboration with National Assembly and state assemblies toward reviewing and proposing amendments to Legislation Gender Equality and end All Forms of Discrimination Against Girls and women. “We would also partner state governors, traditional institutions, faith based organisations and Civil Society Organisations to ensure access to justice and quality lives for Nigerian women and children.” Tallen said that this year’s theme “Orange the world: Generation Equality Stand Against Rape is apt as it speaks on issues of rape, which is assuming an alarming and unacceptable proportion. “We can no longer be silent in the face of this menace where no one is spared. Some persons have blamed indecent dressing among women as the cause of rape. This is truly laughable. “How do we reconcile this with the rape of two weeks or six months old baby? Should indecent dressing be the reason why a 60-year old woman is raped?” The minister asked. She, therefore, explained that the register, aimed at naming and shaming anybody ever convicted for rape and all forms of sexual violence, would be placed in the public domain for all to see the perpetrators.”