T he current debate on the political skirmish between President Muhammadu Buhari and his Vice, Professor Yemi Osinbajo reminds one of John Adam’s experience as the first Vice President of the United States of America. Adams’ two terms as Vice President were frustrating experiences for a man of his vigour and intellect. He is reported to have once complained to his wife Abigail that: “My country has in its wisdom contrived for me the most insignificant office that ever the invention of man contrived or his imagination conceived.” A close look at the American Constitution from where Nigeria’s presidential system is fashioned after, depicts the office of Vice-President as an afterthought. Joel Goldstein, a St. Louis Professor inisists that no mention was after all, made of the office at the early stage of the Philadelphia Convention where the idea of American Constitution was considered and adopted. Goldstein points out that the office was not even suggested until the closing days of the constitutional convention. It will surprise many to understand that, despite being an enviable democracy today, no Vice-President was indeed surprisingly ever allowed to attend cabinet meeting in America until Adams attended in 1781 and Thomas Marshall in 1918 and 1919. That was after an interval of about 177 years of the American democracy. Again, it was until 1933 that President Roosevelt inaugurated his Vice, John Nance Garner into the cabinet, and again Eisenhower allowed Richard Nixon not only to attend cabinet meetings, but more importantly, to preside over the meting in his absence.  Many people believe that a Vice-President in Nigeria in reality, has no power under the law. Apparently, it explains why the Vice or Deputy are often referred to as spare tyres. Although the occupant of such office is close to power, he has little of his own. In fact, a Vice President does only what he is delegated to do by the President. Section 148 (1) is explicit that: ”The President, may in his discretion, assign to the Vice President or any Minister of the Government of the Federation responsibility for any business of the Government of the Federation, including the administration of any department of government.” Let me stress here that the operative phrase here is “may in his discretion”. It might had been the intendment of the framers of our constitution that the Vice-President is to be carried along but, with the inadequacy of the provisions of the 1999 constitution (as amended), it remains a fallacy, considering the fact that in the event of rift between the duo (president and his vice), the latter becomes redundant.  Unaquably, the office of the Vice President as encapsulated under our current law is at the mercy of the President who may decide to render the office impotent. Since nothing in the Constitution compells the President to allocate to his Vice any significant executive power, it is what he wants of the deputy that becomes of him in the executive scheme. Of course, the President is the chief and not first among equals. What is then imperative here is to state that Vice President Osinbajo himself as lawyer is not oblivious of the fact that he has three main responsibilities. First is loyalty, the second loyalty, and the third is also loyalty. It was first in 2017, when Osinbajo revealed to Nigerians how he is often treated by President Buhari- a son, father relationship. “In fact, the President has taken me as a son in the way he treats me,” the Vice President was quoted by his Senior Special Assistant on media and publicity Laolu Akande on his twitter handle after a public function in Daura, Katsina State.  Only recently, Osinbajo was again quoted in a special edition of Brands International magazine, the official magazine for Buhari’s Next Level Agenda, as saying: ”He (Buhari) is the best boss and I find it thrilling to serve Nigeria under him. It is only responsible of me to give my unwavering loyalty to President Buhari and Nigeria as I promise to stand by him, while contributing my quota at all times to the growth of Nigeria,” Osinbajo noted.  Close observers of the nation’s political trajectory will agree that Osinbajo remains one of the luckiest Vice Presidents Nigeria has ever had since the return of democratic rule in 1999, having tasted true presidential powers. Unlike previous governments, he has had opportunities at three different times to exercise full presidential powers in acting capacity. First was in February 2016 when President Buhari took five-days leave. The second was in June 2016 when Buhari traveled to London to attend to an ear infection and the last was in August 2018.  During these periods, Osinbajo was perceived generally both locally and abroad to have done well with even early talks of a possible shot at the presidency in the last 2019 elections then beginning to emerge. Much of this was down to decisive actions. Don’t forget the first law of power – never outshine the master. “Everyone has insecurities. When you show yourself in the world and display your talents, you naturally stir up all kinds of resentment and envy.”  On the corridor of power and in the power play-game, it is those around the President, his several handlers who evaluate how loyal a Vice President can be, public display of such loyalty notwithstanding. As far as the President’s men are concerned, Osinbajo has given room for his loyalty to be suspect. But Osinbajo himself ought to know that Nigeria’s presidency is not in want of political ‘jackals and hyenas’ (apologies to the First Lady Aisha Buhari). A few analysts have strongly observed that to survive in this power corridor, one must be a cat with nine lives; ready to be as sly and cunning as a fox and at the same time, crafty to navigate the turbulence of the terrain.  During one of those periods Osinbajo acted as President, he took far reaching decisions quite shocking to the much talked about cable in Aso Rock. At the National Pension Commission (PenCom), he changed the management. The then acting President removed Dikko Aliyu AbdulRahman as Directed General of PenCom and made him Chairman, Governing Board of the Bank of Industry (BoI). Dikko was replaced at PenCom with Funso Doherty who was appointed alongside six Executive Commissioners. To show that he had offended the system, all these appointments never sailed through.  Many other decisions of the Vice President while he acted, including his sack of Lawal Daura as Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS) following the invasion of the National Assembly complex by masked operatives of the department remain fresh in mind. The high point of these decisions was how swiftly, Osinbajo pushed for the confirmation of Justice Walter Onnoghen as substantive Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). Justice Onnoghen had been kept in abeyance in acting capacity without the hope of a confirmation until the opportunity provided by Buhari’s medical trip to London. Whether the Vice President is forgiven for these acts allegedly considered sinful to the owners of Nigeria’s current political powers, is something worth investigating further. Till this moment, Osinbajo and Buhari’s handlers debunk insinuations of any rift within the presidency. The recent sack of about 35 aides of the Vice President and disbanding of the Economic Management Team (EMT) chaired by Osinbajo as well as appointment of the new Economic Advisory Council (EAC) in their views is no clue to existing quarrels.   In the midst of this, Osinbajo had been accused of mismanaging N90 billion, being funds allegedly provided by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) for the prosecution of the 2019 presidential elections. It seems a howler from Comrade Timi Frank, maybe fuelled by the same political enemies. The Vice President couldn’t hold this one. Osinbajo described it as a spate of reckless and malicious fallacy insisting that he could waive his immunity to clear his name. Obviously, we have not gotten to see another Obasanjo/Atiku melodrama in Aso Rock. To take to total denial however on what is happening is deceitful to millions of right thinking Nigerians. What President Buhari has simply done since the beginning of the government’s second term, is to take back his presidential powers. This singular action by the President, which has thrown up speculations of marginalization true or not, will continue to feature in public debate, regardless of the denials. While I join many others to commend the calm disposition of Vice President Osinbajo as the travail last, he needs to move swiftly and allay the fears of Aso Rock power brokers in order to unveil the doubt shadow cast around his loyalty. This is too early in the last lap of the four year tenure for the Buhari/Osinbajo presidency.