It was like a fairytale, but with determination and enthusiasm, she is scaling up the ladder of success. Funke Idowu and Deborah Akinyombo write  With helps from friends, few relatives, donations from various quarters, Justina Aniefiok is fulfilling her dreams in photography and soccer. From her Secondary school classroom to vocational training in photography, to internship training in a newspaper newsroom, she opted for full-time apprenticeship in photography and vigorous training in football where her strong passions lie. Aniefiok’s actual plan was to go further in her education and photography while she also devout her strength to practicing and playing football at the two stadia- Teslim Balogun and the popular National Stadium, but fortune wasn’t friendly towards her. Determined to go beyond the limitations life is setting for her, Justy as she is also fondly called, pulled her strength and passion together and went round few of her senior friends by offering free services of her photography skill. She would go to their events, take photographs of celebrants, and events, and make album (trendy ones) out of it and present to the owners, for free. Gradually, Justy started getting help and eventually, bigger fortune smiled on her. Today, the 23-year-old Justy, has become a photojournalist in hot demand, travelling round the country, taking photographs and playing footballs for clubs. Also, on a part-time basis, she is studying Mass Communication at the Yaba College of Technology Indeed; Justina has every reason to be grateful to God and the helpers who helped with shaping her dreams into a purposeful one. For she had reasons to give up, quit school, but she remained resolute to pursue her dream especially she is convinced about it. To actualise her passion, she reluctantly left her parent’s house to stay with an aunt whom she believed would help her achieve her goal. How wrong was she? Justy became a punching bag for her aunt’s son. She said: “There was a day I had an argument with my aunt’s son, which led to him injuring me on my head. I bled seriously, this wouldn’t have happened if I had been living with my parents. The day I received that injury was the saddest day of my life. That was on January 7, 2001. I was not expecting that from him. He was my aunt’s son. No matter what has happened, it shouldn’t get to the extent of beating and injuring me.” Justina said that after the saddening experience, she encouraged herself and vowed that her children wouldn’t ever have to go through what she had gone through. Consequently, low self-esteem set in, she became withdrawn. She shy away from people and making friends. She regretted not staying in her parent’s house. She said: “My father had an accident and lost his job. Life became too difficult for us. In the midst of all troubles, my elder sister was impregnated. My mother had to move to village with my sister and other siblings. The whole idea was to reduce cost of fending and feeding. I had to go and stay with my aunt. My aunt’s son subjected me to series of beating. I remembered my dad promising to send me to the best school in Nigeria. Whenever I see my dad after things turned bad for us, he was always apologetic. He would tell me that he was sorry that he couldn’t fulfill his promises. Growing up for Justina was very rough. According to her, she happened to be the third of five children. “Growing up was very tough for me. I was shy and had low self-esteem. I found it very difficult to speak or expressed myself,” she said. Justy told New Telegraph that, while girls were playing with dolls, Justina took to playing football and soon fell seriously in love with sport. She explained that playing football, gave her self-confidence. “I feel very happy whenever I play football,” she enthused. Justy had played in the Lagos State Principal Cup for secondary schools and went for final three times, but was unable to get the cup. Her team always came second.                            She explained that whenever she feels depressed after losing a match, her manager, Mr Emmanuel Tobi, would encourage her never to give up. She said that it was through the encouragement and mentoring from her manager, that she found another passion in photographing. She enrolled in a vocational school, where she studied photography for one year. After she was through with the vocational school, she went to do her Industrial Training (IT) with the New Telegraph Newspaper. Before she was accepted at the New Telegraph, she had earlier gone to She ‘Scene One Production,’ which produces Jennifer’s Diary, but was turned down.  At New Telegraph Newspaper, she was welcomed and encouraged by all. “It was like everyone at New Telegraph knew what I was going through and what I had gone through.  The affection was there and the love was huge. After my I.T, Mr Hussein Suleiman, the Photo Editor asked what I wanted to do next after my IT.” She was pondering that very important question, when the  Daily Editor, Ayodele Ojo, urged her to do everything possible to ensure she attends a tertiary institution. Encouraged and feeling like she could conquer the world, Justina applied for the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). She scored 188 but it was below the cut-off marks. She said she cried her eyes out.  “I felt bad and cried because the people that supported me with love, would be angry with me that I failed. They would be saying that I should have done better, at least score 200,” Justy said. However, her manager and his wife encouraged her to take a part time job and then apply for a part time programme in any tertiary institution, with a promise to paying the tuition fee.  “He did as he promised and New Telegraph Newspaper Company also supported and encouraged me,” she said. While in campus, she continued with her love for sports, playing whenever she had the opportunity. The school Head of Sports saw her one day playing football and was awed. She said: “My second semester school fee was paid by Nigerian singer-songwriter, Oritse Femi’s wife. Mrs. Nabila Oritshefemi, who gave me a scholarship and supported me, I told myself that if these people could support me this way, then I should never do anything that would make them regret assisting me, or bring shame to them. The love was massive, as such, I couldn’t afford to be less of expectation.” Justina said that her part time job, most times takes much of her time, to the extent that she often forgot that she is pursuing a diploma course. But she said she was always reminded that she was running a diploma programme whenever she checked the WhatsApp platform created by her course mates. Justina’s part time job is photography, but to conveniently do that job, she had to rent camera. Tobi felt life would be easier for Justina if she had her own camera. The cost of the camera was between N150, 000 and N200, 000. After much rumination, Tobi hit on a plan to raise funds for the camera through donations. She said that the donations started coming from some staff of New Telegraph Newspaper, Lagos State Sports’ Writers Association, friends, Lagos State Football Association (FA) chairman Mr. Seyi Akinwunmi and his vice, Mr. Tade Azeez. The late former Nigerian midfield player, Ajuma Ameh-Otache, also contributed. The camera was purchased and handed over to Justina last year. So far, Justy received so much from Nigerians around her and thus decided to give back to the community in her own small way. How?  Every October, which is her birthday, she organises a day photo training session. In these sessions, expert Sports photographers are brought under one roof to speak with young Nigerians on what photography is all about. Thus far, she has organised that training twice. Justina was the grand recipient of ‘2018 Ladies in Sports Award’ and in 2019 was made the official photographer for ‘Ladies in Sports at Eko Hotel.” According to her, her aim was to shoot for UEFA champion league. She registered for 2018 AFCON women’s CAF to go to Ghana to cover the women Africa games. One thing, however, led to another and she couldn’t embark on the trip. The trip was cancelled. She then registered for the 2019 FIFA Women World Cup, France and started the process. Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi tried to assist her in getting visa, unfortunately, she was denied visa. She also applied for the Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) workshop, but she was turned down. She cried a lot, thinking something was wrong with her.