F ederal Capital Territory (FCT) Ministerial Task Team on Traffic Free Flow has joined forces with the Department of Road Traffic Services (DRTs) to enforce the ban on the operations of tricycles (Keke NAPEP) on major highways and the FCT city centre.   Chairman of the task team, Comrade Ikharo Attah, who joined the DRTs’ sensitisation campaign yesterday in Abuja, said the full enforcement would not only restore sanity to the nation’s capital, but would help in the fight against gridlock. Attah debunked claims by some individuals that the order was deigned to unleash hardship on both the operators of the tricycles and residents.    He said that the ban was in line with the transportation master plan of the city, which, according to him, stipulates that the operations of all means of transportation should be regulated and controlled.   The chairman explained that the ministerial order was meant to enhance safety of the operators, as well as that of the passengers, as they would no longer be allowed to move on highways. Attah added that the Abuja project would not succeed if laws and regulations governing operations of businesses were not enforced and obeyed.  He said: “What the minister is asking the operators to do is just to restrict themselves to areas designated for them to operate. They cannot be everywhere across the city, particularly on major highways and in the city centre.  The ordered deployment of high capacity buses from the fleets of Abuja Urban Mass Transport will cushion the effects of the ban.”  Also,   the Director, DRTs, Mr. Wadata Bodinga, said that the administration had decided to phase out all rickety vehicles, especially those which had failed road worthiness test. Bodinga, who regretted that about 95 per cent of vehicles in Abuja would not pass road worthiness test, also noted that the grace period given to affected taxi operators had elapsed, hence, the implementation of the ministerial order. He warned that the enforcement, which began today, would be total.  The director said defaulters would be arrested while their vehicles would be impounded. He said: “We have cleared our carport to accommodate all impounded vehicles and tricycles. We urge all who want to operate in FCT to abide by the rules and regulations.”