The famed Ketu-Ikosi Fruit Market in the Ketu area of Lagos State was demolished on Friday, November 8, by mobile policemen allegedly on the orders of the chairman of Ikosi-Isheri Local Council Development Area (LCDA. ISIOMA MADIKE, who visited the market on Saturday, Tuesday and Wednesday, brought back touching stories of those who lost their all in the ruins  It is traumatising to see the elderly shed tears. The wrinkled face of an agonising old woman or man is one that many will not like to see. But, at the once beautiful but now destroyed famed Ikosi-Ketu Fruit Market, where many, including the elderly had earned a decent living, such looks now abound in abundance. Alhaja Silifat from Osun State is one of such elderly women in pains at the market. She is 78 years of age. Silifat’s tears will melt the hardest of hearts. She did not only lose her means of livelihood but her dignity as a human being. Her small kiosk where she sold a variety of fruits now lies in ruins. Since Friday, November 8, when two bulldozers, escorted by policemen, allegedly from task force, demolished the market to shreds, Silifat has not been the same. Speaking through an interpreter, she said: “They have succeeded in making me a beggar at an old age. What have I done to deserve this cruelty? This is the handiwork of AbdulFatai Ayodele Oyesanya, the chairman of Ikosi-Isheri Local Council Development Area (LCDA). Please tell him to leave our market for us. We are too old to be used and dumped. “When they were campaigning, they begged and promised us every good things so we can vote for them. Now that they are in power, they want to turn us to their slaves. I have been in this market since 1976, and I can’t now imagine myself been turned into a beggar because of their selfish desires. “He said he wanted to rebuild the market to make it more modern without telling us how it could benefit us. We know their plans; he only wants to take away our only means of livelihood. He would rather kill all of us here before he can actualise his wicked cravings.” Another old woman, who identified herself simply as Mama Janet, also claimed to have been in the market for 35 years. She is from Ekiti State. She trained her children and feeds from the proceeds of the fruits she sold in the market. But, not anymore! “This market is my life. Do they want me to learn how to steal at this age? We did not vote for hardship; we voted that life could be better. Oyesanya should pity us as we have no other place to go to. He said he wanted to rebuild the market; can someone like me be able to buy any shop after their re-modelling? God knows we are not obstinate; we are only pleading to them not to sell this market to their cronies,” she said. Other traders, especially women, were seen wearing long faces when the Saturday Telegraph team visited the market on Tuesday. They looked confused about their fate after the demolition of the market. Some of them were however, seen doing their normal business, while others were salvaging their goods from the debris. Lorries carrying plantain and fruits, such as watermelon, oranges and pineapples could not offload, due to the untidy manner of the environment. And buyers who had come from different parts of the state were looking dejected as they appear stranded. A man, who was identified himself only as Baba Ologede, said that different versions of the intentions of the LCDA concerning the market had been flying around since the demolition of the market. It’s hard to believe anything as it is now, he said. “The point is that many people make their daily living from this market. Not only that, some micro-finance banks have given money to many traders to expand their businesses. I know someone, who has just collected N150,000 and has not paid back a dime. “We have been here for the past 40 years and this is farmers’ market, not just any market. Farmers bring in their goods straight from the farms and we sell and return the money to them to do more farming. So, to just wake up one day and start demolishing such a place will not work. However, some of us still believe the reason for the demolition will be sorted out very soon,’’ he added. Another, who pleaded anonymity, told one of our reporters that the demolition is for a particular section and would not extend to other parts of the market. According to him, the plan by the LCDA was to rehabilitate and expand the meat section of the market. He said that the roof of the meat section had been removed, while sand, cement and planks to be used for the expansion had also been procured. He recalled that attempts were made in 2017 to move the market away from its present location, but that the LCD’s efforts were frustrated by the traders and market officials, who believed that the relocation of the market would not benefit the citizens. This, according to him, eventually led to the ongoing development of a new Mile 12 Market at Imota, after Ikorodu. When contacted, the Babaloja (Leader) of the market, Lambe Dauda, said that the issues surrounding the market were simple but logical.  He admitted that Oyesanya invited the former market executives to a meeting where he intimated them with the LCDA’s plan to rebuild the market, and invited them to meetings, but that in many of such meetings they never arrived on a compromise. “Instead of finding a way to sell his ideas to us amicably, he initiated another meeting where he merely told us that the contract to rebuild the market had been awarded and all papers perfected. He told us that the contractor would soon start his work. We were surprised because we never agreed on the modalities; we didn’t agree with him on how he planned to go about it. Before we knew what was happening, he started bringing thugs to molest and intimidate us. He just wanted to cow us to submission but we resisted that. “After that we saw one Chris, whom the LCDA chairman said he awarded the contract to. The first time he came to inspect the market he came with thugs and two armed riot policemen as if we were in a war situation. We never disagreed with the re-modelling of the market; we only insisted on transparency of the contract. To us, everything was muddled up. Besides, his tenure in the council is coming to an end. There is no way we can trust that he could finish the job before he leaves office. “We suggested that more contractors should be invited and that the bidding should be transparent so that everyone will be on the same page. We just wanted to make sure that we are not cheated out at the end of the day. Government has the right to re-model any market in the state but we should be carried along. I don’t think that is too much for us to ask for. We told him that since we are mere traders, we would like our lawyers, theirs and that of the contractors to sit down, look at the issues and resolve the gray areas. “The Kabiyesi, Olukosi of Ikosi, was even involved at some point. He summoned us for a meeting in his palace to discuss the issue. On getting there, we met this same developer in the palace. Kabiyesi told us in that meeting that he had prepared a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on behalf of us, the marketers. He said that he wanted the developers to rebuild the market in such a way that it won’t disturb anyone of us in our daily activities. At his palace, we also pleaded with him to allow our lawyers to see what was being prepared. At that point, he postponed the meeting to a later date. “We were waiting for that meeting when we got information that the council had perfected plans to demolish the market. What we heard was that they were coming on that fateful Friday and that was exactly what happened. They stormed the market by 10 am and hell was let loose with the traders running for their lives as the riot policemen were shooting sporadically and teargasing us without provocation. You are here now and have seen the ruins of the once beautiful fruit market reputed to be the largest in Nigeria. We have made our intentions known to the Iyaloja-General of Lagos. We have no confidence in Oyesanya and his developer,” Dauda said. His deputy, Salami Jimoh, also said that the late Babaloja, Taofeek Akande, whom the council chairman had meetings with, last year told them that what the council proposed would not be in the interest of the traders. He said: “It was on that basis that he rejected their proposals and we sat down to take a decision we felt would be in our interest. We communicated that to Oyesanya but because he was bent on destroying the market, he never listened to us. One of the cardinal things our late Babaloja told us was that we must make sure we involved our lawyers in the discussions and that is what we still stand on. “We are not saying no to their plans but let there be equity, justice and fairness. The man died in August and the market was destroyed in November. We sincerely did not bargain for this; this is inhuman to say the least. The council chairman is so petty to the extent that when our late Babaloja died, he couldn’t even send a condolence message to us because the man disagreed with his plans. That is the kind of person that is managing our local council.” However, attempts to get Oyesanya to state the council’s position looked frustrating until Wednesday when one of our reporters ran into the LCDA’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Odufowokan Oluwaseyi, who handed a press release signed by the media team to Saturday Telegraph. According to the release, the market has been in deplorable conditions for several years and efforts of the local council to convince the market leaders and their members of the need to transform the market into a modern, international edifice, was initially resisted. “Perishable foods, which take the lion’s share of the market’s goods are always kept in unhygienic places, posing health hazards; there are flashpoints as den of miscreants, street urchins and armed robbers, who molest traders and buyers with dangerous weapons, thereby constituting public nuisance; drainages blocked with wastes and the inner roads: swampy, nauseating and in terrible state, especially during rainy season. The whole market is an eyesore and has degenerated into a slum and jungle. “To stem the tide, the local government held series of meetings with stakeholders: the two Paramount rulers; Babaloja, Iyaloja, entire leadership, including the youth wing. Barely a few months ago, a mutually beneficial agreement was reached with all stakeholders, who in turn, promised to disseminate the information to the appropriate quarters. It is on record that these gory sights were some of the chief reasons the immediate past administration of the former governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, closed down the markets thrice. “Surprisingly, the determination of the local government to ensure a hitch-free implementation of the agreement was thwarted on Friday, November 8, by the spontaneous mob attack on the contractors on site, by hoodlums, who, according to reliable reports, threatened to maintain the status quo ante. “In an interview aired on a national television on that Friday, one of the trader fingered the market leaders for not sensitising their members on the agreed date the contractors would move to site. He also alleged that the market leaders recently collected N5,000 cash from each trader, purportedly to construct drainages in the market but there is nothing to show for it. “The government of Ikosi-Isheri LCDA has fashioned out a plan of action in conjunction with an investor in a Private Public Partnership (PPP) agreement, to construct a modern market, to meet the international standards. Trading will continue during the operations and traders will be provided with temporary shelters to secure their goods. “Based on enumeration of traders in the market, all the affected traders will be given priorities in allocation of new shops. The new market will be in storey building, with lock-up shops and modern facilities like toilets. The shops will be sold at affordable prices. Outright payment and/or installments are acceptable. “The Engr. AbdulFatai Ayodele Oyesanya’s administration of Ikosi-Isheri LCDA is poised to upgrade the LCDA to the mega city status of Lagos State. No stone will be left unturned to put smiles on the faces of the good people of the LCDA. Construction of new modern markets, new administrative office complex and other infrastructure are some of the signposts of a developed economy. “However, we are soliciting the support and cooperation of all concerned to ease the tasks ahead for the betterment of Ikosi-Isheri LCDA of today and future generations,” the statement  stated. Meanwhile, hundreds of traders on Tuesday stormed the Lagos State House of Assembly protesting the demolition of their market even as they continue to count their losses. They lamented colossal loss of their goods worth millions of naira during the sudden invasion. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), which covered the protest, reported that the protesters, mostly women, arrived at the assembly en masse, chanting different songs and carrying placards with various inscriptions. Among the inscriptions on their placards were: “Re-modelling is a politically coined language to sell our market, we say no to it’; ‘Nigerians of conscience should come to our help’. ‘Governor Sanwo-Olu please help us.” Others were: ‘Our market is not to be sold in any form’. ‘We will explore all legal options to stop the satanic demolition of our market’. ‘OYESCO should be called to order; Ketu/Ikosi Market belongs to all, it must not be sold. ‘Our market is our DNA, is not for sale; It’s our lifeline’, ‘we will protect it with our lives’, Ketu/Ikosi market belongs to Yorubas, Hausas, and Igbos. It must not be sold.” The leader of the protest, Mrs Adebukola Adejuwonbi, according to NAN report, said the market was being destroyed without proper notification from the appropriate body. Adejuwonbi indicted Oyesanya as the prime mover of the demolition of the market. She said: “We came from Ikosi/Ketu fruit Market. I am one of the sellers at the market. On Friday morning, caterpillars came to demolish our market without any notice. They said that if we wait, they will kill all of us. We were told they have sold out the market to a contractor to build an estate where we are selling our produce. “We cannot challenge them. They even fired guns at us. Some people died, while some people sustained serious injuries. Amidst all this, the Chairman of Ikosi/Isheri Local Council Development Area chairman, Fatai Oyesanya, was standing upstairs telling the caterpillars to move on.” Adejuwonbi said that they had to run for dear lives since they did not have any weapon on them. “This is why we decided to come here to plead with the Lagos Assembly and the governor to come to our aid and deliver us,” he added. Another trader, Mrs Yemisi Balogun, urged the government to come to their aid by helping them to get their market back. Balogun said that their livelihoods depended largely on the market to cater for the needs of their children and households. She said: “Since they say the government is for the people, so, we are here to cry to them that they should come to our aid and deliver us from the destruction of our market. It is from the market we get money to send our children to school. By doing this to us, we are going to suffer. That is why we are here to plead for intervention on this issue.” While responding to the demands of the traders, Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, who was represented by the member representing Shomolu Constituency 1, Hon. Olowo Rotimi, said that the Chairman of the local government had been cautioned. He, however, added that moving Lagos forward should be done wisely without causing pains on the people. “My colleague and I have called on the Local government chairman to stop his action for now and I know that Mr. Speaker and other colleagues will be interested in this case and they will call the chairman. We have told Mr. Fatai Oyesanya to stop forthwith and I am sure we are going to resolve it. I believe you will get justice,” Rotimi reportedly assured the protesters. The popular fruit market in Ketu area of Lagos State recently succumbed to the cruel blades of bulldozers as the authorities of the local council in charge of the area allegedly ordered for its demolition to pave the way for a modern market. The development, however, witnessed cries by several market women, who thronged the site begging the policemen, who were stationed there to allow them to go in and salvage their wares. They claimed their produce destroyed runs into millions of naira as most of them had just stocked their shops with various items. Many of the market women, who claimed to be widows, were, according to them, refused entry into the market by the police, who were shooting canisters of teargas as the demolition exercise continued. The Ikosi-Isheri LCDA, according to sources, has awarded the contract for the reconstruction of the dilapidated market to Total Value Integrated Service Limited, which is committing about N2.8 billion for its modernisation. Around 10am last Friday, November 8, two bulldozers, escorted by policemen, allegedly from task force stormed the market to ensure that there was no resistance during the demolition. According to reports, there was initial resistance from touts in the market, who hauled bottles at the police. The police responded by shooting sporadically in the air to scare away the touts and also shot several canisters of teargas to disperse traders unwilling to leave the market. Some of them, who were in the market earlier, were able to salvage some of their wares, but others were not as lucky as they were prevented from gaining access into the market by the policemen. Some of the traders, reports said, lamented that they were informed sometimes ago about the demolition, but said they were not informed a day prior to the pulling down of their shops. One of the local Coordinators of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), in the area, Adebowale Adetona, was quoted to have said they were informed some weeks ago that they were coming to demolish the market, but that they did not notify them of the latest development. But Chris Onyekachi, Managing Director, Total Value Integrated Service Limited, reportedly told newsmen that the traders’ were giving adequate notice to vacate the market for redevelopment. He added that series of meetings were held with the traders union, traditional rulers and council members on the proposed reconstruction of the market. He said that the two traditional rulers in the area, the Alaketu of Ketu and the Onikosi of Ikosi, were aware of the market development plans. “We gave them three weeks’ notice, which expired and we gave them another seven days’ notice to move their wares to other areas of the market.  We held meetings with the Iyalojas, Babalojas and we agreed on the mode of demolition. Some people kicked against it and because we want peace to reign, we met with the obas and they saw reasons why the market should be reconstructed. “Some miscreants don’t want the redevelopment. We are not interested in chasing people away from the market. Those who own shops earlier will be considered first in re-allocation at a discounted rate. We want to upgrade the market to meet the Lagos mega city standard and we are doing it in phases. We will not shut the whole market. “The development will be in four phases and the market occupies 25 acres. We have 18 month duration to rebuild the market and we will invest about N2.8 billion in the reconstruction. The reconstruction of the first phase will begin in January,” he said. Additional report by Okikiola Craig