T he Country Director of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS), Dr. Erasmus Morah, yesterday, said that no fewer than 120,000 Lagosians were living with HIV/AIDS, while 60,000 were yet to show up for treatment.   Speaking at the inauguration of the Lagos State HIV Consortium and formal dissemination of the HIV/AIDS indicator and impact survey (UNAIDS) data held at Radisson Blu Hotel, Victoria Island, Morah said many of these 60,000 Lagosians were not even aware they were living with the virus, while those, who were aware, were not willing to come forward for treatment because of stigmatisation.   According to him, the two ways to attack HIV/AIDS was to eliminate mother to child transmission and to resurrect public health centres. He noted that these people needed the governor’s intervention so that they would be placed on treatment.   The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said that although the rate of HIV prevalence in the state had reduced to 1.4 per cent from 4.4 per cent, it was still a source of concern to his government. While calling for the need to step up efforts to reduce the pandemic and if possible eradicate it through aggressive publicity campaign, he promised that his administration was committed to achieving that goal.   He added: “The current prevalence rate shows a reduction. It is still a source of concern when we consider the actual number of people within the bracket. There is therefore the need for us to step up our efforts to achieve a further reduction in the prevalence rate through aggressive public enlightenment campaign which must be taken to the nooks and crannies of the state.”   The governor said the consortium would provide a platform to coordinate and usher in a new response to HIV challenge in the state, promising a multi-sectoral approach to eradicating HIV/AIDS by 2030 as projected by UN.   He added: “This goal is in line with the UNAIDS 90’90’90’ initiative which states that by the year 2030: 90% of people living with HIV should know their status; 90% of HIV positive individuals are initiated on antiretroviral (ARV) drugs and 90% of individuals on antiretroviral (ARV) drugs should achieve suppression. We must seek out everybody living with HIV/AIDS for proper cure. The Lagos State government is committed to achieving this goal as part of the Health and Environment pillar of the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda. Our strategy will be multi-sectoral and focused on the following: improving the health system service delivery, scaling-up community response and maintaining sustained support of programme. This approach will concentrate on communities and their structures which have been at the forefront of the HIV response at the global, national and state levels; reaching out to people with prevention, care and support as well as treatment. And also promoting human rights and dealing with gender issues.” Sanwo-Olu said the consortium group was to provide a platform for stakeholders to collaborate and coordinate a sustained and improved response towards achieving the 90’90’90 target in Lagos State.   “I believe the objectives of this symposium will usher in a new era in our response to the HIV/AIDS challenge as a result of the commitment of stakeholders to key into our strategic plans. I wish to appeal to all residents in the state to cooperate with us so that we can achieve a significant reduction in the incidence rate of HIV infection in our state. Let us voluntarily present ourselves at designated centres to know our HIV status. Being HIV positive is no longer a death sentence as people living with HIV/AIDS will be supported with necessary medication to live a normal life.”   The governor commended all stakeholders and partners for their efforts and commitment to the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS over the years in Lagos State. He added: “Together, we have worked and sacrificed resources to achieve the level of awareness that have significantly changed the behaviour of our people. This is evidenced by the reduction in the prevalence rate which currently stands at 1.4 per cent.” Thanking the Lagos State AIDS Control Agency for hosting the event, U.S. Consul General, Claire Pierangelo, who was represented by Mr Clemson Ayegbusi, Fullbright & Humphrey Programme Coordinator, US Consulate General, Lagos, thanked Sanwo-Olu for supporting the programme.   He said the U.S. government remains committed to supporting Nigeria to control its epidemic, and will continue to focus on ensuring every dollar invested has greatest impact for those in need.