The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) has recorded 35.10 per cent overall pass in the results of the November/ December Diet of West African Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) for Private Candidates, 2019-Second Series released yesterday. This was as the Head of the Nigerian National Office (HNO) of the Council, Mr. Olu Adenipekun, said the percentage was for candidates that obtained credits and above in minimum of five subjects including English Language and Mathematics. Announcing the release of the results of the examinations conducted between August 29 and October 2, 2019, during a press conference yesterday at the Yaba, Lagos headquarters of WAEC, the HNO hinted that 97,080 candidates registered for the examination across the country out of whom 94,884 candidates sat for the examination. However, giving the statistics, Adenipekun said 33,304 candidates, representing 35.10 per cent obtained credits and above in minimum of five subjects including English Language and Mathematics, while 49,679 candidates, representing 52.36 per cent obtained credits and above in a minimum of any five subjects with or without English Language and/or Mathematics. The HNO said the results of no fewer than 9,457 candidates, representing 9.74 per cent of the total candidates that sat for the examination were involved in one form of examination malpractice or the other and had their results withheld. “Their cases will be presented to the appropriate Committee of Council and the decision of the Council on their cases will be communicated to the affected candidates within the shortest possible time,” he said. The HNO added: “Out of the total number of candidates that sat for the examination, 91,225 candidates, representing 96.14 per cent have their results fully processed and released, while 3,659 candidates, representing 3.86 per cent have a few of their results still being processed. The results will however be speedily processed and released within the next one week.” In the results released, 110 candidates are with varying degrees of special needs – 38 were visually challenged, 15 had impaired hearing, 12 with low vision, three were spastic cum mentally challenged, and eight physically challenged. However, the HNO said all the candidates with special needs were adequately provided for in the administration of the examination, while their results had been fully processed and released. But, while comparing candidates’ performance in this year’s examination with last year’s, Adenipekun, who recalled that 35.64 per cent was recorded last year, said he was not comfortable with the level of performance level, which could still be better. Towards this end, the HNO pointed out that the council had introduced the E-Learning platform, which would further be enriched to track why candidates did not do well in certain subjects. Following the release of the results, he said candidates were now free to check the details of their performance on the council’s results website, using the Checker PIN and Serial Number as contained on their Smart Identity Card used during the examination.