Investigation has revealed how President Muhammadu Buhari and some governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) saved the Governor of Ondo State, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) and two former governors, Senators Rochas Okorocha and Ibukunke Amosun from being expelled from the party. According to a party source, the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole had perfected plans for the expulsion, but for the intervention of the governors, led by one of the governors of the North-West geo-political zone. The source explained that the governor had to go to the President when he got wind of Oshiomhole’s plan to ask the President to stop the National Chairman. “The APC NWC members who were worried and disturbed by the possible outcome of the development had exposed the plot to a governor from the North-West who immediately mobilised a few other governors. “The governor was said to have sought the president’s intervention to call Oshiomhole to order without which he would personally move a motion to pass a vote of no confidence in the national chairman at the Friday’s NEC meeting. “The planned expulsion of the Ondo governor was hatched even as he was officially invited to both meetings of the caucus and NEC.” Speaking further, the source said: “Thursday’s caucus meeting was what saved our party. The national chairman had wanted to announce to the meeting the suspension of the governor and the senators and to further seek the nod of the caucus to expel them. “But we were lucky that before the meeting, there was a brief meeting between the chairman and Mr. President where he was told in plain language that such was not going to be allowed. “In fact, the president asked him if the spate of suspensions have helped the party in any form. Aside that, he was reminded that with the brewing crisis in his home state, Edo, it was unwise for him to revisit the issue of suspension. “So as it stands, the issue of suspension has died a natural death and I am sure it won’t be raised. But to save the face of the NWC, there was a subtle understanding not to be silent over the issue. “So the stories in the social media about supposedly resolutions are fake and procured by some vested interests in the three states. We can’t afford to lose any state, not anymore,” the source said.