Z onal Co-coordinator, Nigeria Customs Service, Zone B, Headquarters, Kaduna, Assistant Comptroller General (ACG), Bashir Abubakar, yesterday, charged newly promoted officers to work hard and justify their promotion. This is also as he told them to see themselves as catalyst for change and development of the country.  Among the officers promoted across the zone and the Federal Operations Unit (FOU), zone B, were 16 Chief Superintendent Comptroller (CSC) to the rank of Assistant Comptroller (AC), 10 Assistant Comptroller (AC) to Deputy Comptroller (DC), and five Deputy Comptroller (DC) to Comptroller.   Addressing the 31 promoted officers shortly after they were decorated with their new ranks, Abubakar said: “I am so pleased to be in your midst today. Certainly, it is a very special day, especially for those of you that were promoted. Consider this promotion as a big challenge because to whom much is given, much is expected. There should be attitudinal change in terms of discipline. You should look at the promotion as a challenge and ask yourself the additional value you will render to the service. A lot of Nigerians believe in what they will get and not what they can do for the country. This is a big problem. We want you to be a catalyst for creativity, in the way you talk and behave. That is what is expected of you. Customs is an organisation that deals with issues of economy and security. You need to identify what happens in your community.   “I have noticed a lot of issues at the border when I went on border drill. I noticed that many of the people in the communities are not enlightened about import and export regulations. You should do your best to enlighten your communities about import and export regulations. I am expecting all of you to be catalyst of change, ensure that you have good relationship with your neighbours. When there’s a misunderstanding between communities, try your best to resolve it. Part of your attitudinal change is that you should not relax in your duty. You should effect change as expected of you.”   Responding on behalf of the promoted officers, Comptroller Abdulhamid Ma,aji, said: “It is a special day for us because some of our mates, who joined the service could not make it to this day. Some are dead, some are incapacitated, others never witnessed today. As earlier stated by ACG, we need attitudinal change. We see our promotion as service to humanity in order to make progress. We are aware of the last day’s judgement, so we know the essence of service to God and humanity. We should treat everybody with Justice.”