…accuses party boss of running a one-man show  The Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF), the umbrella body of governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has asked the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to resign from office over his alleged failure to provide credible and proactive leadership to the ruling party. Director General of the Forum, Salihu Moh’ Lukuman, who conveyed this demand in a statement issued in Abuja yesterday, chided Oshiomhole over the ongoing crisis plaguing the party in Edo State, alleging that the crisis had lingered for too long and was capable of hampering the chances of the APC in the 2020 governorship polls. Lukuman also blamed Oshiomhole for the disqualification of the APC Deputy Governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieny by an Abuja Federal High Court, describing the development as another manifestation of leadership failure in the party. The forum blamed the lingering crisis in the party on the inability of the Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) to call a National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party since last year to resolve various outstanding issues. “Information coming from Edo State indicates that members of the State Executive Council of APC have passed a vote of no confidence in Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of our party, APC. In so many respects, it could be argued, it is a natural outcome of unfolding power play between Comrade Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki since June 2019 with the contentious inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly. “Possible retaliatory response from both Comrade Oshiomhole and groups such as Edo Peoples Movement who are loyal to Comrade Oshiomhole should be expected. In other words, there could be counter pronouncement suspending Governor Obaseki. “Side by side with the news of the vote of no confidence was also the discomforting report of the Federal High Court judgement in Abuja disqualifying Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo as our Deputy Governorship candidate for the November 16, 2019 Bayelsa election. “While expecting that every necessary step will be taken to vacate the judgement, it is very depressing for every committed party member to be subjected to such ignominious reality,which only reminds us of our reckless conducts in states like Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa, which cheaply gave away electoral victories to PDP,” he said. Lukuman lamented that rather than focusing on working to win elections, the party, under Oshiomhole’s watch, has been busy undermining itself. “All these are ominous signs that we are about to re-enact the Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa experiences in Bayelsa. It is Bayelsa today; Anambra, Edo and Ondo are being set up for similar experiences. “Somehow, unfortunately, the NEC of the party, which is the organ vested with the statutory responsibility of responding to all these challenges appear to be suspended. The last time it met was August 2018. In its place, the NWC, which is an administrative organ with the responsibility of implementing decisions of NEC and other higher organs, seems to have usurped the powers of NEC. “Sadly, even the NWC, as at today, is a shadow of itself, as it has lost many members either on accounts of appointment into government or controversial suspension. For instance, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, Deputy National Chairman (South) is today a Minister of the Federal Republic. Senator Lawal Shuaibu, Deputy National Chairman (North) is allegedly suspended. Alhaji Inuwa Abdulkadir, National Vice Chairman (North-West) is similarly suspended. “We may recall that in June 2019, the NWC allegedly suspended Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN). During the 2019 general election, on accounts of the roles of former Governors Rochas Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun against the candidates of the party, they were similarly suspended. Whether all these actions are permissible by provisions of the APC’s constitution is highly contestable. “Why should all these be allowed to happen? Why is it impossible to convene a NEC or even National Caucus meetings, which are supposed to hold every quarter to resolve all these issues? Why should the NWC under Comrade Oshiomhole continue to imagine that it can conduct affairs of the party without mandatory meetings of party organs? What legacy is Comrade Oshiomhole hoping to achieve as a National Chairman by running the party in a way that suggests almost zero commitment to issues of party development? “In the current circumstance, nothing short of a NEC or National Caucus meeting of the party can resolve all our increasing organisational challenges as a party. It is either Comrade Oshiomhole respects the provision of party constitution and convene superior organ meeting to deliberate on all our challenges, or he should just accept his inability to manage the party and simply resign. “It is very painful for many of us who have had the privilege of being mentored by Comrade Oshiomhole to see him being devalued to a local factional leader from a very high pedestal of an illustrious national leader. As National Chairman, Comrade Oshiomhole hardly appreciates that he now has a national constituency and not just a state constituency, which may have been responsible for his apparent intemperance in the handling of matters affecting Edo State. I wish he paid similar attention to handling of issues affecting Rivers and Zamfara states during the 2019 elections. “Our national leaders must rise to the challenge facing us as a party and take all necessary measures to convene superior organ meetings to begin to resolve all our challenges as a party. The current public disgrace must end,” Lukuman said.