In order to reduce the high incidence of stroke among Nigerians, experts have urged Nigerians to avoid western diet and sedentary lifestyle as part of the general measures to prevent stroke. The Medical Director of the General Hospital, Ifako Ijaiye, Lagos, Dr. Olusola Amure who observed that four in 10 Nigerians have a risk for stroke, has also urged Nigerians to turn to traditional Nigerian diet. Amure who spoke shortly after a sensitisation walk, cautioned Nigerians to take cognisance of their health in order not to fall victim of stroke. “Stroke is already becoming a public health issue and we believe prevention is better than cure. The event was jointly organised by the General Hospital Ifako Ijaye Department of Community Health in collaboration with Ifako Ijaiye Local Government, the Medical Women, Dara Foundation, amongst other partners. He said, “In neurological disorders; that is the diseases that have to do with the brain, stroke is responsible for 6.5 to 41 per cent of neurological admission in hospitals.” Speaking in Lagos during the walk to commemorate the 2019 World Stroke Day in Lagos, and to highlight stroke prevention tips to the community, Amure said: “In Nigeria today, our diet and culture is now fashioned towards Westernised culture. He however advocated a change to healthier diet culture so as to avert the western diet leading to unnecessary deaths. Amure therefore called for healthy diet including plenty of fruits and vegetables, engaging in exercise for at least 30 minutes five days a week and reduction of the intake of sugar and salt. Also speaking, the Head of Department Community Health, General Hospital Ifako Ijaiye, Dr. Ime Okon said prominent amongst risk factors for stroke was high blood pressure. Others include sedentary lifestyle, obesity (BMI above 25, smoking and excessive alcohol). To prevent stroke, Okon urged people to watch out for warning signs such as face shifting, blurring vision, inability to lift the hands for a long time, speech difficulty, amongst others. Okon who is also the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) Chief Protocol Officer, said to prevent stroke, people ought to check their blood pressure regularly. “To prevent the risk factors because hypertension is a silent killer, she urged people to watch what they eat, go green, avoid processed food, involve themselves in exercise, reduce alcohol intake and quit smoking.” Dr. Dumebi Owa, vice president of MWAN, Lagos State Branch and current Special Ambassador of MWAN, said everyone is at risk of stroke if one does not do the needful. However, she listed factors that expose people to  stroke as age, being hypertensive, smoking, diabetes, among others. Owa who also represented Dara Foundation at the event lamented that most Nigerians walk about dangerous because their blood pressure was very high until we tell them. “That is why you will see somebody today and tomorrow he’s gone. That is why we plead with Nigerians to check their blood pressure to keep healthy.”