I nvestigations have revealed that the crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) is getting deeper as the embattled National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, within the week, moved to Jos, the Plateau State capital, to lobby governors for support.  The APC governors were, on Monday, in Jos with the Federal Government on a parley for policy synergy.  Oshiomhole and some members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of APC were not invited for the parley, but the party’s National Chairman and the NWC members, however, made themselves available at the event to the surprise of the organisers. According to a source at the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) Secretariat, the NWC members were in Jos to lobby the governors over the crisis in the party.  Those that the PGF extended invitations to are the 19 APC governors, four ministers, some heads of agencies and President Muhammadu Buhari.  Since the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the APC at the National Secretariat of the party in Abuja that ended abruptly last week, the plot and call for the removal of the party’s National Chairman has been magnified. Some NEC members, who attended the meeting and were not pleased with outcome of the meeting, briefed the press after, insisting that the APC national chairman must resign.  The call for Oshiomhole’s resignation is not without resistance as some other NEC members also issued a statement, stating that the APC National Chairman has not committed any offence for him to resign.  In the statement signed by the chairman of the Forum of the State APC Chairmen, Hon. Abbah Bukar Dalori and Chairman of the non NWC-NEC members, Hon. Nelson Alapa, the NEC members passed a vote of no confidence in the National Chairman. But in Jos, Oshiomhole felt disappointed as many of the governors stayed away from the event.  Among the 19 APC governors, only six and three deputy governors were in attendance at the parley of the PGF and FG. The governors who were in attendance are the host governor, Simon Lalong, Governors Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Godwin Obaseki (Edo) and Sani Bello (Niger). Deputy governors of Kogi, Gombe and Kano states also were in attendance. A source close to the PGF Secretariat said that the governors stayed away from the Jos event because of Oshiomhole. According to the source, the essence was for them (the governors) not to form a quorum and agree on anything with Oshiomhole. A NEC member admitted to New Telegraph’s correspondent that “yes, we are in Jos to see the coup plotters.” According to the NWC member, the coup plotters have failed till March next year when the party would hold another NEC meeting.