As Nigerians scramble for buy every grain of rice in the market (local or foreign), and the prices rising to N24, 000 and N28, 000 per 50kg bag; indication are that the price would nosedive before the Christmas.  Coming months after the price of the commodity skyrocketed as a result of the closure of Nigeria’s land borders by the Federal Government farmers and millers of rice across the country say they will soon flood the markets with rice and drastically cut the price following a bumper harvest.   In an interview with Sunday Telegraph, the President of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RFAN), Aminu Goronyo, said that the type of bumper harvest recorded this year is the first in history.   “We have a bumper harvest that we never had before. We have never had the type of bumper harvests that we recorded this year.”   He described what is going in the country currently as artificial scarcity which according to him is only being felt in few locations in the country. “But I can assure that the situation will not last long,” he stated.   Goronyo said: “There are enemies of this country who buy and store this commodity just because they want to create artificial scarcity. But let me tell you, our harvest is coming up in about three weeks from now, and the paddy coming to the mills, our millers cannot even mill it.   “No matter who is trying to hoard or create artificial scarcity as seen in certain locations, such persons will be disappointed.”   He added, “Such persons cannot buy all the paddy rice coming into the mills and we have more than enough for Nigerians to eat.”   The market survey report of Sunday this week at the Ile Epo Market, Daleko, Mile 12, Isheri and Ogba, all in Lagos, show that a 50kg bag of imported rice that hitherto sold between N13,000 and N14,500 now sells at between N24,000 and N30,000, while the local brands of 50kg bag had risen from N14,000 to N18,000.   But Goronyo said members of RIFAN had decided to stop selling paddy to individuals who were not millers, insisting that they were responsible for price increases.   He said: “We’ve noticed that there are people who move into the market to buy paddy rice and who are not even millers. We don’t know where they come from. They are enemies of this country because they just want to put Nigeria in a situation where we have artificially induced rice scarcity.   “We are now taking steps to address this by ensuring that no paddy rice buyer will come to the farmers directly and buy unless he identifies himself. There should be a broker who will verify the buyer to know whether he is a miller or not. So that is what we are trying to do now.”  He further said: “Our promise is that Nigerians will continue to get this commodity at an affordable price and it will be available. And like I said to you, we are still selling at N7,500 per bag of paddy and millers are officially selling at N14,000.”   Goronyo disclosed that dealers in the rice value chain held a meeting with the Central Bank of Nigeria recently where key resolutions were reached. “A meeting was held about three weeks ago involving farmers, millers and the CBN where it was agreed that there should be no increase in price,” he said.