P lans by the Federal Government to consolidate Nigerians’ citizenship through the issuance of national identity cards have been bedeviled by corruption as officials of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), the agency handling the project have resorted to fleecing applicants for the document.   Investigation by New Telegraph revealed that while registration forms are sold for N50 each, people are made to pay illegal fee of N5,000 before they are duly registered at the commission’s office at Alausa and all its registration centres in Lagos. The National Identification Number (NIN) is made compulsory for Nigerians by the Federal Government, but NIMC officials deployed to handle the initial registration are creating some impediments to rip off applicants. Mostly affected are parents, professionals, working class and secondary school students, who need the NIN for their Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) as directed by the Joint Admission Matriculation Board (JAMB).   Already, all data generating organisations have been directed by government to harmonise their databases with the commission. Findings by New Telegraph revealed that the registration scheme in most of the commission’s registration centres in Lagos have become conduits to earn illegal money by officials of NIMC. Besides, the victims have to wait for several weeks before getting registered. Investigation further revealed that it costs as much as N5,000 before an individual could be placed for registration. The tip is collected by officials of the commission and the National Security and Civil Defense Corps to fast track the registration for special candidates at the expense of other people, who would have been waiting from as early as 4a.m. daily. The commission, it was gathered, had failed to provide generators to the centres as back up for the scheme. An official of the commission confided in our correspondent that they only attend to the first 20 people because of epileptic power supply. He noted: “It is only the first 20 people before the light goes out that will be registered for the day and the only thing you can do as a ‘late comer’ is just to purchase the registration form, which is sold for N50.” Meanwhile, at the bottom of the form is written boldly: “This form is not for sale.”   However, at Ikeja Local Government Area, registration is done within an hour provided the person can part with N5,000. Agege Local Government Area is not left out in the sharp practice as applicants are brazenly extorted to get the registration done. For those who cannot pay, once the light is off, the officials would disappear into thin air. At the Ikeja centre, only 20 people were registered in three days out of the 150 that showed up.   It was gathered that only 50 people could be registered daily in each of the centres while hundreds of people who could not gain entrance left in frustration. Speaking to our correspondent, Okoro Chika, who came to obtain the NIN for his wife, who is preparing for her National Youth Service Corps, said that his wife needed the identity card as evidence of being married. Okoro said that he had come to the centre twice as early as 5a.m. but could not get her wife registered because of the attitude of the officials. According to him, the officials of NIMC were collecting money from people, thereby disrupting the orderly process.   Another victim, Adeleke Ishola, complained to our correspondent that he came to the centre as early as 3:10a.m., after three attempts, to beat the long queue, but his efforts were futile. He said: “I have been at this centre since 3:10a.m. and my name was written as number one on the list. I was even happy that I will get it done today after four days of trying, but to my surprise, till this time, 2 p.m., I haven’t been registered and just see people who came after me getting registered because they paid N5,000. The rest of us who can’t afford to pay will have to stay in the sun till God knows when.”   Also, Chigozie Uzomma, a student, who had been visiting the centre for the past three days to register in order to complete her UTME registration, said her efforts had been futile, saying the process was very sluggish and riddled with corrupt practices.   Also, Chika Ngozi, a   student, said that she had missed several classes just to get the registration done, saying that the sacrifice she had made to register was wasted. Ngozi added: “I’m tired of the whole process, it has frustrated me. Today is my fourth day of constantly missing classes just to get my registration done and every single day I come here, they tell me the same old story that there is no electricity and the first 20 people have been selected. Today, I had to come as early as 6a.m. but still I wasn’t registered.”   Also, another student, Joy Lasisi, said that she had been coming to waste several hours at the centre without registration. Chatting with one of the registrants, who was attended to by the officials, she offered to link our correspondent to the security personnel, who he had to bribe to get his temporary National ID card. He said: “If you stand here from now till next week, you might still not get it.”   On getting to the security man, he slipped out the registration form into the hands of the correspondent. The following day, the security personnel demanded her BVN and N2,000 to bribe the officials.  