TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the death of the first Governor of Lagos State, Brig.-Gen. Mobolaji Johnson (rtd) who passed on last Wednesday at 83  L ast Wednesday, October 30, Nigerians, especially the people of Lagos State were hit with the news of the demise of the first Governor of Lagos State, Brigadier-General Mobolaji Olufunso Johnson, who died at 83.  The late Brigadier-General, who was a thoroughbred, patriotic and highly detribalised Nigerian quit the stage with his heads high.   Aside from being a first-class human being whose conscience and attitude are only fixated in obeying his God and serving humanity, the late Johnson’s footprints are large and conspicuous in the solid foundation for development that Lagos State is enjoying and benefitting from. Thus, the injunction in the Holy Book found in Proverbs 10:7, that says “A good and honest life is a blessed memorial…” becomes apt for a man who deliberately lived an exemplary life by practicing what he preaches.  Expectedly, in the last week, the headlines have been about him and array of people from all walks of life have turned his Ilupeju residence to a Mecca of a sort, just to pay their respect to the man that had touched their lives in one way or the other and also to commiserate with the family he left behind.  Lagos State has had a total of 15 governors both military and civilian since the creation of the state by former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd) on 27 May, 1967, but among the past leaders, Mobolaji Johnson stand tall because of the remarkable achievement he brought to the Centre of Excellence, especially during his tenure as governor of Lagos State.   This is not the first time a former governor of Lagos State will die as four ex-number one citizens of the states had early died before Johnson passed on last Wednesday but the memory of Johnson rings bell in the state than others. The four former governors who died prior to Johnson’s demise were: Commodore Adekunle Lawal (July 1975-1977), Air Commodore Gbolahan Mudasiru (1984 – 1986), Navy Captain Michael Akhigbe (1986 to 1988) and Sir Michael Otedola. They died on November 1980, September 23, 2003, October 13, 2013 and May 5, 2014 respectively.   The late Johnson paid a crucial role in the growth and development of Lagos State and many believe that he laid the foundation for modern Lagos, considering laudable achievements his regime embarked upon with the eight years he steered the ship of the state. While in office, he built a 60.7 kilometre international express road; Lagos–Badagry Expressway, linking Nigeria with the neighbouring countries Benin, Ghana and Togo. He also constructed the Itokin Bridge to link Epe to Ikorodu; did Eko Bridge and as well as construction of network of roads and bridges in different parts of the state. Another remarkable achievement of the Johnson’s regime is the reclamation of the Bar Beach shoreline.  Johnson’s regime also embarked on demolition the Ajele cemetery and the consequent disinterment of people buried at the cemetery. Notable among corpses affected by rather unpopular decision were, that of Samuel Ajayi Crowther, James Pinson Labulo Davies, Madam Tinubu, Thomas Babington Macaulay, and several others. The action was met with stiff opposition and lots of criticisms by many opinionated Lagosians back then.  As a result of his footprint in Lagos State despite leaving office as governor about 45 years ago, Mobolaji Johnson will remain a name to be reckoned in the annals of the history of Nigeria and Lagos in particular. His achievements has earned him the privilege of a road, an avenue, a sports complex and a housing scheme been named after him.  Following the remarkable impacts he made during his lifetime, there have been outpouring of tributes and condolence messages from eminent Nigerians, public office holders, politicians and military officers since his demise was announced by his son, Deji last Wednesday. Among those who have visited Johnson’s residence at Ilupeju in Lagos to commensurate with the deceased family were; Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu; first Lagos civilian governor, Alhaji Lateef Jakande; Minister of Works and Housing and former Lagos State governor, Mr. Babatunde Fashola; former Minister of Defense, Lt. General T.Y. Danjuma (rtd); Chairman, Police Service Commission and former Inspector General of Police, Alhaji Musiliu Smith, former Lagos Military governor, Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu (rtd); first female Vice Chancellor of a Nigerian university and ex-Vice Chancellor of University of Benin, Prof. Grace Alele-Williams; Publisher of Vanguard Newspapers, Sir Sam Amuka; Chairman of First Bank, Mrs. Ibukun Awosika and Publisher of Lantern Books, Otunba Yinka Solarin.  President Muhammadu Buhari in his condolence message, which was conveyed in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, stated that late Johnson laid a solid foundation for the development of infrastructure in Lagos State.  “The President commiserates with family members, friends and associates of the former governor, who had a distinguished career in the Nigerian Army, starting out as a cadet in 1959 and retiring in 1975.  “As the first governor of Lagos State, which was then the Federal Capital Territory, President Buhari affirms that Brig. Gen. Johnson laid a solid foundation for the development of infrastructure in the state and provided a good framework for the civil service,” he stated.   Also paying tribute to the first governor of Lagos State, former President Olusegun Obasanjo in a statement issued by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, described Johnson as an incorruptible, detribalised and humane public officer.  “He was highly respected by his peers and revered by his subordinates. He left behind an impeccable record of incorruptible leadership, a legacy of forthrightness, thoroughness and unwavering commitment to public good.  “ I recall that he was a pillar of trust and an iconic reference point when in 1975 the Murtala/Obasanjo’s regime embarked on a clean sweep of the morally-bankrupt public service,” the former president stated.  Governor Sanwo-Olu, in a condolence message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, described late Johnson as a complete gentleman and officer, a dedicated Lagosian who contributed immensely to the development of Lagos State in particular and the nation in general.  His words: “Although General Mobolaji Johnson has gone to be with his Lord and Creator, the memories of great accomplishments he left behind will linger on forever. One remembers how the late General Johnson’s administration worked with other seasoned professionals to establish five Government Colleges and Housing Estates, which were commissioned by the then Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon, within one year of his administration. This, to me, is the hallmark of service and has remained a benchmark for successive administrations in the state.’’  Sanwo-Olu, who described the late Gen Johnson as a man of vision with a mission to see a modern Lagos evolve, noted that the vision had started to manifest in what we see today as every successive administration strives to build on the developmental structure and foundation of good governance laid by late Gen. Johnson.   The Governor reminded Lagosians that the best way to immortalise the deceased is to ensure that good governance spreads to every facet of the society. ‘’We must ensure that the people enjoy the dividend of democracy. Development must touch the lives of the people directly. This is the best way to immortalise the late Mobolaji Johnson because this is virtue he lived for.’’ Sanwo-Olu stated.   Speaking to journalists after signing a condolence register, Jakande, who succeed Johnson as number one citizen of Lagos State, described the first Military Governor of the state as a good man. “The death of Brigadier-General Johnson is a great loss to our state. He was a good man and I prayed that God will bless those he left behind,” he said.  Also speaking during a condolence visit to the Johnson’s residence, former chairman of Mushin Local Government Area, Mr. Bayo Osiyemi described the deceased as a committed nationalist. “We have lost a man who wore integrity like a badge. He was a committed nationalist. He loved Lagos State and he didn’t hide it,” he said.   Solarin, who was a close friend to the deceased, said Johnson has done very well for Lagos and his family, adding that the deceased was a nice person.   Mobolaji Johnson was born on February 9, 1936 to the family of Joshua Motola Johnson and Gbemisola Johnson (née Dudley-Coker). His father was of Egba heritage and member of the Royal West African Frontier Force during World War II. His grandfather’s last name was previously Osholero but he changed it to Johnson after the priest who converted him to Christianity.   Johnson started his education at Reagean Memorial Baptist School, Yaba Methodist School in 1941 and also attended Hussey College, Warri in 1954. In 1955, he moved to Methodist Boys High School (MBHS) Lagos and finished his secondary education in 1957. While in MBHS, he was a good all-round sports man. In 1959, Johnson attended the Officer Cadet Training School in Ghana. He also attended the Mons Officer Cadet School in Aldershot and the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, United Kingdom, between 1960 and 1961.  As a military officer, he served in Zaria Military Depot (1958–1959) and United Nations Peace Keeping Troops, Congo. He was promoted a 2nd Lieutenant, Nigeria Army in 1961; Lieutenant in 1962 and Captain in October 1962. He was appointed Deputy Commander, Federal Guards in 1964 and later Commander, Federal Guards the same year; became Deputy Adjutant and Quartermaster-General Headquarters, 2nd Brigade, Apapa, Lagos in 1964, promoted to Major, February 1966 and later served as Second in command, 4th Battalion, Ibadan and Station Commander, Benin, Midwest (old Bendel State).   In 1966, after the abortive coup d’etat that put an end to the First Republic, Johnson was first appointed by then Head of State, Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi as the administrator of the former Federal Territory of Lagos in 1966. Ironsi as the head of state appointed Johnson because he wanted someone from Lagos to handle some of the problems of the federal territory.   In May 1967 following the creation of Lagos State was created by General Yakubu Gowon, Johnson became the first governor of the state and his tenure carried out building of major infrastructure in Lagos State. He was also involved in developing the civil service in Lagos State and was assisted in running the state with help from some key civil servants such as Administrative Secretary, Adeyemi-Bero; Finance Secretary, Folarin Coker and the acting Secretary to the Military Government, Howson Wright and waited until April 1968 before appointing his commissioners.   In 1975, there was change of power at the centre as another coup ushered in a new military government headed by General Murtala Muhammed, which came in under an anti-corruption banner. At the inception of the Mohammed’s regime, Johnson was one of the two state governors along with Brigadier-General Oluwole Rotimi (ex-Governor of old Western Region) found not guilty of corruption by the three-man panel commissioned to investigate the various allegations of corruption amongst the state governors. He retired from the Nigerian Army in 1975 and went into private business. Johnson served as the Chairman of Nigerian Conservation Foundation and later became a Director of construction giant, Julius Berger Nigeria in 1979 and its chairman in 1996, a post he held until 2009.   Johnson was the chairman of many organisations and institutions, among which are; Chairman, Executive Council of Lagos State University Development Foundation; Chairman, Board of Trustees of Methodist Boys’ High School, Lagos Old Boys’ National Association. He was honoured with the alumni position because he was a distinguished Old Boy who was of great assistance to his Alma Mater.   Four children, three sons and a daughter survived Johnson, who died on October 30 at the age of 83. 