Akinbobola Adeniyi is an alumnus of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State where he obtained his LL.B. Adeniyi, an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators UK, was called to Bar in 2017. He shares his journey into the ‘noble’ profession, experience and challenges with JOHN CHIKEZIE   Background My name is Akinbobola Adeniyi. I attended St. Peters Primary School, Akure and Oyemekun Boys Grammar School, Akure for my primary and secondary education. In 2010, I was admitted to study law at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Ile-Ife, Osun State, where I obtained my L.L.B. And thereafter proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Victoria Island, Lagos. I was called to the Bar in 2017. However, my career as a lawyer began with Famsville Solicitors, a corporate commercial law firm in Lagos as a trainee Associate. But I am now a full Associate in the same firm. I am also an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators (UK). Specialization I am particularly interested in estate and construction Law, Litigation, Arbitration Law, Shipping law and International Humanitarian Law. Choice of career I studied law to protect the rights of children and make them get quality education. I grew up in a society where a larger of population of children do not have access to quality education. When you take a study of our society today, you would discover that the government has done nothing about the education sector. Our schools are not well funded. Growing up, I believed that education was the only way a society could breakthrough hurdles. I am deliberate about my passion and I encourage parents to enrol their children as I constantly feel uneasy whenever I see a young child hawking on the street. This is because the right of a child to education is notguaranteed under the law. I have passion to help the society and do my best, I later felt the best way I could do that is to opt for law and make our society better by pushing our government to be more responsive to the call of the people. I was inspired by the late human rights activist, Chief Abdul-Ganiyu Oyesola Fawehinmi of blessed memory. Pupilage More like the places and firms you’ve worked with (work experience) since I was called to the Nigerian Bar, my practice of law has been majorly in a corporate commercial law firms. The experience has been a great one; we have the opportunity to solve clients’ knotty issues and giving advice based on the legal principles. The experience has thought me to understand the dynamic needs of clients. Usually, we take instructions from clients, doing case review and proffering the best legal and logical argument to get best result. I have really learnt a lot from Dayo Adu (Famsville Solicitors Managing Partner), Woye Famojuro and Damilola Osinuga. These ones have impacted well.