The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said Saturday’s governorship election in Bayelsa State will hold as scheduled.
A federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday disqualified the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bishop Degi for inconsistency in names in his educational certificates.
On Thursday, another court in Yenegoa Bayelsa State, nullified the party’s primary that produced the governorship candidate and ruled that the APC had no candidate for Saturday’s election.
INEC had declined comment after the Tuesday’s judgement, and said it was waiting to be briefed by its lawyers.
But following Thursday’s judgement in Yenagoa, the Commission held an emergency management meeting and resolved to go ahead with the elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states.
Chief Press Secretary to the INEC Chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, in a whatsApp message on INEC platform told journalists: “Dear Colleagues, the meeting has ended but we are not issuing a statement. However, our elections in both Kogi and Bayelsa will go on as planned.” T he National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to act quickly on the Abuja High Court ruling, which disqualified the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bishop Degi in the Saturday governorship election… In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has finally declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bello Matawalle as winner of the March 9 governorship election in Zamfara State. PDP also won three of the senatorial seats, seven House of Representatives and 23 state constituencies seats, while Kabiru Hashimu… In "BREAKING NEWS" *PDP: Come out on modalities for the election The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it has taken steps to ensure that this weekend's governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states were not affected "by any 11th hour judgement."   This is just as the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party… In "Politics"