…as Lawan seeks synergy between NASS, state assemblies  Worried by the c o n tinued exercise of control by state governors over their finances, the state assemblies have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to issue executive order to compel governors to release their funds. The state assemblies made this request in Abuja when they visited the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, in his office at the National Assembly. Spokesman for the delegation and Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, expressed concerns that the state chief executives were yet to give effect to the issue of the financial autonomy of the state legislatures. Consequently, Oborevwori urged the President of the Senate to bring the issue to the attention of the President for possible issuance of executive order. Responding to the request, Lawan assured the state assemblies that he would handle the matter on their behalf, through the Governors’ Forum. He, however, reminded them that the question of executive order would not be necessary because it was a constitutional matter, which should be complied with by the state authorities. Meanwhile, the President of the Senate, in his earlier statement to the group, called for synergy between the National Assembly and state houses of assembly in the discharge of their statutory responsibilities to the people. Lawan said the state assemblies and National Assembly should continue to exchange ideas on how to support each other. He said: “This kind of visit should be very often. We should have more and deeper frequent engagements between the National Assembly and the state houses of assembly. “We need to be talking. We need to be engaging each other because there are certain things that we have to do together especially the constitutional amendment in which the National Assembly takes the lead but the state houses of assembly will continue to have to play their roles as well. So, we should not wait to be thirsty before we dig a well. We should always be proactive.” Lawan noted that there were certain legislations that required some domestication or replication at the state level because “even if we implement them at this (national) level and the states have not bought into it, it is going to have very limited success.” The President of the Senate also encouraged the speakers at the state houses of assembly to have cordial working relationship with their respective governor without necessarily compromising their independence. “If we have to take the lead in nation building or in building our states, we have to also understand that we have to work together as cordially as possible. “We should work on relationship that is based on mutual respect for the Executive and the Legislature whether at the national level or at the state level. “We should have a relationship that is characterised by consultations and partnerships. Once we are able to establish that relationship either at the state or national level, we benefit immensely. “It does not help anyone when the relationship is largely characterised by rancour, animosity, suspicion and unwarranted fight between the two arms of government,” he said.