An officer of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Ola Oyeshina has died following attack by a mob in the course of discharging his duties at Apapa, Iganmu-Sifax area of the state. Oyeshina was attacked on Friday afternoon at about 5pm by angry hoodlums with stones of different sizes during the course ensuring orderliness in the area. Sunday Telegraph learnt that a large stone was thrown at him and he immediately fell. When he became unconscious, sympathisers including his colleagues brought him to Area “B” where ACP Bayo Sulaimon ordered for the detention of two of the attackers that were arrested while a letter of medical referral was issued for them for medical attention on the victim. Oyeshina was immediately referred to LUTH from Randle Hospital, Surulere. Confirming his death, General Manager of LASTMA, Olajide Oduyoye condemned in its entirety the continued attack on the officers of the agency in the course of carrying out the function of traffic management which has been entrusted to them by a law passed by the State House of Assembly in the year 2000 and amended in 2018. He said: “A large stone was thrown at him and he immediately fell. He was brought to Area “B” where ACP Bayo Sulaimon ordered for the detention of two of the attackers that were arrested while a letter of medical referral was issued for us for medical attention on the victim.” The GM, however, said that Oyeshina lost his life in the early hours of Saturday after all efforts to resuscitate him failed. He therefore assured that the perpetrators of the dastardly act that were caught will be prosecuted in the court of law to serve as deterrent to other members of the public who may harbour committing such crime in future. The LASTMA GM, who wondered why some people will attack his men, explained that contrary to wrong perceptions of some residents, LASTMA was established to make life easier for the people through efficient traffic management. He said: “LASTMA was established to manage and control traffic in order to reduce the people’s travel time on our roads, increase economic growth through increased productivity and ensure the populace safety and security, a situation where road users will now turn against any government official in order not to answer the consequences of breaking the law is unacceptable and would not be condoned henceforth.” Oduyoye emphasised that with the recent inauguration of a committee on war against traffic and environmental offenders, there is no more hiding place for Lagos residents or visitors that go against the law. The state government had in 2018 said that 18 LASTMA officers were killed, while 24 others had been permanently incapacitated in the line of duty.