  The evergreen poem of the famous Nigerian poet, John Bekederemo Pepper Clark, written in 1965, on the ancient City of Ibadan, capital of the Pace Setter Oyo State, has remained relevant till today in spite of effects of modernisation.   The graphically analysed and topographically-captured land mass, layered with structures that were devoid of formal town planning regulations, got scripted by the Ijaw-born poet when he described Ibadan thus: “Ibadan, running splash of rust and gold-flung and scattered among seven hills like a broken china in the sun”.   Intended to be an ode, but which has since been described as a form of criticism by the non-native who schooled in the premier University of Ibadan, the poem is filled with didactic imagery and allusion. Standing on the hilly side of Beere or on the gallery of the ancient Mapo Hall in the Ibadan South Eastern part of Ibadan, one can see the indelible historical painting of “…running splash of rust” which is an allusion to brown roofs of Ibadan buildings.  The imagery of “flung and scattered” in the poem paints a picture of disorderly houses which do not align with town planning prescription as there are no layouts or spacio-temporal facilities within the compounds linking the different communities in the areas.   To further underscore the fact that the houses built then were scattered about, in favour of the ownership of the different members of each family, Clark likened Ibadan to “broken China”.   Fifty-four years after the poet wrote on the City, his facts have not been significantly disputed by either the mass of the indigenes or the successive governments. Houses in many of the compounds still remain clustered with little or no space to accommodate modern infrastructural facilities. Many have gone dilapidated because of poverty that continues to stare the owners in the face such that they were unable to maintain the old structures. Communal factor also plays a role in the seeming status quo condition that many of the houses are for ages. Many of the houses in the compounds were built through the efforts of members of each family. The unwritten law of ownership and distribution of property per stripes and per capita is manifestly affecting the unchanging structures of many houses in Ibadan land. In cities like Lagos, many unplanned areas are being periodically restructured by successive governments to meet modern dictates. Old buildings are given out to professional developers who carry out minor or major structural adjustments that give room for social and commercial developments. Blue chip companies lease such buildings for a number of years while the developers run it on Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis for the enjoyment of the family owners.   Aside the economic importance of the modernisation of the structures, the restructuring also enhances beauty to the environment in which such structures are situated. However, this scenario is not amply noticeable in the city of Ibadan. Reasons for this are diverse, but chief among them is traditional and communal. When New Telegraph went round some parts of Ibadan, the picture painted by J. P. Clark five years ago were seen seen at such proletariat-inhabited areas of the Hoi polloi class including: Oje, Irefin, Beere, Mapo, Idi Arere, Oranyan, Orita Aperin, Ita Merin, Oke Padre, Oniyanrin, Born Photo, Popoyemoja, Foko, Ita Merin, Gangansi, and many other interior communities of the ancient town. The areas which are a bit free from this structural logjam are those housing the elites of the society and such areas of bourgeoisie class including: Old Bodija, New Bodija, Eleyele, Elebu, Oluyole, Apata, Oke Bola, Oke Ado, Molete, and such recently-developed and developing areas like Apete, Arapaja, Amuloko, General Gas, Olorunda, Olodo, among others, in which layout of plots with adequate streets and avenues are being planned for.  Many houses in these modern environment observe town planning regulations and their structures attract investment from business interests and blue chip companies which situate their offices in such residential but commercially-converted residences. Most of them are flats and duplexes with vast parking lots and necessary drainages which are alien to the communities of the ‘commoners’. Modern developments are however regrettably difficult in the real interior communities mentioned above because no family will want to lose their ancestral settings and the age-long legacy bequeathed to them by their fore fathers. Even, any member of the family who has the financial means and is ready to renovate or redesign the family house to meet the modern taste will contend with antagonism from other members who might read ulterior meaning to the move. When a son of the soil who still resides in his family house at Mapo area close to Oranyan, Otunba Olukunle Ayorinde, was spoken to, he elucidated on reasons why many of the buildings in the area are still in decrepit state, chief among them lack of trust among members of the extended family.   His words, “There is lack of trust. If anyone brings any developer here now, other members of the family would believe he has sold the house. And this is affecting every family. It will even be worse if the initiator of such renovation idea is educated. The uneducated or semi-illiterate among other family members will smell rat and gang up against the person.   “If you see any dilapidated family house that has been contracted out to developers to change its structure and quality, and it succeeds, it must have meant that the remaining children of the family are no more than two. In such a situation, they could easily agree on the terms necessary, or might even just decide to sell the building off.   “Another problem that can be envisaged is the fear that if the house is given to a developer and it is rebuilt on the Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis wherein the developer will let or lease out the building or shops adjoined to it for a number of years, any member of the family who feels he might have died before the handover, would not want to cooperate. The worse case is if such a member does not have any surviving child around to reap the sharing benefit whenever it is due”, Ayorinde said.   Another leader of his family, Mr Mukaila Bello, whose family compound is at Oje, said that “We agreed to let out some shops  carved out of our house to tenants. Members of the family agreed to this arrangement and we are sharing the proceeds of the rent accordingly. We however find it difficult to give the house to developer because the proceeds will take a very long term of years before the family members could be benefitting. No one is ready to wait that long. And the developers who would have committed so much capital to the restructuring or rebuilding will want to re coupe their own money back immediately. Nobody knows tomorrow and so no one is ready to take a such risk”, Bello said. An elderly man residing at Idi Arere, who preferred not to disclose his identity, gave another dimension to the story. To him, “if anyone sticks out his neck to renovate the old family building, he risks the dangers associated with envy from other members of the family. Those who don’t have the financial muscle might feel that the person who wants to renovate or rebuild the building only wants to display ego in order to rubbish the remaining members.  “If he should moot the idea of bringing in a developer, those who are not literate enough to understand his intendment or not rich might think that he wants to enslave, cheat and hoodwink them. The fear that he might eventually sell the building would not allow them to support the idea. The diabolically-inclined ones among the family might even want to harm him so that the lofty idea does not see the light of the day”, he said.   Where there is love and unity among the extended family members, renovation and restructuring of ancient buildings could be possible. To Pa Adegbite of Amuloko area of Ibadan, “The only problem is lack of ample space to meet the modern commercial purpose. This is because the buildings in such densely-populated areas like Beere are strewn very close to one another such that even if any family members intend to develop their house, there might not be enough space which will attract investors. No investor or business person will want to transact business in a compound that is not easily accessible to customers, or which does not have parking space and motorable way”.   Asked what role the Oyo State government could play in re-designing and developing these traditional settings, some of those spoken to said that unlike in places like Maroko in Lagos State where a whole community was displaced and the place eventually re-allocated to the wealthy and influential persons in the society who turned it to a mega city , no governor will have the political courage to displace traditional owners from their ancestral buildings in Ibadanland. If he does, one way or the other, his own lineage might eventually be affected in the long run. Though many members of such family houses have relocated to other more befitting areas, while many more might have relocated overseas, those remaining in the homestead will love to continue to keep the legacy alive. Those overseas would like to come home and proudly point to their ancestral stead where they hailed from in order to show that they are free-born of the community.   Even if government brings in investors to the state, they will prefer socially-developed areas where there are amenities to aid their businesses. Or better still, they would prefer virgin areas where development could be rapid. Efforts made to seek the opinion and plan of the Oyo State government towards this idea however proved abortive as the Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Hon. Kehinde Ayoola, could not be reached before filing in this story.    