 T he Photojournalists Association of Nigeria (PJAN) is set to hold its 1st Annual National Conference scheduled to hold from 3rd to 5th December, 2019.   The conference, which will bring together photojournalists from all over the country, is on the theme ‘Press Photography and the Challenges of Multimedia’. According to the Chairman Planning Committee for the conference, Mr. Abiodun Ajala, the Photojournalist National Conference is the first of its kind in Nigeria. “The conference and its complementary events seek to harmonise operations of photojournalists from the four corners of the country in ways that will help endear the professional practice to all strata of society in the face of the ubiquitous threats of social and multimedia.   “The forum is equally created to broaden the professional horizons of photojournalism as regards getting equipped with the technological skills and innovations with which to effectively battle the challenges of multimedia.” The programme will kick-off with a three-day photo exhibition from 3rd to 5th of December 2019, at the Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture, Alausa, Ikeja.   Ajala disclosed that during the four-day event at the Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture and LCCI Building, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, the exhibition which will showcase a minimum of 100 photographs submitted by photojournalists is expected to attract art-lovers, collectors and connoisseurs from various parts of the country.   The climax of the event which is the lecture/award night is scheduled to hold at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ikeja, Lagos, on the 6th of December, 2019.   “The theme of the conference is: Press Photography and the Challenges of Multimedia. The conference will commence with a lecture,” he said.   He explained that Photojournalists Association of Nigeria is an association of visual professionals and an affiliate of Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ). “Our association is as old as NUJ itself and by next year we shall be celebrating 30 years of existence. It has membership across the country but in Lagos alone we are over 100 members including the retired but not tired men.   “Every year we organise programmes to enlighten and educate members. We do exhibit our works and share ideas to bridge gaps between us and our counterparts in developed world. In the past, the association had held annual conference in Lagos, but in 2019, our conference is going to be a national conference. Photojournalists are coming from all over the country to grace this year’s event.   “Furthermore, two veterans will be accorded recognition awards for their invaluable, inspiring and lasting contributions to photojournalism in the country.   “We are committed to serving the country and the whole world better as we look forward to having all lovers of art, especially photography, celebrate with us throughout the duration of the conference from 3rd to 6th December, 2019.”   Also speaking at media briefing in Lagos, the Chairman, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Dr. Qasim Olalere Akinreti, commended PJAN for organising the conference. He noted that the choice of the theme is apt, adding that with the proliferation of camera phones and other devices that make smart photography easy, the place of the photojournalist in telling the story cannot be overstated.