The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested a former Assistant General Manager of a bank, Mr. Rowly Isioro, and his wife, for their alleged involvement in money laundering to the tune of $1.49 million. The commission said the huge cash was allegedly laundered through the local bank account of the former bank manager’s wife, Mrs. Ovuomarhoni Naomi Isioro. The Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujarem, who made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, said the couple was arrested by operatives of the Lagos zonal office. Uwujarem added that the investigation, which culminated in the arrest of the suspects, followed a petition by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on alleged business email compromise. He said: “The couple allegedly laundered the total sum of $1.49 million through Ovuomarhoni Naomi’s bank account in Nigeria. “Their arrest followed a petition received by the commission from the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) through the office of the Legal Attache, United States Consulate, Lagos, about their alleged involvement in computer-based fraud, stealing and money laundering. “So far, investigation revealed that Naomi met one Michael Uziewe (who is still at large) in Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America, sometime in 2016, and introduced her to foreign exchange business. Through this encounter, Naomi and her banker husband turned their two registered companies, Marhoni General Services Limited and Multaid Plus Limited, into conduit for the dispersal of funds wired by Uziewe, who allegedly owns Global Investment Network. “Naomi, in statements volunteered to the commission, confirmed she had been receiving monies in dollars, with instructions to pay the naira equivalent into accounts provided by Uziewe.” Uwujarem also claimed that each time Naomi received the dollar transfers; she made over-the-counter withdrawals, in breach of financial regulations that such transactions must go through the financial system, and sold them to Bureau de Change operators for naira equivalents. He added: “Rowly Isioro, a banker of over 22 years’ experience, has also confessed that he was aware that someone his wife met in United States of America sends her dollars, while she pays the naira equivalent to various accounts on the instruction of the U.S.-based partner. “Rowly was allegedly relieved of his appointment with the bank as a result of his involvement in the money laundering scheme.”