N igerian Army Troops, yesterday, said it has subdued suspected Boko Haram members and rescued four children, three women and an octogenarian.   According to a press release signed by the Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, the army, in its drive to end the insurgency in the North East, has continued to sustain the tempo of the ongoing Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency operations in the North East, with a view to decimating and destroying the remnant Boko Haram/Islamic State West Africa (ISWAP) criminals across the Operation LAFIYA DOLE Theatre.  Iliyasu disclosed that in one of the numerous operations conducted across the Theatre on November, 16, troops of 26 Task Force Brigade embarked on a clearance patrol to Dalu village within the Mandara Mountains in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State, following credible intelligence report on the presence of some of the criminal insurgents in that area.   Iliyasu said: “Fortunately, the report was confirmed as the troops soon established contact with the marauding terrorists and effectively subdued them with superior fire power. Subsequently, the troops moved in to thorough clear the village of the presence of the insurgents. The clearance operation yielded good dividends as the troops found and rescued an octogenarian, three women and four children hitherto held captives by the insurgents. The rescued victims were promptly evacuated and the children among them were equally administered with Polio Vaccination by a Nigerian Army medical team. Interestingly, no causality was recorded by our troops during the commando operations.”   The image maker, however, said that many of the Boko Haram criminal elements were observed to have fled in disarray towards the summit of Mandara Mountains with gunshot wounds. The troops’ resilience and doggedness, said Iliyasu, are unwavering as further move to complete the annihilation of the insurgents was being sustained in the mountainous environment.   Reacting to the recent feat, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai, reassured members of the general public, of the resolve of the Nigerian Army to continue to execute its constitutional mandate professionally and responsively for a better secured Nigeria.   He also thanks all well-meaning Nigerians for their continual support, goodwill and understanding towards officers and men of the Nigerian Army as they sustained the conduct of various operations and routine exercises nationwide.