…asks Buhari to hold on to border closure  T he Senate, yesterday, urged the Federal Government to totally ban the importation of textile materials into the country for five years, to support local manufacturers. This was as the apex legislative chamber, based on what it perceived as enormous benefits of the current land closure by President Muhammadu Buhari, urged the President to maintain the closure to a reasonable time period. It also urged the Federal Government to encourage local textile manufacturing companies by providing them with soft loans and easy access to credit facilities through the Bank of Industry (BoI). The Chamber further requested the Federal Government to provide necessary infrastructural facilities, especially power supply to local textile manufacturing companies. The lawmakers made these resolutions following their consideration of a motion, “Urgent need to revamp the Nation’s Comatose Textile Industry”, sponsored by Senator Abdullahi Barkiya (APC, Katsina Central). Presenting the motion, Barkiya noted that the textile industry in Nigeria played a significant role in the manufacturing sector of the economy with a record of over 140 companies in the 1960s and 1970s. He lamented that the textile industry witnessed massive decline in the last two decades with many textile companies such as Kaduna Textile, Kano Textile, Aba Textile, United Nigeria Textiles, First Spinners amongst others, closing shops and throwing their workers into the job market. The politician pointed out that the discovery of oil in Nigeria also greatly affected the Textile Industry as a result of decline in the production of cotton which was a major source of raw materials for the industry. He said that the high cost of production and trade liberalization resulted in massive importation of Textile materials, which in turn negatively affected the production of local textiles. Barkiya suggested that if the textile industry would be resuscitated, it would provide additional revenue and assist government in its bid to diversify the economy. In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said that for the country to overcome the challenges posed by the African Continental Free Trade Agreement entered into by the Federal Government, local producers must live up to the billing of the forces of a competitive market. According to Lawan, until Nigeria addressed the issue of unsteady power supply and smuggling, there’s little that can be achieved through the closure of its borders to goods coming in from neighbouring African countries. He said: “We have signed into the African Continental Free Trade Agreement.  We cannot easily stop trading with other people. So, we need to be competitive. “The problem of textile industry in Nigeria is not the market; the market is huge. The problem is largely the issue of power, because you need power to be competitive. “Secondly, we have to stop smuggling. These two are twin evils that we must address really. But we have to be in a hurry, because by signing the trade agreement, we have consciously gone into an agreement where other countries will produce their goods in their country and bring them to Nigeria. “We really need to push for the fixing of power sector in this country. I agree we should close the border, but that is going to bring only temporary relief for us. It is not going to be permanent while solving our problems. “The executive and legislature must brainstorm on ways to fix these issues faster because time is of the essence here. “Even if we stop the importation of textile produced outside for five years, what happens after that? If our companies in the country can’t produce competitively, then there would still be problem.”