…lawyer loses certificates Properties and goods worth millions of Naira were destroyed yesterday when fire gutted houses and shops in both Lagos and Ogun states. At Tejuosho in Lagos, fire razed a storey building, leaving scores of people injured while the building partially collapsed. The house is situated behind the popular Tejuosho Market at Yaba. Although the cause of the fire was still unknown, the officials of the emergency agencies said that incident was caused by power surge from one of the rooms before spreading to other parts of the building. However, no life was lost, two male adults sustained injuries and were taken to the hospital. The intensity of the inferno also led to cracks of the building and partial collapse of the building. Officials of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA, Lagos State Fire  Service  and the Federal Fire Services made frantic efforts to put out the inferno. Speaking with New Telegraph, the LASEMA Director-General, Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, said that upon arrival at the scene of the incident, it was discovered that a storey building was gutted by fire as a result of power surge from one of the rooms. He said: ‘The intensity of the fire has caused physical cracks and collapse of the building. However, no loss of life but two male adult sustained injuries. “Rescue operation ongoing as the LRT alongside Federal Fire Service and Lagos State Fire Service are on ground to curtail the inferno from further escalation to other buildings.” Oke-Osanyintolu warned residents to be safety conscious as the dry season was gradually setting in. Meanwhile, some houses and shops were gutted in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The incident, which occurred about 1a.m., affected 12 rooms and four adjoining shops within the Alase compound at Oke-Itoku area of Abeokuta. Though there were no fatalities or injuries, goods, documents and other valuables were consumed by the fire. An Abeokuta-based lawyer, Nurudeen Olaleye, lost his several academic and professional certificates in the inferno. He said: “The university certificate which I obtained from the University of Ilorin, the Law School certificate and Call to Bar certificate and other certificates of professional courses I have attended were all in one envelope and they were gutted by fire.” Incidentally, a station of the Ogun State Fire Service is situated a few metres from the scene of the incident. Our correspondent, however, learnt that the firefighters at the station could not do anything to salvage the situation as they reportedly claimed they had no vehicle nor water to put out the fire. Narrating his ordeal, Olaleye said the certificates had been kept in one of the affected rooms where his immediate younger brother was living. He blamed the unavailability of a fire engine at a government designated fire station close to the scene. When New Telegraph visited the scene, victims of the midnight fire were lamenting their losses. A shop owner, who identified herself as Mrs. Morufat Tejuosho, stated that she lost goods worth N3.5 million to the incident. Tejuosho explained that she received a call in the early hours that her shop was on fire. She lamented that the fire station close to the scene could not come to the aid of the victims as officers in charge said there was no fire engine. The trader said the people had to contact another fire station at Onikoko area of Abeokuta but all her goods had been consumed by the time firefighters arrived. Another victim, Sunday Ebenezer, said his musical equipment, two new generators and packets of DVDs estimated at N2.5 million were razed by the fire. Ebenezer said nobody could ascertain the cause of the fire. The victims were unanimous in appealing to the state government to come to their aid and assist them with replacing their losses.