 T he House of Representatives yesterday constituted an investigative panel to look into allegations of corruption in the N-Power programme of the Federal Government. The decision was taken after the adoption of a motion of urgent national importance entitled “urgent need to investigate the arbitrariness and possible corruption in the N-Power programme of the Federal Government”, sponsored by Hon. Taiwo Oluga (APC, Osun). The House consequently mandated the House committees on sustainable development goals and youth development to immediately investigate the alleged arbitrariness in the management of the scheme and report back within three weeks for further legislative action.  In her lead debate on the motion, Oluga noted that “in recent times, there are increasing cases of N-Power Beneficiaries/Teachers who are diligent in their places of official assignment and who have no queries or negative reports, yet at the end of the month, their payments are withheld and all efforts to get reinstated has proven abortive.”  She alleged that these N-Power beneficiaries, their school principals and the independent monitors have confirmed that there are no queries and yet some of the N-power beneficiaries have been blocked and exited from the platform for no reason whatsoever; yet, they keep reporting in their place of duty and have now been owed several months allowances, without pay. Citing examples, Oluga disclosed that “In Osun State alone, over 400 N-Power beneficiaries/teachers are being owed monthly allowances, ranging from 12 months, 15 months and 18 months respectively due to arbitrary withholding of their account and unlawful exit from the platform, despite diligence at the place of official assignment, which is contrary to the objectives of the N-Power, N-Teach Programme.”   She observed that the National Social Investment Programme which was established in 2015 was in fulfilment of the administration’s campaign promises to Nigerians through the implementation of the N-Teach, N-Agro, N-Tech, N-Build and N-Creativity Programmes. The lawmaker noted the N-Teach programme involves the engagement of educated Nigerians with minimum NCE, OND, HND, B.sc, M.sc and PhD Degrees who are engaged and posted to teach in different schools in the 36 States and F.C.T.   According to her: “The N-Power programme as a form of quality assurance and check, equally engaged independent monitors, one per local government, who monitor the attendance of the N-Power teachers at their various places of assignment, by paying unscheduled visits to them. “The independent monitors are now required to investigate the teachers and report truancy, indiscipline or misconduct to the NSIP Office in Abuja through their electronic tablets. “Upon receipt of the queries by the NSIP Office, they conduct an investigation to ascertain the merits of the query and now withhold payment of the erring N-Power teacher/beneficiary by holding his profile for 45 days and if there is no change or satisfactory response within the period, they are exited from the programme.” She, however, regretted that in recent times, there are increasing cases of N-Power beneficiaries/teachers who are diligent in their places of official assignment and who have no queries or negative reports, yet at the end of the month, their payments are withheld and all efforts to get reinstated has proven abortive.