The chairperson of the Nigeria Women Football League, Aisha Falode, has applauded the Executive Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for making it possible for the 2018/2019 Nigeria Women Premier League Super 4 to hold in Lagos. Falode, noted that, Sanwo-Olu gave the approval to host the NWPL Super 4 in Lagos while on his way to Egypt where he supported the Super Eagles of Nigeria at the 2019 African Nations Cup. “The board of the Nigeria Women Football League wishes to sincerely thank the Lagos State governor for his magnanimity in hosting the NWPL Super 4, without much trouble. We are playing at the Agege Stadium, Lagos, today because of the love and interest the governor shows for women’s football development. “The governor recognised the fact that, Lagos has produced a lot of women’s soccer professional players who not only helped take the country’s women’s national teams to a great height at the African and world levels, but also helped in the development of the game in Lagos. “Sanwo-Olu, recognized the value added to women in Lagos through the professional players who moved from their various Lagos football clubs to top clubs in Europe and other parts of the world. And by so doing, they are directly impacting on the lives of family members, friends, and their football clubs. “The governor gave kudos to the likes of Asisat Oshoala, Rashidat Ajibade, Chidinma Okeke, Ann Agumanu-Chiejine, Yinka Kudaisi, Maureen Madu, Kikelomo Ajayi, Taiwo Ajobiewe, Diana Ansak, Esther Ohai among others, who at one time or the other played for women football clubs in Lagos and made the state the home of women’s football. “Lagos at one or the other housed clubs like Jegede Babes, Vero Bim, Flying Angels, FC Robo and Dream Stars. “He is proud of all of them and their contributions to human and material development of the women’s folks. These were some of the reasons he accepted to host the NWPL Super 4 in Lagos, and we are happy that at least some Nigerian leaders are beginning to see the women’s league and women’s football generally beyond playing on the football field. We appreciate the Lagos governor.” Falode, also praised the contributions of the Deputy Governor of Edo State, the sports loving Rt. Honourable Philip Shaibu for his immense contributions to the development of women’s football in Nigeria since the state’s first involvement in the Super 4 competition which they hosted at the old Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City in 2017.