The Niger State Police Command has arrested a 35-year-old man, Sa’adu Hussaini, for sexually violating a six-year-old girl at New Market area, Minna, the state Capital. Our correspondent gathered that Hussaini is an unrepentant pedophile, who has been indulging in the act in his community for several years until his present arrest by the police. It was gathered that the suspect used N20 to entice the six-year-old victim to his room and then sexually violated her. Preliminary findings revealed that Hussaini had been luring underage girls in the same community into his room with gift items like candies, groundnuts and money, before sexually violating them. Hussaini, who is an artisan, told our correspondent that he was under the influence of an evil spirit, which used to make him to indulge in such an act. He said: “I know she is a minor but I don’t know what pushed me to have sex with her. Look at me having sex with a six-year-old girl. It’s an abomination! My religion abhors it. I don’t know how my family members will feel about it. I think somebody must have infected me with evil spirit because what is happening to me is not ordinary. The spirit keeps pushing me to do it. Trust me; what is happening to me is beyond human comprehension. I can’t imagine myself having sex with a minor. I am ruined forever!” When asked whether he was infatuated with the minor, he replied: “It’s above infatuation. It’s obvious that my problem is spiritual because I honestly don’t know when I did it.” The Niger State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Muhammad Abubakar, while confirming the incident, disclosed that the suspect had confessed to the crime during interrogation. He noted that Hussaini would soon be charged to court. Says: 'Evil spirits push me to rape minors’ A 35-year-old man, Sa'adu Hussaini has been arrested by the Niger State Police Command for allegedly raping a 6-year-old girl in New Market area, Minna, the state capital. It was learnt that Hussaini is an unrepentant paedophile who has indulged in the… In "Metro and Crime" ...says I didn’t force her   A 30-year-old man, identified simply as Adigun, who has allegedly been defiling a 10-year-old girl for over a year, has told the police that he didn’t force the minor into having sex with him. It was learnt that Adigun has been having sex… In "Metro and Crime" The girl child appears to be endangered in this part of the world as the incident of child rape has somewhat become a daily occurrence in the country. It is thriving and deepening its roots by the day in the Nigerian society. According to this report by ISIOMA MADIKE, the… In "Investigation"