Hon. Sam Ikon is a former Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and ex-chairman, Conferences of Speakers. He later represented Etinan Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives between 2015 and 2019. In this interview with Tony Anichebe, he speaks on governance in the state and the race for the 2023 governorship, among other issues   Your tenure as the speaker of Akwa Ibom State Assembly witnessed some turbulence, how were you able to navigate out of it? I am currently doing a book on my service years and may not say much for now. What the public saw was a co-ordination of several factors. Let me start with thanking those who served with me at the Sixth Assembly. They were amazing and I owe them a lot for their co-operation and perseverance. There were issues that would have spilled to the public space which were managed. There were some internal rumblings and we were able to resolve them. In that Assembly I didn’t see myself as a leader but as first among equals and that really helped to douse the tensions we had then. Again, I have clear cut rules of engagement and hardly dabbled into things that didn’t directly concern me. The issues we had in the House then were sponsored from outside; my members were not directly involved. But no matter how hard they tried, they couldn’t get my members to do any untoward thing. The Pension Act for ex-governors and deputy governors passed by the Assembly under your leadership brought serious public outcry and criticism. What is your take on that? It was a totally misunderstood law and that was why in order to respond to the feelings of the people, we revised it. We passed a law believing that we will save the state a lot of funds but it was twisted and taken out of context and when we realized that people didn’t want to show understanding then we reverted to the existing law. That is how a reasonable Assembly should operate once you discover that the people are not happy with what you have done you react towards their direction. That was why we repealed the law we made and reverted to what existed before. It is not that what we did was wrong because I stand by what we did, but we just had to follow the people’s feelings. Notwithstanding your 20 per cent recurrent and 80 per cent capital expenditure ratio approved for the state and the funds received during the era, there were still many abandoned projects at that time… You must understand that there were lots of issues outside infrastructure as security was a major issue. For me, my family didn’t live with me; they only came to stay with me when I became the speaker. The reason was that I could now provide them with extra security. The issue then was that I and Hon. Jack Udota moved and seconded the Anti-kidnapping Bill and the kidnappers came after our families. They will send me text messages telling me the school our children attended. I provided them with police security, they told me that though I provided my family police protection that they were going to open fire on them. I had to quickly move my family out of the state and bore the cost, as the state didn’t know what I was going through. I had to shuttle between here and Lagos at my own cost because of the job I did for the state. There were many constituency projects executed across the state by legislators. Were they also part of your lawmaking exercise? Let us get it straight. All a legislator does is to nominate project for execution. There is something we call the constituency project and intervention. At the National Assembly, we call it zonal intervention. What you do is to identify all the critical needs in your constituency that is usually captured in the budget, so tell people who advocate for the cancellation of zonal intervention to stop because that is the only sure way the constituency sees the impact of government. As a beneficiary of Senator Godswill Akpabio’s political magnanimity and core loyalist then, people thought you would have joined him, when he moved to the All Progressives Congress (APC)… I do get those questions, especially from people outside the state, who knew our working relationship. They are often taken aback when they talk to me and I tell them that I am in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). I felt this is an opportunity for me to explain the situation. First my former governor left without talking to some of us. I was in The Gambia on official assignment, when I heard the news of his defection. I was in the Banjul when I saw his picture meeting with President Mohammadu Buhari in London. I was still in Banjul when I heard he was defecting and the day I was billed to return to Nigeria was the day he was officially received into APC. I couldn’t just have moved without understanding the rationale behind all these and to tell you the truth, Akwa Ibom is a PDP state. Even if I was around and consulted, it is obvious I would speak the truth to power because if I fail to do so, I am not worthy of the responsibility. If I were around, I would have been able to tell our former governor that would be a wrong lane to go and I will not be able to join him. He wants to go and play politics at the federal level and that has worked out for him now as a minister. But for Akwa Ibom, the state remains PDP.  Again I wouldn’t have joined Akpabio because the incumbent governor, Udom Emmanuel, is doing very well. Are you in support of calls for Akpabio to resign as minister and contest the senatorial rerun? That is personal to him and his party. To me my position is simple: I know the ability of the minister of Niger Delta in terms of his ability to turn around things at the ministry. I feel we should use the energy properly; there are a lot that can be accomplished synergizing with the state. I know the minister wants the best for the state and the governor wants the best for the state. So, elders should look at creating the synergy. We must position our people to benefit from so many things going on in the Niger Delta and Nigeria. What is due to Akwa Ibom people should be given to the people of Akwa Ibom. You did well as member representing Etinan State Constituency and speaker and further consolidated at House of Representatives. However, when people thought your second term is a done deal, you opted out. What informed that decision? Let me put the records straight using this opportunity; I was the speaker before 2015 and sought to go to the National Assembly. In the wisdom of the party and by the virtue of my office they thought it won’t be proper to have a contest. So, Hon. Anietie Etuk who was in the forefront was prevailed to stand down his ambition and he graciously did that. Therefore, when in 2019, I was the front runner incumbent was prevailed upon to allow the then incumbent speaker to take my seat, I felt someone had done it for me in 2015 and that I should also do it for someone. How would you rate Governor Emmanuel’s administration so far? For me Governor Emmanuel came when he was destined to come. Remember that from the onset of this administration, the country was in dire financial stress and managing the situation needed someone who has the ability to access funds without stress. Governor Emmanuel managed our economy in such a way that people never felt the challenges of that time. Perhaps, if he was not on the saddle, people would have come to terms with what happened at the time. He navigated the tide because he is an expert manager. He has done well and there are lots of programmes to his credit. I was part of the last administration and the focus was to take the state to the next level and it worked, but came with its own challenges because at a time people tried to thwart the 13 per cent derivation and we rallied round to stop the moves. The publicity of that era brought so many challenges, but today, it seems that the governor is doing so much with less publicity. A lot is going on in terms of industrialization and it has never been this good. Our expectations might be very high, but let’s remember that a journey of a thousand kilometers starts with the initial steps. The former government did very well and the present is doing very, very well. 2023 politics is already in the air with more than three years to go. What do you make of the early race? It is very normal. Like I said the drum beat of 2015 started in 2011, when someone was already being addressed as His Excellency, while we had an incumbent governor. My only advice is that when you start today, you burn out early. My position is simple, everybody has the right. It is coming to Uyo Senatorial District, which has great people and they should be allowed to contest. However, I must say that the incumbent may wish to preserve his legacy and has the right to seek someone that will sustain it and even improve on the tempo and that right will not be taken away. Do you have plans to contest the governorship in 2023? I learnt one lesson in life, when I got to the House of Representatives and didn’t find fulfillment initially. I was quick to tell the governor that I would not want to return to the House. However, things began to show up and I got involved in the global parliamentary space and I thought that if I had another four years, one would have been able to carve a very strong niche for Nigeria and the people, especially my constituents. I went back and told the governor that I have changed my mind. But he told me before the stakeholders that he had accepted someone else. So, having smarted from that experience, I will be the last person to say that I will not want the office of the governor. I am competent and well qualified with adequate experience in politics and government having being a speaker and having led the speakers in the country. For me, I wish those who are denying well. Everybody has the right to contest, the most important thing is to have a governor who will sustain and improve on the legacies of previous administrations and someone with the capacity to unite the state and carry every sector of the state along.