D espite the heavy downpour, friends, colleagues, church members and associates gathered in their large numbers to attend the launch of a book by Prophetess Ngozi Edemba aka Female Oracle of God at The Bible Guest House, Palm Groove Estate, Lagos. The launch coincided with Edemba’s birthday celebration and unveiling of her ministry, Vessels of Transformation (Mount of Remembrance). In his welcome address, Bishop Elijah Adepoju said the book is a must read for individuals who want to impart their ministry and lives positively.  Also, in his remark, Ace broadcaster, Yinka Kenny, said that as an individual, when you keep doing what you love to do, your work will speak for you. Whatever you have done over the years, someday that work will speak for you positively and you will receive favour and honour.  Talking about the book, Ahmed Qasim Adeniyi, it would help people who want to go into the ministry and serve as a guide to them. Nollywood artiste and producer, Ifeoma Okeke, commended the author on her birthday saying it is an awesome rainy day. Happy birthday to my friend who has been with me all these years despite all the challenges we have faced. She disclosed that she has known the celebrant for more than two decades and has really helped a lot of people through her foundation. She urged the author to write more books that will touch the lives of people positively.  Elated Edemba thanked the audience for attending the event despite the rain. She also commended her husband and her children for supporting her through the course of writing the book, noting that before now, she had tried writing a book but she could not because it wasn’t the right time for her to do so. According to her, initially, she didn’t know how to commence writing the book but she prayed and was directed to put all her messages in an inspiration, and that sometimes, when she goes to preach at crusades, people do tell her that they want to be like her in the things she does. She added she has put all her messages together into a motivational book for people to read and be inspired when they want to go into ministry. “A lot of people do write messages but they don’t know where the scriptures are found, so the book helps them find solutions to their problems while preaching.” She is optimistic that next year, she would write another stimulating book. “It was the Holy Spirit that ministered to me and I wrote them down and when I speak to people, there is great implantation,” she said.