  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the statement credited to two National Commissioners of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that its smart card readers (SCR) were being circumvented, was a huge moral burden on the Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. The two National Commissioners, Festus Okoye and Mohammed Haruna, on Wednesday, at a programme organized by the Civil Society Situation Room in Abuja, reportedly accused political parties of willfully bypassing the use of card readers in order to inflate their votes. The PDP, in a statement yesterday by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said this confirmed its position that the November 16 Kogi and Bayelsa governorship, as well as the Kogi West senatorial elections, were manipulated. “The confession by the commission vindicates the position of the PDP and majority of Nigerians that there were manipulations, alterations and circumventing of genuine data captured by the card readers and that actual results transmitted from polling units were  tampered with. “The admission also brings to light why INEC had no convincing defence at the tribunal in the face of overwhelming discrepancies in the figures it declared in the Presidential poll. “The PDP had always held that no matter how much falsehood appears to thrive, the truth will always catch up with it,” the party stated. It called for the resignation of Prof. Yakubu as INEC Chairman, accusing him of serving group, rather than national interest. “The INEC Chairman should accept his failures and vacate office without further delay. This is because there is no way Nigerians can continue to repose confidence in the commission under his watch. “Of course, not under an electoral commission that condones the invasion of polling units, suppression of voters and stuffing of snatched ballot boxes; an INEC that cancels results in places where election held peacefully while announcing fabricated results allocated to its favored  political party as valid votes,” PDP further noted. The party rejected attempts by INEC to shift the blame for its failures to other political parties, noting that PDP had consistently pointed to infractions created in the electoral system. But INEC said it would continue to deploy card reader machine in the conduct of elections. Okoye, in a statement, said the clarification became necessary in view of the attribution to his statement at the Situation Room that smart card readers were no longer useful in the electoral process. The National Commissioner said he spoke in the context of attempts by some political interests to willfully by-pass the use of card reader during elections to inflate their votes. “They do this against the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s decision that the SCR is not to be used exclusively to determine over-voting,” he stated. Okoye reminded political parties, candidates in election, poll agents and the electorate that voter resistance to the use of the card reader, obstruction and resistance to the deployment/distribution of electoral materials constitute an electoral offence. He warned that INEC will enter zero votes in polling unit where such occurred. The National Commissioner explained that the introduction of card reader in the electoral process was an additional confirmatory and authentication tool to determine the authenticity of cards presented by voters. This, he added, was to eliminate impersonation, which he described as serious challenges to the electoral process in Nigeria. “The SCR is, therefore, designed to strengthen the integrity of the electoral process and eliminate multiple voting,” he added. Okoye assured Nigerians that INEC would continue to work with the National Assembly and all the critical stakeholders to reduce malpractices in the electoral process.