The founder of Igbo Youth Movement (IYM), Evang. Elliot Ukoh, in this interview with KENNETH OFOMA, bares his mind on so many national issues in Nigeria including the need to restructure Nigeria, among others  The 20th anniversary of your group was quite interesting, what actually has been the driving force of IYM?   IYM was founded and established by God for a particular purpose and He has been directing the affairs of the group since 1999. What started as a youth organisation designed to promote Igbo language and good behaviour amongst Igbo youths gradually began to accommodate questions on the precarious Igbo condition in Nigeria. Slowly, IYM began to enlarge the discussion from the importance of education and other issues to the need for Nigeria to ensure justice for Ndigbo.   IYM is not only fearlessly defending the rights of Ndigbo, but has metamorphosed to the authentic and trusted voice of the oppressed and voiceless Ndigbo. Because the Igbo elite can meander their way to survive in Nigeria, they do not care about the plight of the downtrodden. So, IYM initially wasn’t created to inspire the younger generation of Ndigbo, to wake them up from slumber, to make them understand that if they do nothing about their condition in Nigeria, they will only be shifting that job and responsibility to their progeny. But that is exactly what IYM became with time.  How far has the group been able to go in this set goal of sensitizing Igbo youths?   Nobody seemed to care about the younger generation of Ndigbo. So I took up the gauntlet. My target was purely the younger generation; to prepare them for the task ahead. I travelled across the country, preaching to Igbo youths to organise themselves and fight for their rights. I told them that nobody would fight for them if they don’t fight for their rights. I showed them glaring instances of clear oppression and subjugation of Ndigbo in Nigeria. I moved from school to school, compiled details of brazen suppression of our rights and denial of our dues as part of Nigeria. It was only a matter of time before they woke up from their slumber. I was fortunate, respected elders honoured my invitation to speak to the youth at every of my seminars. We had questions and answer sessions. It was those questions and answers sessions that opened my eyes to the depth of the frustration of the Igbo younger generation and I became alarmed.   Dim Odimegwu Ojukwu, who generously and kindly attended dozens of IYM seminars, confided in me that he wasn’t shocked at the bitterness in the hearts of the youth. He told me that he knew the younger generation will be very angry at the treatment they are receiving from Nigeria. He said the rest of Nigeria do not care about the frustration of Igbo youths because Nigeria is still busy celebrating the defeat of Biafra but that the younger generation will not accept the suppression of Ndigbo much longer. He knew that something was bound to happen. He posited that the envy and fear of Ndigbo was largely responsible for the conspiracy to hold Ndigbo down perpetually.   So, by the late 1980s, I had known that the younger generation will reject and resist the position of servitude designed for Ndigbo by the victors of the civil war. I happened to know this not because I am a very smart person. I found out simply because I organised seminars for Igbo youths and during question and answer sessions, young Igbo men would lament that they are tired of Nigeria and wished for a separate state, where they would be treated like human beings. Students will say the same thing traders at Aba and Lagos as well as civil servants would say and these people do not know each other.  Why do you think the lamentations of Igbo youths are not heeded to by successive Nigerian governments?   The Nigerian state was clearly deceived by the “desperate hustling” of  the Igbo elite club, who are desperate for anything that they are willing to execute a contract through subletting, even crawling from office to office licking boots for crumbs. Nigeria’s leadership erroneously concluded that Ndigbo have finally accepted the humiliating position designed for them as their proper place in Nigeria. Accordingly, the humiliation of Ndigbo became state policy but they forgot that Igbo elite represent only one per cent of Ndigbo. They also forgot that Igbo are republican in nature; that every Igbo reacts according to how the shoe pinches him and the Igbo are never controlled by the announcement from somebody somewhere.   They also did not realise that the elite accepted the continuous humiliation in Nigeria because of two reasons. One, they are educated and therefore can always find a way to survive in Nigeria known globally as a very corrupt playground for Asian and Middle East scammers, masquerading as business men and who boast all over the world, how Nigerian officials are the easiest to compromise their positions to the detriment of their own citizens. Secondly, the trauma of the civil war created two different classes of Ndigbo – those who are willing to accept the continuous humiliation of Ndigbo and those who are willing to do anything to restore their lost dignity. This fact, sadly, remains lost on the Nigerian state, which regrettably believes that force and intimidation will subdue the angry Igbo younger generation to accept the continuous humiliation Ndigbo have been facing since 1970.     Could that be why the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) and Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) are agitating for Biafra and is that the way out for Ndigbo?   I have repeatedly screamed the way out for decades. I have been screaming long before Ralph Uwazurike established MASSOB. If I had joined my friends and classmates to hustle for political accommodation in Nigeria, I would not have known the shocking discovery I found out during the seminars organized for Igbo youths by IYM. If those friends parading as themselves successful politicians had found time to organise seminars for Igbo youths like I did in the 1980s and 1990s, they too would have discovered the degree of anger burning in the hearts of the younger generation. They also would have known that even their sycophants are not happy with Nigeria. They would have known that the only people happy with Nigeria are those benefiting from the misery in the land. They would have known that these agitations were inevitable. It was bound to happen. Nigeria was bound to come to this.     In all these, what is the way out?   I would only be repeating myself. 25 years ago, Dim Chukwuemeka Odimegwu Ojukwu asked Bob Onyema to bring me to Villaska lodge, Ikoyi for a meeting. At that time, I was leading a coalition of Ndigbo Youth groups in Lagos. What came out from that very important gathering of very important leaders was actually packaged for the General Sani Abacha constitutional conference of 1994/1995. What some people at that time called Afenifere agenda simply because the Senator Abraham Adesanya-led National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) amplified it at that time. I am yet to see any superior argument till date.   Nigerians have no better choice. Nigeria is not working. There are reports of past conferences, many sections are bitter and angry with the current structure, some even want to opt out of Nigeria. The system that worked from the mid 1950s to mid 1960s gave everyone a sense of belonging. Those lying to themselves that they can hold Nigeria together under this unitary structure are the problem. Why they choose to deceive themselves beats me. Nigeria cannot grow under this military constitution. If the political structure is not reconstructed to true federalism by devolving powers to the federating units, Nigeria will collapse. Going back to the 1963 Republican Constitution is the way out. Former minister, Prof Chinedu Nebo said recently that Igbo political leaders are responsible for the woes of Ndigbo. Do you agree with him?   Prof. Nebo is a highly respected intellectual and leader of men. It depends on what context he spoke. Everybody knows the Igbo political leadership has not done well. Just look at the zone. No seaport, no airport, no rail services, no motorable road. That’s not all; there is no clear political direction. Add this to the popular narrative all over the country that a certain influential politician from the South-West drafted President Muhammadu Buhari for the top job six years ago due to what they termed, the unbridled arrogance of Igbo politicians who encircled then President Goodluck Jonathan at the time, fending off everybody else, so the story goes. This politician from the South-West was very bitter with the Igbo politicians who surrounded Jonathan at the time.   He lamented how he abandoned his own presidential candidate, Nuhu Ribadu, and entered into a deal to return Jonathan in 2011, only to be dealt a bad card. He is said to be willing to forgive Jonathan, but remains unforgiving to the Igbo politicians who he believed misled Jonathan. Out of anger and frustration, he entered into alliance with Buhari, to get back at Ndigbo. Now if this narrative is true, it then throws up the question: What did Ndigbo benefit from Jonathan for which we are presently suffering so much isolation over the conduct of Igbo political class over which some people do not wish to forgive Ndigbo?   It could only mean, that those Igbo politicians who shepherded Jonathan and allegedly blocked this angry South-West leader from receiving any patronage whatsoever from Jonathan hijacked Jonathan for their personal benefit as there is nothing to show for Igbo unalloyed support for Jonathan. Absolutely nothing! It is even said that Igbo sons and daughters in that government mindlessly helped themselves with funds meant for infrastructural development in Igbo land. Pathetic! In that case, Prof. Nebo is absolutely correct. He must know what he is talking about as he was an insider as minister in Jonathan’s government.