Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (TAAT) is proposing to improve agricultural productivity in Africa with technology towards attaining zero hunger continent. Taiwo Hassan reports  Recently, Nigeria and other countries in the continent joined the rest of the world to mark the World Food Day, dedicated to creating awareness and inspire action against hunger, food insecurity and poor nutrition. Particularly, the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) report indicates that hunger is rising across the world. Indeed, AO in a report stated that the situation was worsening in most regions in Africa amid food shortage. The report showed that almost 21 per cent of the continent’s population of 1,216 billion is undernourished and this is appalling in all ramifications. The report stressed that many factors drive this trend. Among these are the rising population growth, conflict and poor governance,  severe weather conditions and climate change. Basically, these challenges have led to food insecurity, a state of deprivation ranging from starvation through severe and constant hunger to deficiencies in vitamins and minerals. It’s rooted in poverty and inequalities that deprive people of the right to adequate food to meet their needs. However, to solve this challenge, the Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (TAAT) is advocating the need to explore technology to improve agric productivity in Africa to edge closer towards attaining zero hunger in the continent. TAAT programme According to the TAAT, the programme, an offshoot of the African Development Bank (AfDB) as part of its Feed Africa initiative, has recorded huge success since its inception, the Programme Coordinator of TAAT, Dr. Chrysantus Akem, said. Akem, who revealed this at the sixth African Association of Agricultural Economists (AAAE) conference held in Abuja recently, said: “The very first challenge we had was to create the awareness that we needed to get all the technologies that we have in agriculture and put them into use so that we can transform agriculture in Africa, especially eliminating hunger out of our continent. “All the technologies were all in bookshelves, some in publications and we keep lagging behind, we are not going very far in terms of productivity in the various commodities within Africa.” The programme coordinator stated that the objectives of the programme were to intervene in 18 agricultural value chains, adding that nine of the commodities were already selected for the first phase, while the other nine would be targeted at the second phase. He said: “The programme is targeted at 18 value chains or commodities, and it was very clear that we cannot start with all of them at the same time, so we selected nine, to begin with among which are cassava, maize, beans and we have aquaculture, we have livestock, basically in the first phase, we focused on these nine commodities. “Then the second phase is coming up, we are right now formulating it and we brought in the other nine commodities that are still pending, and that include soybean, vegetables. “We are trying to see how we can make an impact by looking at all these commodities across the given institutions and given countries.” Unlocking opportunities The President of African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, had revealed that the challenge of addressing global food security was the greatest in Africa. According to him, it is time for the continent to unlock its potential for agriculture by using relevant technologies to stop hunger, famine, drought, climate change out of the continent. Adesina explained that it was unacceptable that the continent is spending $35 billion annually on food imports and this is projected to reach $110 billion by 2030. “It is unacceptable by his estimates. If the current trend continues, Africa is estimated to spend $110 billion by 2030 on food imports,” he said. The AfDB chief called for land tax for unused agricultural land, to provide incentives for faster commercialisation of agriculture and unlocking its potential in Africa. Adesina said Africa held the key for feeding nine billion people by 2050, adding that more than ever before, the world must help Africa to rapidly modernise its agriculture and unlock its full potential. He said that close to 300 million were malnourished on the continent due to this challenge. According to him, Africa is the only region of the world where its proportion of the population that is food insecure is on the increase. “There is therefore absolutely no reason for Africa to be a food importing region. Africa has huge potential in agriculture, but, as Dr. Borlaug used to say, nobody eats potential. “Unlocking that potential, we must start with the Savannah of Africa which covers mind boggling 600 million hectares of which 400 million hectares are cultivable. “Africa sits on 65 per cent of the uncultivated arable land left in the world, so what Africa does with agriculture will determine the future of food in the world. “African farmers need more than a helping hand. They need a policy lift,” Adesina said. The president said that a top priority must be to mechanise agriculture in Africa. According to him, over 1,200 people from more than 65 countries will address cutting edge issues related to global food security and nutrition conference in New York, U.S.A. Role of research and development Indeed, research and development (R&D) is critical to the development of food and nutritional security in Nigeria and beyond. Particularly, the role being played by R&D towards boosting of Nigeria’s agricultural sector growth cannot be quantified in all ramifications. In addition, the importance of R&D towards sustaining Nigeria’s food productivity has been focal point. Basically, agriculture in the Nigeria involved the usage of mechanized tools in order to bring high yields and productivity in agricultural produce farming. For instance, one of the key problems negating food production growth in Nigeria is lack of government’s support to provide farm inputs such as hybrid seeds, fertiliser, adequate funding and mechanised tools for farmers to assist them in providing food security for the country. However, the non-availability of modern mechanised tools for Nigerian farmers is orchestrating uncertainty in the agric sector amid low productivity and threat to food security. Not only that, the inability to develop research and development has also stalled food productivity growth in the country amid effects of climatic change, disease invasion, fake applications of fertilizer, adulterated seeds, drought among others. Last line Arguably, the provision of relevant technology based mechanism can solve the challenges African countries are facing in achieving food security and safety in a bid to eliminate hunger and others in the continent.