The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State yesterday declared that its doors are wide open for intending members desirous of joining the fold ahead of the 2020 governorship election in the state. This was as the party denied receiving any amount from the alleged N6 billion said to have been agreed with Governor Godwin Obaseki, part of which N3 billion was said to have been received by the opposition party to welcome the governor into the PDP. The money, it was alleged was to allow Governor Obaseki pursue his second term ambition should the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state denied him the ticket to run on the party platform for next year’s gubernatorial election in the state. Meanwhile, the state Chairman of PDP, Chief Dan Osi Orbih, stated this during a press conference in Benin, the state capital, saying the party never demanded for any money from anyone to join the party. “Obaseki had no business to give anybody a dime to join the PDP. We do not need money from anybody to join the party,” he said. Orbih, however, challenged the governor to face the business of governance with the seriousness it deserved and not allow the raging crisis within the APC to distract him in providing the needed dividends of democracy to the masses of the state. He carpeted the three years of Governor Obaseki’s administration and achievements reeled out during the 2019 Alaghodaro Summit and described it as wasteful, pointing out that the governor has not employed anyone since assumption of office except his drivers and domestic staff, deplorable state of roads, and acute shortage of teachers in public schools, among others. On the controversial exclusion of Pastor Osagoe Ize-Iyamu and his defection move to the APC, Orbih tasked him to be bold enough to officially tell the party and the world about his plans, insisting that Pastor Ize-Iyamu’s movement out of the PDP to any other platform would not affect the fortunes of the fold in anyway. The PDP chairman added: “A few years ago, when he (Pastor Ize-Iyamu) left the APC for the PDP he said he was going back to his home and when he left the PDP again for the APC, he said he was going back to his home. He should be bold to tell the world which one is his home, is it the PDP or the APC. “The PDP is intact in Edo State and the departure of one man will not affect our party’s fortunes. We have embarked on massive mobilisation towards the 2020 governorship election. Within the party we are well. On other parties we know all is not well. Here in this hall, I have the auditor, financial secretary of the party, the deputy chairman of the party, the 18 local government council chairmen and the senatorial leaders, they are all here. In Edo PDP we know how to manage ourselves.”