Mr. Michael Osakue Igbinovia, a senior media aide to a former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has said his principal’s re-aliment with the state’s All Progressives Congress (APC) is to be ‘cement forces’ and help the ruling party achieve its desired objectives. He appealed to people not to refer to it as ‘defection, but re- alignment’, adding that Ize- Iyamu is the only competent and experienced politician in the state who has all it takes to unite APC together in the state. In an interview with Saturday Telegraph, Igbinovia said: “the news or rumour is everywhere that pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu is defecting to APC, but the erroneous impression is that people say that he is defecting, look Pastor is not defecting, he is only going to the house he jointly built with his colleagues. “So, you don’t defect to the house that you are familiar with, if Nigerians will remember, ACN is a prominent party that teamed up to form APC, and Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu has risen from the platform of ACN to National chairman of South- South which make him a very relevant force in ACN and the formation of APC. “One prominent thing about Edo politics is that is very unique, and there is no stranger, all of them are known to one each other, whether you are in APC or PDP, all of them where together at one time or the other, went together one party, and separated at one point or the other. “So, anyway you look at it, there is no defection, it is only re-alignment that is taking place. Ize-Iyamu is re-aligning in principle and in thought with some of his colleagues that have groomed and built the party together. “Right now we are not talking of who begs who or that, the most important thing here is the Edo people.” On how residents could enjoy the new re-alignment, he added: “The Edo people are the bottom line and the foundation of all this matter, how will Edo people be best served, if in the interest of Edo people Ize- Iyamu went to beg the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, to God be the glory. “If in the interest of Edo people, Oshiomhole goes to beg Ize-Iyamu, to God be the glory, but the most important thing is the interest of the people. “How will Edo masses be best governed, how will Edo people have the best dividend of democracy, how will Edo  people have the dividend of good governance, how would Edo people be treated like human beings, how would Edo people have everything they need as per governance as it is obtainable elsewhere. “So, even if Donald Trump had to beg Ize- Iyamu to come so be it. And even if the Queen of England had to beg Oshiomhole to allow Ize- Iyamu to come for the interest of Edo people so be it. “Again Oshiomhole and Ize- Iyamu are top political generals who are activist, who know themselves, when you look at the political map of Edo State you will discover that in the interest of the common man there must be a give and take, and that is the point to which we are. “But I want to say it again that Ize-Iyamu is will be the cementing force, whether or not, Edo people are in need of good governance.”