The Nigerian Army has announced the surrendering of 16 suspected terrorists in the North East, as well as eight of their wives. Fourteen of the fighters that surrendered to troops of Operation Lafiya Dole, were of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP), while the remaining two were belonged to the Boko Haram sect.  The Army Operations Media Coordinator, Col. Aminu Iliyasu in a statement yesterday, said the development followed coordinated operations against ISWAP and Boko Haram terrorists. He added that the military operations, which were also ongoing in the North- West, had culminated in th e killing of dozens of criminal elements. This was as he further disclosed the arrests of several of the terrorists’ logistics suppliers and informants, in the course of the ongoing exercises.  Iliyasu said: “The incremental raids, clearance patrols, sting operations, cordon & search operations as well as mortar and artillery bombardment of identified criminal insurgents and bandits’ hideouts within the past one week has yielded tremendous positive outcomes as some of the terrorists surrendered to our gallant troops while several others were neutralised.  “The period equally witnessed the interception and arrest of several Boko Haram logistics suppliers and informants by the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole as well as the arrest or neutralisation of some bandits and other criminal elements in the North West and other parts of the nation. He gave the names of the 14 ISWAP suspects as: Ibrahim Bunu, Abba Sale, Baba Lamba Alhaji, Bukar Isa, Bukar Ali, Rawa Abba Gana, Mustapha Abatcha, Umar Abubakar, Hassan Bukar, Malam Abatcha Ali, Abba Umar Abatcha, Hussaini Babagana, Idris Mohammed and Umar Abba Bayoma. He said Hassan Kawu and Babagana Bukar Adijabe belonged to Boko Haram.  He, however, regretted that a soldier paid the supreme price during the operations, while 2 others were wounded in action. The wounded soldiers are currently responding to treatment in a military medical facility. Troops, he further announced, seized several weapons, including AK 47 Rifles, as well as one Rocket Propelled Gun 7 (RPG 7).