Veteran filmmaker, storyteller, director, cinematographer and photographer, Mr. Tunde Kelani, in this interview with TONY OKUYEME, shares his thought on the movie industry, the need for a vibrant reading culture and other issues    Last Sunday at LABAF, you observed that the Nigerian movie industry, Nollywood, started on a shaky note due to poor reading culture, and that there is need for filmmakers to read… Can you explain further on that? I just want to encourage young people to cultivate the habit of reading primarily for pleasure. Comparing my own of formation, during my primary school at Oke-Ona United Primary School in Abeokuta, we had a library. And at that time private schools were not that common, it was just a public school, but we had a library. My friend, Dr. Gbolade Oshinowo, who was a Special Adviser to ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo on Political Matters, was the librarian then. And between us, we just read everything. That was how I encountered the literary triangle of J. F. Odunjo Odelana and D. O. Fagunwa. I must have read all the five books of D.O. Fagunwa at that time because when I arrived from Lagos to the family compound, my grand-father, and, in fact, everybody in the compound was telling the story. But barely three or four years after I started my primary school, I read D. O. Fagunwa’s books then. I read Igbo Olodumare, Ogboju Ode Ninu Igbo Irunmole; these were the two that really fascinated me. But I finally read all the five books. I felt these materials are not accessible to the young people, but I am happy that Prof. Femi Osofisan has actually adapted them as plays in English language. At least, they can start from there. D. O. Fagunwa prepared us for the future because there is a lot of sermonising; there is the concept of grooming people to be of good character, to be ‘Omoluwabi’. So, I would go to anywhere that I find a group of young people either in schools or programmes to encourage them to read. In fact, a school called me recently and told me that some students want to come for an excursion and they usually would come to meet me in Abeokuta, and for an hour or two hours I can read and they can read, and so on. That is the kind of thing that concerns me, and that is probably why I have done more adaptations than any filmmaker in Nigeria, or, perhaps, in Africa. Most of the films that I have done are adapted from books. It is an opportunity for me to celebrate the authors, who I really admired. They were geniuses; they have done so much to fuel my imagination which I continuously put on screen. Out of the three movies that I want to do now, two of them are adapted from books; only one of them is fiction based on historical account of the protagonist. So, what is the way forward? When I look at the movie industry in Nigeria, and in fact, African cinema, I think the next level is to begin to make meaningful films, to begin to look at films that entertain and impact the society, social-political awareness. We have thousands of literary materials that we can work on. We should begin to look inwards, tell our own authentic stories and not follow Hollywood blindly. When I was in secondary school we read everything we came in contact with. I noticed that there is a lot of distraction now, with social media, the new technology, many children want to play games rather than read. So, what I did in the case of my children is that I forbid games on our computers, so they can’t play games ion their systems; they can’t even watch television until 5pm;  and they can’t change the channel unless they come and take permission from adults. Somehow we must lure young people into reading. That is what I am doing. So, reading is very imperative for filmmakers… I thought it was obvious that filmmakers should naturally see that connection between the superior art forms, which starts with the literary, then design, then music, and then from there to movies. We need to produce films that are richer in themes, than just making films about mundane things. I think it is a waste of recourse. Where do you see Nollywood in the next five years? We are living in a very fast-paced technology world. Five years is a lifetime. If you can dream it; if you can imagine it; then it can be done. So five years is a long time, so, in the next five years Nollywood or whatever we would call it, would be clearly established as a big player in global cinema. What is your advice for the young ones on how to get better? They need to read, learn. How do you expect people who are not developed yet to start making films? What kind of story would they tell if they don’t read? We were lucky we didn’t start like that. You start education in your own language and culture, and gradually add English, and gradually ease into every comparative literature from other places and so on. And then you are interested in your community, in your environment. I combed the nearby streams, rivers and the forests as part of development. I followed the Osogbo artists; I followed musicians and so on. That is part of building, getting ready to do something. So, I think young people should really be interested in something. I followed Fela Anikulapo Kuti. I got inspiration from all our creative uncles throughout television days and so on. These are experiences. So, young people should treasure their experience, look into the community, and then learn how to express themselves in images. That is the way I think that they should go. When I was in primary school every end of the year each class must produce a play. You must take part in drama; you must join the literary and debating society. So, I think teachers, particularly, should involve children more in these creative activities and not just read to pass exams. What has been your greatest challenge as a filmmaker? The greatest challenge primarily is funding. Also the environment itself, I don’t think it is easy to make film in a country that cannot produce electricity. That is what has fueled piracy because there is no platform commercially to make the industry sustainable at the moment. So, Nigeria has to invest in those things. We have to invest in broadband internet access. They talk about streaming; the market for streaming is actually not in Nigeria. You cannot worry about electricity, and then use mobile data to watch films. It is too expensive. So, the streaming at the moment, for me, is for the diaspora. Most of us filmmakers, we are not working as we should. I have not released any movie in the last four or five years. Why? I haven’t recovered from the piracy of all my works. I have lost the business; I have lost everything. Everything I have done has been pirated. I have not recovered from it, but I am not giving up, I want to go on, but look at the options, and then look at how truly it can be sustainable. The infrastructure in Nigeria is underdeveloped. Altogether, maybe, we can boast of 200 screens; the USA has 40,000 screens; India has more than 13,000. So we have barely started, we still have a long way to go. Any plan to into politics? I can’t. It is not possible for me because I decided long time ago to stay with the arts. Politics is for people who like it, who understand it. I don’t. What I do is to use the medium of film, cinema to address or to share my cultural experience. Everybody knows what I do. I am into language, culture, history. There is a lot that I haven’t done that I have to do before I die. But, certainly it is not politics.