Mr. Olukayode Enitan, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), in this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, speaks on violence in election as recorded in Kogi and Bayelsa polls, judiciary’s independence, congestion of cases in courts and sundry issues  The high level violence trailing the just concluded Kogi and Bayelsa States governorship elections has underlined the need for electoral reforms. What advice do you have for government on how to bring sanity to the nation’s electoral process? As long as there’s no consequence for electoral violence, it will continue to attend every election in this country. Since the beginning of democracy, how many people have been convicted of electoral violence? I doubt that they are up to twenty. Until we realise that electoral violence is a form of corruption and we begin to deal with it in the same manner as all other forms of corruption are dealt with, it won’t end. There is still pending before the President, an Electoral Reform Bill, I would advise that it be attended to with dispatch. If there are areas that require further work, nothing stops the executive from sending its inputs and urges the expeditious passage of the Bill. President Muhammadu Buhari has called on the National Assembly to fast-track the passage of Special Crimes Court Bill for the establishment of Special Courts to handle graft cases. Do you share the president’s sentiment that Special Courts are needed to handle corruption cases? I do not share that sentiment although there are many who are of that persuasion. When these special Courts are created who will be the judges, are they going to be sourced from the existing pool of judges in the first tier of the judicial ladder, that is, High Courts? If it is the existing crop of judges that will be assigned to those courts, what we will have is a case of robbing Peter to pay Paul. Whilst now, there is congestion and delay in trial of all cases with the criminal matters relating to corruption getting some preferential treatment, what would then exist would be a total near abandonment of the Civil and Commercial Courts as the judges who are assigned to those special Courts would thenceforth not do any civil or commercial matters. This would have its attendant negative effect and further exacerbate the challenges on the civil and commercial life of the nation. If new judges are to be appointed to anchor the special corruption courts, it would then mean that government agrees that the problem of delay in corruption cases and other cases as well, is attributable to nothing but a dearth of judges. This also sends a signal that government is deliberately starving the judiciary of needed adjudicatory personnel but is willing to make exceptions when it serves its purposes. I would rather recommend that more judges be appointed to the High Courts in the States and FCT and also more justices be appointed to the Court of appeal whilst the Supreme Court should be enhanced to have it constitutional full complement of justices. This will make for well-rounded judges who are able to deal with all manner of cases whether Civil, Commercial or Criminal regardless of whether the criminal case is corruption related or otherwise. One of the major challenges bedeviling administration of justice in the country is the huge volume of cases pending before judges in various courts of the land. What is the way out of the problem? The first way out of the problem is the appointment of more judges who are interested in the job. We must also ensure that these judges are chosen on the basis of merit and not on any primordial and parochial sentiments. Secondly, the number of appeals that go to the Supreme Court as of right needs to be curtailed. Do you agree with the belief by some of your colleagues that judiciary was vulnerable to compromise because it was underfunded? There’s a lot of talk of compromise in the judiciary, but how many have been proved? Talk is cheap.  Where compromise is established, it will be discovered that it has nothing to do with funding but with the propensity of the individual to compromise. Remember that most people who have been found to be compromised are not those you would consider poor by any standards. Of course, this is not to say that the judiciary is not deserving of proper funding. I think it’s a shame that some of our courts in this country have no electricity and the judges are still writing in long hand, even in Lagos which is definitely at the cutting edge of reforms on all facets of justice administration. How independent is the nation’s judiciary? Unfortunately, our judiciary is not as independent as I would desire. It’s so bad now that you even see in some courts that judges are somewhat subservient to the desires of the executive to such an extent that some prosecutors would even intimidate them. Of course, there are many judges who would not broach any nonsense from anyone no matter how highly placed. The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, has continued to remain in office despite the fact that his 4-year tenure when he is lawfully permitted to be in charge has lapsed on 9th November, 2019. What is the legality of Magu’s continuous stay in office? I believe that the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, has acted for the duration of the first term of his tenor. Remember that the occupier of the office of Chairman of EFCC can serve two terms. So, in the same manner that a substantive chairman can remain in office until his expired tenure is renewed or he is asked to proceed elsewhere, the Acting Chairman is also entitled to so remain in my view. However those who may feel contrary have a recourse which would be to have the courts declare the propriety or otherwise of the continued stay pending renewal or appointment of another person.