 The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, has, again, ordered telecoms operators to stop automatic activation of voicemails on mobile lines. The minister said the order became imperative as his attention was “drawn to the latest trend of financial exploitation by Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) in the country, through the automatic activation of the Voicemail Service on their platforms.” However, the telcos said the allegation of fraud could not have arisen with voicemail service as it is optional for subscribers and not automatic as being insinuated. Nonetheless, the minister said he has issued a “broad policy” directive to the sector regulator, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to immediately ensure that issues regarding automatic voicemails are addressed on all existing phone lines, and the subscribers given the option of accessing the service via an activation code. “The voicemail service should be accessed at the discretion of the subscriber and not by default. The minister finds it worrisome and totally unacceptable that telecoms subscribers incur financial charges, for a service they are compelled to use by default. Voicemail is not a popular service among mobile phone users in Nigeria, coupled with the language challenge among rural dwellers, who mostly do not understand the language deployed by these networks,” Pantami said in a statement released yesterday. Reacting to the minister’s latest directive, second in two weeks, the telecoms operators under the aegis of Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria, (ALTON), said voicemail (VM) is a value-added service enjoyed by only those who opt-in for it. Chairman of the Association, Mr. Gbenga Adebayo, said: “The current practice on some networks is that once you call and the recipient doesn’t pick, you get a voice prompt saying that the subscriber is not available and asking you to record a voice message ‘after the tone’. “VM is a value added service and it is provisioned for those who expressly request for it. It may be recalled that MNOs reintroduced the VM facility to discourage people who “flash” continuously because flashing wastes network resources and also degrades quality of service (QoS) reporting. “For the avoidance of doubt, you as a consumer are not billed anything, but if you delay, you may be charged for a few seconds, or for the time it takes you to record the message. The recipient of the voicemail does not get charged for listening, it is free.” ALTON also noted that the issue of voicemail is not in any way a policy issue to warrant intervention of the minister. “This is not a major ‘policy issue’ within the meaning of Section 23 and 24 of the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) which empowers the minister to formulate ‘general policy for the communications sector, after consultations organised by the NCC’. It is a mere operational/consumer protection issue which the ministry can simply call NCC’s attention to. “This is purely consumer related issues that the minister refers to as a major policy issue and it also amounts to unnecessary interference by the minister contrary to Section 25 subsections 1 & 2 of the Nigerian Communications Act 2003,” Adebayo said.