A former Commissioner for Information and Orientation in Edo State, Prince Kassim Afegbua, in this interview, speaks on the political developments in the state. Felix Nwaneri reports   hat do you think could be the rationale for the political battle raging in Edo State between Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole?  If you cast your mind back to the campaigns in 2016, you will almost think it was Comrade Oshiomhole that was seeking a third term. Godwin Obaseki as an economic adviser to Comrade Oshiomhole was largely unknown across the state. So, selling him to the electorate was a tall order. Coupled with this was the fact that he had never voted in Edo State. His family, the Obasekis, are prominent in the state, especially Gaius Obaseki, the former Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and another Oyuiki Obaseki, now late. There is also DonPedro Obaseki, who enjoys some public space popularity. But, the current governor, not being a politician and being one of Edos in diaspora, was largely unknown.   But, because of his closeness to Oshiomhole through some mutual friends of Oshiomhole, he fell for his friends to make Obaseki succeed him. How to make that happen became another herculean task, bearing in mind the very strong and popular candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Oshiomhole deployed his arsenal into the fray, offended his deputy, worked against all other aspirants, spear-headed the campaign and ensured that every political appointee delivers his polling unit and by extension his ward to guarantee Obaseki’s victory. The candidate on his part had not acquired the nuances of political speech making, so he rarely spoke for three minutes during campaigns. He was stage shy and hadn’t acquired enough footnotes to deliver his message. Patrick Obahiagbon, who was Oshiomhole’s Chief of Staff, also deployed his oratory to the fullest to be able to withstand the competition posed by the opposition PDP.   So, what then happened that the former allies fell apart?   I think the point of crisis has to do with the 2019 election primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC0, which the state chapter conducted and was cancelled by the national leadership of the party. By virtue of the APC constitution and also that of the PDP, state chapters of parties are not allowed to conduct primaries for the positions being contested except for local government elections. The governor didn’t welcome the cancellation. He was therefore livid with anger when he saw the delegation of the national office coming down to Benin City for another primaries.   If that was not done, just like Zamfara State, APC would have lost all the contested positions to the opposition PDP in Edo State. Added to this was the complaint by the governor that Oshiomhole appoints Edo sons and daughters without consulting him. But from what I could decipher, it appears there are people who are profiting from the impasse and would rather wish the situation persists in order for them to make some cool money in the process. At the point of the primaries, the governor appeared to have taken a decision to seek independence and be alone.   But there are members of the APC, who feel that the governor abandoned them and thus decided to form what is now known as Edo Peoples’ Movement (EPM)… Before I joined PDP in August of 2018, I witnessed the internal undercurrents of the APC at the inception till August 2018. The complaints started almost immediately Governor Obaseki was sworn-in. The people he gave appointments to were not in the reckoning of those who worked assiduously for his election. It does appear he wanted to cut a picture of his own man while doing away with those who burnt the proverbial midnight oil to secure his victory. Those people were expectedly angry and felt used by Comrade Oshiomhole, who prevailed on them to market Obaseki.  On EPM, I can tell you emphatically that Oshiomhole was not aware of the formation until about a time, when the EPM activities became visible. I hold the considered view that those who worked for the emergence of any candidate, ought to be given their due recognition in whatever measure. Governor Obaseki’s decision to abandon those who worked night and day to install him at a time that it was almost impossible was an exhibition of bad politics. The reward of politics is here on earth and it can come in different forms and shape. It’s like throwing away the dish after the meal.  Don’t you think the governor cannot appoint everybody into his cabinet knowing that the positions are limited?   I agree with you to an extent. But there is a way to pet a crying child to gain his attention. Outright dismissal of the contributions of those persons as inconsequential was a show of raw ingratitude. The rigours and pains in politics are such that people at times lose their lives from accidents during campaigns, some have their vehicles broken down, some suffer inconveniences of sleeping on bare floors or benches when they are caught up in campaigns. Others stay for long hours without food and water all because of their belief in a project. Then suddenly when the victory comes, all you say as your thank you was to build Berlin walls around yourself? No! Nobody does that and expect to sleep well. It is like bringing home ant-ridden maggot, you must be ready for the visit of lizards.   Politics is interesting to the extent that you make it an all-inclusive and participatory game. Every individual is important in the political process. There are electorate, who make things happen and there are groups who are like conveyor belts to the electorate. Everyone has gotten a role to play and you cannot achieve your political aspiration if you do not factor them into your reckoning. Saying thank you to people who have been useful to you is a virtue that cannot be ignored at any point in time in life. The object of your ‘thank you; has to be fair-minded enough that will give some level of satisfaction to those involved. But to discard benefactors and foot soldiers, who worked tirelessly for your aspiration is a mark of crass ingratitude.   But some people are of the view that Oshiomhole’s interference is the reason for the crisis in the state…   Please get my drift very clearly. I am not Oshiomhole’s image maker or spokesman. He has his aides, who can respond to issues on his behalf, but I am only giving you a perspective from the point of view of what transpired in 2016, when the Obaseki project was consummated. I have had cause to ask people, if Oshiomhole who laboured so hard, dispensed so much energy and toiled all day and night, to make Obaseki a governor does he not have the morality to interfere in what goes on in his home state, who then should have such morality?   People just talk from selfish binoculars because of the perks from the governor’s table. The other day, I was listening to one turncoat politician, called Charles Idahosa, who is largely jobless, but for the Railway Board he was given recently, running all manner of negative commentaries about Oshiomhole. I just laughed. This same Comrade had to reconcile him with Obaseki in late 2017, when he publicly complained of being abandoned by the Governor. Now that he has been rehabilitated sort of, you can see his sudden 360 degree about turn.   You can see the tactlessness. You can see the emptiness. You can imagine the dubiety of persons, the pretentiousness and deceit that pervades the inner sanctuary of politics.  I won’t be surprised if tomorrow you see him turn against Obaseki if the tide swings in the opposite direction. He is one of those characters who move in the direction of his stomach. It is unfortunate to have stomach infrastructure politicians everywhere.  People also talked about Governor Obaseki being very supportive at some point when Comrade Oshiomhole was seeking for election. They talked about how he raised money and all that. Don’t you think, presenting him in 2016 was like payback time?   No matter how small anybody’s contribution is, I am not in the habit of dismissing help or assistance in whatever form. To that extent, he was able to utilise the fund raising ceremonies to raise some fund, even though at the end of the day, what was realised in both Lagos and Abuja events was not up to what was used to organise the events ab initio. The Abuja fund raising at Transcorp Hilton Hotel was a total flop, loud but no money. Oshiomhole’s personal contacts saved the situation. If you ask those people who claim to provide funds for Oshiomhole’s election to mention how much, you will be shocked. The real donors do not make noise.  The truth of the matter was that, when Oshiomhole saw that it was increasingly becoming difficult to sell Obaseki’s candidacy, he had to deploy the tactics of saying Obaseki has been the brain behind his own success. He was ready to clone Obaseki in his own image for people to see another Oshiomhole in Obaseki. All those people that Obaseki calls thugs and touts today were all foot soldiers during the period. Obaseki worshipped them, visited their homes to solicit for their support, and in return they too helped in mobilisation and canvassing for votes. No sooner he won than he immediately abandoned them. Who does that?  No matter what, you need to promote politics of inclusion rather than exclusion. There is every role for the good, the bad and the ugly in the political game. Telling people to go to hell because you are now the Governor and running your own small colony of friends is a mark of deliberate ingratitude. I say this with all due sense of responsibility. I don’t know how to be economical with the truth. I owe it a responsibility to speak truth to power no matter how bitter than to massage your ego to curry favour. I do not shy away from telling Oshiomhole and Obaseki the blunt truth at any point in time. It is what I owe any of my friends.  What message do you have for the political actors in the state in view of the current realities?  My advice is simple. People should sheath their sword in the larger interest of the state. The governor has the higher responsibility to do so because he is the one looking for re-election as governor and not Oshiomhole. I expect the opposition PDP, where I rightly belong to harvest the gains of this fight, so that it would serve as a lesson to them in future. We have lost a major player in the PDP family in Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, but we can get over that if we are able to galvanise our members and present a cohesive force in the build up to the 2020 gubernatorial election. The time to start doing that is now. APC must be punished for taking Edo people for a ride.