 …as S’ West accuses Secondus of treating it as Pariah   •Accusers are agents of opposition –National chairman   A part from serving governors who are not pleased with the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, the South West zone of the party has joined the fray, accusing the man believed of fostering a South South agenda of treating the zone as a pariah.  Sources with the party, who spoke with Sunday Telegraph, said the man has problems with people in the party.  “There are some people who believe that the party has not benefited much since Secondus became the Chairman. A number of persons see him as looking at the South South agenda without looking at the larger interest of the party,” said a highly placed member of the party who confided in the weekly.  He said: “A number of persons see him as looking at the South South agenda without looking at the larger interest of the party. Most Yoruba people in the party feel that they are not being carried along as they are treating them like pariahs.  “But for the fact that Oyo State is controlled by the Party, that would have been the end of PDP in the South West. There was a time that only APC existed in the South West. Yet APC did not treat South West like a pariah. That is why they are not forceful about turning around the fortunes of the party.”  Also, our source said that the party has failed to provide the needed opposition to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which it lost to in 2015. “Since then, it is yet to recover from it. This has sent it into comma. “The major problem with PDP is lack of foresight and commitment to the cause of the party. No party prepares for defeat even in advanced democracy. After defeat, you go back to the drawing board to re appraise your party and rebuild your party. “There has not been any attempt to rebuild the party since it lost in 2015. It is not about 2019, but what has happened since 2015. There is a disconnect with the people.  “While the majority of the people are disenchanted with the party, they do not seem to be connected with the people. They are still carrying on as if nothing has happened. Unfortunately most of those who should give teeth to the party have crossed over to the APC to the extent that those who were in charge when Jonathan was president, who fought and lost elections, where are they today including the chairman of the party then?  “Are they not in APC? In most of the states where the PDP held sway like Kogi for instance, they would have taken out Bello without any fight, but they were unable to due to infighting. You cannot fight over a cake that you have not won. That was why they lost Osun too. You have not won; you were fighting on who gets what.  “Unlike APC where infighting breaks after they have won election, you are fighting over who gets what even before the election. That is why people like OGD left the party. Some people felt disenchanted. No one knows the agenda of Wike. He is building a fiefdom round himself, he is behaving like the leader of the party.  “The verdict of the Supreme Court has further deepened the crisis in the party and its waning connection with the people,” said the aggrieved party member  However, speaking through his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi, Secondus said the allegation was not true; but was a fiction of the imaginations of a faceless group.  Abonyi, who made the position of his principal known in a response to Sunday Telegraph inquiries, said the “PDP is guided by rules and not by ambition of individuals”.  He said: “After the general election, the party’s highest body – the National Executive Committee (NEC), met thrice and resolved to push their case at the tribunal  up to the Supreme Court and until after that before review of the election.  “Just last week the Supreme Court delivered their verdict and the next thing was that PDP forces are after Secondus.  “The truth which is incontrovertible is that PDP is deeply engrossed in  getting victory in two states of Bayelsa and Kogi by November 16, PDP governors have not even met since the Supreme Court verdict and they are involved in election preparations in these two states but your faceless source who are likely APC agents says to you that Secondus is pushing agenda.  “Secondus met 11 PDP controlled states, today they are 16 and to the so-called members this is not a record. If PDP is not in power today it’s not that majority of voters were not mobilized to vote for PDP, it’s because the ruling party truncated all democratic structures to be in power.  “When we finish Bayelsa and Kogi gubernatorial polls, the party will return to its highest body to get approval for the next step.  “Very soon you will discover that your faceless sources are agents by the next political move they make.  “Secondus is touched by the situation in the country where a ruling party after four years is confirming through one of their ministers that over 90 million of her citizens are living in extreme poverty, yet they are more concerned with 2023 – is that not the height of insensitivity?”