 Former Governor of Niger State, Dr. Muazu Babangida Aliyu has again asked his successor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello to account for the N1.4 billion set aside in an “escrow account” for the construction of the Minna International 5-star hotel.   This is coming barely two weeks after the former governor raised the issue of $181million Islamic Development Bank loan which he facilitated for the dualization of the Minna-Bida Road.  He made the disclosure while speaking to journalists on Tuesday as part of activities to mark his 64th birthday in Minna, that he left the money in what he called an “escrow account” of the state.  According to him: “The N1.4 billion was left in the escrow account and was for the payment of the contractor when the job had reached a certain level.  “To my surprise, the contractor was invited by this government and given the whole amount, after two months he (contractor) disappeared from site and has not returned to finish the job.   “Am I to be held responsible? The government that invited and paid the contractor should be asked to account for the money.”  Furthermore, Dr Aliyu maintained that the vexed $181million was secured during the twilight of his government and must also be accounted for.   Accordingly, he said: “I negotiated and secured the approval for the $181million Industrial Development Bank (IDB) loan. The facility is not only for the dualization of the Minna-Bida Road, the other component of the loan was the construction of a Bilingual Language Centre in Minna; we presented five items before the IDB team only two were picked.   “I went to Jeddah to negotiate for the loan with some of my officials then, some of them are still part and parcel of this APC government. He, (Governor Sani Bello) can cross check from these people.   “The issue on the ground is not about EFCC or ICPC; let the government come out clean that it has not collected the money.” As part of efforts to clarify allegations made by former Governor Mu'azu Babangida Aliyu, the Governor of Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has invited the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to wade into the  $181 million Islamic Development Bank (IDP) loan saga. The governor said the investigation would help… In "News" Determined to clarify allegations laid by former Niger State governor, Mu'azu Babangida Aliyu, about the $181 million Islamic Development Bank (IDP) loan saga in the state, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello yesterday invited the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to wade into the matter. The governor said the investigation would… In "News" ‘Your claim is baseless’- Gov Sani Bello tells predecessor Former Governor of  State Niger, Dr Muazu Babangida Aliyu has called on the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Government in Niger State to account for the $181million accessed Islamic loan he applied for in Jedda-Saudi Arabia for the construction of the Minna-Bida… In "Politics"