Emefiele woos Canadian investors  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has vowed to sustain implementation of the Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) of 65 per cent by end of December to raise the domestic loan bar. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, restated the bank’s commitment in a paper presentation titled “Nigeria’s Macroeconomic Outlook – what the Canadian investor needs to Know” at the 2nd Nigeria-Canada Investment Summit which held yesterday in Abuja . Itemizing investment opportunities embedded in Nigeria which Canadian investors can tap into, including various policy reform initiatives of the CBN, Emefiele urged Canadian investors to work with Nigeria to harness from immense gains available in the country. He said: “We will continue to compel banks to undertake their statutory licensed roles of financial intermediation. In this regard, the recently announced policy to raise the domestic loan-deposit ratio from 57 per cent to 60 per cent by end-September and to 65 per cent by end-December 2019 would be sustained, intensified and resolutely implemented. This we believe will help to support greater growth and improved investment into the Nigerian economy. I am optimistic that our friends from Canada will work with us in leveraging their strengths towards harnessing some of the immense gains available in the Nigerian market, which will be mutually beneficially for both nations”. He said the Nigerian economy is on the path of recovery following various reforms initiated by the government. “The Federal Government has made strides with institutional and governance reforms, including implementation of the Integrated Financial Management and Information 37 System and the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System. The enactment of the Secured Transactions in Movable Assets Act 2017 and the establishment of the National Collateral Registry have institutionalized and widened coverage of collateral to stimulate lending to small and medium enterprises and improve access to credits,” the CBN Governor said. He stated that with over 185 million people, Nigeria is Africa’s most populous country as well as its largest economy, followed by South Africa and Egypt, adding that the country also accounts for 47 5 percent of West Africa’s population and over 65 percent of the GDP of ECOWAS. “Nigeria therefore serves as a significant gateway for investors seeking to enter the West African market. As a nation, Nigeria is blessed with abundant natural resources. It is the world’s 6th largest producer of crude oil, Africa’s largest oil exporter, and it has the largest natural gas reserves on the continent. “In terms of solid minerals, Nigeria has over 34 minerals that can be produced in large commercial quantities, such as Iron Ore, Coal, Lead/Zinc, Bitumen, Gold, Limestone and Barite.”