The Supreme Court yesterday gave its reason for dismissing the appeal filed by the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, wherein he challenged the judgement of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, which upheld President Muhammadu Buhari’s election. The apex court stressed that Buhari was eminently qualified to contest the election contrary to the submission of Atiku. In a unanimous judgment prepared by the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed, but read by Justice John Okoro, the Supreme Court said the qualifications for a person seeking to contest the position of the President of Nigeria were clearly stated in Section 131 of Constitution. The court held that President Buhari was eminently qualified having met the requirements stipulated in Section 131 (d) of the constitution that provides that an aspirant to the position of President should be educated to the secondary school level or primary six and had served in the public service for 10 years and attended training, with ability to read and write in English Language and any other qualifications acceptable to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). It further held that Buhari’s primary school certificate, certified copy of his Canbridge certificate, certified copy of his West African School Certificate (WASC), his group photograph of Katsina Secondary School and commendation letter from the Commandant of US War College and his long service in public service; two years of which he served as military Head of State and four years as the President, had suffice for the qualification requirements. It further held that the provisions be accorded its ordinary meaning, adding that an aspirant who possessed any of the qualifications stipulated in the section suffice. The apex court also held that neither the constitution nor the Electoral Act requires the respondent to attach certificate to INEC nomination form CF 001. On the variation in the name between Mohammed Buhari as contained in the certificates and Muhammadu Buhari, which he presently bears, the court agreed with the finding of the lower court that the names referred to the same person and resolved issues one and two in favour of Buhari. On issue three, which dealt with whether Buhari scored the lawful votes cast at the election, the court also agreed with the findings of the lower court that the fact obtained from ‘www.fact don’t lie.ng website’ cannot be relied upon as it does not belong to INEC. It held that the lower court was right to have rejected the votes obtained from the website, which formed the case of the appellants. “I am satisfied with the findings of the lower court, which did not attach any probative value on the evidences of PW 59 and PW 60. This issue is resolve in favour of the respondent,” the court held. On issue four that the election was not in compliance with the Electoral Act, the Supreme Court said that the appellant failed to call witnesses that actually witnessed the election. “The appellants only called five poll agents as witness across the country with over 250,000 polling units. “The appellant also failed to tender the voter register. They tendered and dumped voluminous documents on court without calling the makers of the said documents to speak to the documents,” the court held. Justice Mohammed also held that the lower court was right not to have attached any probative value on the documents that was tendered from the bar. “It is not the duty of the justices to speculate or fish out what the documents were all about,” he added. The court further held that from the totality of the evidence and exhibits, the appellants could not prove the monumental allegations of corrupt practice. The issue was also resolved against the appellants. On issue five, which questioned the lower court admission of Buhari’s photocopy examination result as exhibit, when the lawyer through which they were tendered was not the makers, the court held that the documents were properly admitted and witnesses testified on them. Meanwhile, neither the appellants, nor his counsel were present in court while Dr. Alex Izinyon (SAN), who led President Buhari defence team had earlier sought to know whether the court sent them hearing notice. Justice John Okoro confirmed that the appellants were served with hearing notice on Wednesday. He added that the court would go ahead to give its reasons for the decision despite the appellants’ absence.