B arring any unforeseen circumstance, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will this Saturday conduct governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states.The two elections will determine those who govern the states in the next four years.   A total of 2,375,136 voters would elect the governors in the two states. The breakdown of the figure showed that Kogi State has a total of 1,485,828 voters while Bayelsa State has 889,308 voters.   The election would be conducted in eight local government areas of Bayelsa State, 105 registration areas and 1,804 polling units.   In Kogi, the election would take place in 21 LGAs, 239 registration areas and 2,548 polling units.     INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at a quarterly meeting with civil society organisations (CSOs) and the media, said the figures were the number of voters who collected their permanent voters’ cards (PVCs) as at September 30.   Also, he said that 45 political parties are contesting in Bayelsa State (42 male and 3 female) and 23 in Kogi (21 male and 2 female) will be on the ballot.  At another forum, Yakubu said the two elections would cost a sum of N2.7 billion.   There is no doubt that like most elections in the country, all the political parties involved in the elections in the states have sharpened their knives and girded their loins in preparation for a war for what ordinarily is an ordinary civic exercise.   That is a result of the do-or-die attitude Nigerians have developed for elections and the winner-takes-all mentality that has become our politics. Those account for the fierce battle the elections in Kogi and Bayelsa would be this Saturday.   In Kogi, for instance, the state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, would be seeking for a second term in office. As with Bayelsa, the election would be between him and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Musa Wada, a younger brother to the man Bello ousted, Idris Wada. Bello for sure, would not want to be disgraced out of office, particularly considering the ethnic cards that dominate Kogi politics.   He is Igbira, in a state the Igala, the dominant ethnic group, see as their own. Incidentally, Wada is Igala. That makes the battle an expected tough one. Although the election would be among 23 parties, there is no doubt that it is a straight fight between Bello and Wada.   It is the same case in Bayelsa, where the incumbent governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson, would want to install his party man, Senator Diri Duoye, as his successor. The main challenger is David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress (APC).   Considering the dynamics of Bayelsa politics, the manner Duoye was chosen by Dickson and the friction between the outgoing governor and some fellow PDP members in the state, the battle in Bayelsa would be no less fierce. Add to the mix, the interest of the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timi Sylva, the stage is set for a big battle.   Already, the two main political parties are flexing their muscles, talking tough and promising to win the election at all cost. In Bayelsa State, during the last elections in February and March this year, we cannot forget the violence that attended the exercise, with many killed, manhandled and maimed in the presidential and legislative elections. We anticipate that the governorship election, if not well managed, could be more volatile.   That is why we think that INEC and security agencies need to be on top of their game for the two elections. We are aware that being the only two elections on that day, it is not difficult for security agencies to deploy adequate number of men and material to arrest any untoward development.  The PDP had last week accused INEC of deploying National Commissioners and Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) with questionable character for the elections. The party said it has a due diligence report on each of the commissioners.   The APC on its own accused the PDP of not planning for a credible election in those states. The APC said the PDP would prefer to compromise the security agents and electoral officials than having electoral process that was credible.   One thing is certain. The stakes are high in both states for the elections. But we are fully convinced that it is only an election to elect the governors of the states, not war. Whoever emerges winner in each state would be expected to advance the fortunes of the state for the good of the people.   That is why we believe that lead actors in the election, from politicians to INEC, security agencies to voters, would conduct themselves in ways that would only help the growth of Nigeria’s democracy.   For INEC, we believe that it remains and would remain an unbiased umpire, who would conduct the affairs in the best acceptable standards such that anybody who loses the election, would be convinced he lost fairly.   We also implore security agencies to be professional and neutral in their conducts. Theirs is to maintain the peace and ensure that ordinary citizens and voters are protected from the harm’s way. We do not expect them to show loyalty to any political party.   We must, however, warn politicians to conduct themselves with decorum. It is important for all to know, acknowledge and act in a way that show that it is only an election, not war. We object to bloody elections.