President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, signed the amended Deep Offshore Act into law. The President signed the document in London, the United Kingdom (UK) where he is currently on a private visit. Nigeria has been in dispute with International Oil Companies (IOCs) over the Production Sharing Contract agreement which stipulates that whenever crude oil price exceeds $20 at the international market, there will be a review. The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) had recently demanded that the IOCs pay the Federal Government $62 billion for failure to comply with such agreement in the past years. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, in a statement, said Buhari signed the new law that will streamline further transaction in the regard. Buhari said: “Today is an important day for all Nigerians – but particularly the young generation. “Today I signed into law the amended Deep Offshore Act. Nigeria will now receive its fair, rightful and equitable share of income from our own natural resources for the first time since 2003. “In that year oil prices began a steep increase to double – and at times – triple over the following decade. “All this time Nigeria has failed to secure its equitable share of the proceeds of oil production, for all attempts to amend the law on the distribution of income have failed. That is, until today. “Rapid reductions in the cost of exploration, extraction and maintenance of oil fields had occurred over these 25 years, at the same time as sales prices have risen. “A combination of complicity by Nigerian politicians and feet-dragging by oil companies has, for more than a quarter-century, conspired to keep taxes to the barest minimum above $20 per barrel – even as now the price is some three times the value. “Today this changes. For the first time under our amended law, 200 million Nigerians will start to receive a fair return on the surfeit of resources of our lands. Increased income will allow for new hospitals, schools, infrastructure and jobs. “Today marks a new and beneficial relationship with our oil company partners: one that benefits all – starting with the Nigerian people.” The Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari, was with him when he signed the Act.