The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State worsened yesterday as the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), a splinter group which laid claim to the leadership of the party, said it had suspended Governor Godwin Obaseki, his deputy, Hon. Philip Shuaibu, state party chairman, Anslem Ojezua, as well as the Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Osarodion Ogie. Their suspension came 24 hours after the state party executive led by Ojezua suspended the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for allegedly fuelling the crisis in the state chapter of the party. The factional group, led by Col. David Imuse, revoked the suspension of the state secretary, Lawrence Okah, saying his purported and subsequent removal from office by Ojezua was a nullity. The faction rather passed a vote of implicit confidence in Okah as the Secretary of their own faction of the party. But in swift reaction, Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, described the suspension of his principal and other top government functionaries as a nullity. Osagie stated that EPM cannot suspend any member of the APC in the state, as they were not recognised by the constitution of the party. He argued that the said suspension was a huge joke as any decision taken by members of the EPM is ultra vires, null and void, and not binding on any bona fide member of the APC in Edo State. “The rogue organisation, Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), claiming to have suspended the governor, the deputy governor and the SSG is outlawed by the APC in the state. “This group was operating against the provisions of the constitution of the APC and was proscribed by the party. The group is, therefore, unknown to law. Hence, it cannot take any disciplinary action against any member of the APC. “The kangaroo meeting of the rogue group was held at the residence of Gen. Charles Airhiavbere, who himself has been suspended by the party in the state. So whatever decision that might have been taken by the group is ultra vires, null and void,” Osagie said. In revoking the suspension placed on Oshiomhole, the faction equally claimed that the no confidence vote passed in Oshiomhole was the handiwork of an unknown organ of the APC in Edo State. “This development would have been laughable if it did not have serious implications for the overall integrity of our party. Their decision is unconstitutional and it is unheard of, for a lower level party hierarchy official to want to take disciplinary action against an official or organ on a higher level. We, therefore, pass a vote of implicit confidence in the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole and the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC. “We wish to reiterate our position that Edo APC was plunged in this crisis by the unguarded actions and inflammatory statements by Anselm Ojezua. Thuggery and political violence has spiked and escalated in the pursuit of the second term ambition of Governor Obaseki and his deputy, Shuaibu. “This is exemplified by the various incidents of attack on the Benin residence of the National Chairman, the congregation of thugs on motorbike that were led by Shuaibu to the convocation of Edo University Iyamho, the mayhem that was visited on the political meeting in Owan East LGA. The same pattern repeated at Ikpoba Okha LGA in Hon. Osarobo’s residence. “On 18th June, 2019, members of our party who were elected into the Edo State House of Assembly were violently attacked by armed thugs led by the Chief Security Officer of the governor,” he said. Imuse accused Governor Obaseki of anti-party activities which he said resulted in widespread electoral losses for the APC in Edo South Senatorial District during the 2019 general election. “There is clear and unambiguous evidence by the admission of the governor himself that he actively supported and worked with opposition candidate in areas where his favoured aspirants did not pick the party ticket. This pattern of anti-party activities led to widespread electoral losses in Edo South Senatorial District, including the ward and local government of the governor where we lost. “In the desperate bid of Mr. Obaseki to suppress all forms of perceived opposition and in his determination that no credible opposition emerges in the forthcoming primaries, elected council officials are indiscriminately removed from office with impunity. “In light of the foregoing, it has become obvious that Mr. Obaseki has become a liability to the APC. We can no longer fold our arms and watch him drag our collective political fortunes into the abyss in his desperate bid to destroy the party. The only option is to protect the interest of all stakeholders who have laboured assiduously to build up the party,” he said. Imuse alleged that there have been threats on the lives of members of his faction and urged the Inspector-General of Police and other security agencies to take necessary steps to protect their lives and property which are now at risk. He alleged that since his group decided to salvage the image and future of the APC in Edo State, thugs and hoodlums have been mobilized to hound them in their homes in the dead of the night, while some have been stationed at strategic locations, including the Benin Airport.