For a very long time our security outfits, mainly the police consistently made public statements that flied in the face of reality. What I am alluding too here is the statements made by the men in black whenever a kidnapping case was finally resolved with the abducted person or persons being reunited with his/her/their loved ones. Until recently in virtually all cases, the police would insist that no ransom was paid, and that the case was settled solely due to their tenacious pursuit of the kidnappers, or the sudden ‘benevolence’ of the abductors, who had a change of heart and just decided to free their victims without collecting anything in return.  Incidentally while this public posture had become the order of the day, I’m sure that even the police were also very well aware that most people took such pronouncements with a pinch of salt. I never really understood while they (police) opted to toe this line especially in a country like ours where news (both real and fake) spread like wildfire. Which meant that a victim of a “successfully” concluded kidnap situation would immediately have told family members, friends and colleagues what they did in order to get their loved one back safely. And that news would now spread across the length and breadth of the land, especially in this age of social media. Of course, the “bad boys” would also be privy to such information, (even though they would also get the news first hand from fellow members of the underworld), and while the police were busy giving the impression that there was nothing to be made from carrying out such dastardly actions, they would know it was not true.  Armed with such knowledge, one does not need to be told that what would follow would be an explosion of more people going into the “business” of kidnapping for the simple reason because it was so lucrative and in Nigeria where money is “king” it would bound to attract the many of the army of unemployed to the fold. If the police were living in a world of denial all that was to change some two years ago when more than 20 security operatives stormed the Fred Shoboyejo home of vicious kidnapper and robber, Chukwudubem Onwuamadike – aka Evans, less than a month after the police announced a N30 million bounty in return for information leading to his arrest.  For at least seven years prior to this, Evans had co-ordinated bank robberies across Oyo, Port Harcourt and Abia, as well as numerous high-profile kidnaps whose ransoms amount to hundreds of millions of naira. Now tell me in all honesty, who would not want to live the flamboyant life style of the kidnapper, who lived amongst the affluent in the upscale area of Magodo in Lagos? Pictures of the mansion he was living in and what he had inside coupled with his fleet of cars is the stuff millions of us will dream about but might never ever achieve throughout our lifetime. But here was a young Nigerian who hardly went to school and yet was able to live a very good life not based on his education ability but through anti-social activities in the name of kidnapping.   An unfortunate premise that perhaps crime does pay after all if abducting people is so lucrative why not join the “business” after all the rewards are usually instant since there are a lot of “chips” to be cashed in for a quick riches beyond the wildest imaginations.  But back to my original path, perhaps had the police acknowledge this scourge from the get go rather than basking in selfdenial maybe the problem would not have assumed such alarming dimensions across the length and breadth of the country because they (police) would have drawn the necessary attention to it with possible support from government. However, that opportunity has been lost and the police will now have to now come up with fresh strategies to mitigate the problem, which the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike recently pointed out the main reason for its proliferation – the commercialisation of kidnapping!  Wike, who made this remark on Monday during a courtesy visit by the Rotary International District 9141, to the Government House in Port Harcourt, explained that since kidnapping had become business, it could only be reduced to the barest minimum. He said: “It is now impossible to stop kidnapping in Nigeria; it (kidnapping) is now a business. It has been commercialised.  “It is now a major business. Everyone must partner with the government to ensure that we reduce it to the barest minimum. But it cannot be totally eradicated.” He said that those involved in kidnapping from security reports ranged from 16 to 22 years in age. “Look at what is happening across the country. Kidnapping has taken over all states. When it started here, it was politicised. But today, it is negatively affecting all states of the federation. “A few days ago, a Court of Appeal judge was kidnapped in Benin. Before that, a Federal High Court judge was kidnapped. All of us must work together to stop this scourge,” he said. In a previous write up titled: “Crime fighting: Beyond operational names”, published on June 8, 2019, I pointed out how the US federal crime agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) was set up to help the nation tackle crime headlong across the land when it was getting out of hand.  This was the situation at the turn of the 19th Century, prompting the government of then President Theodore Roosevelt decided to set up the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on July 26, 1908 with its main goals “to protect and defend the United States, to uphold and enforce the criminal laws of the United States, and to provide leadership and criminal justice services to federal, state, municipal, and international agencies and partners.” Of course while the FBI has not been able to completely eradicate all federal crimes in the US, it has gone a long way in making the “bad guys” think twice before carrying out their nefarious activities. Although the FBI has also been given all the necessary manpower, tools and equipment needed in order to carry out their task in keeping the people safe, their main weapon is still good old intelligence.  The Nigeria Police Force used to be outstanding in this regard with their CID operatives, who seemed omnipotent, able to infiltrate anywhere in their quest to frustrate the bad guys.  This is an area I believe they will again need to devout a lot of time and energy on because without good intelligence there is virtually nothing even the world’s best mobilised and equipped police force can do. Thus unless and until the NPF can come to grips with this very important aspect then the chickens will continue to come home to roost with tones of money made from kidnapping.