…dismisses PDP’s stand on executive/legislature rapport  One of President Muhammadu Buhari’s support groups, Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), has said that the decision of the President not to run for a third term in office is sacrosanct and irreversible. The group, therefore, warned those pushing the agenda to respect Buhari and back off, assuring that the President as a man of integrity, will keep his words. Buhari, last Friday, ruled out the possibility of changing the country’s constitution to seek a third term in office. The President, who spoke at the National Executive Committee (NEC) of his party – All Progressives Congress (APC), said: “I’m not going to make the mistake of attempting a third term.” Despite his declaration, some individuals are however pushing for an amendment of the constitution to pave the way for the President, who is serving a second term to contest the 2023 election and perhaps have a third term. But, BMO, in a statement signed by its chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and secretary, Cassidy Madueke, said it believes that the President’s declaration should finally put the matter to rest. The group said: “We want to restate that President Muhammadu Buhari, as an acclaimed democrat and a man of integrity, will keep his words, especially in a situation, where he made reference that he swore by the Holy Book to abide by the constitution, which stipulates only two terms of four years for any incumbent president. “We want to challenge the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to show Nigerians evidence of any of their past presidents, who kept faith with Nigerians and abided fully with the constitution as it relates to the constitutional terms of office. “It is important to acknowledge that President Buhari’s major concern is to rebuild the dilapidated infrastructure in the country, eradicate corruption and fight insecurity, thereby bequeathing a country that works for all citizens.” The group further said that it believes that with the bold declaration of the President not to seek for a third term Nigerians should ignore calls for the elongation as it will never materialise. “As a man of integrity he will not renege on his promise, and neither will he bastardise the Nigerian constitution for personal gains, no matter the pressure. “We are confident that with the measures already put in place by the Buhari administration, Nigeria is already well-positioned for development, which will lead to job creation, economic growth and rapid socio-political development of the country. “Definitely third term is not on the agenda of the President as it runs contrary to the oath of office he has sworn to. “We want to reassure Nigerians that President Muhammadu Buhari remains focussed in improving the lives of ordinary Nigerians by embarking on programmes and projects that will positively impact on Nigerians,” BMO said. In another development, BMO expressed worry over what it described as PDP’s inability to appreciate executive/legislature rapport, saying only a rabble-rouser that has little or no understanding of good governance would describe the relationship between the executive and the legislature as adversarial. Noting that the 9th National Assembly has been working in line with the developmental aspirations of the Nigerian people, the group said: “We are shocked that PDP, a party that had the benefit of governing the country for 16 years, would want the federal legislature, where the APC has an absolute majority to be at odds with President Buhari.”