T he people of Tafawa and Bogoro communities in Bauchi state have cried with a loud voice to government, council of traditional rulers and other relevant stakeholders to hasten the implementation of the approved and gazette Zaar chiefdom as recommended by various committees and commissions.  Speaking at this year Zaar annual festival, National President Zaar Development Association (ZDA) worldwide Engineer Isuwa Galla said that Zaar chiefdom is one of the major problem facing them as a  community.  According to him, “lack of commitment by government, traditional rulers and other stakeholders to complete the implementation of the approved and gazette Zaar  (Sayawa)  chiefdom  and the possible handing over of the staff of office to the Zaar people as recommended by various committees and commission is one of the major problem of the Zaar community.”   He explained that, the agitation of Zaar people in the two local government areas of Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro to have a chiefdom of their own, started long ago before they were born but wonder why the delay in giving their Paramount leader a recognition by giving a staff of office since it has been approved and gazetted. The President said, “may I seek the indulgence of this people oriented government to please do the needful as the Zaar people are counting on it for this same course and promise to be law abiding in its waiting days.”   Isuwa Galla said that lemp zaar is a time when the Zaar nation’s converse in Pusji (Tafawa Balewa) to thank God for a bountiful harvest and to also appreciates the hand of God over the land while calling on government to hasten the actualization of Zaar chiefdom to help them preserve their language and culture. He pointed out that they gathered to also show case their rich culture and art to the world hoping that the annual Lemp Zaar would be converted by government into a national festival to preserve minority tribes and their cultures I the northern Nigeria.   “May I aptly appreciate the grand Commander in chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari, our Executive Governor Senator Bala Mohammed, Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadeeq Abubakar, and the minister of Education Malam Adamu Adamu and our most illustrious son Professor Suleiman Bogoro the Executive Secretary of Tetfund for dimming it fit to site Air Force University in Tafawa Balewa. Indeed, our joy knows no bounds for this development stride. It would no doubt boost employment and development levels in our land, state and Nigeria as a whole. We are ever ready and committed to support its full takeoff,” he said.   Speaking, at the annual festival, Bauchi State Governor Senator Bala Mohammed advised other tribes in the state to emulate Sayawa community in culture and language preservation.  Represented by the Speaker Bauchi State House of Assembly Honorable Yakubu Suleman culture is a total way of life adding that celebrating cultural festival help communities to show case their heritage and traditions. “Whoever abandoned his culture has abandoned his original way of life and his life will be tasteless. I commend the Sayawa for preserving their culture in various ways including Lemp Zaar annual festival.  Bala Mohammed further urged the Sayawa people to use the annual festival in preaching the gospel of peace and brotherhood among all tribes and religions in the state. He said the event should not be restricted to cultural dances and music but should be a platform for discussion and sober reflection on the status of Sayawa in term of development, economy, education and youths’ empowerment. In her remarks, the first lady of Bauchi State Hajiya Aisha Bala Mohammed urged Sayawa community and other tribes in the state to continue to live in peace and harmony assuring that government would be fair to all tribes I the state.   Speaking to our correspondent at the event, Bogoro Local Government Committee Care taker Chairman Mr. Iliya Habila, a son of the soil said the annual event was set aside specially to thank God express their gratitude to Almighty God for the protection, guidance and preservation throughout the farming season and provision of bountiful harvest.  He said the annual cultural festival is known as lemp-zaar which brought all the Sayawa together from Diaspora and within to celebrate and share pleasantries together with families, friends and reunite for the future.                      His message at this year’s event include, calls on all the tribes around and those living in the area to unite together tolerate each other despite religious differences and Forge ahead for better development in the land. Mr. Iliya Habila a renowned Journalists recalls that in the past the celebration was done by their fathers who were known Christians or Muslims but since they people embrace religion they are doing it in a different way to glorify God even though their fathers do it to unknown God. The Caretaker Chairman,  described the Sayawa people as law abiding citizens, humble, respectful to both traditional and constituted authorities ‎and are well known for their hospital to all kinds of people “they are well informed in all fields of endeavors, with a common saying that, there are no illiterate in Sayawa land which makes them rank second to none in the state.   “We have every reason to thank God, because God has elevated sons and daughters of this land to high places in Nigeria one of them is myself, Late Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa of Blessed memory and many other in Army, Civil servants business men too numerous to mention.”  The people of Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro local Government Area are located in the southern part of Bauchi State migrated from the former Kanem+Borno empire presences in Ngazargamu in present Yobe state Nigeria and settle where they are today. The Sayawa’who are predominantly Christians by faith, farmers by occupation and generally industrious are also spread across the country in large proportion especially in states like Kaduna, Taraba, Adamawa Borno, Yobe, Kogi, Lagos, Kwara, Maiduri and Nassarawa States while some fraction of them can be found in Cameron, Chad and Ghana. The two Local governments share boundaries with Kanam, Mangu, Barkin Ladi, Panshin and Kanke in Jos south and North of Plateau state. The Zaar people who are popularly addressed by the Hausa and friends as Sayawa celebrate their annual cultural festival every 1st November every year  in a unique and district way giving thanks to God for bountiful harvests and good health.   This year’s festival attracts eminent Nigerians who include, Tetfund Executive Secretary Professor Suleiman Eliars Bogoro, Speaker Bauchi State House of Assembly, Ambassador David Bala Gambar, Chief SD Gani former deputy Governor Taraba State, Dr. Biteus Pogu President Middle belt forum and General Marcus Take (Rt).  In his vote of thanks,  the chief host of the festival, the Gung Zaar Select Air Commodore Ishaku Komo said that Zaar people otherwise known as Sayawa are located in two local governments of Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro. He said his people are predominately farmers by occupation and industrious people while willing to welcome guest and visitors at any time.   According to him the community have unique distinct and we’ll developed culture, traditional, religion and customary as well as defined social norms that stand the test of time.