 F or about two years, the fate of over 800 Inspectors promoted to Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) is still hanging the balance. The ASPs have not been confirmed so are unable to get salaries and entitlements that come with their promotion. While some have died, others have retired and have no money to pack out of the barracks. Others are also nearing retirement. They urged the Chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC), Mr. Musiliu Smith, a former Inspector-General of Police (IG), to ratify their promotion, so that they can be ahead of their juniors in the Force. Some of the policemen said they were promoted in 2017 and were immediately on one star, but a confirmation of their promotion by Smith would have given them double stars (step two). Since their promotion, two sets of Inspector were promoted to ASP in 2018 and 2019, leaving the 2017 at par with their juniors. They argued that the most painful aspect of the whole drama was that most of their colleagues, had retired while waiting for Smith to ratify their promotion. The policemen, who wish to remain anonymous, claimed that their eight months’ salary arrears were pending. “We were promoted on May 8, 2017. Those of us promoted in 2017 were promoted from the rank of Inspector to ASP. We were supposed to be confirmed on May 8, 2019, but till date we have not been confirmed. We’re losing seniority and payment of our arrears,” one of them said. The policemen said that during their investigation, they found out the Force Secretary had forwarded their documents to Smith since June 2019, but he was yet signed them. “It’s just his signature to confirm our promotion, but he has not done it. We believe that it is because of the issue he is having with the IG, Mohammed Adamu. “So many of policemen in our set have retired on one star; this means it will affect their pension and retirement benefits. They are likely going to earn less than officers that might later get two stars,” the ASPs said. They also disclosed that after their promotion in 2017, their new salary structure was not adhered to for eight months. When they finally received their first new salary, it was without the eight months arrears. The eight months’ salary, for each of them, is N480,000. The officers disclosed that when they carried out preliminary investigation to Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information (IPPIS) office in Abuja, they were charged to go and meet the officer in charge of budget at the Force Headquarters, Abuja.