 L awyers under the auspices of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Benin branch, yesterday called for a three-day boycott of all court sittings across Edo State, over the kidnap of Justice Chioma Nwosu-Iheme. This was as the police said yesterday that they were making progress in their efforts to free Nwosu-Iheme of the Appeal Court, Benin. Chairman of the NBA Benin branch,   Prince Collins Ogiegbean stated this during a press conference held yesterday in Benin the state capital. The kidnapped judge has spent about seven days in the den of her captors. She was abducted on October 30 on the Benin-Asaba Highway while was going from Benin to her home in Imo State. The abductors also shot dead her police orderly, an inspector. The NBA Chairman, Prince Collins Ogiegbean, said the three-day boycott “takes effect today (Wednesday) to end on Friday”. Ogiegbean said if the abducted judge still remained in captivity, lawyers would have no option than to extend the boycott. The NBA also set up a task force to ensure compliance within all courts within Benin jurisdiction. The task force is headed by Mr. Douglas Ogbankwa would liaise with chairmen of other branches to monitor as well as ensure total compliance. Ogiegbean, who was flanked by the immediate past Chairman of Ikeja branch of NBA, Mr. Adesina Ogunlana, and the National Assistant Publicity Secretary of NBA, Mr. Habeeb Lawal, called on the state government and security agencies to be alive to their responsibilities to ensure the protection of lives and property, which according to him, “remain the primary responsibility of government”. He said: “We are calling on the state government and heads of security agencies to live up to their billings. Face the task squarely in protecting lives and property and to go the extra mile to see that Justice Chioma Iheme-Nwosu is rescued and that this should be the last time such will happen. “It offends our senses as persons living in a society such as ours. If the orderly of a justice can be shot and the justice taken away in broad daylight and taken away, what happens to those of us who do not have security around us?” Meanwhile, the state Commissioner of Police, Danmallam Muhammed, said the command was working with neighbouring commands and other sister security agencies towards ensuring safe rescue of Justice Nwosu-Iheme. He said: “We are making some progress but we are being careful so that we don’t jeopardise her life and also protect the family. “We are working with neighbouring commands. Sister agencies are also working with us to make sure she regains her freedom. We are being careful in our operations and I cannot reveal everything we are doing but we are not resting” However, a source close to the family of the judge disclosed yesterday that the kidnappers had opened communications with them. The source said the abductors were demanding unspecified millions of naira.