She is one of the best special athletes Nigeria has ever produced; she is a recipient of Member of the Order of Niger and a winner of Saturday Telegraph Sports Personality of the Year 2018, Esther Onyema, in this interview with AJIBADE OLUSESAN, says reaching the top of her career was a difficult journey.  Many Nigerians know you as world, Commonwealth, African and of course national champion, but they want to know how you started your career? There were lots of challenges before I started doing the sport but the way I started was funny. I went to a birthday party; one of my friend’s birthday party who now live in London; So, when I got to the party, she said ‘ look at your shoulders, you have very nice shoulders, your hands are okay and I believe you can do powerlifting;. I asked her “what is powerlifting?” So she now demonstrated it for me, after the demonstration she asked me to come to the stadium the next day, that’s how we started. When I started it was like a joke. One thing about anything in life is determination, I love the game and I really put all my efforts because I saw they were doing well and travelling with it. So I said “wow, let me train and become one of them”. So that’s how it started. I started training for about five months and two weeks, that’s how I made it to the national team. I love the game with passion, it’s not because of anything, I love the game, you know, putting all your efforts. Before you started the game, what were you thinking of doing or what were you doing? I was in school; so as a student my dad was annoyed, he would always say I’m a special child  and he wanted me to finish secondary school and become somebody in future, but along the line he died so that was how there was nobody to cater for me because I’m from a polygamous home. My mother was just a petty trader and couldn’t sponsor my education. So you actually stopped schooling along the line? Yes, but I finished my secondary school and got admission into UNIBEN, before I started having problems, that was how I dropped out of school to start taking care of my mother with the little I’m getting from the sport. Do you mean if your dad was still around, you probably wouldn’t have ventured into powerlifting? Yes, I would do both together, so there will be comfort for my education. My powerlifting doesn’t disturb me from going to school, it doesn’t disturb me from doing anything, it doesn’t take anything away from me, it’s just after school I’ll go there. When there’s competition I go for the competition, come back and go to school. But there was no support that was why I dropped out of school. If not powerlifting what would you have been doing? I would have been a working class person by now.  What was your first competition like, as you said you trained for five months close to six months, then you went straight to the national team? The year 2000 National Sports Festival was my first tournament; it was in that first competition I became a national athlete, my first outing. That means just six months after you started doing the sports, you attended National Sports Festival; for which  state? Edo State, that’s where I started. So what was your first competition like? My first competition was like wow! When I got there because we were trained for it, there was somebody there before me, the person was an African champion; there were a lot of challenges and they were telling me if you don’t do this, if you don’t that you’ll not be invited for national team. I was putting all my efforts, trying to be the best to come out with flying colours and when the time of the competition came,  I defeated the person who was the African record holder and she ended her career shortly after. From there you went to the national team, so how was your experience with Team Nigeria? There were a lot of challenges there; because it’s different from the way they are training you at home. There are a lot of differences, technical differences. I learnt more, all you need is discipline, when you’re disciplined, you’re good to go. You have attended several international competitions; could you share experience of your  first international tournaments? The international competition was Commonwealth Games 2010 in New Delhi, India; it was like my first time to travel and first time to go for an international competition. In short I was really prepared, I put all my efforts to make sure that I came out the best because anything might happen. Going there, I met athletes from different  countries, made friends, there’s a lot of difference between our training facilities and what I saw there. We left Nigeria on time and on getting there we had to train more before the competition. We were surprised because there were not much facilities here but when we got over there we saw different equipment. When I got there, I was like I’m not going to give up, I’m going to take the medal back to Nigeria and I came home with the gold medal. I left the 2010 Commonwealth Games with a record, I won the gold medal again in  2014 and  another with record in 2018. I was celebrated at the last Games  and was honored as the first woman to win this back-to-back but it wasn’t that easy. Of all the international competitions you have attended, which one was the toughest for you? London 2012, because when I got there I saw these dwarves competing in my class, I was like are these ones males or females because they were mostly looking like men, you could hardly differentiate. I was scared. I have been training and as a captain I wouldn’t like anybody to come and defeat me so I had to go the extra mile to make sure that the record I set there before will work ahead of me and create another record. 2012 wasn’t easy, so many countries, in one category you have about two to three groups, having about 24 people going against you. It was really tough. What would you actually describe as the best moment of your career so far? All the moments of my career I enjoyed; I really enjoy it when we are taken good care of, when we share feelings with friends. Out of all the medals you have won, which one is the most precious to you? There is no medal that’s not special to me because I know I worked for all of them, all of them are special. However, the most special one is the 2018 Commonwealth Games, the year I was honoured as the best female in the world that won the gold medals back-to-back so I was so excited then. Many people doing your sports were not born with physical challenges while  some were born with disabilities; which one was it for you? I was not born with a physical challenge, I had polio; I suffered it as a child. What kind of experience did you have growing up with that challenge? There wasn’t much challenges because my dad was educated; I wasn’t doing anything, I think I started school at the age of 6, my parents were there for me even when I finished my primary school they took me to a boarding school, so they were there for me, no complaints. You  are married and what attracted you to your husband? To me, I take myself just like other human beings because somebody may say this one is physically challenged or so, I don’t run my thought like that. I met my husband during a competition in Calabar. My husband and I were like Romeo and Juliet, and till today we are  still like that. The first time he came I was like I don’t want problems, let’s mind our businesses but  he was so caring, loving and always listened to me. I was asking him what he wanted from me but he later took me to his family, his dad said if you know you’re not going to marry this girl please let her be, don’t break her heart. When you went to his family, was the reception good for you? Yes, in everything in life there are challenges, some people will say yes and some will say no. He is from Lagos, and some of his people were saying out of all the women in the world, it was a physically challenged woman that you want to marry. He said yes, that if we get married no one was going to take care of his wife for him, that I was his choice and I was good for him and at the end of the day everyone will like me. You know there were worries about how we were going to cope, how I would have children and perform my role as a wife. We are all humans, people that are physically fit  might be critically ill inside. Everybody is the same. Before he came, did you suffer some kind of heartbreak from other men? No, nothing like that. Were men actually coming? Wow, men were actually coming, I was only avoiding them because I wanted to be focused, men were really coming but I tried to concentrate on my career. Let me tell you,  even till this moment they are still coming regardless of my status but I am married and that can’t happen. Even when I go out my husband would call me and say “honey, where are you?, Who is there with you?” Laughter! Will you allow any of your kids to go into sports? We can’t force them to do anything, because these days when you’re telling a child this is what you want him to do and his mind isn’t there, what would you do? I love sports but I don’t want them to do sports in Nigeria. Even representing Nigeria… Yes, he can represent Nigeria when he is outside, but doing it here my dear brother, there’s nothing. Was there any time you were approached by another country to represent them? Yes, so many times. Could you share some of the examples? There’s not much, even if you get called upon to represent your country, you decline but because of the love you have for my country. It’s not encouraging at all, I believe with all I have done, all I have achieved, they are supposed to reach for endorsement and deals. They will use you and dump you, it’s not fair. Is your husband a sport person? No. You just mentioned some of the challenges, how best do you think Nigeria can actually take care of special athletes? If they can make provisions for special people not even athletes, for physically challenged people all over, give them some allowances, free scholarships, because you see most of us are educated but there is no work, we need people to speak for us, we need representation, we need it. Like in my area of sport, I’ve seen so many champions dumped in one corner, some are begging and it pains me that these are champions of the world. Do you have regrets that you dropped out of school? Yes, I really have regrets because I’m the eldest in my family and I was the one taking care of my family.