When the Federal Government established the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) through the NIMC Act No. 23 of 2007, the intention was good. The agency’s mandate is to establish, own, operate, maintain and manage the National Identity Database, register persons covered by the Act, assign a unique National Identification Number (NIN) and issue General Multi-Purpose Cards (GMPC) to those who are citizens of Nigeria, as well as others legally residing within the country. But, the stress and hardship Nigerians are currently going through for the enrolment and issuance of the mandatory NIN being issued by the Commission, no doubt, is quite undesirable. Like what takes place in the issuance and collection of other national identities such as the International Passport, Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs), Tax Card and Driving Licence, among others, the process for registration and collection of NIN are such cumbersome and unfriendly. No wonder, therefore, that since the inception of the exercise and despite several years of trying to convince Nigerians to register, only over 37 million Nigerians of the estimated 200 million population, representing less than 20 per cent, according to the NIMC Acting Director-General, Hadiza Dagabana, have so far registered for NIN. The experience of many Nigerians at NIMC designated registration centres in the last few years of the programme has been quite unpalatable, regrettable and somehow disgusting, as people spend days or months without success in getting the cards. For instance, what most Nigerians go through at the Alausa, Lagos NIMC registration centre to collect NIN, in all intent and purpose, is better imagined than experienced. In reality, some people have to leave their homes as early as 5:30a.m. for the centre and, in most cases, may not leave until around 5p.m. That notwithstanding, there is no guarantee of getting NIN that day. Following the inglorious practice at the NIMC centres, many people have resorted gratifying the officials of the Commission to facilitate their capturing in the database. It is sad that NIMC has failed to put in place a functional and workable process that would have made the registration and collection of NIN easy and friendly. What is expected of the Commission is to make the process more flexible and exciting by deploying hi-tech equipment and creating additional NIMC registration centres across the country for Nigerians, irrespective of status, to register and collect their NIN, without being subjected to suffering. It is when this is done that the apathy characterising the entire registration process would be removed and more Nigerians will show interest in the NIN project. Notwithstanding this unfortunate situation, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has made the NIN compulsory for candidates sitting for the 2010 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). The board said: “The JAMB will, during the 2020 registration exercise, use the National Identity Number (NIN) generated after successful registration with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). This includes the capturing of biometric and other necessary details for the registration of all prospective candidates.” This policy of the examination body conducting qualifying examination into higher institutions to make NIN compulsory for candidates, has further demonstrated the precarious nature of the Nigerian system. Ordinarily, one would have expected JAMB to know better in terms of what Nigerians are currently going through in collecting NIN. But for the Board to now make collection of NIN a pre-condition for taking its examination is not a good development. JAMB’s concern should be how to conduct a hitch-free and credible examination without compounding the candidates’ problems by resorting to the use of NIN to cover its failure to capture the candidates’ biometrics ahead of the examination. Though, JAMB said that adequate arrangement had been made with NIMC for prospective candidates to be registered at the examination centres or with its licensed agents, the question, however, is how soundproof the process in ensuring that UTME candidates will not have to wait endlessly at the centres without success given the timeframe for registration for the examination is. In fact, it is not enough for the JAMB Registrar, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, to initiate policies without taking into due consideration the effects such policies would have on Nigerians, which apparently the board had failed to do in this instance. For an important policy such as this that has to do with the future of Nigerian children, it would have been reasonable for JAMB to have been more sensitive and responsive to the nation’s operating environment and in its expanded view concerning its implementation, rather than embarking on the present fire-brigade approach, which tends to spawn hitches and bring the integrity of the system and exercise to question. In as much as we appreciate the deployment of technology for established operations and the need for Nigerians to have their NIN, any policy that concerns the future of our children, especially examinations, JAMB, as a matter of integrity, needs to have test-run the policy for its infallibility at a pilot stage in order ensure a crisis-free operation. That cannot be said of NIN.