The upper chamber of the National Assembly has debunked speculations that the Hate Speech Prohibition Bill currently before it was designed to silence Nigerians and pave way for the launch of the rumoured Third Term Agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari and Islamisation of Nigeria. The clarification came at a media chat yesterday; same day promoters of the bill rose in defence of it and described the controversies trailing it as unnecessary. Acting Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Publicity, Godiya Akwashiki (APC – Nasarawa) said that contrary to the speculations in some quarters, the bill was a private member bill and not a joint effort between the Presidency and National Assembly to advance some ulterior motives. “I want to clarify our position because of what the spokesman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said recently that the bill is a collaboration between the Senate and President Buhari for the purpose of achieving third term agenda. “I am happy the sponsor of the bill is here and he has cleared the air. It is the right of a Senator to sponsor a bill as private bill. The executive arm of government has no hand in this bill. “Even though the Senate can also entertain executive bills, the Hate Speech Bill before the Senate today is a private bill. Mr. President has nothing to do with this issue and this bill has nothing to do with third term agenda or the Islamisation of this country. “As leaders of political parties, we should be mindful of the way we speak and what we say at all times. We should be peace lovers,” he said. Akwashiki said it was wrong to read ulterior motives to the bill at this stage because it had just passed the first reading and its details were yet to be unveiled. According to him, when the bill gets to the second reading stage, all the Senators will have the opportunity to debate the general principles of the bill, look at it section by section, clause by clause to ascertain if it is suitable for passage into law. Sponsor of the bill, Senator Abdullahi Sabi (APC – Niger) said he embarked upon the promotion of the bill for altruistic reasons rather than any sinister motives. He said that the challenge of hate speech was growing by the day as politicians and other Nigerians continued to exploit the fault lines of religion and ethnicity to incite violence against perceived enemies. The uproar over the bill, he said, was the handiwork of armchair critics who have neither sighted nor read the bill to understand its provisions and what it seeks to achieve. Sabi, who admitted that he sponsored the same bill during the 8th Senate, said he could not pursue it to a logical conclusion because the political environment was not suitable for such a bill at that time. This explanation even triggered an altercation between him and some journalists who sought to know further how the bill ended during its first journey through the legislative mill. While some journalists said the bill was thrown out, shut down, expired or died a natural death, the lawmaker who was visibly angry could not accept any of these terms. He explained that the bill was only read for the first time and he did not present it for second reading and debate. According to him, the bill he introduced in the 8th Senate was neither shut down nor killed by anybody, but elapsed with the life of that session. “I was the sponsor of the bill in the 8th Assembly and I can tell you that the bill was neither shut down nor withdrawn. I told you that I read the mood of the time and did not go for a second reading because politics had crept in and the atmosphere was charged. But by the grace of God, I am back and I can tell you that the basic reasons which motivated me to sponsor the bill at that time are still present with us. Nothing has changed. “In fact, if anything, hate speech is increasing by the day and that is why I felt I still believe in the cause and that is why I have introduced the bill again. This time around, I started early so that whatever it is, we will have ample time, devoid of politics, to look at these issues dispassionately, believing that this issue of life is not something you toy with or talk about casually. It is a serious matter because I know that there are people who are victims of this hate speech,” he said. On the arguments that the issue of hate speech had been addressed in existing legislations, Sabi said it was not true, adding that hate speech had assumed a life of its own and cannot be lumped together with offences such as libel, slander and incitement to violence. He also defended the provisions for death by hanging as one of the penalties for hate speech, arguing that the bill before the lawmakers was purely a proposal and subject to passage if the rest 108 lawmakers in the red chamber approve of such provisions. “The death penalty is not definite like some Nigerians are making it seem. In the National Assembly, bills go through legislative processes. The concerns on the death penalty are genuine and will be amended accordingly. “During these processes, amendments are made to fine-tune the bill in meeting with existing realities. Therefore, the hate speech bill will go through these processes to ensure Nigerians get the best out of the proposed bill,” Abdullahi said.