A group, Rivers Network for Positive Change, has condemned the call made by Chief Eze Chukwuwmmeka Eze, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and media consultant to former Transportation Minister, Chibuike Rotimi Amawchi, that the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) should investigate Senator Magnus Abe, for alleged inter-party activities.
The group said Abe had not worked against the party’s interest in any way, alleging that Eze was deliberately spreading falsehood in order to tarnish Abe’s image.
Eze, an outspoken APC chieftain and critique of Abe, had in a statement claimed that over 3,000 APC members in the state, who were said to be loyal to Abe, had on May 29, 2019, formally joined PDP.
Eze added that; “These were party faithful that flanked Senator Magnus Abe when he declared his intention to contest the Rivers State governorship election in Port Harcourt. What is confusing is that Abe waited before joining his group in the PDP after achieving his sinister plot to decimate and ensure that APC did not field candidates in the 2019 general election.”
But Rivers Network for Positive Change, through its Publicity Secretary, Ibezin Green Ogbuleka, also in a statement, distanced Abe from the poor performance of Rivers APC in the general election. Ogbuleka said: “The story of how Rivers APC went on its knees is an open book to all followers of the politics of the state. “Senator Abe has never spoken with saliva in his mouth while expressing his love for APC since he and a myriad of others, including the former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “And his activities and actions bear him out as a committed member, loyal to the party and President Muhammadu Buhari, and do not have any intention to dump the APC for the PDP or any other party for that matter. Abe’s contributions to the party till date cannot be undermined in any way. “Perhaps for the umpteenth time, it should be stated that Senator Abe does not hate Amaechi. Rather he has addressed the former Transportation Minister as the leader of the party in the state on several occasions. “Clearly, Abe and Amaechi know each other better than Eze knows either of the two politicians, who may differ on issues, not trifles or issues of development.