The Police Command in Ondo State on Monday said that it has arrested no fewer than 47 suspects for various criminal offences from January till date.
The Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Mr Undie Adie, stated this while speaking with journalists in Akure.
According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Adie alleged that the offences committed by the suspects included abduction, murder, armed robbery, kidnapping, malicious damages, stealing, rape, cultism, arson and money rituals.
He noted that the feat was achieved through efforts of journalists, government and the good people of the state.
The commissioner said that the command detected and arrested some of the perpetrators of the crimes, and recovered arms and goods stolen from victims.
Adie said: “Let me use this medium to reassure members of the public on the security issue, which we have observed is agitating the minds of the good people of the state. This has to do with the fear that has been created in the public by recent false publications on social media that Fulani herdsmen, who are believed to be kidnappers and rapists, have taken over Ondo State.
“I make bold to say that such stories, as recently carried by unscrupulous elements using dubious social medial platforms, are outright falsehood. Therefore, the command wishes to reassure members of the public of its resolve to rid the state of all forms of heinous crimes. In doing this, the command does not and will never deal with acts of criminality on the basis of tribe, religion or gender. Let me make it clear that whether you are Yoruba, Hausa, Ibo, Fulani, Esan, Efik, Birom or white, we shall deal with you appropriately according to the law, once you are a criminal.”
Adie said that the command had its security tentacles spread across the state. He advised members of the public to feel free and go about their lawful businesses in any part of the state they may wish. Detectives attached to the Ondo State Police Command have arrested five suspected kidnappers terrorising Akoko and other parts of Ondo North Senatorial District. The Owo-Ikare Road has been notorious for violent crimes, especially kidnapping, as many prominent indigenes, including monarchs had been abducted along the axis. The state Commissioner of… In "Metro and Crime" A 28-year-old dismissed soldier, Ayobami Onigbinde, yesterday claimed he had used fake bank alerts to defraud unsuspecting people of about N600,000 within a month. Onigbinde, who was paraded by the Ondo State Police Command for the crime, said he was dismissed from the Army Training School having used fake… In "Metro and Crime" It was a harvest of criminals in Ogun State yesterday as the state police command paraded no fewer than 56 suspects arrested for various offences. The suspects included a fake Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), David Fashina, and three fake Army officers, Ishaera Akan, Nweke Chukwuemeka and Ibrahim Kato. Also… In "Metro and Crime"