Adara elders from Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State, who were recently released from detention, yesterday said that the people of Adara were going through the darkest days of their existence as a people.
The elders were hounded into detention earlier this year in the wake of attacks and killings in the area. They were allegedly charged for culpable homicide, but eight of them were recently released for want of evidence to prosecute them. But in an appreciation letter by the elders, a copy of which was obtained by New Telegraph in Kaduna, the leaders said: “We thank God Almighty for His protection and good health during our ordeal. “Our profound gratitude also goes to true friends and well-wishers of Adara community and indeed true lovers of peace and justice, who stood and are still standing by us in these darkest days of our living memory as a community.” The appreciation letter signed by National President, Adara Development Association (ADA), Awemi Dio Maisamari said: “On our release, we are still gathering the gory details of the general physical, social, economic and spiritual turmoil and unquantifiable losses and sacrifices made by victims and supporters of our cause. “These have made the inconveniences we suffered in prison to pale into insignificance. We shall make a formal statement in due course.” The letter entitled; Appreciation by Released Adara Elders, said: “We rejoice with our community members on the occasion of the unconditional release of seven of us from prison late on Friday, 31st May, 2019 after more than three months of incarceration.
“One of us, Tanko Maisama, is released but subject to further police investigation. The ninth, Ulu Maitumbi, is still in prison custody awaiting arraignment for alleged possession of a dane-gun.” The ADA leader also commended those that stood behind them during the detention, saying; “For a start, we commend the body of Christ, SOKAPU, other organisations and individuals too numerous to mention for now. May your invaluable massages of encouragement, solidarity, prison visits, prayers, support and assistance freely given far beyond our imagination, attract divine blessings, honour and glory for you.”