The Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) has condemned the suspension of the licences of the African Independent Television (AIT) and Ray Power by the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), with the umbrella body of editors in Nigeria demanding a reversal. The NBC Director General, Mr. Is’haq Modibo Kawu, had on June 6, accused AIT/ Raypower of embarking on the use of inflammatory, divisive, inciting broadcasts, and media propaganda against the government and the commission.  “Recently, NBC monitoring reports on AIT and Raypower indicate the use of divisive comments accredited to the segment of Kakaaki, tagged, ‘Kakaaki Social’ where inciting comments like, ‘Nigeria is cursed,’ ‘we declare independent state of Niger Delta’, ‘Nigeria irritates me’, ‘this country is gradually Islamising’ and other similar slogans are used without editorial control in breach of the broadcast Code,” Kawu said. In a statement issued in Abuja yesterday and signed by president of the Guild, Mrs Funke Egbemode, the editors appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to use his good offices to order a reversal of the suspension.  The NGE further demanded the revocation of the suspension order as it runs contrary to the ideals of free speech and the fine tenets of press freedom. According to Egbemode, “it is a case of Executive highhandedness and it paints our dear country in the darkest tar of dictatorship.”  Further, the statement reads: “The Fourth Estate of the Realm remains the watchdog of society and any attempt to gag it in any guise is an affront on democracy and the people. “The Guild is concerned about the violation of the constitutional rights of DAAR Communications and absence of media freedom in performing their roles as the watchdog of the Nigerian society. “The Guild is strongly of the opinion that the NBC, in exercising its regulatory powers, should concentrate on implementing policies that will position Nigeria’s broadcasting to compete in the global spheres.  “It is to be recalled that NBC had, before the 2019 general elections, shut down Joy FM in Jos for violations of the broadcasting code. “In 2018, the NBC shut down Ekiti Radio/TV station. Shutting down stations and withdrawing licences are too extreme in the circumstance. “There must be humane and saner ways to resolve disputes bordering on violation of the Broadcasting Code, rather than engage in witch-hunting and unnecessary show of excessive force.”