 The Super Eagles have not been exceptional under Gernot Rohr but it is hard to accuse the squad of not getting the job done. The team’s progress from Group B of the ongoing African Cup of Nations with a game to spare underpins how effective the squad has been under the German coach.
In most cases, it has not been done with fine distinction but the squad has got results, rising from adversity most of the time in a manner that Nigerians are not familiar with.
After missing out of two consecutive editions of AFCON, the Eagles qualified for the World Cup with a game to spare in a group that had Algeria complete with the then African Footballer of the Year, Riyad Mahrez.
The team’s bid to make it to AFCON for the first time in years was almost thrown into jeopardy when they lost their opening qualifying game to South Africa at home but Rohr rallied back his wards to winning ways and they made it to Egypt without kicking a ball in their last group game.
The Eagles’ only blemish since the manager took over was their inability to progress beyond the first round of the last FIFA World Cup in Russia but in all honesty, how many people expected them to make it from the pool that had Croatia that was packed with top stars playing in Europe including current World Footballer of the Year, Luka Modric; gritty Iceland that had earlier reached the quarterfinal of the European Championship and qualified for the World Cup without losing a game; and then Argentina with unplayable Lionel Messi as the leader?
It was a gritty win over the Guineans on Wednesday but many Nigerians would be happy they are now saved from the headache of engaging in a disturbing permutation regarding the Eagles’ chances of making it from the group which has become something like a tradition.
The Eagles have claimed the AFCON title on three occasions but they never won their first matches in those competitions. They won their maiden trophy in 1980 but had to wait till their last group match to progress into the knockout stage; they opened their account with a 3-1 win over Tanzania in Lagos but were pegged back by a 1-1 draw with Cote d’Ivoire. They waited till their last group match against Egypt to progress. They won the tie 1-0.
The 1994 squad was considered a golden generation but still did not win their first two games of the tournament hosted in Tunisia. They opened the campaign with a convincing 3-0 win over Gabon but drew goalless with Egypt in their second game. They picked up from that point to win the tournament for the second time.
Nobody gave the Eagles any chance on their way to the 2013 AFCON in South Africa. The then coach Stephen Keshi was rebuilding a new team because he ditched many of the established stars; hopes were genuinely at the lowest and the team failed to win in their first two games, but a difficult 2-0 win over Ethiopia sparked off new spirit in camp as they went all the way to claim the title.
Rohr’s team seemed to have ditched that route as they have solidified their rating as one of the favourites to win this competition.
Two-time African Footballer of the Year Nwankwo Kanu alluded to the fact that Eagles’ easy progress to the next round confirmed that they were genuine contenders in Egypt.
“We are more relaxed now after the win over Guinea to advance to the next round,” Kanu told CAFOnline.
“We had few chances to score more goals in the first half when Odion Ighalo had a good chance to pass the ball to Musa but he did not do so. Guinea are no pushovers but we took our chances.”
“I don’t want to predict who will win the tournament now after two games but after the group games then we can see the real teams in contention.”
Another ex-international Etim Esin said the team’s progress was down to the coach’s winning mentality.
“So far so good, Rohr hasn’t done badly,” Esin told our correspondent. “He is a coach that is result-oriented and we can see how he has been able to dig out results even if they were not dominant.
“It is good that the Eagles have progressed, it will boost the players’ confidence, they have scored two goals from Odion Ighalo and Kenneth Omeruo but I want to believe the players can galvanise themselves to go all the way in this tournament.
“In a competition like this, the number of goals that you score really does not matter once you are able to win your games. We didn’t qualify for two editions of this tournament and he was able to lead us to Egypt and now the team is in second round.
“As a coach, you are interested in winning matches and that is what the Eagles have been doing especially in this competition,” another former player Garba Lawal said.
“Football is about winning games, not essentially about playing beautiful football; the team will not approach their next game under pressure because they have already done the job. I prefer the Eagles win 1-0 all the way to claiming this trophy. This is not league, goals don’t count, winning do; so, Eagles must keep grinding out result so long they can win the title at the end of the tournament.”
Former Black Stars star John Kingston stressed that winning must come with better performances for Rohr’s team.
“In a game of football, you have to perform well before you win games. How many times are you going to perform badly and (hope to) win your games.
“They (Nigeria) need to start winning games convincingly because as the competition progresses if you don’t perform well against difficult opponents they will punish you for that.
“Guinea were careful. They were very tactical. They knew that they can be punished by Nigeria that is why they played defensively,” Kingston stated.
Esin agreed with Kingston that Eagles must start dominating games; he is not happy the strikers are not firing and credit that to the coach’s ultra-defensive tactics.
“Personally, I am not happy that we have not been able to solve the goal-scoring problem; we used to have top class strikers in competitions like the Nations Cup, you can remember Rashidi Yekini, he usually came with goals but I am not seeing that in this current players.
“It is sad we are not scoring goals and it looks like that is how Rohr has set up his squad. I don’t have a problem with that because he’s the coach, but it is also good to see good football and goals because that could count at critical time,” he said.
However, Lawal believes it is hard to score the coach’s performance at the moment, insisting Rohr has to win a major trophy before he could be considered a success
“It is not in my place to judge his performance but we know that we have had so many coaches in the past; some did well, while pother performed badly. But we have won trophies and some managers led the Eagles to such success, so Rohr has to win something to convince Nigerians.
“Many people have asked me how far we can go in this competition but I don’t know. However, I hope the coach and the players know that Nigerians won’t be happy if they crash out in the quarterfinal of semifinal. We hope we can win this tournament,” he said.
“What I don’t enjoy about Rohr’s work is his inability to develop local players; he has to work hard and develop Nigerian football by encouraging players in the league, ” another ex-international Friday Ekpo said.
“In four years, it is hard to name a local-based player he has brought to the limelight and this is not good for our football; Clemens Westerhof is considered as the best coach ever in the history of Nigeria not only because of results but he worked so hard to discover so many players, almost all of them from the league; he turned them into superstars. He never relied on the players agents recommended from abroad, he was going round centres across the country to look for players.”