From starting out as a Nollywood actress, Mary Njoku has taken giant leaps in her career, becoming the CEO of ROK, an important alternative platform for the industry as a whole. Along with her husband, Jason, she is pushing boundaries via platforms such as Iroko TV, as she detailed in this interview with ADEDAYO ODULAJA.    For someone interested in education and entrepreneurship, how did your Nollywood story begin?
It started in about 2004 with a movie titled ‘Home Sickness’. My passion continued to grow and eventually I became a regular face on TV. Besides being on screen, I’m very passionate about production and this led me to my role as Chief Content Officer at IROKO Partners before eventually becoming CEO at ROK Studios.
With Nollywood, it’s very hands on deck – even when you’re just an actor, so you learn to be enterprising with limited resources and very entrepreneurial too. This set me up for moving behind the camera.
In my current role, I am able to marry all the things I am passionate about from acting to producing to creating opportunities for young people who want to be filmmakers and many more. When you decided to join the industry at 17, what held the biggest attraction for you?
Acting was a new way to express myself, a very interesting one too. I became interested in school where I was acting in plays/stage productions. It was my passion and I loved doing it. I was also fortunate that my mum supported me as well. To what would you link attending film school around the time you were getting involved with Nollywood?
Attending film school was a very important aspect of my growth in the movie industry in terms of developing technical talent and broadening my experience. It was very important that I got myself trained as a filmmaker in order to produce the best movies for the ROK platform. It is this high standard that has birthed ROK on Sky and ROK on DStv, allowing us to show quality content to millions of viewers. Anyone would say the series, Festac Town, was easy to come up with due to your familiarity with the place and all but what inspired the story?
Oh wow. That is the most challenging production I have ever done. I was 7 months pregnant, filming day and night and trying to make everything perfect. It took a lot out of me so it was definitely not easy! It was by no means easy – why? Because the story was so close to my heart, I was absolutely obsessed about making it feel authentic, making sure that real stories were being told in an honest, sometimes raw, way. I worried about the tiniest details because I wanted to really prove a point – not just because it was my first production piece, but also because the story I was telling was literally me baring my soul. Your husband has credited you with helping the business go in another direction, which has become a shattering success when competition was about to blow Iroko out of the water. What fuelled your passion, seeing you just became a mother, having become a wife a year earlier?
Balancing motherhood and ROK projects is quite a task – as any career-focused mother will tell you, however, I have the utmost respect and support from my husband, Jason, and we make it work by sharing responsibilities, so we don’t lose any important moments. Having a great team at ROK also helps! But I am also fuelled by the fact that I want my children to grow up in a home where they understand what hard work and focus get you; I want them to be grounded in this ethos, as well as be proud of what we, as a family,are achieving. While you might have found it easy to lead the frontline, how have you dealt with the technical issues of producing these movies and TV series?
Nothing in life comes easy to be honest. I went to film school to refine my technical skills – many of which I had learned on the job after being on set for so many years.
I’m very fortunate to have a fantastic team at ROK whom I can rely on to take on many of the difficult tasks and we have an amazing production team. Our teams in London, Lagos and Accra constantly work together to provide great content for Nollywood lovers globally. Which of the three productions, Single Ladies, Festac Town and Husbands of Lagos would you consider the most exciting, from the angle of production?
To be honest I can’t choose any one. All experiences have shaped what/who ROK is today. All our productions come with a different crew, different successes and challenges which help us to improve future projects. Festac Town really defined ROK as our first full production and set the pace, and expectation levels, for the rest of our work. There are many who are still unaware of how to use the various platforms offered for content, what tailor-made products are you working on to engage them?
People like to consume content on different platforms – TV, mobile, computers, etc, this is why ROK and IROKOtv exist on separate platforms in order to cater to each person’s taste. We just have to make sure we are able to bring great content to as many people as possible in ways they can enjoy. Both in the short term and, especially, long term, what are some of the plans for ROK that might sound crazy right now?
We want more people watching Nollywood through ROK. We would love to tell broader African stories on ROK, which means featuring more Nigerian languages, African languages, non-Nigerians in our films and telling more relatable stories – ones that not only Nigerians can relate to, but also South Africans, Gambians, etc. The ROK tour has taken place in a few cities already, what is the motive behind it?
The whole idea was birthed out of the love we have for our fans. We wanted to connect with them on a more personal level, whether in Lagos, in Cape Town, or in London. We are telling the fans that we are here to serve them and this is why we visited them in different cities with some of their favorite stars such as Desmond Elliot, Bolanle Ninalowo, Mercy Aigbe, Chinedu Ikedieze, Annie Idibia and Efe Irele, in order to listen to their thoughts about the ROK platform and the stories we tell through film.