The presidency yesterday explained that that the plan by the Federal Government to abrogate the Almajiri system in the country was long term and not immediate.  The National Security Adviser (NSA), General (rtd) Babagana Monguno, had announced government’s decision to abrogate the system in the midst of increasing spate of insecurity especially, banditry, kidnapping, and activities of the Boko Haram sect.  Monguno said Government working with the 36 states and countries operating similar systems, will promote free and compulsory education in order to end the phenomenon.  Almajiri is a system of Islamic education practiced in northern Nigeria.  The term Almajiri derives from an Arabic word, rendered “al-Muhajirun” in English transliteration, meaning a person who leaves his home in search of Islamic knowledge.  Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement yesterday, said the abrogation of the almajiri (Qur’anic learning system associated with begging on economic and religious grounds peculiar to some Northern states) system of education remains an objective but there is no immediate ban of it by the Buhari administration.  The presidential aide therefore called for caution in responses to the pronouncements by President Buhari on free and compulsory basic  education for every child of primary and junior secondary school age in Nigeria, during his speech on June 20, at the inauguration of the National Economic Council (NEC).  He said: “While the Buhari administration is committed to free and compulsory education as a longterm objective of bringing to an end, the phenomenon of out-of-school children, any necessary ban on Almajiri would follow due process and consultation with relevant authorities.  “Indeed, the Federal government wants a situation where every child of primary school age is in school rather than begging on the streets during school hours.” Garba said the government would not want to create panic with the pronouncement widely publicized in the media.  “At the same time, we don’t want to create panic or a backlash. Reports that there are plans for massive arrest of parents are definitely out of place. Things have to be done the right and considerate way.”