  About 500 residents/ families of Victory Park Estate in Osapa London along Lekki Epe Expressway have called on President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to rescue them from alleged plan by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) to forcefully evict them from their properties. Saturday Telegraph gathered that the estate sitting on about 33 hectares of land was developed by the landlords who bought the Victory Park Estate land as far back as 2003. Mr. Benjamin Atebe, who spoke on behalf of the residents, lamented the untold hardship, anguish and pain on the residents while calling on the two leaders and other relevant agencies to urgently intervene. The residents who also appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to call all the authorities concerned to order, accusing AMLCON of conniving with some banks to evict them from their buildings 16 years after they started living in the estate. The landlords said that they developed their houses after carrying out due legal diligence and confirmation at the Lagos State Land Registry that the title to the land is in the name of Knight Rook Limited. He said: “We wish to state that categorically that the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), some banks, the Awosedo family and the Police are all culpable in this gross act of human rights abuse which has seen people being forcefully evicted from their homes using the instrument of government (the police), and faceless thugs! Below are the facts of the matter to further corroborate our position. “As property owners, he argued that the landlords had no dealings with AMCON neither did they have anything to do with any company to warrant forceful eviction from their property. “He said that the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Presidency could not have approved the actions of AMCON against lawabiding people who never took any loan from any bank to buy property in Victory Park Estate. “Finally, we are making a passionate appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari, the Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, the IGP and the leadership of AMCON to place premium on the current administration’s anti-corruption mantra and right these wrongs by calling AMCON to order,” he said. It would be recalled that the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) on Tuesday took over several multi-billion naira properties in Victory Park Estate, Lekki, Lagos, following a N12,966,510,191 judgement debt it won at the Court of Appeal, Lagos Division. The property included assets of Knight Rook Limited, situated within Victory Park Estate, among other assets.