Ondo State-owned Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO), was yesterday shut indefinitely following a protest by the local chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP). The ASUP’s protest was over unpaid salaries of all categories of workers. It was alleged that unpaid salaries were running to five months, with backlog of promotions. There was also the issue of failure to appoint substantive principal officers for the institution.
The protest of the academic staff, which began on Monday, led to the postponement of the first semester examination. The protest resumed yesterday with the academic staff embarking on procession around the school premises. They were armed with different placards. They insisted that they wouldn’t supervise the examination if their demands were not met.
The ASUP, led by Mr. Rafiu Ijawoye, addressing the academic staff and students, accused the management of refusing to pay workers backlog of salaries despite receiving about N2 billion subventions from the government. He said: “The courses in RUGIPO are on the verge of de-accreditation according to the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) directive over lack of payment of staff salaries, emoluments and promotions.”
Ijawoye noted that the certificate issued by the institution was not worth the paper on which it was written if the courses being offered by the institution were de-accredited by the NBTE.
The academic staff also said that their deductions, running into N630 million, had not been paid despite the fact that the funds were deducted from their salaries.
Ijawoye, who was flanked by other union leaders, said Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu released N2 billion for the payment of their outstanding salaries, but the school management withheld N500 million, making it difficult for them to receive salaries in the past five months.
The protesters passed a vote of no confidence in the Acting Rector of the institution, Dr. Gani Ogundahunsi. They asked the government to put machinery in motion for the appointment of substantive helmsman for the school.
The Acting Registrar, Mr. Sule Atiku, in a statement, said the Governing Council and Management had closed down RUGIPO until further notice.
Atiku said the closure was to forestall the breakdown of law and order. He directed students to leave the premises before 3p.m. on Tuesday.