The founder and senior pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Biodun Fatoyinbo, is swimming in allegations of sexual abuse and intimidation after wife of popular singer, Timi Dakolo, Busola, accused him of sexually assaulting her at 17. Now, in the wake of Busola’s accusations, two more ladies have signified that they also experienced some sort of sexual abuse by the same pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo. A lady identified as Franca E. has come out with rape allegation against the Senior Pastor of COZA, Biodun Fatoyinbo. The lady said that she has all the evidence intact, in case the pastor dares to deny it. However, the new lady revealed that Biodun, who is the founder and General Overseer of COZA went all out to talk down on his wife just to sleep with her. She wrote on Instagram in details how the pastor took her for a meeting in Lagos and pretended to have forgotten to book a room for her. In her words, “I was excited till we reached Lagos and I realized that only one room was booked at the Wheatbaker Hotel, Ikoyi. Of course I complained and the Pastor called the front desk (or pretended to) to demand for another room. He said they would call back when the room was ready. He then told me to help massage his back because he has back ache from sitting on the flight. I said I was tired since it was already after 8. He then insisted I lay down on the bed to rest while waiting. He said many derogatory things about his wife, calling her a postcard; pretty on the outside but flat and empty upstairs. He said sex with her was like having sex with a cold dead fish. He tried to kiss me and I stood up, picked up my travelling bag, moved to the door, opened it and quickly took a picture of him, standing with a towel around him”. According to her when the pastor realised she wasn’t going to play the game with him, “he started begging. I called him all sorts of names and insisted he give me money for a separate room or I would scream ‘rape’. To cut a long story short, he asked me to shut the door, I refused, he brought out two bundles of N1000 and asked me to delete the picture before he gives me the money. “I told him he was in no position to negotiate. Got the money, left the randy goat with a deflated erection and checked into another room. Oga Pastor, try and deny my story publicly and see American wonder! I still have the pictures and our conversation on tape. Thank God for technology.” She wrote. Equally, veteran actress, Stella Damasus has also slammed Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo with another rape allegation against her friend of 15 years. The veteran script interpreter narrated how a lady she has known for 15 years confessed to her that Pastor Fatoyinbo also raped her. The actress wondered why people could doubt Busola’s story. In her twitter account she wrote “I am in tears right now. Just got off the phone with someone I have known for 15 years. She had the same experience with this same pastor. The details of her experience were so shocking. She told people around him, but they all suppressed it. Do people still doubt this incident? “She tweeted.