 Traders of the South east extraction are stepping up arrangements to set up vigilante groups to protect their businesses in major markets in the Northern parts of the country.  To this end local vigilante groups in the South East are being mobilised from the five states in the region to commence recruitment of security personnel that will carry out 24-hour routine security operations in the markets, factories and other business concern’s that they have in Kano, Kaduna, Sokoto and other major cities in the area.  Lending credence to this move the former Chief Security Officer of Ohaneze Ndigbo Youths Worldwide and President General Omabala Youth Assembly Amb. Chibuzor Ekwenye told reporters that while they will resist the introduction of the Miyetti Allah vigilante groups in the South East, the Igbos in the North have commenced the mobilisation of its own self defence force should the Federal Government back the Fulani group’s proposal.  “Rising from the joint meeting of Ohaneze Youths Security summit which also had in attendance the Omabala Youth Assembly and Imo and Abia Youths Consultative Forum we here by resolved as follows:  “That we totally support the arrangements by our brothers and sisters in the North to set up their own vigilant groups in the area to protect their lives and properties in the major towns and also to play the role of escorts for their goods going to the North in order to avert the attacks by bandits and herdsmen in the area.  “This has become imperative following what our people have suffered in the hands of the outlaws and perpetrators of kidnapping and banditry in the northern parts of the country. “As the Federal Government yet to give its position on the matter we have to take this stand if it chooses to support the insistence of the Northern group.” Ezekwenye further noted that: “Arming the Fulani herdsmen or Miyetti Allah with guns to operate in the South East is a recipe for genocide of in the area and we would surely resist it. “We do not want the relative peace in Anambra State and other states in the South East put in place by our governors to be truncated by the proposed actions of the Fulani herdsmen in the guise of forming a vigilante group to protect their cattle. “That we warn these agents of death not to step into Igbo land because we have had enough of the killings and raping of our people in the area.”