 The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) of the United Kingdom has issued a travel advisory to its citizens in Nigeria. The advisory warns Britons against travelling to about 21 states in Nigeria following the worsening insecurity occasioned by the activities of Boko Haram terrorists, Islamic State in West African Province (ISWAP) as well as kidnapping for ransom perpetrated by armed bandits in different parts of the country. The travel warnings came with specific reference to the multiple terrorist attacks in Konduga, Borno State on June 17.
Home Secretary, Mr. Sajid Javid, who made the announcement, advised British citizens against travelling to Borno, Yobe, Adamawa, Zamfara and Gombe states.
It also advised them against making trips to riverine areas of Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River states. The FCO advised against all but essential travel to Bauchi, Zamfara, Kano, Kaduna, Jigawa, Katsina and Kogi states.
Similarly, it said essential travels only may be made to places within 20km of the border with Niger in Sokoto and Kebbi states as well as non-riverine areas of Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers and Abia states. “Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Nigeria. Most attacks occur in the North-East, particularly in Borno (including central Maiduguri and along access routes connecting the city to other major towns and along the Niger border, including in Damasak), Yobe (including the eastern LGAs bordering Borno State both north and south of the Damaturu road) and Adamawa states. “There have also been significant attacks in Gombe, Kano, Kaduna, Jos and Bauchi states and in the Federal Capital, Abuja. The terrorist threat across eastern Yobe and Borno states is high, with frequent recent attacks. Terrorist groups carried out attacks in North-East Nigeria during the February 2019 election period, and further attacks are likely. We continue to advise against all travel to Borno and Yobe states. “On 23 February 2019, ISWA launched an attack involving indirect fire that resulted in explosions in multiple locations within Maiduguri. You should avoid places where crowds gather, including political meetings, religious gatherings and places of worship, markets, shopping malls, hotels, bars, restaurants, transport hubs and camps for displaced people. Attacks could be indiscriminate and could affect western interests as well as places visited by tourists,” Javid said. He explained that besides Abuja, other major towns and cities remain particularly at risk, including Kano and Kaduna as there was a high risk of kidnap throughout the country. “Kidnaps can be motivated by criminality or terrorism, and could be carried out for financial or political gain. The security environment in the North-East has deteriorated since 2018 and there is a heightened risk of kidnap. Kidnaps in the North-East have included humanitarian and private sector workers. There are also reports that Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa (ISWA) are continuing to actively plan to kidnap foreigners. As well as in North-East Nigeria, this is believed to include some northern and middle belt states, including Bauchi, Gombe, Kano, Kaduna, Niger and Adamawa. “If you’re working or travelling in areas where there is a Boko Haram or ISWA presence, especially in the North-East of Nigeria, you should be aware of the risk of terrorist kidnapping. There is also a high threat of criminal kidnap in the Niger Delta region and Kogi State. “If you travel to areas to which the FCO advise against travel, you are particularly at risk and will need a high level of security. If you’re working in northern Nigeria, you should make sure your employers provide an adequate level of security where you live and where you work, make sure they regularly review security arrangements and familiarise yourself with those plans. You should be aware of your surroundings and avoid large crowds and public demonstrations as they can turn violent unexpectedly and at short notice,” the advisory read.