 Hundreds of commercial cyclists of northern extraction on Monday blocked major entry and exit points into Agodo/Egbe community in Lagos State, protesting seizure of one of their ‘brothers’ motorcycle’.
They formed a human blockade at Abanise Street, hindering residents and motorists from going to their respective destinations. They also caused traffic jam. One of the cyclists, who introduced himself as Isah, said: “The union collected motorcycle of our brother because he didn’t buy one ticket. But he had already bought other tickets, amounting to N1,800. It remains only the N100 ticket, and for that reason, they impounded his motorcycle and held onto it for four days now. We want them to bring out the motorcycle today. “We’re also angry with the union chairman for inviting policemen from Ikotun Police Station to take the motorcycle to their station. We have gone to the police station and we were asked to go and bring the chairman. The chairman refused to come with us. He said that he would teach us a lesson. “We’re the ones that will teach him a lesson. We’ll not leave the road until they provide the motorcycle. The motorcycle in question is on higher purchase. The owner will be expecting our brother to make payment at the end of the week.”
Isah accused policemen of collaborating with motorcycle riders’ association executives to intimidate cyclists from the northern part of the country. One of the executives of the association, Mr. Solomon, said that most northern cyclists like flouting rules and refusing to comply with the union’s demands. He added: “The rule is that before a cyclist will be allowed to work in this axis, he must buy all the tickets. One of the tickets is for the union and the second is for the councillor. Many of them don’t want to buy these tickets.”
A resident in the area, Alhaji Lekan, expressed fear over the manner the cyclists protested, insisting that something must be done about cyclists of northern extraction.
Although five policemen were at the scene, they were not able to control the cyclists. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, didn’t pick his calls to confirm the story.