 Nigeria’s poor ranking on socio-economic development can be addressed if the country focuses on attracting more private capital, analysts at Coronation Research have said.
The analysts, who stated this in a note obtained by New Telegraph yesterday, pointed out that: “Nigeria’s reduced proportionate spend on education, health and other social programmes is symptomatic of the fiscal challenges the government faces.”
Citing the most recent United Nations Education index, which showed that Nigeria ranked 152 out of 187 countries, the analysts stated that while the world average expenditure on education as a percentage of national budget was 15per cent in 2015, Nigeria’s proposed public expenditure on Education as a percentage of the national budget was 12.28 per cent in the same year, adding that, “in the 2018 budget only 7.14per cent was earmarked for education.”
They noted that leading credit rating agency, Moody’s Investor Service, had attributed the shortfall in funding for education and health to, “Nigeria’s rapidly growing debt profile and mounting debt service costs.”
However, the more fundamental challenge facing the country, according to the analysts, is that government revenues are not growing.
“Federal government collected revenues for Q1 2019 were 15.7per cent lower than in Q4 2018. Revenues to GDP have also fallen from 5.4per cent in 2010 to approximately 2.0per cent in 2019. The government’s fiscal hurdles are evident in the large fiscal deficits over the last four years, and a weak tax to GDP ratio of 4.1per cent,” the analysts stated.
According to the analysts: “Under the current fiscal regime, government is expected to take the lead in spending on social projects including capital-intensive endeavors. A different approach would be to engage private capital for development initiatives. For example, remittances by Nigerian nationals reached record levels in 2018. At 6.1per cent of GDP, or $24.3billion, it was more than 80per cent of the federal budget and 132per cent of the value of total pension funds in Nigeria.
“It is our view that, given the relatively small size of the government and the extent of capital investment required to achieve development across social impart areas, attracting private capital is a sustainable approach,” they added.
The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Social Welfare Programme, Maryam Uwais, said in April, this year that the Federal Government had spent about N300 billion on the National Social Investment Programmes in the last three years.
Mrs. Uwais said the social investment programmes, since inception in 2016, aimed to improve the living conditions of Nigerians through capacity building, investment and direct support.
“So far we have over 11.5 million direct beneficiaries on all our programmes. We also have about nine million indirect beneficiaries,” she said.