Kingsley Akaiso was called to the Bar in November 2018 after obtaining his LL.B from the University of Abuja. In this chat with JOHN CHIKEZIE, he narrates how his journey into the noble profession began  Background My name is Kingsley Okon Akaiso and I am an indigene of Urueoffong/ Oruko Local Government Area in Akwa Ibom state. I attended Royal Nursery and Primary School, Oron and completed my secondary school education at Federal Government College, Ikot Ekpene. I obtained a Bachelor of law degree (LL.B) from the University of Abuja. I thereafter proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Yola campus. I was called to Bar on 26th November, 2018 and currently serving as a legal assistant to the Chief Judge of Oyo state. Why law? I studied law to help curb police brutality and injustice against innocent citizens. The town of Oron in Akwa Ibom state has witnessed several intimidations and harassments from our police and security agencies. These heinous acts of lawless are being perpetrated by some bad eggs in the military, who are meant to protect and ensure law and order in the country. Part of my inspiration also came from my father, Barr. Okon E. M Akaiso, a practicing lawyer, who handled a lot of pro bono cases of this nature to help victims of police brutality.
So I simply wanted to put myself in a position to speak for the voiceless and to inspire hope especially when most of the youths resorted to cultism and other anti- social vices in order to defend themselves.
How would you describe your law school experience? My law school experience was phenomenal. It was good for me because it trained me to become more organized and consistent in anything I do. Above all, the experience instilled me with a fervent trust to believe in myself and God.
Although the challenges were very tasking but it brought out the best in me. The challenges were surmountable and served as a stepping stone through which I actualized my childhood dreams of becoming a lawyer. What major challenges have you encountered so far as a young lawyer? One major challenge is the lack of confidence by members of the public in young lawyers’ capacity to handle issues. This is owing to the fact that it is a general presumption that we don’t have enough knowledge of the law and therefore cannot live up to par with the older colleagues in applying the law. Young lawyers are often regarded as inexperience or inadequate. This is simply because knowledge of the law has often been sacrificed on the alter of experience (alter of seniority). It’s a very terrible tradition where young lawyers are often discountenanced as neophytes. Ageism in the profession is a terrible phenomenon. Secondly, the welfare of a young lawyer in Nigeria, including myself, is not considered by the Nigerian Bar association (NBA) as a pressing issue. Consequently, young lawyers are treated as people without financial needs. What is your take on the regular parade of suspects by police before charging them to court? It’s utterly terrible. It negates the doctrine of presumption of innocence, which is and will continue to be the hallmark of our criminal law. Parading of suspects is a subtle way of preempting the decision of the court. It totally negates the principle of rule of law. This is because if at the end of the day, the suspects, after being paraded and shamed, are discharged and acquitted by a court of competent jurisdiction, then the character of such innocent men would have been tarnished by a needless procedure. It can also amount to a cruel media trial. What is the way out of police brutality? First, I will say that the police officers should be trained to understand that policing is a service and not warfare. These officers should be made to understand human rights as a basic component in quality policing. For instance, improperly made arrest amounts to breach of fundamental human rights as stated in IGP v. Ubah 2015, 11 NWLR Pt 1471. And most times the test of proper policing is at the point of arrest and investigation.
It is no more news that torture of Innocent people in police custody is an ongoing human right violation in Nigeria. Firstly, I would suggest that the police service commission should take proper responsibility for the kitting of the police officers to ensure that police officers on duty are easily identified easily and are not impersonated. The welfare of police officers should be considered as a priority because police officers are humans with financial, psychology or emotional vulnerability. A police man whose welfare is not a top priority to the government cannot commit diligently to the well being of the people he has been commissioned to protect. Police officers should be subjected to psychiatric evaluation and scrutiny when complaints are made against them. Due to the alarming rate of illegal detention and torture of people in police cells, a data base of people in detention should be updated daily and made available to the civil society, legal aid unit and any interested member of the public with or without request to show adherence and human right compliance. Section 44 of the police act also stipulates that police officers are not above the Law and therefore, the discipline of erring police officers should be swift and decisive in order to restore the confidence of the general public in the police institution. Is child marriage a domestic violence or child abuse? Child marriage is a direct form of domestic violence and child abuse at its peak. it is regrettably one of the plagues affecting us all in this country. Child marriage violates the right of the victim in countless ways. It jeopardizes her future in living a good life and damages her aspirations to do more than she has been conditioned to do. The childhood of the victim has absolutely been stolen by the practice which also puts the victim at a serious health risk. Future ambition I will like to be a leading professor of Law and maybe aspire to be the Governor of my state, someday.