 African Business Travel Association (ABTA) last week held its corporate forum in Lagos, with the theme; Trend watch: Aviation sector, cost savings strategies, MICE and more. The occasion afforded members of the association and other players in the travel business the avenue to interact and brainstorm on the challenges of the sector and how best to push its frontiers.
The Founder of the association, Monique Swart, who moderated the event, in her welcome remark expressed delight at having the forum once again held in the city while commending the members, guests and sponsors for their commitment towards the continued existence of the association and its many activities in the course of the year.
According to her, ABTA host over 22 different activities yearly across the different cities of Africa. As a body, she said the association brings together players in travel in the different regions of the continent to discuss challenges confronting the sector and together face them.
In terms of development in ABTA, she disclosed that the association has become official partner of the Association of Corporate Travel Executives (ACTE) Global, explaining the benefits of this to both the association and members. Therefore, she enjoined the members to take full advantage of the partnership by becoming registered members of ACTE Global. Sabre: Commitment to travel
Sabre, a Global Distribution Service (GDS) in Nigeria and one of the major sponsors of the forum, delighted the audience with its presentation, as the Country Director, Nigeria, Emmanuel O. Isola, disclosed the commitment of the company to the travel industry.
Speaking on the service offer of the outfit, which is about 10 years in the market, Isola gave details of the four different business arms of the outfit, describing Sabre as a unique outfit that is dedicated to its clients.
He disclosed that part of the unique aspect of Sabre is the fact that it is the only GDS that shares profit with its various users, disclosing that the company has in the 10 years of its existence achieved a lot of milestones, which include having a physical structure of its own with spread across Africa countries.
Isola also disclosed that education is a core part of the company’s service offerings as it offers training for its different clients and presently support a degree programme in aviation in Babcock University, stressing that its sponsorship and support for ABTA is part of extending that frontiers as it shares the vision of the association.
Investing in hotel facilities is also another aspect of Sabre’s investment in the country, which he said is fast gaining ground, with its investment in Golfview Hotel and Suites, venue of the forum as an example of its commitment to developing the travel industry.
According to him, Sabre is devoted to expanding the frontiers of hospitality business by offering guests real time experience through its hotels, which concept is building hotels nearer airports and golf courses to avail guests the best of leisure, comfort and easy access. Golfview Hotel and Suites is warm, welcoming The General Manager of Golfview Hotel and Suites, Joseph Jaiyeoba, expressed the delight of the hotel management at hosting the event while welcoming them to the hotel, which he said is warm, with rich ambience, offering unique experience.
According to him, the hotel is quite distinct from others given its brand of product and service offer. He pledged the commitment of the management to the success of the event and the association, while disclosing that his goal, as the general manager of the hotel, is to deliver on the service creed of the hotel chain by taking it to a new height and making it one of the best and most popular hotels in high demand in the city. Focus more on quality of airports’ facilities and service delivery
The panel discussion was on: Airline trends and aviation sector updates, with the Director, Africa, DiamondAir International, Abi Ijasanmi, Chairman, Nelike Capital Partners Limited and Founder/CEO, Smile Air (Ghana/Nigeria), Alexander Nwuba, Editor, Business and Travel News, Ewos Iroro, and Sales Executive of South African Airways, Stella Aghedo, leading the stimulating discussion.
The tenor of their presentations was the need to have a functional and thriving airports that deliver on the required travel experience to the passengers at different points. Also, the need to encourage government to improve on the management of airports across the continent while the private sector operators devise a more efficient and profitable manner.
Ijasanmi among others emphasised on the importance of managing airport processes in a more efficient manner to safe cost, time and energy while recognizing the fact that: ‘‘We have challenges but let continue to work on it,’’ while calling on the government to allow the private sector dictate the pace of aviation and travel development by creating the right and enabling environment for the sector to thrive.
‘‘We need government to get out of the way and allow private sector step forward and take ownership of the system and industry,’’ said Ijasanmi.
Aghedo called on passengers to be more vigilant while checking in and ensure that they go through their boarding passes, tags and other documents given to them properly in view of the recent incident at the Aminu Kano International Airport to avoid such an ugly occurrence.
She also charged the government and managers of airports to invest in cutting edge technology to ease facilitation at the airports and check against criminal practices by airports’ officials.
Nwuba insisted on a functional, befitting and effectively managed airports, hence he allied himself with the present pronouncement of the Nigerian government to demolish the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) Lagos and in its place construct a new terminal building which meets with modern trend and check passengers’ implosion as the present terminal has become grossly inadequate and outdated.
He expressed belief in the fact that this will be achieved in as much as the government and the Minister of State Aviation Hadi Sirika, are committed to this. However, he advised that airport management should be left in the hands of the government due to it intense capital outlay, which he said the private sector can’t muster.
Also, Nwuba is not enthusiastic about the euphoria of making Nigeria a hub, as he lamented the fact that the required conditions for that have not be meant. According to him: ‘‘How would you have a hub when the people are afraid of you because of the stories that come out from the country?
‘‘These are some of the things that we must address before we can talk about a hub,’’ stressing that: ‘‘The soft and human issues that need to be dealt with must be handled and it is not because we don’t build the right buildings because all the airlines are in Nigeria but they are using Accra as a hub.
‘‘So if we must address this issue in order for us to achieve our lofty idea because we have so many subliminal issues that we must address as a country.’’
On the national carrier, Nwuba, a trained pilot and architect, said that Nigeria does not need a national carrier but a functional and reliable carrier, saying that: ‘‘If you think that you need a national carrier, good luck to you,’’ stressing that ‘‘we have to get our priority right.
‘‘We have to look at our national values and let tell government to forget the national carrier.’’
In his summation, Iroro while commending the decision to rebuild MMIA Lagos, said part of the problem with aviation in the country is that the country is not a forward looking country, with lack of maintenance culture and only interested in new things but not prepared to deploy the necessary tools and resources to make them effective.
He also disclosed that the thrust of the matter is not having airports with rich and colourful ambience but making them functional and effectively managed to deliver value to the travellers and improve on their travel experience.
According to him, ‘‘I believe that the government has woken up to its responsibility and I want to believe that they will not disappoint,’’ as he expressed confidence in the government fulfilling the pledge of reconstructing MMIA in record time.
On making Lagos a hub, Iroro believed that this can be achieved with the planned new terminal coming into operation. ‘‘With the new structure travel experience will be much more improved,’’ he said, adding that: ‘‘I want us to keep hope alive.’’ Cost savings strategies for travelling corporates
Lola Adefope, managing director of Business Management Limited (BMT), presented a very stimulating discourse on this subject. It was as much as enlightening, refreshing, educative and entertaining, as the young travel expert was able to hold the audience spellbound with her charismatic and elucidating academic flavour.
She took the audience through detailed strategies that would ensure a win – win situation for both the travel management companies and their clients who are interested in seeing their corporate travel budget figures go down while being able to deliver on their business objectives.
Some of the areas of focus spotlighted by her include: Having the right partner to work with; guided by the necessity to growing the business and monitoring its growth and its deliverables; identifying the pressure points within the business plan; setting up supply rules; and having a travel policy. NANTA updates within TMC and travel agent sector
The President of the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA), Bankole Bernard, stepped up to the podium right after Adefope’s seminal and brilliant delivery to speak on the business of travel agencies.
Taking a historical perspective, he alluded to the fact that the public has a poor image of a travel agency but that he said is changing as more professionals and qualified operators are now embracing the business.
He then went ahead to distill the various aspects of the travel agency business and the need for operators to specialise in certain aspect of the business while disclosing that NANTA is committed to promoting the need for the operators to embrace specialisation.
He also spoke on regulation and the various attempts by NANTA to sanitise the sector in partnership with government agencies, insisting that without professionalising the sector, the travelling public will continue to harbour the wrong impression about its operators, therefore, he said that NANTA is committed to changing the face of the sector. Taking control of MICE budgets
The Executive Assistant and Trainer of Golfview Hotel and Suites, Ishaya Yakubu, brought the audience up to speed with the development of the Meeting, Incentives, Exhibitions and Events (MICE) aspect of the travel industry, disclosing that the sector is one of the fastest growing aspect of travel.
According to him, meetings is the highest grossing aspect of MICE while Europe dominated the market in 2017, with Asia expected to witness the highest growth rate in the coming years and United States of America rated as the highest revenue generating country in MICE.
Yakubu disclosed that the future of MICE is bright, therefore, he appealed to corporates to see the need and importance of appointing travel experts to handle their MICE in order for them to take advantage of the accruing benefits, as with a professional outfit, the budget for organising events will be effectively managed to deliver on the objectives. Endnote
The forum ended on a good note with interactive round table discussion that was moderated by Swart, offering the audience another opportunity to share experiences, information and knowledge in a wide area of areas.
In all, the forum was adjudged by the members and operators in attendance as very successful and stimulating, offering opportunity not only to learn of new trends and be educated on the evolving practices but also to share experiences and business ideas as well as interact while forming new alliances and strengthening existing relationship and network.