Bubbly actress and burgeoning filmmaker, Tokunbo Jolaosho, also known as Toksbaby is a viewers’ delight in the Yoruba movie industry. She has featured in over twenty-five movies and made her debut in the mainstream English speaking Nollywood with ‘Snipper Girls’ by actress Amarachi Igwe. About her life, career, romance and sundry issues, the beautiful lady of the tube spoke LANRE ODUKOYA.   Could you tell us a bit more about yourself?
My name is Tokunbo Jolaosho and I’m a Nollywood actress. I am the first born from my mother’s side because my dad has two wives. My growing up was a pleasant one, everyone has his or ups and downs, but in all I am here today as a product of grace. Who among the A-list actors did you grow up watching?
I grew up watching the likes of Baba Suwe , Oga Bello, Sola Sobowale, Richard Mode Damijo, Madam Saje and some many veterans in the industry. So in comparing the old actors to the new crop, which one do you prefer to work with?
Well, they are all doing their best to make Nollywood what it is today, I won’t want to say any is better but they are all champions in all they do. How did you get into the industry?
My coming into the industry was kind of accidental. There was this friend of mine who had always believed in me that I would do great in acting and when she had to work on one of her projects, she offered me a lead role and from there, it’s been from one location to another. Tell us the titles of the movies you have featured in.
Really, I don’t really think I can mention them all, but I will try to mention the ones I have offhand now: Pampe Ife, Iyawo Alalubarika, Snipper girls, Alagbede Orun, Love for Love, Idariji and many others. How many movies have you produced on you own?
It’s just one for now and that is “Pampe Ife”. I am somebody who doesn’t really rush to do things. I love a quality and a well arranged job. Who is your role model in the industry?
I doff my cap for Funke Akindele Bello a.k.a Jennifer anytime any day. She’s an all-rounder role interpreter and for that I learn a lot from her. Have you had the opportunity to work with her?
Not yet, but that will happen pretty soon by God’s grace. Are you in any serious relationship at the moment?
Yes! Do you want us to tell us about it?
Hey, no o. Can marriage stop you from acting?
That is a decision for my husband, but if it all depends on me, I don’t think there’s a big deal in being married and acting. Your new movie, Pampe Ife, is trending, how did you come about the story line?
Well, when you have a creative mind, then you can always work around the happenings in the society to build up your story line. How crazy can you go for love?
I am someone that will not joke with anything called love. When I am in love, I love with my whole energy. Have you ever been heartbroken?
Yes. Do you want to reflect and share with us the past?
No. I don’t want to say anything about it. It’s in my past already and this is my present that is leading me to my future. Any regret so far?
Not really. God has been good. If you have to make a wish for the rest part of 2019, what will you ask for?
My wish has got to be more money in good health and fame plus marriage hopefully. Aside acting what else do you do for a living?
I sell men apparel, accessories and hair extensions. What is unique about you?
I don’t try to fit in, I do me always. Can you act nude for 10million dollars?
I can’t say for now, maybe if I see the money. Can you stay without sex for one year?
Never! One whole year, haha no o. What turns you on?
Good news. How best do you relax?
When I am not on location or out for event, I try to stay indoors and relax. How true is the term sex for role in the industry?
I can’t really say anything about it because I am not a victim. Only those who had been offered sex-for-role can tell but me, I am not sure if it’s existing. What do you have in the pipeline for your fans?
New moves all the way. A lot of fantastic movies that will blow your mind are coming through from me, stay connected beloved fans and I promise I won’t disappoint you.