  …seeks children hospitals in Lagos senatorial districts The Medical Guild has urged the new Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Kadri Hamzat to ensure the deployment of medical doctors to all primary health centres (PHCs) operating in Lagos State.
In a congratulatory message to both the governor and his deputy on their assumption of office, signed by the Chairman of Medical Guild, Dr. Babajide K.S. Saheed and Dr. Opeyemi Aiyegbo, secretary of Medical Guild, the duo said this measure would reduce pressure on the state’s secondary and tertiary health institutions, which is a major step towards the achievement of Universal Health Coverage (UHC).
Also, Medical Guild, which is an association of medical doctors employed by the Lagos State Government, called for the establishment of children hospitals in the three senatorial districts of the state, to reduce neonatal, child mortality and morbidity rate in Lagos State.
According to the Medical Guild, which is an affiliate of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Lagos State Branch, it was imperative for the new governor of Lagos State to review the newly inaugurated Lagos State Health Scheme so as to pave the way for equitable, accessible, affordable and qualitative health care delivery with UHC.
In addition, Saheed and Aiyegbo while calling for the renovation of the Cardiac and Renal Centres in Gbagada General Hospital with modern equipment and staffing with indigenous health workers, noted that the measure would reduce medical tourism, discourage as well as reduce brain drain of health workers to other countries.
Saheed and Aiyegbo said: “The Medical Guild will appreciate it greatly if the new government of Lagos State accedes: allocation of an association bus to Medical Guild as was done for other unions/associations in the state through the office of the Head of Service.
“Allocation of space for a permanent secretariat in the premises of General Hospital, Gbagada.”
“Restoration of the statutory NMA-appointed members to the boards of Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Primary Health Care Board (PHCB), Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAAMA), Lagos State Health Management Agency, (LASHMA) and Hospitals Governing Boards.
“These are mechanisms of conflict resolution, feedback to the government and maintenance of standards. This appointment of NMA representatives to the boards of Lagos State health agencies is backed by Lagos State Health Sector Reform Law 2006.” Furthermore, they said, “We appeal to the new administration for call duty allowances to be declared non-taxable, in order to reduce the massive tax burden of members of the Medical Guild.” In addition, Saheed and Aiyegbo said the Medical Guild intends to work with the new administration, and to help it to a successful implementation of good health policies, for the benefit of the good people of Lagos State and expressed the hope that the tenure of this new administration in the state would bring greater development in the social, health, education and economic sectors.-