The Allied People’s Movement (APM) yesterday faulted a claim by Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State that he inherited empty treasury from the administration of his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun.
Specifically, the party declared that Abiodun’s claim was a concoction of lies and clear evidence of his lack of preparedness for governance.
APM Acting Publicity Secretary, Olumide Balogun, faulted the governor in a statement made available to reporters in Abeokuta while reacting to Abiodun’s statement that he got N7billion credit facility to pay the state wage bill for the month of May.
At a stakeholders meeting of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) held in Abeokuta on Monday, the governor had disclosed that the parlous financial situation of the state forced him to borrow funds from commercial banks to pay workers’ salaries on assumption of office.
But Balogun took on the governor yesterday, saying his “phantom loan” claim could be anticipatory looting of the state as its findings revealed that the state received over N5billion from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) meeting for May.
He argued that the state’s share from FAAC and what Amosun left in the state treasury for the new government were more than enough to cover workers’ salaries, insisting that if the governor had borrowed N7billion to pay May salary alone, only God knows how much he would have borrowed in the next three months.
Balogun said: “We are very sure by now, the good people of Ogun are beginning to understand the true meaning of democracy and what good governance entails. This is because the newly formed government of Dapo Abiodun is doing nothing other than making jest of them; distorting their reasonings and presenting government businesses as a help to the electorates which in real term means services.”
“Latest in his jokes is the statement credited to the governor during an interactive session with APC stalwarts in Abeokuta yesterday, where he claimed to have borrowed over N7billion through his ‘friends’ who are bank MDs to pay May salary of Ogun workers. “We must note that he took oath of office on May 29th, 2019 and information had it that his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, had already prepared the cash for payment before handing over to him on May 28th, 2019. “It is a surprise that a governor who had barely spent three days (as at May 31st when the payment was made) in office had borrowed such huge amount to pay salaries alone. “We therefore considered it crucial to seek clarifications from the governor on the following questions: can a state governor unilaterally obtain a loan of N7billion from any bank(s), most especially when there is no State Executive Council in place? “Would such borrowing not require the approval of the OGHA (Ogun Stats House of Assembly)? Is such a transaction in line with the Financial Regulations? Or was the transaction made based on personal relationship or on behalf of the state government? At least, he’s already the governor of the state. “In effect, this statement is a concoction of lies and clear evidence of lack of preparedness for governance by Dapo Abiodun.”