The lawmaker representing Alimosho Constituency I in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Bisi Yusuff, in this interview, urges President Muhammadu Buhari to declare state of emergency on security to curb the spate of killings across the country. He also speaks on the clamour for state police. Wale Elegbede reports  Insecurity in the country is getting heightened on a daily basis with lives being lost to terror attacks, banditry, kidnappings among others. What do you think the President should do?
It is a fundamental issue that should not be taken with levity. It should not be about politicking, it should be an issue that should be tackled seriously. One, I will appeal to the National Assembly to give the President the power of emergency to tackle insecurity and appoint experts that know how to tackle the issue of security. The President should ensure that whoever is behind insecurity must be dealt with without any special treatment.
Beyond that, what I have seen is that people have introduced politics into it. We should look beyond herdsmen and Boko Haram. On Ife-Ibadan road and other places, where the Yoruba are predominant, how will you say the Fulani are coming from Sokoto to terrorise them there? There are certain people who are being sponsored and they disguise as Fulani. Whenever these people are arrested you will see that they have no trademark of the Fulani.
When they are apprehended, you will see that they are not the Fulani. State Police, local government police are very important. Vigilantes groups should be empowered and monitored to tackle insecurity. When there is no security, government is not in existence and there can never be peace or progress. When there is insecurity in the country, there are powerful barons behind it. Are you saying that the government should declare a state of emergency on security?
It is part of it. You know there are some things that if the President wants do he needs to consult the National Assembly and that might be foot dragging. You remember that when there was Ebola in Nigeria the government gave power of emergency to the Ministry of Health and they did it. That was the first time Ebola would enter a country and it would not claim more than four lives. But because of the proactiveness of the Lagos State House of Assembly it was tackled it. Are you saying that the President does not have the capacity to handle the matter?
I would not say that. The president is a security man per excellence. He has been involved on security all his life, he knows all that. We are the ones to tackle it, I have been around and I know that. Security involves you and me. These people are not masquerades, they are not spirits, and they come out from some houses. Those living around them know them, so the people must be involved in this. Would you support the call for the creation of state police?
There is nothing wrong with state police; it would give you an effective monitoring of what is happening. We are just making a mountain of a molehill. Look at the Lagos State Neighborhood Watch that we established in the state, if you know the level of monitoring, surveillance, information gathering and intelligence network they are doing you will marvel. You cannot bring somebody from Zamfara State and you think he would operate effectively in Ayobo, so we must introduce state police it is very important and our security personnel must be subjected to more trainings. But there are insinuations that politicians would use state police to victimise their opponents?
That is not true, why can’t the Federal Government use federal police to victimise the people in the states? Why are we afraid of a policy that we have not introduced? You must first introduce a policy and when it goes wrong, you can go back to the drawing board. Another argument is that some youths take to crime because of unemployment…
What is the purpose of education? Education is a pathfinder; it must tell you what you can do to get to somewhere. What are our graduates doing? Graduates of agriculture, computer engineers, what are they doing? What matters is for the government to create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. I am talking from experience; I have never worked for anybody. I was a radical when I was in school and I came out and I decided not to work in any government establishment. I am the Chief Executive Officer of my company. Whether it is working or not, I am doing it. I take decision on my own and I use my resources to sponsor my children. I don’t depend on anybody to survive; I invested a lot on agriculture as God has given us arable land for agriculture. What role should the legislature play on the issue of security?
That is for the National Assembly, in Lagos State, we created the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) and Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF).