 Latest “Foreign trade in Goods Statistics (Q1 2019)” released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), showing a decline in non-oil exports, throw doubt on Nigeria’s import-substitution drive, analysts at Cowry Asset Management Limited, have said.
Most countries adopt import substitution as a strategy to reduce their dependence on foreign markets through the local production of goods, especially basic necessities. In these parts, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has in recent years actively embraced the strategy with its denial of access to official market foreign exchange for importers of 42 items that can be produced locally.
Early, this year, the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, hinted that the Apex Bank may increase the items on the foreign exchange restriction list from 42 to 50 in order to boost local production and stimulate the export market.
However, commenting on the latest NBS data, the Cowry Asset Management Limited analysts stated in a report obtained by New Telegraph: “We note that the short term prospects for the Nigerian economy could be challenged by both endogenous factors such as suboptimal daily crude oil production and exogenous shocks such as oil price volatility amid geopolitical tensions and relatively weak appetite for Nigerian crude oil cargoes.
“We also note that the increasing trade deficits of most non-oil export industries (particularly consumer staple, consumer discretionary and industrial supplies, except for Raw hides and skins, leather, furskins etc. saddlery) further dims hope of import substitution in the short to medium term, and, combined with sustained subsidies, portends sluggish near term economic performance.”
According to the NBS, Nigeria’s trade surplus decreased to N450 billion in March 2019 from N478.5 billion in the same month a year earlier.
Specifically, the data shows that exports dropped 0.2 per cent to N1452 billion, amid declines in sales of raw material (-20.5%); solid minerals (-43.1%) and energy goods (-4.8%). Comparing quarterly performance, the figures indicate that the country’s trade surplus shrank to N832 billion in Q1 2019 from N1776 billion in the same period of 2018.