There was protest yesterday in parts of Benin, the Edo State capital as residents of the state expressed displeasure over the failure of Governor Godwin Obaseki to inaugurate the 7th Assembly of the state legislature. This was as low key activities heralded the celebration of Democracy Day in the state. Leading the protesters was Edo State-based civil rights activist and founder of One Love Foundation (OLF), Patrick Eholor, who picked holes in the delay by Governor Obaseki to inaugurate the House of Assembly. He said the action of the APC led government ran foul of democratic tenets and the principles of rule law. The protesters marched through the major streets of Benin, including the state House of Assembly complex and caused hours of gridlock in the process. They also visited the state secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), where they appealed to the governor to quickly transmit powers to the Clerk of the House to swear in policymakers as they were representing the people at the grassroots. Eholor said: “I want to thank the men, women and youths who had been very supportive in our cause. We are gathered here for a peaceful protest to remind the governor of Edo State that the citizens desire better governance. He said: “We are aware that most of the states in Nigeria had inaugurated their Houses of Assembly. This is the 7th House of Assembly. We hope that for now the governor would have transmitted power to the Clerk of the House to carry out the functionality of democracy, so that the dividends of democracy can reach the people who voted the lawmakers into power.” According to him, “We are seeing something contrary, that is why we call on men, women and the youth who believed in democracy to appeal to the governor. If they have issues within themselves, they can go to a round table and settle the case. They cannot use Edo people to settle their issues. “We cannot continue to suffer this pain. It’s very clear in the Nigerian 1999 Constitution in Section (105) Sub-Section (3) that if elections had been conducted and people are elected, the governor has a right to transmit powers to the Clerk of the House to swear in policymakers to enable them to carry out their legislative businesses in the chamber. “That is why we came to appeal to the governor to, with immediate effect, transmit power to the Clerk to inaugurate the lawmakers. He is a responsible technocrat and is well-read. We are appealing to his conscience that no matter what is going wrong within him and the party or with other political parties in the state. “Obaseki should do the needful and respect the rights of those who voted for him and those who voted for the lawmakers even when there is prevailing issues ravaging the APC, the right thing must be done. Every political party have issues affecting them, so the normal thing must be done.” When asked if he will go to court if the governor refused to inaugurate the Assembly, Eholor said: “We will not go to court, is not a matter of going to court. But, I am hoping that the governor will transmit power to the Clerk so that the Assemble would be inaugurated,” he added. It will be recalled that on Monday, the governor failed to transmit a letter proclaiming the 7th Assembly’s inauguration, which led to the deployment of security personnel to the Assembly premises. This followed an unresolved rift between Governor Obaseki and his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole, over the 2020 governorship project in the state.