A member of the Super Eagles squad that won the 2013 edition of the African Cup of Nations, Juwon Oshaniwa, told AJIBADE OLUSESAN that the current cast could emulate them and claim the title in Egypt this year.   You were in that Super Eagles squad that won the 2013 edition of AFCON; many Nigerians are still surprised you guys could go all the way in that tournament despite having a young squad, how did you do it? We simply believed in ourselves; we saw the hurdles to cross, we knew about the discouragement, nobody gave us the chance, no one believed we could be victorious but we believed in ourselves individually and collectively as a bunch to successfully represent the football-loving fans of this nation.  The formula for our success in South Africa was keep believing individually and collectively. There was also God’s factor, it exists, and it played a huge part.  The Eagles didn’t start the competition on a blistering note, it was a slow start but confidence kept increasing until you won the final against Burkina Faso….  It is a tournament; every team present was also equal to the task. You don’t just expect to go there and start rolling over teams. We were going through rebuilding process, a lot of players like myself were new but after two three games the team had gelled up and we started building our confidence and at the end of the day we were crowned the champions  Definitely, you’re going to that competition not believing that you could go all the way… I’m a positive being, I have never had it at the back of my mind coming second in anything I do, but, I always want to believe that I can do better and I can be celebrated at the end. So, the AFCON success was no exception, I got the belief that in as much as we did what was suppose to be done individually, collectively I know we would be crowned champions.  Looking at the current squad many Nigerians believe , just like 2013, there aren’t many big stars in the current team but with the kind of desire you guys showed the current cast can do well in Egypt, do you believe that? They can go very far, because we still have some of my colleague talking about Mikel Obi, Ahmed Musa, Kenneth Omeruo in the squad; all of these guys we played together in 2013. So, with their work of experience, they could impact it on other guys and they can come out and do well.  Remember that we have Egypt that have one of the best players in the world in Mohammed Salah, Senegal has another hot striker Sadio Mane, Mali, Cote d’Ivoire all have big players but same cannot be said of Nigeria… This is the biggest competition in Africa, so we shouldn’t expect everything is going to be easy, but, like I told you, we have got a bunch of talented players and some experienced stars with them. Seriously speaking, I don’t see any team standing against us or preventing us from going all the way. I think we can achieve our desire in this tournament provided the players and everybody involved do what they need to do individually, collectively and fighting for one another in the cause of the game. Honestly speaking, with all due respect to the likes of Mane and Salah, we are also good when it comes to football, we have got our stars.  What is your plan for next season? Football is all about movement; I can tell you that some stuffs have been put in place I just wait for it to materialize and pick it up from there.  You moved to Hearts of Scotland and Nigerians were happy about it did it actually go down well, the way you wanted it? It’s a past stuff because I didn’t quite flow in the team but I had my cool time in the UK, Scotland precisely. Like I told you, it’s past story and I don’t want to go back to it  Are you planning to go back to Europe soon? Of course; like I told you, football is all about movement; I have been working with my agent, football season here in Nigeria has ended so, he’s been working on a lot of stuffs for me, we are hoping to see what he’s able to come up with at the end.  Many players struggled with everything when they moved to Europe for the first time, how was the experience like for you? Yeah! It went very well, I enjoyed myself; it was a different atmosphere but it was good for me because I didn’t have to struggle with language, I really enjoyed myself .  Will you say you achieved your aim with your current club, Akwa United, considering the fact that they did not qualify for the continent after the Super Six tournament in Lagos? Not really, I was disappointed at the end of the last Super 6; but, this is football for you, sometimes you win, another time you lose, you have to take it how you see it and face the challenging ahead.  So, what is the motivation for you as a player, why did you choose football as a career? I discovered the talent God deposited in me early in life; for every talent there is purpose, a path you have to thread to be successful. God has been my motivation, inspiration and everything behind my achievement in the profession. I have worked hard to improve on the talent and I know God is still taking me to a higher place.  2013 AFCON is a memorable moment for you as a player; can you share some other ones that you have? I cannot forget the day I put my name in the book of record of champions of the continent and as well participating in the biggest football competition in the world talking about the World Cup in Brazil. It is important to stress here that I featured in all the games the Super Eagles played in that competition. Having to answer the call from my country Nigeria is a joyful and memorable stuffs, I am so proud of myself.  Some Nigerians still believe you guys had the capacity to defeat France in that round of 16 match in Brazil 2014 if not for the distraction you got before the match…..  I think we played very well in that very game, if you can look back, in that very game, we dominated but the result never came. In football, you need to take your chances when they come and probably we didn’t take our chances and at the end of it we lost. But, like I told you, we were confident of ourselves, we believed in ourselves, we knew we could go far it just didn’t happen.  Don’t you think you lost because France were much experienced than Super Eagles and you got scared of the array of stars they paraded? Not at all, at least we had a goal cancelled. If the goal had been allowed to count, it could have been a different story. If the goal had stood it would have brought more pressure on them because it came before their goal. I want to believe that was how God wanted it to be but we appreciate our efforts in the tournament. When it come to football in Africa we’re just like Brazil that it just it. We are blessed when it come to the game; you can see that most of us were playing abroad, , check the squad of 2014, Captain Vincent Enyeama , Joseph Yobo, Ogenyi Onazi Kenneth Omeruo, Efe Ambrose Vic  tor Moses and Osaze Odewingie even me I had moved to Europe. We came across other big players from other countries at the club level, we played against them so when we come to the national team and we have to face them we don’t see it as different kind of football because the language of the game is not different. We’re confident of ourselves, we just went into those games like soldiers.  Late coach Stephen Keshi encouraged young players like yourself; you were one of the six home-based players he included in the squad to 2013 Nations Cup, what did he usually tell you ahead of games? We really missed him, he was a father, mentor he was everything to us all. He was the Big Boss’ which we usually called him. Honestly speaking, we missed him, and he did a great job that can never been forgotten. May his soul continue to rest in peace. I used to play in the local league when I had my international match and my first competitive international game then; I was playing for Sharks when I featured in a World Cup qualifier against Namibia in Calabar. I can remember some of his words to me, he used to say ‘Juwon, You are good, you know how to play football, you can run faster than your opponent. So, why don’t you go there and prove yourself? This showed that he appreciated the tenant God deposited in me. He was a good coach but a better father; I couldn’t believe it when I heard he was no more because he was a good man. I remember our quarterfinal game against Cote d’Ivoire; many people thought we would lose but Keshi never allowed the pressure to get to us, he told us to go out there and execute his plans for the match. We were relaxed and we won. He did the same thing in the final; he was a very good coach.