 The Bank of Ghana (BoG) has revoked the licenses of 347 insolvent microfinance companies as part of efforts to protect the stability of the country’s financial system, the regulator said in a statement.
According to the statement, the licences of 192 of the companies were revoked in addition to that of another 155 that have ceased operations.
The statement said the revocation of the licences of these institutions was to get rid of insolvent and dormant institutions that have no reasonable prospects of rehabilitation and have denied depositors access to their deposits, thereby constituting a threat to the stability of the financial system.  It said, by the revocation of these licences, the BoG sought to protect the stability of the financial system and to protect affected depositors.
Consequently, the BoG has appointed Mr. Eric Nipah as Receiver for the specified institutions.
The statement said to salvage depositors’ funds, the government had made funds available to enable the Receiver pay depositors after their claims were validated.
“In line with the hierarchy of creditor claims set out under Act 930, other creditors of the failed institutions would be settled by the Receiver upon the validation of their claims and to the extent that the Receiver was able to realise value from the remaining assets of those institutions,” the statement added. Meanwhile, following the revocation of the licenses of the companies, the BoG has announced that only 137 microfinance companies are fit to operate in the West African country.  In a statement, the regulator said: “Following the revocation of the licences of these institutions, a total number of 137 microfinance companies will continue to operate. Going forward, the Bank of Ghana has put in place measures to ensure that the existing institutions remain safe and sound by complying with relevant prudential norms.’’  As part of efforts to manage the situation, the BoG said it will be: “Undertaking a comprehensive review of licensing and supervisory policies and directives; reviewing the minimum capital requirements for microfinance companies and encouraging possible consolidation through voluntary mergers and acquisitions; Introducing proportional corporate governance, fit and proper, and risk management directives; embarking on strict supervision of licensed institutions and enforcement of relevant regulatory requirements and Increase the resources available for effective supervision of licensed microfinance companies.”