…fixes June 10 for arraignment  An Abuja Grade 1, Area Court sitting in Karshi has summoned the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to appear before it to answer to criminal charge bothering on alleged lying under oath. The court had consequently fixed June 10 for arraignment. Gbajabiamila is among the major contenders for the Speakership of the House in the Ninth Assembly billed for inauguration on February 11. A political party, African People’s Party (APP) had approached the court seeking leave to serve the defendant criminal summons by substituted means. The complainant also prayed the court for an order to serve the summons on the defendant through the office of the Clerk of the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Granting the order, the presiding judge, Hon. Ana’s Isah Mohammed held that, “An order is hereby granted granting the complainant leave to serve the defendant the summon through the office of the Clerk of the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The complainant had brought direct criminal complaint pursuant to Sections 88 and 89 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. The grouse of the complainant was that the defendant lied under oath in his INEC form 001 where he allegedly lied under oath and thereby committed perjury. In the said complaint, the complainant submitted that Gbajabiamila has been a member of the House of Representatives since 2003 and presently a member of the House representing the people of Surulere 1 Federal Constituency. The complainant contended that Gbajabiamila was convicted for fraud in the U.S., but lied under oath when he denied in his INEC form that he has never been fined for any offence involving dishonesty or fraud or any offence imposed by a court or tribunal. The complainant, who attached the defendant INEC form 001, also submitted that the defendant lied when he said that he has not, in the last 10 years, been convicted for an offence involving dishonesty. The complainant is, however, contending that the defendant refused to state the correct position of his conviction and punishment in his INEC form, but rather pretended as if nothing happened.