Former Governor of Bayelsa State, Chief Timipre Sylva over the weekend described as “pure falsehood” the claim by the State Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson over an allege N130 billion loan incurred during his time in office from 2007 to 2011.  According to Sylva, though loans taken under his administration were used for development and the benefit of the people the state, instead of the present administration to focus on explaining the alleged N130 billion loan incurred by his administration which has placed Bayelsans to live below the poverty line. Sylva, who made this known in Yenagoa through his media aide, Hon. Julius Bokoru, said instead of the present administration’s false claims, his administration left a healthy state to Governor Dickson, but regretted that the government that took over from him plunged the state into indebtedness.  He said Dickson was one of the most fortunate Governors to have governed the State because he governed the State in an era the State received the highest allocations but “yet the State is indebted to the sum of N130 billion it has not been able to service. “As long as we know, the Dickson-led administration took a loan of N50 billion. A loan he claimed he has used to build an airport for the state.  The ironic thing about that loan is that it is expected to be serviced with a N32 billion interest fee making the total sum of the loan N82 billion. Where does that happen? “We still have the case of a 66 million Euros he took from the Bank of Poland in 2013 to build a maritime university in the state.  I am not sure there is any maritime university in this state. In fact, the only maritime university we have in the South-South of the country is the one at Okerenkoko, Delta State. “So, these are the obvious scams. Rather than pay attention to their own short comings, they have resorted to casting aspersions, focusing on Sylva who was governor of this state almost eight years ago. “Just yesterday, the Debt Management Office made a publication indicating that Bayelsa State is the seventh most indebted states in Nigeria. It explained that the state is indebted to the sum of N130 billion. That goes to show how much Dickson has mortgaged Bayelsa with series of loans.”