 A Linguistics graduate of Ekiti State University, Abimbola Ayanwale, has allegedly been killed by suspected armed robbers at Idi-Iroko, Anthony Village area of Lagos State.
Abimbola’s death is still shrouded in mystery and confusion. There are two versions to how she was killed.
One version claimed she boarded a one-chance commercial bus, where she was robbed and pushed out of the moving vehicle. When she was pushed out, she landed in front of Domino’s Pizza. She was naked.
The second version claimed that Abimbola was attacked by armed robbers, while she was returning from work about 11p.m. on Tuesday.
The robbers allegedly shot her at close range and made away with her phone, money and other valuables inside her handbag.
A Facebook user, identified as Adegoke Adekemi, took to her wall yesterday morning, to mourn the woman.
Adekemi wrote: “Auntie mi Modinat; you were still active on WhatsApp till 8p.m. on Tuesday. Only for us to be called around 11p.m. that you’re dead! How do these things happen? One minute, you’re healthy and bubbly, the next minute, you were called by someone. We are missing you already. You went to work, returning and you were shot to death! It’s a wicked world! My heart is just about to explode. I can’t wrap my head around this. Rest in peace Aunty mi. We will miss you dearly.”
A security guard, working the Domino’s Pizza, who did not want his name mentioned, told our correspondent that it was his colleague, who got to office early in the morning that first saw the remains of Abimbola by the roadside.
The female security guard quickly alerted Domino’s Pizza’s management.
The guard said: “Since I joined the eatery six months ago, I have not witnessed such an incident in this place until now. This area is a busy one; we are always vigilant and careful. It was my female colleague that covered the lady. The incident was immediately reported at the Anthony Village Police Station and her body was later evacuated by the police and deposited at Lagos State University (LASUTH) mortuary.”
Mr. Oladeji Oluwatosin, the deceased’s course mate, said that Abimbola’s death came to him as a shock. Mourning Abimbola on his Facebook, Oluwatosin said: “I and Linguistics Department of Class 2012 will not forget you. Rest in peace my dear friend.”
Another friend, Oluwadare Fayokemi, said: “It was so painful, vanity upon vanity. Accept my condolences. May her soul rest in perfect peace. It is painful that I lost a friend and a big sister to death.”
Another man, Mr. Abraham Olalere, also has something to say about Abimbola.
He said: “My sister rest in the bosom of the Lord. May your soul rest in peace! What is the meaning of life? I am weeping over your demise. I can’t bear your death, but I take solace in the Lord.”
Tosin Ore noted: “This is so extremely unbelievable. I am shocked beyond words; I still pray this is not true. May God rest your soul girl?”
Tolulope Abraham wrote: “It is well with you my darling. The Lord will comfort you and your entire family I will you miss greatly.”
Tincabell Justina Alufuare said: “This is unbelievable. I’m so shocked. My Bimbo…pained me oh. I pray you find peace. I pray you find peace.”
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, while confirming the story, said the deceased was pushed from a moving vehicle.
He said: “The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has ordered investigation into the matter. No suspect has been arrested in connection with the incident.”