Barrister John Osom Makbere is the Publicity Secretary of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State. In this interview with PAULINE ONYIBE, he gave his expectation of the state governorship election scheduled for the November 16.  The Bayelsa governorship election is fast approaching, what are the chances of your party?
I am not allowed to preempt processes but I know that we will make sure we keep a fair playing ground for all candidates and aspirants within our own party, and at the end of the, we hope to win. I will be usurping the job of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) if I attempt to answer your question directly, so I will not do that because I know what is wrong to say in the media but I’m assuring you that we will use all apparatus within the party to project candidates that will pass through a free and fair processes of screening and eventual emergence.
And if we do that, you know that PDP has a pedigree since 1999 to 2019 in elections, especially in Bayelsa where we enjoy a relative advantage.
Based on that, it might be positive, but I will not tell you that I am so sure and certain that we will win. Let it not be that I have known the result before time. When people say the truth, they are often misquoted. I am not saying we will not win or we will win but I’m saying that we are used to victory in this part of the country where PDP has enjoyed comparative advantage but that of outright victory shouldn’t be in my place to answer because it’s like a matter in court. If a lawyer tells you I’m certain of victory, it seems that the lawyer knows his way with the judge involved. That also applies to an electoral situation. All the party needed to do was to prepare very hard and work very hard through campaigns, manifesto and enlightenment. PDP is always accusing APC of using federal might to rig elections while APC counter accuses the PDP of using the state apparatus. How do you reconcile these two allegations?
It means that our system and the entire process needs to be improved. We accused the APC at the center of putting pressure in order to ensure that they win at all cost. They forgot that Bayelsa is a place that PDP enjoys advantage, we do enjoy that advantage. So it is not out of place if we say that APC at the center wants to see that they use security to ensure that they turn victory in their favour. It will appear forceful and irregular. It will be an abnormally to see that they win because it’s our strong hold but if we are being accused of relying on some elements within to win, you and I know that it breaks no record if PDP wins in Bayelsa but it calls to question if APC wins in Bayelsa. They have not been winning before. It is our strong hold. So the two questions traded here and there are normal gimmicks and normal psychological preliminaries to every contest. They are normal mind games. One may be true. The other may just be the normal mind game as part of the buildup process to a contest coming up. The APC is gaining grounds by winning some seats in the state assembly, House of Reps and the Senate during the last election. What do you think actually happened?
All these odd samples came in their favour but even at that, it will be two minor pieces of sample to be relied upon in reaching that conclusion, because they had one or two chances across other sections. Therefore, it won’t be presumed that they will transmit same strength into winning the entire Bayelsa. No. Even for those local governments or constituencies that came in their favour, we are aware of the irregularities that transpired and we are hopeful that the tribunals will listen to evidence and then turn victory in our favour. So, we are positive that we can have that back in PDP’s favour but whether that will apply in the entire Bayelsa remains doubtful. Governor Dickson said PDP is an Ijaw party. Do you agree with him?
If he says so, he is the author of his own statement. You know he is an authority. They say no one knows more than an author. If he is saying so, he has good reasons for saying that PDP is an Ijaw party. The local government election is also approaching. Do you hope to win all the councils as usual?
I have told you that I’m not going to judge an electoral process that is yet to come. As a PDP member, ordinarily from the benefits of 1999 to 2019 victories that PDP has enjoyed, I can tell you that we are sure and certain of victory. But that will not be fair to the electoral body who will be handling the electoral process. The APC counterpart has constantly boasted that they will win but you should know that is not a fair statement for a contest that is yet to come. If any party should boast that they will win, it should be the PDP. All that I will answer you and tell you in all confidence is that we are very sure as we have always been doing that we are presenting the best from a free and fair background. The candidate will emerge from all aspirants but saying that we will win all the slots means that I’m becoming the contestants and the party official and the umpire at the same time.
To be saying that results will all come in the favour of a party, if you see anybody saying that, you should suspect that person. All I know is that we will prepare very hard and victory should come to the one who has worked very hard. If does not come, then we know that something is wrong but for any one that works hard that wants to expect positive result, he or she has to first work hard. That, we have done, and as a party, I believe that by the deeds of our hard work and with good policies and campaigns, we are sure that we will win but that doesn’t mean that you have to say publicly that you are sure of victory. That will mean that you are the one marking your script. So I have a modest way of sounding how positive things might turn out in the next election. PDP seems not to have a notable candidate for the governorship election, unlike the APC. Do you agree with those saying that the governor want to install his successor?
I don’t know how certain people think with their assertion. You may be right, APC already has a permanent and unchangeable standard flag in the person Timipre Sylva. That is because they are in opposition. That is not our matter to debate because it is entirely for APC, it is their domestic issue but we are going to pick from the richness of candidates with credibility, we have them, so we do not have to be in a hurry picking one. We call it pedigree selection.
When you are doing a pedigree selection, it is like the beans selection process. When you want to cook beans, you take time to remove the grains from the sand so that it will be properly cooked. Ours could be likened to beans cooking process. It is not something to be done in a hurry, it is not noodles. The cooking of noodles and the cooking of beans can never take the same time frame. So the PDP as a party with richness of candidates shouldn’t be jumping at the selection of one flag bearer. So I do not subscribe to the view that the thing seem to be taking time. We have so many candidates with credibility, with proper mindset, with the endowment to deliver. So we do not have to be in a hurry to picking so that we do not make mistake. Is it true that the PDP is divided into three camps as alleged by some APC stalwarts?
That is what the APC is spreading. Why didn’t you ask yourself why they know so much about the PDP when they cannot even break the so called Sylva dichotomy? If APC has this much wisdom this much knowledge about the PDP, how is it so less of the knowledge about how to break the Sylva money. It is a hard knot they have not been able to crack yet they seem to know so much about how the PDP do their things. I think that question is self -explanatory by the APC. I shouldn’t be helping them do their job by answering questions that don’t bother us but there are issues that need to bother them so much yet they want us to answer.
They should first wrestle with issues of why one particular candidate has always come to contest rather than being mindful of whom PDP has to field. Ultimately, they seem to be praying for an act in a hurry as to present to them a feeble candidate that they could overcome. They should not be begging for an opponent, they should just be ready for whosoever we present. Do they think that they have the fiber to stand the PDP candidate?