  Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) in the country activated 7.8 million Internet users, in the first four months of this year.
New Telegraph learnt the number of active Internet users across the four mobile networks, which was 111.6 million at the end of 2018, rose to 119.5 million at the end of April last April.
At 173 million, subscription for mobile telephony is believed to have improved significantly in the country, bringing teledensity to 90 per cent.
However, Internet penetration, especially broadband, remains low.
Analysis of the statistics released by Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) showed that MTN, which on May 16, listed 20.9 billion ordinary shares at N90 with a par value of N0.02 on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), gained the lion share of the new Internet users for the period under review. The South African telecommunications company got 6.1 million new Internet subscribers between January and April this year to record the largest customers totalling 50 million. Airtel, which had indicated interest to also list its shares on the NSE, after its London listing, came second, as it added 1.5 million new Internet users between January and April this year, which brought its data subscription figure to 31.3 million.
Globacom, came third in terms of data subscription, as it gained 572,443 new Internet users, hitting a total of 28.6 million users. However, 9mobile lost 478,477 Internet subscribers in the period, leaving the 4th network operator with a total 9.4 million Internet customers.
According to NCC, of the total mobile Internet users, only 64.3 million are on broadband. This helped the country to achieve 33.7 per cent broadband penetration as at the end of April. However, the telecom regulator has said it would ensure access to pervasive broadband through an Open Access Model as a strategy to narrow the gap between existing and planned fibre infrastructure.
The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, who gave assurance recently in Lagos, said, “In order to address current gap, the commission has set a strategic imperative to ensure access to pervasive broadband through an Open Access Model in line with the National Broadband Plan.
“That is one of the initial strategic actions of the Federal Government, through the commission, in the journey toward facilitating the availability, affordability and accessibility to broadband infrastructure and services.
“The Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development established by the International Telecommunications Union maintains that improving the livelihoods of citizens around the world through sustainable development represents one of the greatest challenges facing humanity today.
“This challenge is, however, one that can easily be mitigated, utilising broadband.”
He noted that broadband referred to high speed Internet, which could largely be delivered through optic fiber, wireless spectrum and high throughput satellites.
Meanwhile, the NCC explained that it has re-aligned the computation of the country’s teledensity with the latest population figure of 190 million given by the National Population Commission (NPC), up from the 140 million populations of 2006. Following the re-alignment, which is also in line with the International Telecommunication Union (ITU)’s calculation of teledensity, the Commission, disclosed that based on that new development, telephone density in the country was reviewed from March to reflect the population figure of 190 million against active subscriber base of 173.7 million that subsequently put Nigeria’s teledensity at 91 per cent.
Telephone density or teledensity is the number of telephone connections for every hundred individuals living within an area. Hitherto, teledensity in Nigeria was calculated using the 140 million population official figure of 2006 against the prevailing monthly subscriber base.
According to the Commission, as at last February, when the 140 million population figure was last used and benchmarked against the active subscriber base of 173.6 million, the country’s teledensity stood at 124.05 per cent. The teledensity figure stood at 124.29 per cent in January with active subscriber base of 174 million.
However, from March, the Commission began to use the rebased 190 million population of Nigeria, as projected by the NPC, against the subscriber base of 176.7 million to calculate teledensity.
Explaining further, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, said the clarification on teledensity calculation became necessary to avoid misinterpretation of the re-alignment to mean a reduction in teledensity.