 The war between the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and the party’s Deputy National Chairman North, Senator Lawal Shuaibu, had deepened, as the later yesterday, told his boss that he lacked the powers discipline him. Shuaibu, who responded to the invitation sent to him by the chairman of the disciplinary committee set up by the APC National Working Committee (NWC), said only the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party had the powers to discipline him or members of his caliber in the party, and not the NWC. In a 3-page response to the invitation of the Committee Chairman, Niyi Adebayo, Shuaibu quoted the APC constitution on the discipline of members. He said, “l don’t know from where the National Working Committee (NWC) derived the power of discipline. The APC Constitution in Article 21 states that such Power shall only be exercised by the Party through the respective Executive Committee of the party at all levels.”
The APC NWC had, after one of its meeting last month, set up a committee to look at complaints of members on anti-party activities. In a statement setting up the investigative committee, chaired by the Deputy National Chairman South, Chief Niyi Adebayo, the party said, “The NWC has received several petitions alleging various forms of anti-party activities by some members, including working against the party or our candidates in the just concluded elections.” This committee was set up few days after the APC Deputy National Chairman had written a letter to the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, accusing him of lacking the capacity to lead the party.
Shuaibu, in that letter, asked the National Chairman to tow the part of honour and resign as National Chairman.
It was on this premise that the Niyi Adebayo-led committee had invited the APC Deputy National Chairman, Lawal Shuaibu, for questioning. But Shuaibu in his response was blunt as he said, “I will not appear before your committee as it is illegal and I am too informed to get involved in illegalities. If you want to punish me for saying what I still believe is true, then you have to take this matter to where you are avoiding -the National Executive Committee.  “My advice is please let us save this party as a stitch in time saves nine. I assure you there is nothing personal about this except my concern that the party is drifting.” Also in the response, he faulted Oshiomhole for setting up the committee to investigate him, stating that he (Oshiomhole) shouldn’t be a judge in his case. He said, “Given the NWC has the power, how can the Chairman preside over a meeting in which discussions that border on allegations against him are discussed? Let me repeat, as in my letter to the Chairman, You CAN’T BE A JUDGE IN YOUR OWN CASE! And to even say he was seated there to accept a vote of confidence as well as preside over setting up a committee to punish the member that accused him! Those eminent leaders of the All Progressives Congress had fairness on their minds on matters of discipline and disciplinary procedures when they drafted the constitution. They entrusted the matter of discipline in the party to the larger Executive Committees and not a group of few members of the party, some of who might probably be culpable in some instances.”