The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, cautioned his colleagues that oversight functions of the 9th Senate on the ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of government, would not be business as usual.
Lawan also vowed that the 9th Senate under his leadership would ensure that whoever was given a responsibility on the side of the Executive, would discharge the responsibility as specified, saying that the Legislature has the enviable role of over sighting the Executive.
This was as he promised that the Senate, under his watch, would complement the Executive rather than contend with them, so that the present administration would be able to deliver good governance to Nigerians.03
Senator Olusola Adeyeye, the immediate past Chief Whip of the Senate, had recently warned members of the 9th Senate against the blunders of their predecessors, especially on the alleged extortion of monies during oversight of MDAs by standing committees.
Adeyeye, who spoke during the valedictory session of the 8th Senate, said that they did not adhere to the rules of parliament, by not maintaining integrity at oversight functions, stressing that the rule forbids parliamentarians from extorting money during oversight functions.
He, however, regretted that lawmakers disregarded such ethical standard, as the rule was never adhered to, each time senators went on oversight activities.
Speaking during an interactive session with members of the Senate Press Corps (SPC), in his office, Lawan said the apex legislative chamber would improve on the oversight functions in the overall interest of all Nigerians.
His words: “We would even try to stretch out our oversight process not as we did before, but we want to see an oversight that is structured from conception to the presentation of reports by our committees to the plenary of the Senate at all times.
“We want to ensure that whoever is given a responsibility on the side of the Executive discharges that responsibility. When the President appoints a minister, he is expected to help the President perform those duties assigned to him to ensure that those who are to work with us should do it in such a manner that we are to work together to deliver the services.”
On the relationship between the Executive and the Legislature under his leadership, he said: “We are not going to have unnecessary rancour or go to the market place with stones. We are going to be absolutely focused; absolutely determined to ensure that Nigerians are taken to the next level of development.
“In the process of governance, we are expected to work with the Executive in a complementary type of relationship that is based on cooperation, collaboration, synergy, and partnership.
“We are not in contention, and we would not be in contention with the Executive arm of government as we meant to serve the same people. We are meant to ensure that Nigerians get the services that they required and vote us to deliver and that is exactly what we would do.”
Lawan explained that they sought to be leaders in the National Assembly, not for personal reasons, but for service to humanity and the country in general.
“Our country needs all hands on deck to deal with the numerous challenges of development. What that means is for us in the National Assembly to remain focused and united to ensure that we perform our mandatory well-spelt out functions in the constitution to deliver all those legislative interventions that are required for good governance, to ensure that we act and sustain a bipartisan fashion of engagement in the Senate and indeed in the National Assembly,” he said.