Worried by the growing spate of insecurity in the country, the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the former Minister for Works, Power and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola have called on the Federal Government and other stakeholders to pay attention to organised crime in the country, saying there is need to productively engage Nigerian youths to curb the scourge. The duo said that Nigeria will remain highly insecure, if the country fails to secure the today and tomorrow of its youth by proper planning and productive engagement. Speaking at the third BRF-GABFEST programme, entitled: “Generational Gap: Youth Inclusion and the Leadership Question in Nigeria”, Sanwo-Olu said that Nigeria needs to invest in education and create an enabling environment for the youth to thrive. The governor, who advised the youths to fight for what they believe in, noted that leadership is not by age but by knowledge, insight and responsibility. According to the governor, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Dr Funmi Balogun, said that with the election of youths as speakers in some states, though progress is being made but there is still a lot more to be done. On his part, Fashola said young Nigerians must continue to have a positive mind-set about the country, adding that young people are taking responsibility than they thought they are taking. The former minister, who also said that education is critical to the process, said that was the reason the present generation of young Nigerians must determine the type of education it wants for his children so that they could compete.
Fashola also said there is a need to pay attention to organised crime as a critical element of insecurity the country is facing. During one of the panel discussions, a Nigerian artiste, Olubankole Wellington, popularly called Banky W, who contested during the last general election, said young people need to lose the sense of entitlement they own, as no one owes them. He said if the youth are serious, they need to take action, stop complaining, put resources together to champion their cause as they have the figure. According to him, there is need for Nigerian leaders to embrace more young people around them and in their cabinet. He noted that politics is a game of numbers, yet Nigerian youth with their huge population had not used it to their advantage.