President Muhammadu Buhari has said that signing into the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) will have both negative and positive impacts for the Nigerian economy.
The President stated this yesterday while receiving the report of the committee set up to assess the impact and readiness for AfCFTA at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
The committee, led by Desmond Guobadia as chairman, urged the President to consider signing the agreement to enable Nigeria join the AfCFTA.
Guobadia said: “Our report shows that on the balance, Nigeria should consider joining the AfCFTA and using the opportunity of the ongoing AfCFTA Phase I negotiations to secure the necessary safeguards required to ensure that our domestic policies and programmes are not compromised.”
Buhari had explained that the AfCFTA that Nigeria desires is one that would assist the country to create wealth for investors and contribute to the job creation programme of the government.
He said: “The AfCFTA we aspire to have should, therefore, not only create wealth for investors, but also jobs and prosperity for our vibrant and hardworking citizens. The benefits of economic growth must be prosperity for the masses.
“For AfCFTA to succeed, we must develop policies that promote African production, among other benefits.
“Africa, therefore, needs not only a trade policy, but also a continental manufacturing agenda. Our vision for intra-African trade is for the free movement of “made in Africa goods. That is, goods and services made locally with dominant African content in terms of raw materials and value addition,” he said.
Buhari noted that: “If we allow unbridled imports to continue, it will dominate our trade. The implication of this is that coastal importing nations will prosper while landlocked nations will continue to suffer and depend on aid.”
The President explained that henceforth, the government will ensure that all negotiated agreements create business opportunities for Africa’s manufacturers, service providers and innovators.
“As I stated during the inauguration of this committee, many of the challenges we face today, whether security, economic or corruption are rooted in our inability, over the years, to domesticate the production of the most basic requirements and create jobs for our very vibrant, young and dynamic population, Buhari added.
President Buhari promised to consider the report of the committee which, he said, will form part of the consideration in government’s decision on the next steps on the AfCFTA in particular and on broader trade integration subjects.
In his remarks while presenting the report earlier, Guobadia said the committee proposed policies, programmes, projects and interventions which may position Nigeria adequately for the AfCFTA.
He said: “It is envisaged that the trade liberalization offered by the AfCFTA will make African goods more attractive and potentially cheaper than similar products from outside the continent.
“The AfCFTA, therefore, provides immense opportunities for Nigeria’s manufacturing and service companies to expand to Africa. Today, many Nigerian companies have developed capacity in some of these sectors and have long desired to expand to Africa, but have been constrained by trade barriers which AfCFTA is expected to remove.
“Our study has shown that the AfCFTA is not without major risks and undesirable impacts. The most significant of which is the potential rise in smuggling and abuse of rules of origin. The risk is that it will provide incentive for traders to disguise goods imported from outside the continent as made-in-Africa goods, to qualify for duty-free treatment.”