The Speaker of House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, visited Lagos last weekend where leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state tasked him to work for the development of the nation, writes TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE   It was a heroic welcome for the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila last Saturday, as chieftains and members of the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), his supporters and loyalists trooped out in thousands to receive him in Lagos State for the first time after his emergence as Speaker of the Ninth Assembly.
Gbajabiamila, a former Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, was elected the Speaker on June 11 by members of the lower chamber of the National Assembly. He scored a total of 281 votes to beat his rival, Hon. Umar Bago, who scored 76 votes in a secret ballot which lasted for over three hours. Hon. Ahmed Wase emerged the Deputy Speaker unopposed.
In view of his emergence as the first lawmaker from Lagos State to become the Speaker of the House of Representatives, APC chieftains and politicians rolled out the drums to welcome their illustrious son for making the state proud at the national level.
APC leaders from across the country, including incumbent and former governors as well as political gladiators, also converged on the Eko Hotel last Sunday for a dinner organised for Gbajabiamila by the Lagos State government.
As early as 10am, the people have started converging at the Presidential Wing of the Murtala Mohammed with display of several banners to welcome the Speaker to Lagos State. Though he was scheduled to arrive at the airport by 11am, he didn’t disembark until around 2:00pm. But for almost three hours of waiting for the Speaker, singing and drumming at the airport by the party members and Gbajabiamila’s supporters. To even show their level of loyalty to the party and the Speaker, some of the APC members defiled the rain as they continued under the rain.
After over two hours of waiting, Gbajabiamila’s arrival was heralded by an ovation as his private jet touched the ground. The Speaker who dressed in a flowing brown agbada with a cap to match was accompanied on the visit by its deputy, Hon. Wase and other members of the House of Representatives, including the Director-General of Gbajabiamila and Wase Campaign Organisation, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin and Hon. Abiodun Faleke, representing Ikeja Federal Constituency.
Gbajabiamila was received at the airport by Secretary to the Lagos State Government (SSG), Mrs. Folashade Jaji; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s Chief of Staff, Mr. Tayo Ayinde; Lagos APC Chairman, Hon. Tunde Balogun and members of the House of Representatives from the state.
The Speaker after alighting had handshakes with some of the dignitaries at the airport and few minutes’ discussion with the party leaders, Gbajabiamila drove in long convey to the Lagos State Government House, Ikeja to pay courtesy visit to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. At the Lagos House, Governor Sanwo-Olu and Gbajabiamila briefly brainstormed with some state top officials and House of Representatives in attendance.
Governor Sanwo-Olu described Gbajabiamila’s emergence as Speaker as a great feat for the State. He also expressed joy that a Lagosian had been entrusted with the speakership of the lower chamber which he sees as a milestone in the annals of the State’s and the nation’s political history.
The governor informed the Speaker that Lagos deserves more from the Federal Government and expressed hope that Gbajabiamila would use his office to better the lot of the State. “We are happy that as a Lagosian, you are the Speaker of the House of Representatives in Nigeria. This means a lot to us in the State. But beyond being a Lagosian, we are happy that Nigeria is blessed with a great personality as her Speaker. We know that you will work for the good of the country,” he said.
Gbajabiamila, in his response, described his home coming as very emotional, noting that “it feels really great to be welcomed home by your people” The Speaker noted that Lagos is his home but Nigeria is his seat, and promised to be fair to every Nigerian in his administration of the House of Representatives.
He also promised better collaboration between the Federal Government and Lagos State Government, saying so much is expected of Governor Sanwo-Olu to deliver the dividend of democracy. “So much is expected of you as much as it is expected of me too. But I know you and I know your pedigree. Chances are that you will surpass those expectations.”
Shortly after the meeting, Governor Sanwo-Olu and Gbajabiamila drove in a long convoy with party leaders to Iga Idunganran, the official residence of the Oba of Lagos, situated on Lagos Island. They were welcome with funfair and ceremony by the Oba of Lagos, His Royal Majesty, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, as prayers were offered by a White cap chief, who prayed for the Speaker, Governor Sanwo-Olu and other top politicians at the venue.
Speaking at the palace, Gbajabiamila assured Nigerians that he will use his office to the benefit of all Nigerians and therefore sought the support and cooperation of Nigerians on the need to move the country forward.
The Speaker who was accompanied to the palace by his deputy and about 30 federal lawmakers, said the House of Representatives will be four years of hard work, commitment to the rule of law and dedication to solving the challenges of insecurity in the country.
Oba Akiolu, who congratulated Gbajabiamila, had said members of the House of Representatives and the country did not make a wrong choice in electing Gbajabiamila as the Speaker of the Ninth Assembly, because he had what it takes to make the country proud.
Oba Akiolu who said Gbajabiamila leadership in the House would work in the interest of the people, urged him and the members of the House to work toward ensuring that all the Lagos State property collected by the Federal Government from the state though military fiat is returned.
The monarch said the state must fight for the retrieval of the property which include CMS Grammar School and First Bank Building on the Lagos Island and harness them for improved service delivery in the state.
Gbajabiamila and his entourage also visited the Ikoyi residence of the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Speaking at Tinubu’s residence, Gbajabiamila, who also promised to use his position for the development of the country, thanked Tinubu for building him and many others politically.
In his reaction, Tinubu said the conscience of the nation lies with the National Assembly and advised the speaker to use his position to build unity.
Speaking to journalists earlier at the airport, Lagos APC chairman, Hon. Tunde Balogun, described Gbajabiamila as a detribalised Nigerian who had contributed immensely to the nation’s law making processes.
He expressed optimism that Gbajabiamila’s leadership of the Ninth Assembly would ensure harmonious relationship between the executive and legislature for the betterment of Nigerians.
Also speaking to journalists during the Saturday’s visit, a House of Representatives member representing Oshodi-Isolo Federal Constituency I, Hon. Bashiru Dawodu, expressed confidence in Gbajabiamila’s leadership quality, adding that all members of the lower chamber will work tirelessly to meet the expectations of Nigerians.
His words: “We really appreciate God for the emergence of Hon. Gbajabiamila as the Speaker. We members from Lagos State are really happy that the speaker is one of our own. I am sure he is going to do very well. We will all work together to ensure that we meet the expectation of Nigerians.
A member of House of Representatives, representing Mushin I, Federal Constituency, Hon. Adeyemi Ali, said the people of Lagos State are happy that the Speaker of the House of Representatives is from the state.
“We are going to join forces with members of the House of Representatives to secure the country and ensure that we address burning issues in the country. We will also put food on the table of Nigerians. I can assure you that more goods are on the way for Nigerians. We will work toward getting special status for Lagos. It is something all the members of House of Representatives from Lagos State are going to pursue and we will work toward it,” he said.
Lagos State Government treated Gbajabiamila to a dinner at Eko Hotels on Victoria Island with dignitaries like Tinubu, Governors Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) and Simon Lalong (Plateau). Others are Lagos State deputy governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; former Governors Olusegun Osoba (Ogun), Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), members of House of Representatives and APC chieftains, among others.
Speaking at the reception dinner, Gbajabiamila said Nigerians should expect better service delivery from the Ninth National Assembly, adding that present House of Representatives will perform better than Eighth Assembly and would meet the expectations of Nigerians.
Gbajabiamila said though the Eighth National Assembly did its best, Nigerians expected the Ninth Assembly to surpass the achievements of the last Assembly, adding that the new assembly, particularly the House of Representatives, would do things differently to get better results.
“The Eighth Assembly did its best, but we will do better. We will do our best in the service in the service of the country. We started with the slogan ‘Nation-building is a joint task,’ it cannot be done by one person. The Ninth Assembly will work for the good of the country.
Governor Sanwo-Olu described Gbajabiamila as a very cerebral and competent lawmaker, even as he expressed elation at his emergence as the Speaker of the Ninth Assembly. He said the people expected so much from him, urging him to use his office to better the lot of the people.