If it is a devastating and traumatic experience for a woman to lose her husband, it is even more unimaginably terrible for her to go through the rites in the name of culture and norms that usually accompany the death of a husband. Ironically, these rites as observed from widow’s tales are never binding on widowers, writes OLUWATOSIN OMONIYI   In some parts of Nigeria, widows are still being humiliated, dehumanised and abused by degrading customs, that are begging for urgent attention from all and government at all levels.
Some widows are forced to return the bride price paid on to the late husband family, their children forcefully taken from them as a way of erasing what could be binding them with the widow. Some are chased out of the late husband’s house and denied access to all his property despite the existence of supreme court judgment to the contrary. And some are forced to drink the water used to wash the deceased husband’s corpse to prove her innocence in his untimely death.
Few years ago, a widow died after drinking bath water from her husband’s corpse. Another widow, Stella Ogheneovo, in May 2017 lamented how she was forced to disclose the assets her husband left behind to relatives fighting to inherit his property. Thugs were sent to beat and terrorise her and her five children in the hope of intimidating her. She was also forced to drink the water used to wash her husband’s corpse to prove her innocence. Stella was admitted to hospital with severe stomach pains after the incident.
Taiwo Olajide, a 52-year-old widow is still fighting and seeking for justice at the Human Right Section of the Lagos State Ministry of Justice. She was denied access to her husband’s property by her in-laws because she has five daughters for her late husband. She told New Telegraph that, “my offence is that I have daughters and no son and because of that, his children and I are refused part of his property.”
She added: “Another of my offence was that I refused to release my husband’s car for them (his relatives). They swore that I will smell pepper and indeed, I have not only smelled the pepper, I actually had the nasty taste of the pepper in my eyes.”
It also doesn’t stop there. When a wife dies, the society encourages the man to take a wife as soon as possible after mourning her demise without qualms. Should it be the other way round, voices would rise on why the woman remarries even years after her husband’s death. That is the mentality of most Africans, particularly Nigerians, which has so eaten deep into the consciousness of most. Even children of widows see it as absurd.
Omotunrayo Abiodun, 27, refused to allow her father to remarry eight years after her mother died in a road accident. Her reason was that if it were her mother that was in that condition, she won’t think of remarrying, as such, her daddy should go by that assumption.
Olajide’s relatives and children wouldn’t let any man make advances towards their mother and warned her not to think of it. Speaking to New Telegraph, the children sad that was the fable they grew up with, told by friends, people around them and their late father’s relative since their childhood.
This perhaps may be the same philosophy resounding around Hauwa, the beautiful widow of former Taraba governor, Danbaba Suntai. First, she was refused access to most of her husband’s property on religious grounds. According to a source close to her, Hauwa late husband’s relatives were not too friendly with her and this showed more when Suntai eventually died on June 28, 2017 in Houston, Florida, in the United States. They allegedly told her that she cannot have access to her husband’s property because she is a Muslim, according to the source. The source added that, even when she tried to argue based on her Christian activities while her husband was alive, they refused to oblige her; that they cannot remember her renounce her faith in Islam to Christianity.
However, with the help of some friends of her late husband, she got some property of her husband in Abuja, settle down and move on with her life. “She even got cheated of her husband’s property by some of her husband’s friends. They took advantage of her ignorance and of the fact that her husband did not let her know of all his property. But as a first lady, she was able to put up some property for herself. She made some solid investment as well,” the source said.
Before Suntai’s demise, beautiful Hauwa was said to be a dutiful and devoted wife to the man. She was said to be friendly and accommodating. During the man’s vegetative condition, when his brain got damaged, Hauwa stood by him all through. On Valentine’s Day- February 14, she celebrated him, she was seen feeding and pampering him when he was in a hospital in America where he was receiving medication. All through Suntai’s admission in the hospital, she was with him. While taking care of him, she was also trying to hold forth his government even though the late man’s supporters declared that Suntai was fit to govern.
Long story short, Hauwa was the centre of controversy that surrounded her husband’s return in Taraba politics. Difficult and traumatic, she later declared her husband as medically and mentally unfit to govern. In all the battles that surrounded her politically and with the late man’s relatives, she remained solid by his side; she stood by her husband till his last days. What a wife?! Hauwa indeed is a wife any man would wish to have
Before the ill-fated air crash involving her late husband near Yola, October 25, 2012, beautiful Hauwa was said to be the proverbial woman behind Suntai’s political success story. A Muslim from Borno State, (Shu’Arab, an ethnic group in Maiduguri- of Old Borno Empire) married to a Christian from Taraba State. She was undoubtedly an influence towards her husband’s electoral victory.
The journey of her love story began when she was an undergraduate in the Federal University of Technology, Yola , (FUTY) studying Botany while Suntai was the chairman of a local government area under the then political party, All Nigeria Peoples Party, ( ANPP).
To marry Hauwa who is from a strong Muslim background, Suntai pretended to be a Muslim and even got the marriage consummated in a Mosque! Since her husband’s death, nothing was heard about her any longer until the announcement that she was set to remarry few days ago -June 8,2019. There were uproar and nasty comments about her getting set to remarry. Pre-wedding photos were displayed on Instagram where Hauwa and her young husband ( said to be his 30s), looked so happy together.
While some argued against her, some argued for her that she deserves to be happy and does not fit to bear a permanent status of a widow.
One of the comments read, “Widowhood should never be a permanent status especially for men and women who are relatively young when they lose their spouses. Loneliness kills.”
Steve Aborishade, Development and Human rights journalist wrote on his Facebook wrote “Would it not be expected that the man, by now, should have taken a new wife had the woman been the one who happened not to be around? Why should women lose the right to a fulfilling life because they lost their partners?” I think it’s time our own generation looks at these things differently. To women who decides to stay single at the death of their partner, kudos, and to those who feel they are better off with a man, we can only wish them the best. What matters eventually, either man or woman, is to take a responsible decision that makes you happy about your relationship, before or after the death of a partner.”
The wife of Ondo State governor, Betty Akeredolu reacted to Steve Aborishade’s write up on her; “I concur. Thanks for this write up and coming from a Nigerian man. Very thoughtful and timely so that she knows that many are rooting for her. Thanks for being among the progressive men in the club of HE4SHE in Nigeria. She deserves to find happiness. Patriarchy will not let us be reasonable and be fair to women. God forbids! Aluta!! The struggle continues to end women’s subjugation!!! Our daughters are coming up. It won’t be business as usual, believe it or not.”
Meanwhile is now a bride again and happily so. She married a young business man from Taraba State. Supreme Court decision
As did both the Lagos High Court and the Court of Appeal, the Supreme Court found that the Igbo inheritance rules that exclude women from inheritance violate the country’s 1999 Constitution, confirming the decisions of the Lagos High Court and the Court of Appeal. Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour, one of the five justices who heard the case, delivered the Court’s opinion in which he stated that
No matter the circumstances of the birth of a female child, such a child is entitled to an inheritance from her later father’s estate. Consequently, the Igbo Customary Law, which disentitles a female child from partaking in the sharing of her deceased father’s estate is in breach of Section 42(1) and (2) of the Constitution, a fundamental rights provision guaranteed to every Nigerian.
The above cited provision of the Nigerian Constitution, which guarantees freedom from discrimination, states that:
(1) A citizen of Nigeria of a particular community, ethnic group, place of origin, sex, religion or political opinion shall not, by reason only that he is such a person:-
a. be subjected either expressly by, or in the practical application of, any law in force in Nigeria or any executive or administrative action of the government, to disabilities or restrictions to which citizens of Nigeria of other communities, ethnic groups, places of origin, sex, religions or political opinions are not made subject; or
b. be accorded either expressly by, or in the practical application of, any law in force in Nigeria or any such executive or administrative action, any privilege or advantage that is not accorded to citizens of Nigeria of other communities, ethnic groups, places of origin, sex, religions or political opinions.
(2) No citizen of Nigeria shall be subjected to any disability or deprivation merely by reason of the circumstances of his birth. Accepted Discrimination
Although gender-based discrimination by customary rights is banned, it appears that age-based discrimination remains acceptable. As it did on a number of occasions in the past, on April 19, 2013, the Supreme Court upheld as constitutional the principle of primogeniture under the Bini customary law of succession in which the eldest son is entitled to inherit the family’s principal house, known as Igiogbe.
Meanwhile the Lagos State Government law regarding widow’s right to her deceased husband’s property read as thus: (quote in part)
When a person who was married with children dies intestate (without a will) then difficult questions arise. Who are the beneficiaries entitled to the deceased’s property? Should the estate be distributed according to Customary Law or received English Law. These questions sometimes cause the members of the family to engage in a bitter dispute which may result in litigation.
Section 49(1) of the Administration of Estates Law states that, the estate of a person who died intestate shall be distributed in the following manner; the surviving husband or wife shall take the personal chattels absolutely and in addition the estate (excluding personal chattels) shall be charged with the payment of a net sum of money equivalent to the value of one third of the estate, free of funeral expenses, to the surviving husband or wife plus interest from the date of death at the rate of 2½ % per annum until paid or appropriated and subject to providing for that sum the estate (excluding personal chattels) shall be held as follows; (a) one-third upon trust for the surviving husband or wife during his or her lifetime and subject to such life interest, on the statutory trusts for the children of the deceased; and (b) two thirds on the statutory trusts for the children of the deceased.
Section 36(1) of the Marriage Act states that, where any person who is subject to customary law contracts a marriage in accordance with the provisions of this Act and such person dies intestate leaving a widow or husband or any children of the marriage, the real and personal property of such person which might have disposed by will, shall be distributed in accordance with the provisions of the Laws of England relating to succession of estates, notwithstanding any contrary customary law.
The difference between the provisions of both laws is that, while section 36 (1) of the Marriage Act incorporates by reference English law into our law of intestate succession, section 49 (1) of the Administration of Estate Law directly and not by reference substantially incorporates the provisions of the English law on the subject into Nigerian law.