Concerned by a possible development in Lagos politics, the Bishop of Lagos West, Anglican Communion, Rt. Rev. James Odedeji, yesterday cautioned the political class in the state against intimidating and pressurising the state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo- Olu, saying that the new governor needs freedom to succeed.  Speaking at the inauguration Thanksgiving held at the Chapel of Christ the Light at Alausa Secretariat, Ikeja, which was also attended by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, Rev Odedeji warned politicians against misinforming the new governor.  The clergy in his sermon titled: “Righteousness in Governance”, stressed that pocketing the governor, who he said has expressed his desire to get Lagos to its previous state, could spell doom for the state. The bishop, who spoke in a Yoruba proverb, said “If you give someone a ram, you allow him to have control over the animal and not still guard him.”  “To all Lagosians, party leaders, elders, friends, let us remember in prayer, the governor and his deputy because if the governor succeeds, we have all succeeded. But if otherwise, we will all be held responsible.  “We must support the government because we all cannot occupy the office; someone must be there. So do not put too much pressure on him. He means well for the country. Do not intimidate him. “Do not misinform him because he is intelligent and  has a competent deputy, who has a Ph.D and his wife too is a medical doctor.  He has all it takes to make Lagos better and put smile on the people’s faces. So leave him to govern.” Odedeji warned Sanwo- Olu to beware of sycophants, saying that he should ensure that he surrounds himself with good people. If he does so work will be made easier. Appealing to the leadership of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), monarchs and others, against pressurising Sanwo-Olu to dance to their demands, he said that there is no bad advice but there are bad decisions. “The people will give you a lot of suggestions, so do not reject the suggestions.  But when you are alone, think about all the suggestions and consider the people in your decision. If the policy fails, you cannot go back to meet the person that gave you advice. “Be fair to all because you are not governor to APC alone but to the entire citizens of the state.  You must be friendly to all. And as a governor, you are responsible tothepeoplebutaccountableto God who made the office available to you because many contested for the seat before you won the election,” he said.  Meanwhile, reacting to persistent attacks on officers of Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA, Sanwo-Olu declared that his administration would not tolerate motorists driving against traffic. He reiterated his zero tolerance for potholes on roads as well as canvassed a dirty-free environment in the state. He urged motorists to cooperate with the traffic managers to tackle gridlocks and reduce travel time in the state.  He described driving against traffic as dangerous and suicidal and urged motorists to cooperate with LASTMA officials as they manage traffic within the state.