The November 16 gubernatorial election as scheduled by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in Kogi State, has once again brought the Confluence State into a political spotlight, especially now that the APC-led government in the state is said to have performed below average, writes MOHAMMED BASHIR  Unarguably, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are the political parties currently parading aspirants with high intellect and sagacity for the coming gubernatorial election in Kogi State. It is, however, noteworthy that the APC in the state would have not necessarily go into the election with any difficulty, going by it performance during the general elections held earlier in the state. The APC won virtually in all the elective positions, including the presidential election in the state. The party also won seven out of the nine house of representatives seats, two out of the three Senate seats and cleared all the 25 seats in the state House of Assembly. However, the acclaimed victory of the APC in the state came under a heavy condemnation as the elections was said to have won under the barrels of the guns, intimidation and harassment. Ahead of the primary elections to elect candidates for both political parties, the APC at the national level may avoid the booby trap and make the contest open to all aspirants. Adoption of direct primary is considered by major stakeholders as the only leverage to produce a credible and acceptable candidate. One other issues that might be currently sending fear in the ruling party is the ongoing court case challenging the legitimacy of the factional state executives of the party led by Alhaji Abdullahi Bello. The Alhaji Haddy Ametuo-led factional APC state executives is currently in court challenging the legality of Abdullahi Bello-led exco. Ametuo is also seeking the court to declare his factional executive as legitimate, since they also went through the process of the party Congress. Should the case go in favour of the Ametuo-led state exco, the APC may loose its elected senators, members House of Representatives and state Assembly members from the state, since the primary was conducted by the Abdullahi Bello-led exco. But the party leadership at the top level is said to be making overtures to avoid what might look similar to that of Zamfara State, where the ruling party lost all it elected positions to the PDP including the governor’s seat by court order. The party leaders are said to be in dialogue with the Ametuo group on the possibility of withdrawing their case in court. The recent closed-door meeting between the two factions of the party executives in Abuja, was said to harmonise and reconcile the two groups and possibly settle out of court. The meeting was, however, given a different notion as some believed that it was purely intended to endorse Governor Yahaya Bello for second term. But the party’s State Secretary (in Ametuo factional exco), Salam Tom Adejoh, has since debunked the allegation.  Adejoh at a media conference, said it was not possible for them to have endorsed Governor Bello, saying that the governor’s poor performance should not be rewarded with a second term. The State Secretary emphasised that the executive committee members are not in any position to endorse any aspirants, stressing that the party governorship ticket is open to every qualified party member. “We did not endorse anyone and we are not planning to. The party’s ticket is open to everyone in the party,” he added. According to him, the last meeting of the state Executive Committee, which held on Saturday, did not discuss Bello’s endorsement. “Our discussion ended at the need for peace so that the party can move forward. He (governor) said he needed a sincere peace and we agreed on terms. There was nothing like endorsement. “The terms we agreed on were that our allowances and other packages that we are entitled to would be given to us and we all agreed on these terms. “The governor requested for the case in court to be withdrawn. We told him there are some processes to be followed. The issue of withdrawing the case is subject to another negotiations.” However, the party is yet to take its stand on the mode of primary in Kogi State, but the main APC members particularly from Audu/Faleke political group are rooting for direct primaries against the agitation from the pro- Governor Bello state executive and party stakeholders who have recently adopted indirect primaries.  Some APC stakeholders led by the state governor had recently endorsed indirect primaries, owing to the belief that direct primaries will be more cumbersome than the indirect primaries, a decision that generated sharp reaction from other camp of the party. The Haddy Ametuo-led APC stakeholders meeting held on Monday June 17, 2019, was said to have agreed that the National Working Committee of the APC determine the mode of election to be adopted for the August primaries. The factional stakeholders in their communique read in part insisted that method for primary election of the party must always be in agreement with all stakeholders and not with few section of group.  “We will like to announce to the public that the APC has not made an official decision on whatever to adopt the direct or indirect primary election for the forthcoming guber election. We are the authentic State Executive Council having held congresses across wards in all local governments and instituted executive committees in the same places; so it is illegal for any other faction to make decisions for the APC in Kogi state regarding the mode of election to be adopted in the August primaries without out knowledge and most importantly, when the APC National Working Committee has not made their decision known on the matter.  “Only the National Working Committee of the APC has the authority to determine the mode of primary election to be adopted in Kogi State. We are disciplined and always open to progressive and harmonised ways of doing things. We await the decision of the APC National Woking Committee and other party leaders regarding the method of election to be adopted for       the primaries. We are confident they will use their good leadership and experience to make the best decision for Kogi state. A decision that will be in line with the party constitution; a decision that will abide by the technicalities of electing a flag bearer. Major contender for the APC governorship ticket includes the incumbent governor Yahaya Bello’s former Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Jubril Usman, (rtd), son of Late former governor of the state and winner of the 2015 gubernatorial election, Prince Mona Abubakar Audu. Others whose campaign posters are yet to be seen, are for NFF President, Alhaji Sanni Lulu and Director General NARSDA, Professor Saidu Omalo Mohammed. In the opposition Peoples Democratic party (PDP), immediate past governor of the state, Capt. Idris Ichalla Wada, Alhaji Abubakar Ibrahim Idris (Senior son of former governor Ibrahim Idris), General Patrick Akpa (rtd), Air Vice Marshal Saliu Atawodi (rtd), Aminu Abubakar Suleiman and Chief Joseph Ameh known as ‘Erico’ will battle for the ticket. Vice Admiral Usman Jubril, is from Dekina Local Government Area in the eastern part of the state, his aspiration is said to serve a moral booster for some of the APC aspirants who were cold-footed to challenge the incumbent governor Bello who they believed would intimidate them with every means if they indicate interest. Jubril was said to have dared to challenge for the governorship ticket with the incumbent governor. His aspiration to contest was equally said to have sent fear in the government circle who believed he has the capacity to match them (Bello’s men), in every way possible. His recent political activities, it was learnt, have begun to reform some thugs and political trouble makers particularly in Igala land (Kogi East), as his posters and campaign bill boards have become a dreaded status to his political adversaries. The former Chief of Naval Staff is said to be currently enjoying people’s support across the three senatorial district of the state. He is well connected across the country and is also said to be getting support from some quarters in the presidency. One other factor working well for him, is continued solidarity from a large number of Audu/Faleke political family, as the former Director General of late Prince Abubakar Audu Campaign Organisation, Chief Daniel Isa and his followers are currently working for the retired Naval Chief. Prince Mona Abubakar Audu is one of the favourite sons of ex- governor Abubakar Audu (late), from Ofu Local Government Area in the eastern zone of the state, a young and hot blooded man, burning with zeal to give a different narrative of “not too young to rule”. Prince Mona Audu, who earlier declared his governorship ambition on the platform of YPP and eventually switched over to APC, had vowed that his mission was to continue programmes he had for the people of the state. He promised to fight hunger, hopelessness, eradicate unpaid salary syndrome created by the present administration. The chances of the late former governor’s son may not be too bright owing to the fact that the people of the state are sceptical of having a young person their governor again. He may sprout some surprises that could put him on the political spot but his ambition may hit brick fence. Alhaji Sanni Lulu, is from Idah Local Government Area of Kogi east. He said to be currently enjoying some some support by a popular and controversial governor from the north, but might not be a strong force to wrestle the incumbent governor Bello out of the party’s governorship ticket. As it currently stand, Alhaji Lulu is yet to show signs on whether he is serious in the race, as his campaign posters is not seen around Lokoja, the state capital. The same development may as well be liken to the Director General NARSDA, Saidu Ogah from Omala Local Government Area in Kogi east. The incumbent governor Yahaya Bello from Okene Local Government Area in Kogi central. The governor’s second chance who ordinarily should have been a smooth sail for him, has turned into a hard nut to crack, making the incumbent governor uncomfortable as he is said to have moved governance, from Lugard Office to Abuja. Sunday Telegraph further learnt that, Governor Bello, in his desperation to get his party’s nomination ticket for second term, has been doing some imaginary moves recently. The governor’s who was said to have abandoned his seat of power, now goes about lobbing some party leader and governors to join him in the agitation for indirect primary in his state. Mr. Bello, having, discovered that the party’s governorship ticket may elude him if direct primary is adopted, recently mobilised some first class traditional rulers led by the Attah Igala, and president Kogi State Traditional Council, Chief Michael Ame oboni, to Aso Villa. Their visit to President Muhammadu Buhari was purely to woo the president’s support for Governor Bello and also passed confidence vote on the governor who was also part of the visit to the president. However, there were mixed reactions over the what was generally described as an unholy visit. The visit according to some critics should have told the president to fix the ailing Ajaokuta Steel Company and other infrastructures need to be rehabilitated. Another move by the governor was the invitation of some northern governors to the state. The aim it was learnt was mobilise his boot lickers to convince the visiting governors, Atiku Bagudu and Mai Mala Buni (Kebbi and Yobe states), on why there must be indirect primary. At the occasion held in Lokoja on June 28, this year, Senator Smart Adeyemi to the visiting governors that him and his supporters will work against the party (APC) if Bello is not given the the party’s nomination ticket to run for second term. Senator Adeyemi, had lost twice in his third term senatorial bid while in PDP to Senator Dino Melaye of the APC in 2015 and again lost under the APC to same Melaye now in PDP in the last Senatorial election, this year. This again has generated side talks that the governor has truly exposed his high level of desperation to rule the impoverished Kogi people for another four years. Another yet unanswered question by the people is why is the governor hell bent on indirect primary against the direct primary the party have so far conducted in some APC winning states including President Muhammadu Buhari, who he claimed to be his father. It is also observed that the governor should agree with the direct primary and test his might, even though he had never gone through a rigorous election before. Yahaya Bello, according to political watchers, would have no problem in getting reelection, but for his inability to pay workers their pensions running into several months has become his albatross. Another factor that may rock his second term bid, is the total neglect of Audu/Faleke political family, although some who could not stand hunger were said to have run to join him (Bello) while those who had earlier run to him, had since returned to the Audu/Faleke camp. The second term ambition of Alhaji Yahaya Bello suffered further bruises on June 28, when leader of the Audu/Faleke political group declared that he won’t campaign for Yahaya Bello. Faleke who was addressing a cross section of stakeholders from Kogi West in Abuja, said he will campaign and work for any other candidate the party produces, but not Yahaya Bello He accused the governor of eroding the main principles and objective of the party through mis-governance and must not be allowed back as governor.  In the PDP, first son of former Kogi State governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, Abubakar Idris, from Omala Local Government area in Kogi East, will be a strong opposition to spring surprise as he has shown a good character and ready for governance. Although his ambition has been severally tainted as he was said to be enjoying a strong backing from his father, Idris senior, arguing that Kogians cannot serve father and serve son . However, Abubakar had at many fora debunked the allegations “This is an issue that have been so over-flogged. At this stage in ones’ life, there is no way my father will impose me on our people. The question is, am I eligible to vote and be voted for?Does the constitution permit me to run for any elective position, do I have educational qualification and standard to contest? Do I have the capacity, credibility to run for the office of governor? And if all these question I asked are something to go by, I don’t see any reason why people will think or say that I am being imposed on people by my father or anyone at all. “It is an insult on the sensitivity of Kogi people, or are these people saying that Kogi people are this dumb or foolish not to know what they want? As far as I am concerned I am well-ground to know what I want, to know how politics is being run. So it is belittling and laughable for someone or some people to think that I can’t govern the state.” Chief Joseph Ameh known as ‘Erico’ from Olamaboro Local Government Area in Kogi East, is a security officer who was one of the early callers in the governorship race. He is equally grounded and accepted by his people. The gubernatorial election of November 16 this year as tensed as it may be will usher in another political page in Kogi State and a tough race that is opened to all aspirants as all contenders are said to be battle ready to unseat the incumbent Governor Yahaya Bello either through primary or general election. As it stands Governor Bello will be going through the hurdles to survive the political onslaught against his second term bid. The outcome is anyone’s guess.  