Nigeria hospitality was celebrated at the recently held World Travel Awards 2019 for Africa and Indian Ocean, which held at the Sugar Beach, A Sun Resort in Mauritius, with the country clinching 10 awards from the pack. According to a report in St Ange Tourism Report for May edition, basically all of the countries within the region came up for mention on one category or the other with many stretching their win into several categories just as Nigeria. The elite of the travel industry assembled for the World Travel Awards Africa & Indian Ocean Gala Ceremony at Sugar Beach – A Sun Resort to find out who among them would be crowned best of the best. Nigeria won in the following categories: leading boutique hotel – Wheatbaker, Lagos; Leading business hotel – Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja; leading car rental – Avis; Leading city hotel – The Envoy, Abuja; Leading hotel – Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja; Leading hotel suite – Presidential suite at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja; Leading MICE hotel – Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja; Leading service apartments – Fraser Suites, Abuja; leading travel agency – Satguru Travel and Leading travel management company – Business Travel Management Limited. Kenya was also on song as it was voted as the leading destination in Africa, leading tourism board, with Nairobi named as Africa’s leading business travel destination, and Kenyatta International Conference Centre (ICC) coming top as the leading meetings and conference centre in Africa. Mauritius clinched the title for the leading destination in Indian Ocean and that of leading adventure tourism. Ethiopia held on as the leading aviator country in Africa with its national carrier, Ethiopian Airlines named as the leading airline in the continent while Cape Town International Airport clinched the title for the leading airport. In the Indian Ocean, Air Mauritius claimed the titles of Indian Ocean’s leading airline and Indian Ocean’s leading airline (Business Class) and South Africa’s Table Mountain was named Africa’s leading tourist attraction. In the Indian Ocean categories, the Maldives was named Indian Ocean’s leading honeymoon destination while Seychelles clinched the title for Indian Ocean’s leading sustainable tourism destination. The Mauritius event was the third leg of the World Travel Awards grand tour 2019, with the search for the finest travel and tourism organisations in the world still on for the grand finale scheduled to hold in Muscat (Oman) later in the year.