 A suspected notorious kidnapper and cultist, Mufutau Timileyin Sulaimon, alias Pencil, has been killed during a shootout with detectives attached to the Lagos State Police Command.
The deceased was alleged to have masterminded the killing of two Burau De Change operators in Ikorodu area.
Pencil was shot dead on Sunday night during a gun battle with the operatives.
Police said Pencil was the leader of a deadly gang which killed two Bureau De Change (BDC) operators and two other people at Odongunyan area of Ikorodu on March 14, after collecting N1.6 million ransom from the operators.
Police later recovered the bodies from a septic tank, following the arrest of three members of his gang.
The police stormed Pencil’s hideout at 9.10p.m. But when he sighted the policemen, the deceased allegedly opened fire at them, forcing the policemen to retaliate.
In the ensuing gun duel, two policemen, Sergeants Omola Adedeji and Oluwadare Gbenga, were injured.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, confirmed the incident.
The PPRO said that Pencil’s gang was responsible for the mysterious disappearance of people in Ikorodu over a period of time.
He said: “They are serial killers, rapists and cultists. Three members of his gang were earlier arrested by operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). The three suspects led detectives to their den at Ikorodu, where corpses of the two BDC operators and two other victims were recovered.
“A sustained monitoring of the fugitive ring leader finally yielded positive results, as police eventually traced him to his hideout at Odongunyan, Ikorodu.
“On sighting the team led by a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Rotimi Ogunmuyiwa, Pencil engaged them in a gun battle. Two SARS operatives, Sergeants Omola Adedeji and Oluwadare Gbenga, sustained various degrees of injury.
“Pencil sustained bullet wounds on his two legs. They were all taken to the hospital and Pencil was confirmed dead on arrival. The injured operatives were taken to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and they are responding to treatment. One gun with live ammunition and expended ammunition were recovered from the gang.”