There are too many marital problems that the document called divorce certificate cannot solve. Many divorce cases have been attributed to irreconcilable differences. However, behind such differences are certain basic causes of divorce, which are products of the devil’s operation. Marriage certificate cannot cure the following: 1. SELF: Most marital crisis in our society are avoidable and products of the failure of parties involved to die to self. “Then Jesus said to his disciples, ‘If anyone would come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me” (John 16:24 NIV). If you desire a joyful, successful marriage, then, you must drop yourself. This is the only way you can love your partner so deeply, forgive and forget offences easily, protect and cherish the person. As long as you are ruled by self with ‘a whole me’ syndrome, you cannot succeed in marriage (John 12:24-25 NIV). Unless you die to self as a husband or wife, your marriage can NEVER WORK. Jesus must be allowed to take over and rule over you. “I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me” (Galatians 2:20 KJV). “…God resisteth the proud but giveth grace unto the humble” (James 4:6 KJV). My brother! My sister! Except Jesus is allowed to rule instead of self, there is no way you will not cheat, beat, hate, abhore, quarrel or divorce your spouse. As a husband, you cannot assist your wife with domestic chores even if she is sick or pregnant, except you die to self. As a wife, you cannot live up to your husband’s expectations except you die to self. If you do not die to self, you will need many more divorce certificates after the first one you think will solve your problems. 2. SPIRITUAL MANIPULATION/ THIRD PARTY INFLUENCE: It is possible for a parent, in-law, colleague or some other ungodly person who is unhappy with your intimacy with your spouse or lack of it, to consult some evil spiritualist, get some mystic powers and begin to use them to work towards the breaking of your marriage. Solution? Know Christ and engage his powers (Luke 10:19). Be prayerful and spiritually sensitive. Divorce certificate cannot deliver you from spiritual manipulation. The major third party that MUST be allowed in your marriage is God, except in cases where one party in the relationship suspects or witnesses a physical threat to life. Even in this case, caution is required. Are you secretly dating someone of the opposite sex when you are a married person? Are you leaking or sharing with an outsider, confidential information in matters affecting your marriage? If your answer is yes, no divorce certificate can deliver you from this Satan’s captivity of your destiny. Repentance from sin and deliverance is the solution. 3. MATERIALISM/LOVE FOR MONEY: Marital relationship is too sacred and spiritual to be placed on the pillar of money and other mundane things. Money is good and important but “the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows” (Ist Timothy 6:10). If you are so materialistic that all that matters to you in life is money, then, be ready to break so many hearts, acquire so many divorce certificates and receive so many medals from Satan for preparing to accompany him to eternity in hell fire. If your motive of seeking divorce certificate is to inherit property, then you are changing your father from God to John 8:44. 4. FAULTY FOUNDATION: If you have the orientation that your marriage to anyone has to be informed by the person’s plum job, current financial status, physical attributes, tribe, religious or denominational identity, colour, rich relatives, pre-marital sexual performance and other wrong reasons for marriage, you will be very rich in divorce certificates, making big fool of yourself and frustrating God’s wonderful plans for your life. Divorce certificate has no capacity to change your wrong mindset (Romans 12:2).Let your marriage be founded on Christ. “For no one can lay any foundation other than the one already laid, which is Jesus Christ” (1st Corinthians 3:11). 5. THREAT TO LIFE: To what extent can divorce certificate deliver you from physical assault if the character in you that attracts such violence is not addressed? I cannot encourage you to remain with a spouse who physically assaults you regularly and is almost taking your life. However, the Bible totally disagrees with divorce. “What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate” (Matthew 19:4-6). Now, what you do if you are GENUINELY undergoing threat to life in marriage (because some people actually seek and create flimsy excuses for divorce), is to first, check your life to see if there are things you do that usually attracts your spouse’s physical assault. If there is, address them. Then, JOINTLY seek counsel from your trusted spiritual leader (Pastor, Priest, etc). Then, pray over the issue. If it persists, then, you can TEMPORARILY separate yourself from the person, still under the Biblical conditions that you will not marry any other person. Of course, you know you cannot further offend God with a sin of adultery while you are married. Above all, don’t depend on the paper called divorce certificate for the peace that passeth human understanding which Jesus promised. It cannot provide it. Increase the capacity of God in your heart. When this is done, you will understand that the same God who raised a dead person, converted a native doctor and armed robber and made him a preacher of the gospel of Christ is also able to convert your spouse from the sin of physically assaulting you. Pray for your marriage and have faith in God.