Dr. Olapade Agoro is the National Chairman and former presidential candidate of the National Action Council (NAC)  The summit of the South-West governors on security matters is okay and alright because it gave the people of South-West the opportunity to come together to deliberate on how to curb insecurity in Yoruba land. But I see the security summit as coming a bit late considering how the spate of attacks, kidnaping and other criminal activities in the region in the last few months have affected many people.
But, I believe the South-West governors should be commended for deeming it fit to address the security challenges in the region. The coming together of the six South-West governors is a sign of Yoruba unity. It showed that the Yoruba are united. From this moment, the Yoruba nation should come together and speak with one voice, which is better for all of us.
The idea of the security summit is a welcome idea and it is also a good step that the governors spoke in the same direction on the need to address insecurity challenges in South-West. However, I believe that the governors should not work alone; they should work with all the relevant stakeholders for them to achieve positive results in their quest to address insecurity challenges in South-West.
The governors should put necessary measures in place to ensure that the attacks, killings, kidnapping and other criminal activities are nipped to the board, while the people must also support government in stopping criminal activities in Yorubaland.
Given that the governors met in Ibadan on Tuesday for the security summit and on Wednesday, some kidnappers struck and kidnapped a bus driver and his passengers along Ikere/Akure Road in Ondo State, makes me think that they took the battle straight to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, who is the chairman of the South-West Governors Forum. That is a sign that the criminals are not ready to stop carrying out their evil acts and inflicting pains on the people of South-West.
The primary role of government, according to the Nigerian Constitution is protection of lives and property. So, it is expected of government to rise up to the occasion and address the insecurity challenges. The crimes going on in different parts of the country, demonstrate the failure of government and it shows ineptitude on the parts of government. So, government must do everything possible to address the insecurity problems in the country.