Billionaire oil magnate, Femi Otedola, yesterday announced the completion of his divestment from Forte Oil as he sold off his 75 per cent stake in the company.
Otedola, in a message posted on his verified Instagram page and sighted by the New Telegraph, said he has divested from the business and will now concentrate on his power generation endeavour.
“A few years ago, my team and I embarked on an arduous task of transforming a moribund petroleum marketing business, African Petroleum Plc. (formerly British Petroleum) into Forte Oil Plc., a leading integrated solutions provider with solid footprints in downstream petroleum marketing, upstream services and power generation and one in which we built intrinsic value to the benefits of our shareholders.
“In line with my principle of business focus, we have divested from our marketing and upstream businesses and shall from now on focus and consolidate on the gains of our power generation business, Geregu Power Plc. We wish our successors the very best and urge them to build on our legacies, which have been established since 1964,” he said
As part of special resolution at the Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) of Forte Oil Plc., shareholders approved that the company may enter into discussion with Mr. Femi Otedola or company representing him in connection with the assets to be divested.
Otedola had recently concluded arrangement to divest his full 75 per cent direct and indirect shareholdings in Forte Oil’s downstream business.
Forte Oil, in a notification to the Nigerian Stock Exchange on the outcome of the EGM obtained by the New Telegraph, said: “That shareholders hereby approve that the company may enter into discussion with Mr. Femi Otedola and or any company representing him in connection with the assets to be divested and subject to an independent valuation on fair value, enter into subsequent binding agreements on comparable arm’s length/ commercial terms in relation to assets to be divested.
“That the Directors and/ or management of the company be and are hereby authorized to approve, sign and/ or execute all documents, appoint such professional parties and advisers, as may be necessary to give effect to the above resolutions, including without limitation complying with the directives of any regulatory authority and all acts carried out, steps taken and documents executed by the Directors and / or management of the company in connection with the above resolutions and are hereby approved.
“That the company Secretary be and is hereby authorized to take all steps to give effect to this resolution and where applicable to file and/ or register same with Corporate Affairs Commission.”