Nigerian workers, who are active contributors to the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), may be allowed to access 25 per cent of their contributions to invest in acquiring their homes.
This is coming just as Federal Government bonds gulped 49.37 per cent of the N9.03 trillion total pension assets during the first quarter of 2019.
Disclosing the 25 per cent offer yesterday in Abuja after the Bankers’ Committee meeting, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said it was working on the modality with the National Pension Commission (PenCom) to allow workers registered under the scheme use part of their pension contributions to acquire their homes. When the modality becomes operational, the contributor would access the 25 per cent as part of fund for building his/her house and obtain the remaining 75 per cent as loans from banks.
Speaking on the pension contribution initiative, the officials, who were at the meeting, were unanimous in their conclusion.
According to Managing Director, FSDH Merchant Bank, Mrs. Ambah Hamda, “the 25 per cent of Retirement Savings Account (RSA), being made available to the holders as equity contribution for mortgages, is a work in progress.
“CBN and Bankers’ Committee would work with PenCom to make this a reality. Once it becomes a reality, an RSA holder will then be in a position to walk up to his pension fund administrator and ask to access 25 per cent saved up in his name and would like to borrow money to build a house.
“With such approval, you will then approach your banker. It would make the bank very willing because you will then be coming with a sizeable sum of money where you would also contribute to the project,” she said.
The committee also disclosed that both the creative industry and export initiatives had entered implementation stages and that operators in the sector should begin to submit their proposals for funding to their various banks.
According to the Managing Director, Ecobank, Mr. Patric Akinruntan, “it is now at execution stage and all banks are participating in the creative initiative.
“Every person or business that is into any of the coverage areas is encouraged to put together their proposal, demonstrate the viability and approach their bank.
“The Central Bank will have a central collation point where the entire requests that come through any bank are forwarded so that we have a way of knowing the impact we have made in creating employment, stimulating the economy.
“The same applies to the export support fund, be it in cashew nut, be it in sesame seeds and all the various rich exports that we are able to mobilise because of the impact for employment ability in the economy.
“We are now in execution phase. There is learning for both customers and banks, but it is an area where we have absolute commitment.
“The interest rate for these initiatives is nine per cent inclusive of all charges,” he said.
On his part, CBN Director (Banking Supervision), Abubakar Abdulahi, said consumer financing was an important asset class.
He said: “Banks are looking for more innovative ways to create credit. At the moment, it is much structured around salaried staff, but we need to look for ways of extending it to others like using the collateral registry. Assets are more easily used as collaterals.
“The whole intention is to ultimately drive much more financing, which will have impact on other sectors of the economy along the value chain because the manufacturer is able to sell more products,” he said.
Meanwhile, Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) have continued their strong preference for bonds, staking 49.37 per cent of the total pension assets on Federal Government bonds in the first quarter of 2019.
The total pension assets hit N9.03 trillion first quarter of 2019. The figure showed that the current assets under the period exceeded the first quarter 2018 figure of N8.63 trillion.
According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in its Pension Asset and RSA Membership Data for first quarter 2019 posted on its website, the number of registered workers under the pension scheme in the first quarter of 2019 hit 8.56 million compared to 8. 41 million registered in the fourth quarter 2018.
The bureau said the assets under management as at first quarter 2019 stood at N9.03 trillion as against N8.63 trillion in first quarter of 2018.
According to the bureau, Federal Government bonds have the highest weight percentage of 49.37 per cent of the total pension fund assets.
This, it said, was closely followed by treasury bills with 21.44 per cent weight and local money market securities with 9.68 per cent weight.
The bureau said foreign money market securities had the least with 0.25 per cent weight in the period under review.
It said participants within the age distribution of 30 years and 39 years had the highest percentage composition with 35.77 per cent, closely followed by participants within the age bracket of 40 years and 49 years with 28.12 per cent.
According to NBS, participants between 50 years and 59 years are 18.02 per cent, while participants above 65 years have the least percentage composition with 2.78 per cent.
In arriving at the report, NBS said data was supplied administratively by the PenCom while it was verified and validated by the bureau.