The Archbishop of Kaduna Catholic Diocese, Most Rev. Mathew Manoso – Ndagoso, yesterday pointedly told President Muhammadu Buhari that Nigerians have never witnessed this type of hardship before. That was also as he tasked the president to abdicate his office if he doesn’t have the capacity to govern Nigeria. Ndagoso made the declaration in a chat with newsmen at the ongoing Annual General Meeting(AGM) of the Nigeria Catholic Diocesan Priests’ Association taking place at the Catholic Social Centre in Kaduna. The cleric said since his ordination into priesthood 33 years ago, he had yet to know any regime as bad as the current All Progressives Congress government led by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said in the near five years of the Buhari Presidency, Nigerians in need stream into his office to beg for money to feed their families. Ndagoso argued that it was unacceptable for Nigeria, blessed with abundant human and natural resources to wallow in abject poverty. He also said that Nigeria as a nation with a population of 200 million have no business overtaking India as the poverty capital of the world with her enormous resources. His words: “You see, in governance or democratic government, if you know you don’t have the capacity to even rule a local government, don’t put yourself forward. The very fact that you put yourself forward, you are telling the people that you have the capacity and the know-how. “Even if you don’t have the know-how, I think in leadership, you don’t need to have the know-how. I think you should have the intelligence to get people who know how to be able to do the job. Nobody, no matter how intelligent you are, you cannot do it alone.
“Now talking about the present government, I think the simple question that every Nigerian should ask is – my life today and my life before this government came in, what is the difference?. Go on the streets and ask Nigerians, four years on, how is your life compared to before? “I can tell you, I am 33 years in priesthood. I have never seen Nigerians come to my office in tears looking for ordinary food. You see them dressed up in Agbada (flowing gown), but if they tell you what they are going through, they are not be able to feed their families. It has never been this bad in our country. “We have the resources. I think our leaders should get off their back and do what they need to do, using our resources. We are not poor. We have no business overtaking India as the poorest country in the world.
“Officially, our population has hit 200 million, and India has over 1.2 billion people, but the resources we have, India does not have. Yet, we have overtaken them in terms of poverty. I think is shameful.” Speaking earlier, Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, commended the Catholic priests for their prayers for the successful general elections. El-Rufai, who was represented by the Director of Religious Affairs, Bureau of Inter-faith, Kaduna, Mr. Seth Magaji-Aliyu, said the prayers worked magic for the peaceful conduct of the general elections. On the theme of the AGM, the governor said this could only be achieved where citizens were guaranteed of their lives and property. He noted that his administration was not unmindful of her primary responsibility of securing the lives and welfare of the people. “In view of the above, good governance for a secure and prosperous nation is a huge task on all and sundry. It is a collective responsibility for both government and the governed. “Good governance can only be achieved in an atmosphere where lives and property of citizens are secured and peace and harmony exist. “I urge you to emulate our Lord and savior, Jesus Christ by preaching the gospel of peaceful coexistence, tolerance, love and unity,” the governor said.