15 persons in Ebonyi state have been jailed for drug abuse/trafficking between January and June this year. They were convicted in various courts across the state according to the state command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency ( NDLEA). The 15 convicts were among the 141 suspects arrested for drug abuse/trafficking in the state in the last six months. The state commander of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Umar Issa Adoro disclosed this at the Federal Government Girls’  College Ezzamgbo Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the State while declaring open the 2019 International Day Against Drug Abuse/Trafficking. 124 of the suspects were males while 17 of them were females. He explained that a total of 93.0971 KG of drugs were seized comprising Cannabis Sativa ( 90.552 KG), Cocaine (0.0103 KG), Psychotropic Substance (1.2674 KG). He said that the Theme of 2019 International Day Against Drug Abuse titled “Justice For Health, Health For Justice” was selected by the United Nations to tackle the menace of Drugs related problems in the World. He noted that the 2019 Sensitization Awareness Campaign was organized for Students of Secondary Schools because they were the silent victims that are silently lured into the illicit act. “The campaign is organized for schools because the children are the target, they are the silent victims, they are the ones to be lured in Drug Abuse cases”, he said. Adoro reiterated that the Agency would continue to sensitize students across secondary schools in the state insisting that ” we have succeeded in establishing Drug-Free Clubs in Schools” Earlier in a Lecture titled “the Menace of Drugs and its Consequences” the deputy State Commander in-charge of Operation/Intelligence  Ibrahim Mohammed Bachiri, outlined numerous reasons why people indulge in Drug Abuse to include Peer Group influence, Availability of Drugs, Parental influence among others. Bachiri enjoined the Federal Government to include the teachings of Drug Abuse/trafficking in the Academic Curriculum of Students in secondary and tertiary institutions in the country. He identified Drugs that are abused to include Alcohol, Cannabis, Indian Hemp, Cocaine, Heroine, Tramadol and called for total ban on Cigarette and Alcoholic producers. The deputy Commander identified  problems associated with Drug Abuse to include Physical , Psychological and Societal effects stating that illicit drug intakes affect Liver, increases criminal activities and risky behavior. The deputy Commander urged students to stay clear of Drugs Abuse stating that drug intakes poses serious harm and danger to people.