 The World Bank is to assist Nigerian governors with $4 billion grant to fight poverty, illiteracy, disease and under-five mortality in the country.
This was the outcome of the meeting between the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) and World Bank officials in Abuja yesterday.
The about four-hour meeting, according to the NGF Chairman, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, reviewed the bank’s lending operations and concrete achievements by the states.
The governor said the meeting further discussed how to build on the projects that have transitioned from one governor to the other, which he described as challenging.
“It is absolutely important that we treat government as a continuum and address whatever gaps that there are without throwing the baby away with the bath water.
“These are what came out from the investment/lending portfolio programme, which are two vehicles that the World Bank uses in their relationship and support in our states,” Fayemi stated.
He disclosed that the NGF proposed a wide range of suggestions which the World Bank promised to take up for implementation in order to better the relationship built over the years.
Fayemi added that a demand was made for expansion of lending portfolio both at federal and the sub-national levels.
“It is absolutely important that that vehicle is not closed because if we can borrow from the World Bank at one per cent interest, it is always going to be better than for us to borrow at 25 per cent commercial lending rate,” he said.
He disclosed that the $4 billion grant would be deployed in the Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), which focuses on out-of-school children in northern states and the Save One Million Lives that deals with malaria and all other diseases that have been responsible for the high rate of under-five mortality in many states.
Fayemi assured the World Bank that the fund would be judiciously utilised, adding that the NGF is returning peer review mechanisms as a way of strengthening peer learning.
“We could see from the states that are doing well, what they are doing in order to achieve the kind of results they are achieving in the partnership with the World Bank. And we could also see from the states that are struggling, what they really need to do in order to improve on their partnership in a manner that will benefit citizens of the state.
“That, ultimately, is what this is about; it is not so much about the dollars. It is about what we do with the dollars on our people,” he added.
World Bank Country Director in Nigeria, Rachid Benmessaoud, said the bank’s mission in the country is to fight poverty and build prosperity.
He noted that the number of poor people in Nigeria have increased, and described the war against poverty as “absolutely critical.”
“Our priorities, which we have engaged with the governors, will be around investing in human capital, investing in people to have access to basic education, health services, social protection.
“But we do recognize the development challenges also require investing in infrastructure and filling the large infrastructure gaps.
“We want to make sure that those infrastructure gaps are filled by bringing more of the private sector that will create the physical space for governors to invest in human capital, including financing from development partners like the World Bank. But most importantly to increase the domestic revenue mobilization for providing primary spending on the social sector,” he said.
Benmessaoud added that the World Bank investment portfolio covers health, education, soil erosion and water.
“Like the chairman has said, better education, reducing the number of out-of-school children, the states’ fiscal performance, providing basic primary healthcare, a range of activities already implemented.
“We want to make sure that the new governors, as well as the returning governors, are well aware of the programmes being implemented in their respective states and what it will take for them to accelerate pace of implementation.
“We discussed around coordination mechanism, the alignment between projects funded by the World Bank and the state development plans.
“We discussed ways of ensuring that the funding provided by the World Bank are used for the intended purposes, how the governors can engage with the bank, accessed funds in the bank which they can benefit from,” he added.