It has been a while since a TV prod u c t i o n has captured the imagination of Nigerians as much as Ajoche, an original Africa Magic Production produced by James Omokwe, has since it started airing sometime last year. Ajoche, which means “kingdom” in the language of the Idoma people in Benue State, aired its first episode on April 30, 2018 on African Magic Showcase and continues to run on GOtv even after the finale episode on DStv. A thrilling story of war, love, and betrayal, Ajoche is set in 1918, with the show depicting an epic story of a kingdom that goes on a bloody rampage after an innocent woman is murdered.  Based on Idoma origins, the plot is set in Ocholuje, Aboh and Ufam but with Ocholuje as the most prominent of the three and where most of the story is set. Featuring Femi Branch, Lucy Ameh, William Benson, Lota Chukwu, veteran actress, Hilda Dokubo; former BBNaija housemates, Bassey Ekpenyong and Tokunbo Idowu, better known as TBoss among others. According to Regional Director, M-Net West Africa, Wangi Mba- Uzoukwu, “Ajoche is a story of love, revenge, betrayal and power that captures your imagination and takes you on a journey through time.  The story draws from a little known but incredible time in our history, and we are excited to bring all the excitement to screens across Africa.” With many Nigerians already launching calls for the second season of the telenovela online, this piece focuses on the women that made Ajoche thick.  Lucy Ameh A Nigerian actress, wedding planner and businesswoman from Opokwu LGA in Benue State where the story is set, Ameh studied Mass Communication at NTA TV College, Jos.  The beautiful, talented actress and aspiring producer widely known for projects like Learning Curves, Gloom, Unfair and O-Town among others, played the role of Queen Oganya in Ajoche, with the character adopting “bipolar” tactic to keep her alliance with others as she plots her way in the TV series. Hilda Dokubo A veteran actress of decades under her belt, Hilda Dokubo is one of those to have worked in the corridors of power having served as Special Adviser on Youth Affairs to Peter Odili during the latter’s reign as Governor of Rivers State. Also a youth advocate, she was   b o r n as the first of six children in Buguma, a town in Asari-Toru in Rivers State where she completed her primary and secondary school education at St Mary State School Aggrey Road and Government Girls Secondary School before proceeding to the University of Port Harcourt.  Apart from a long career in Nollywood having made her screen debut during her youth service in a 1992 film titled Evil Passion, Dokubo, who holds a Masters in Theatre Arts, has since been featured and produced several Nigerian movies, winning the Best Actress in a Supporting Role at the 11th edition of the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA). The CEO actor plays the role of Ochanya, the queen mother and first wife of King Odaleko (Femi Branch) in Ajoche.  Tokunbo Idowu (TBoss) One of the housemates in the Big Brother Naija 2017 reality television show, Tboss is Nigerian entertainer and reality TV star of mixed parentage. She landed her first role in Kada River, the BBNaija 2017 2nd runner up also featured in Sleeved, an Adeolu Adeniyi movie, before turning in a role in Ajoche.  With her father from Edo State and mother Romanian, Tboss, born on March 9, 1984, had a diverse childhood and education. She acted the role of Queen Abehi, the beautiful pregnant queen killed in cold blood supposedly by an in-  sider in the TV show. Enraged by her death, it is what leads King Odaleko on a murderous invasion of Aboh, vowing to spare no one, either small or great, in revenge of the killing of his dashing queen. Lota Chukwu Already famous for her role in Funke Akindele’s Jenifa’s Diary, Lota Chukwu took on the role of Oofuni in Ajoche, working with the healer, Ijewere. Although originally from Aboh, her background in the TV show is unknown to many but her bosom friend, Obehi.  The 28-year old native of Nsukka, with a dashing figure, wowed the audience once more with the assured presence she brings to play, writing on social media in a post: “I am Oofuni, first of her name, avenger of Aboh, carrier of heirs, plug and socket of herbs, manipulator of kings, bed sharer of Generals, killer of babies, nemesis of Ocholuje, and my name will live through my son… in this life and the next.”  Lilian Afegbai Born on November 11, 1991, the Nigerian actress and producer is another former housemate in Big Brother, having featured in the Big Brother Africa show some years back. In 2018, she won the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA) for Indigenous Movie of the Year for her production debut, Bound in 2018. Lilian Afegbai, from Edo State, played the role of Princess Agbenu in Ajoche.  She had her primary school at Our Ladies of Apostles, Benin before attending the Word of Faith Secondary School and afterwards studied Accounting at Benson Idahosa University. Keira Hewatch Born in November 8, 1985, Keira Hewatch, who plays the role of Oyife, the second wife of King Odaleko, is a Nigerian actress, singer, songwriter and writer.  He is best known for her role as Keche in the movie, Two Brides and a Baby which pitched her against Stella Damasus as well as her role as Peace Nwosu in the television series, Lekki Wives. The actress, born in Calabar, Cross River State, she studied Travel, Tourism and Hospitality Management and decided to pursue her passion for acting in 2006.  Shalewa Ashafa Shalewa Ashafa, an actress known for Evol and Life As It Is, the actress from Ogun State is the last child of her mother and was born in Lagos. She played the role of Elakeche in Ajoche, of which she once said: Perhaps the most challenging (role) I have ever had. I have never done anything like that in my life. I had to be buried, tortured, went semi-nude and evoked all types of emotions that I had never personally experienced.  I had to constantly lay on wet mud and bushes that had all types of insects and snakes. The list goes on. As stressful as playing that role was, I’m forever grateful to God for letting the producers select me because it was a learning experience for me.”  Omoye Uzamere Omoye Uzamere is a Lagos based Nigerian actress with about 13 years under her belt in the entertainment industry despite a first degree in Law and Diploma in French. Playing the role of Obeyi, the loyal yet unwitting adversary in AJOCHE, the actress who also boasts a Certificate in Performing Arts, has experience in various areas of the creative space as an actor, producer, writer and On-Air-Personality having worked with Rhythm 93.7 FM.  On acting, she said: “I find as much pleasure in the joy of a satisfied audience as in the craft itself” and her ambition is to use performance for social reform all over the world. Ada Lewis-Egbosi Ada Lewis-Egbosi, who acted the role of Ijewode, the herb and wife of Onnah, (Jude Chukwuka, the Diviner of Ocholuje) previously acted in Where Talent Lies.