 A 102-year-old man, Mallam Muhammadu, and his children were among 16 people killed on Wednesday when gunmen invaded Kanoma village in Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara State.
The old man, said to be the oldest person in the community, was killed along with his two children.
At least, 14 people sustained injuries in the early morning attack.
Witnesses said that the gunmen invaded the community and opened fire, shooting indiscriminately.
A resident identified the deceased old man as Mallam Muhammadu. He was described as a community leader.
The resident, who refused to disclose his name, said: “Mallam Muhammadu was the oldest man and a respected community leader in the area.”
The Director General, Press Affairs to Zamfara State governor, Mallam Yusuf Idris, said 16 people were killed and 14 sustained of injuries.
He said: “The governor has directed the immediate transfer of all the victims that were admitted at Kanoma Hospital to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Gusau and has promised to settle the medical bills. The governor has assured people of the area and indeed the state in general, of adequate security measures, which will bring an end to banditry and other criminal activities in the state.”
Idris said Governor Bello Mattawalle’s administration had vowed to collaborate with all well-meaning citizens to end the issue of insecurity bedevilling the state. He called on everyone to provide government with useful intelligence reports, which would help the security agencies in apprehending criminals.
Government yesterday announced the immediate suspension of a first class traditional ruler, the Emir of Maru, Alhaji Abubakar Ibrahim, over alleged involvement with bandits in the state.
The suspension is contained in a statement signed by Idris, made available to journalists in Gusau.
The statement, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), also announced the suspension of Alhaji Ahmed Lawal, the District Head of Kanoma.
Kanoma was attacked during the Sallah celebration leaving no fewer than 16 persons dead and 14 others wounded.
The statement reads: “His Excellency, the Zamfara State Governor, Dr Bello Mohammed Mattawalle, has approved the suspension of the Emir of Maru, Alhaji Abubakar Cika Ibrahim (Banagan Maru). The governor also approved the suspension of the District Head of Kanoma, Alhaji Ahmed Lawal (Bunun Kanoma).”
The statement added that Ibrahim and Lawal would, “remain suspended pending the conclusion of an investigative panel soon to be set up by the state government.”
It added: “The suspensions followed a series of complaints from the communities regarding the traditional rulers’ alleged dealings with bandits.”
The statement directed the suspended Emir to hand over his official vehicle and all other government property in his possession to the most senior district head.
“The district head is also directed to handover same to the most senior village head in the area,” it stated. Bandits were said to have allegedly killed 16 persons in Kanoma District of Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara on Sallah day. Confirming the attack in a press statement in Gusau on Wednesday, the Director-General on Media to the state governor, Yusuf Idris, said “the governor visited the community and… In "News" …herder, 15 cows killed …Ortom orders culprits' arrest …victims for mass burial Friday Herdsmen believed to be of Fulani extraction invaded Omusu-Edumoga village in Okpokwu Local Government Area of Benue State and killed at least 24 people.   This came as a 17-year-old student of Government Secondary School, Jebbu, Bassa… In "Top Stories" The killings in Zamfara State have persisted for a long time. Ordinarily, a solution should have been found by now, given that the carnages have been going on for a long time. Sadly, this is not the case as the wanton destruction of lives has continued unabated. The latest in… In "Editorial"