 Consistent with the vision of the founder of the Celestial Church of Christ(CCC), Rev Bilewu Oshoffa, indications emerged during the week that 34 years after his demise,the church will soon join the list of Nigerian churches that own their universities as Celestial International University is set to berth at Imeko, Ogun State Former Director General of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Prof Bola Akinterinwa, had at the first official site inspection described the proposed university as a fulfillment of God’s prophecy. Akinterinwa, who is also the Secretary of CCC Board of Trustees, said the importance of education cannot be overemphasised, noting the real instrument of change is education. “The real instrument of change is education.You need to educate the people of the world,you educate them on the content of the bible, on godliness,you educate them on societal issues. Education is the foundation of development the world over.So, there is time for everything.And I think the time of the university has come.And that is what we trying to put in place.Because of reasons of force majeure,by necessity,we are putting all efforts together to have the university take off.” On when the university will take off, Akinterinwa said: “Well, I can assure you that in the next academic session, we are in.I can assure you of that one.” Responding to the fears in some quarters that completing the university project may take longer than necessary, he explains: “The people who turned the CCC cathedral and changed it to basillica are still the same people that are in charge of the university.They are taking all the outstanding issues one by one. This is the time you have people who are now building up on what the elders have done before. So, if anybody is having doubt, you don’t blame them. They are speaking from experience.They don’t know that they have people who are ready to work and make the university a reality.”
Commenting, the Asiwaju of Yewa land and Balogun of Imeko, Prof Anthony Asiwaju (MFR),said God had made the Celestial International University possible for the fulfillment of the founder’s vision. Asiwaju, who is also the facilitator, said the university would sit on almost 330 hectares of land, adding that the size of the land is bigger than the entire coverage of the University of Ibadan campus and twice the size of the University of Lagos.  “It feels fulfilling.The promise of God can take years but it doesn’t go out and return to Him.That’s why 34 years is a very small amount of time in fulfillment of a divine dream.Isaiah’s prophecy took over 2000 years to come to fulfillment.What could be disappointing is for it not to come to fruition,” he said.