Hon. Sikirulai Ogundele is a factional chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State. In this interview with KUNLE OLAYENI, he spoke on the party’s loss in the 2019 general elections. Excerpts:  The PDP has lost three consecutive elections in Ogun State and it’s unclear if the party still exists in the state based on the outcome of the 2019 elections. What could be the challenges facing the PDP in the state? PDP is very strong and intact in Ogun State under my leadership. We are comfortably okay. What happened in the last election was just the voice of Esau and the hand of Jacob. The national leadership of PDP clearly said that they do not have any other governorship candidate in Ogun State than Hon. Oladipupo Adebutu. Buruji Kashamu was just an extensional candidate of the APC. So, we are intact in Ogun and the national organ that supervises the affairs of the state, local and wards levels in Ogun State have said it so many times that PDP under the leadership of Hon. Sikirulai Ogundele is recognised.  So, what happened is just another dimension to rigging. It was just planned so that some of the credible candidates would be barred from running. That’s exactly what happened in Ogun State. Hon. Ladi Adebutu went through the process of becoming a candidate through the congresses and primaries conducted by the national organs of the party which the electoral law stipulates.  Are you saying that Ladi Adebutu could have made a difference? Dapo Abiodun couldn’t have won. The nine local governments in Ogun East were just opened to him since governance was destabilised by the immediate past governor. Ijebus wanted the governor, Yewas also wanted it. So, if Ladi Adebutu had run, he would have just won the election.   Few days to the gubernatorial election, your party was divided as former governor Gbenga Daniel endorsed the candidacy of Dapo Abiodun (APC), while Adebutu endorsed the APM candidate, Adekunle Akinlade. Don’t you think this also contributed to the loss of your party?  I have said it at different fora. PDP did not have candidates for governorship and other offices. Buruji Kashamu became the candidate of the party through the backdoor via the court judgements influenced by the APC. We have appealed that judgement from Abeokuta and that appeal is still on. The structure of the party is not with Buruji and like I said, it’s another dimension of their abracadabra. Buruji was just an extensional candidate of the APC. Those leaders you mentioned worked for another party, they have the right to say since we don’t have candidate in PDP, so they can align with anybody. That is exactly what happened.  The PDP and the APM entered into an agreement before the election. Does your party still stand by the content of the MoU? It’s political and we still stand by the MoU. We got the consent of the national organs of the party before we went into the MoU and our party approved it. Since our candidates were not allowed to run, we had no option than to realign with other political party.  The APM has taken the APC and the new governor to election tribunal. Is your party in support of the case at the tribunal? It’s political. When one is aggrieved or when there is a kind of inadequacy in political results, you have a right to go and challenge it in the court of law, which is the tribunal. They have put up a case against the emergence of Dapo Abiodun and we are waiting for the outcome of that case. From all indications, from all the facts on ground, I think justice will be done.  But the governor seems interested in forming a coalition and broad-based government by incorporating PDP members. Will your group participate if invited? We are not interested for one, two reasons. We have different backgrounds, we are not ideologically inclined with each other. They have their own manifesto which was different from ours. Coming together to form a coalition or unity government won’t work. It’s going to be a marriage of inconveniences. It’s going to be marriage of incompatibility. If Dapo Abiodun is looking for more credible people, if he’s not finding anyone in APC that is very credible for him to be appointed as office holders, I don’t see all the credible members in PDP joining him to form a government.  We know what brought APC together and we know what is likely to be the end of APC; no doubt about it, they are going to break into pieces. Those people that you mentioned that joined them to work for APC are there pressing on him on appointment. Those people that were there but sidelined by Amosun are also there making noise. So, at the end of the day, I don’t see him having that mission of moving the state to greater heights. So, we are coming up in 2023 to take over from APC by the grace of God. The position of PDP now is that we are not interested in having any coalition with anybody, since we have different ideologies and different contents of our manifestoes. And the way they even got to office is abnormal. So, it’s going to be absurd to realign with those people that wounded us politically.  The Adebayo Dayo group which is being backed by Kashamu has consistently said its tenure expires in 2020. What is your take on that? We still have cases in court. We have cases at the Supreme Court, we have at the Appeal Court, so let us have a final decision at these courts, then, we’ll know what is going to happen in 2020.  With the pendency of all this litigation at various levels of court, are you disposed to reconciliation?  Let me be factual with you: some of the Buruji people that are credible and electoral victory-minded have been coming and we have been absorbing them into the fold. Almost 80 percent of them have joined and we are now working together. They have seen the light, they’ve seen what we have been making noise about, that this man is not electoral victory-minded; that he was just using them to do business. Not only Buruji camp, we also have people from SDP, APC, APM, Accord, Unity Party members that are willing to join us.  