That was God’s instruction to Moses the second time the people of Israel complained about water in the desert. Numbers 20:7, 8. It was just few months to their end of journey to the Promise land. Miriam just died and was buried. Moses and Aaron expected condolences from their people but they were almost stoning them when they needed water in the wilderness. Moses and Aaron went to the Lord to cry to God, but the Lord came to their help and instructed Moses to SPEAK to the Rock. In Exodus, the first time they were hungry in the desert, God told Moses to strike the Rock with his staff and the water they needed was supplied in excess. Why did God instruct Moses the first time to strike the Rock but the second time just to speak to the Rock? You will know this very soon. That Rock was Christ. (2 Corinthians 10:4) The first stroke was to make Christ pay for it, for the water. The Lord Jesus was moving by their side and was always becoming like Rock to provide for them whenever they were thirsty. That first stroke did the work. Jesus Christ didn’t need to suffer again to produce water. They only needed to speak to the Rock. But Moses with anger gave the Rock two strokes of the cane, instead of just speaking. That was suffering to Christ. It is as simple as that, just speak and you will get it. Moses paid for the striking. If you are asked to strike, you might say you are not a bishop or archbishop that has staff. You may say you do not use staff or rod like white garment churches. The Lord said – SPEAK TO THE ROCK. You don’t need staff to speak. The Rock is Christ as seen above. Just speak to Him, the Rock. He is close to you. (Matthew 16:18) There is nothing that cannot produce both good and bad. The church can act as Rock and speaking to the church to produce what you want, pays off. The Lord also speaks about speaking to the mountain or tree. (Matthew 17:20); (Matthew 21:19, 21) It has been observed that speaking in prayers is more effective and brings more result to crying in prayers. Speaking to tree, mountain, people, etc in the Name of Jesus Christ is more effective than praying to God. Speaking to demons is more powerful than praying to God except when you are confessing you sins, or in your own private prayers. Just speak to sickness. Speak to money. Speak to challenges. Speak to Christ. Note we say speak or say but not talking. You speak to equals or your seniors and elders. You talk to those below you. You can’t say, I am talking to my father but I am speaking with or to my father. Talk to sickness, demons, etc. Speak to Christ, to God, etc. Speak to Christ today. Talk to money and sickness today.