“The Lord of host hath sworn saying, surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass and as I have purposed, so shall it stand,” – Isaiah 14:24. Verse 27 also says, “For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? And His hand is stretched out and who shall turn it back? Proverbs 21:30 records “There is no wisdom nor understanding now counsel against the Lord.”  The Lord has directed me to tell all those that are reading this article now, that He has the final say over your life, circumstances and situations. God is assuring you now, that no matter what is happening or what has happened or what will happen around your life. At the end, only the perfect will of God and only what God has written or said about you shall stand. Circumstances and contrary situations cannot change what God has in mind for you. Home enemies in your village cannot change God’s plans for you.  The political or economic weather condition of Nigeria cannot change it. Where you are now, that is your location or domicile cannot change it. Nobody can change what God has programmed for your life or what He  had written for you. Stop complaining; get out if your worries and sleepless nights now.  God has the final say about your life and you shall be what God has destined you to be.  The present storm around you will soon be over; your midnight will soon be over. Your daylight is coming, the darkness around you will soon give way for the problem you are passing through now shall not see your end, but you shall see the end of this problem. In Isaiah 8:9-10, the Lord began to address your enemies and detractors, telling them to go ahead and gather together against you, let them conspire, lay ambush, set traps, even mount obstacles against you, they shall be broken to pieces. Therefore I say to you, every barrier against your business shall be broken to pieces.  Every barrier against your marriage, pregnancy and breakthrough shall be broken. Every barrier against your progress and prosperity shall be broken. Verse 10 says, “Counsel together, devise your evil against my people and it shall come to nothing. Speak the word and it shall not stand, for God is with us.”  It is also in this spirit that Isaiah 54:15 declares, “Behold, they shall surely gather but not by me, whosever shall gather against the shall fall for that sake.”  The plan of the enemies to destroy you shall fail. Their plan to disgrace you and put you to shame shall fail; why because God has the final say over your life.