“I watched a local football match at a school playing ground. As I sat down, I asked one of the boys what the score was.* *With a smile, he replied; “They are leading us 3-0″  *And I said, REALLY!!* *I have to say you don’t look discouraged*. *”Discouraged?” the boy asked with a puzzled look …* *Why should I be discouraged when the referee has not blown the final whistle?*  *I have confidence in the team and the managers; we shall definitely overcome!*  *Truly, the match ended 5-4 in favor of the boy’s team!* *He waved at me gently, with a beautiful smile as he left; I was amazed, mouth wide open; such confidence; such beautiful faith;*  *As I got back home that night, his question kept coming back to me:* *”Why should I be discouraged when the referee has not blown the final whistle?”*  *Life is like a game” The above story is what I recently read on a friend’s wall and it made so much sense to me. Life is like a game; sometime, you can conclude on the result till the final whistle.  Even if I can’t remember the game between Nigeria and USSR (……….), I could remember vividly the match between Nigeria and Brazil (Atlanta 1996, semi- final). Before the match, Nigeria was like David, while Brazil was like Goliath.  Nigeria was 3 goals down to 1, and at that point, lot of people were already giving up. Some people left the scene where they were watching the ball while some who had control over the remote changed the television station to another. As far as greater percentage of Nigerians were concern, the match was as good as over.  I’m sure you know the conclusion of the match. But for the benefits of our readers born in after then, let me tell you (for free) the conclusion. Around 80 minutes thereabout, Nigeria scored their second goal; and just before the final whistle, they equalized.  So the match was forced into an extra time of 30 minute. Nigeria scored the ‘golden goal’ and the match ended. This is a typical example of how not to give up easily. A bend road is not an end road. Using your present state to summarize your life isn’t cool at all. Things can change anytime.  Like the story above, you can’t just throw in the towel, believing its all over. You can’t just write yourself off thinking helps won’t come your way someday. Many of the great people we know today are people won’t refused to give up even when it seemed they were drowning. They are people who didn’t give up on themselves even when others did. Always remember, life is like a game; and God Almighty is the referee. Until the final whistle, don’t give up. And guess what, this referee (God Almighty) is always wanting you to win and succeed. He is not just seeing the present situation, He is also seeing the destination. He knows that the negative situation wont destroy you, but rather, it will make you stronger, better and fit for the final destination. Don’t give up.  Rejoinder: • Many thanks Femi….. “Freedom from mental bondage”. I will keep asking God for favour. My regards. (080356664**)  • Your last presentation on WEEKLY Digest entitled “The Daniel’s Grace” was superb, keep it up (080671029**)  • Mr. Femi, thanks for always making my weekend. I always look forward to reading your weekly digest. God bless you for the great work you are doing. Regards (070836203**)