Researchers in France said working long hours has been linked to an increased risk of stroke.
According to the findings of a new study published in the journal of the American Heart Association ‘Stroke,’ people working long hours had a 29 per cent greater risk of stroke, and those doing so for 10 years or more had a 45 per cent greater risk of coming down with stroke.
Strokes, which are brain attacks, occur when the blood supply to the brain becomes blocked. During a stroke, the brain does not receive enough oxygen or nutrients, thereby causing brain cells to die.
Long hours were defined in the French study as more than 10 hours on at least 50 days per year, according to the researchers, from Angers University and the French National Institute of Health and Medical Research.
However, the United Kingdom (UK) Stroke Association said exercising and eating well were among activities that could counteract the effects of long working hours.
The team looked at data on age, smoking and working hours from a population study of more than 143,000 adults and found that just under a third worked long hours, with 10 per cent working long hours for 10 years or more.
“Overall, 1,224 had had a stroke,’’ according to a report from the ‘bbc’.
Part-time workers and those who suffered strokes before working long hours were excluded from the study.
Lead researcher Dr. Alexis Descatha added: “The association between 10 years of long work hours and stroke seemed stronger for people under the age of 50. This was unexpected. Further research is needed to explore this finding.
“As a clinician, I will advise my patients to work more efficiently and I plan to follow my own advice.”
This study looked at numbers, rather than reasons, but other research has found people who run their own businesses, chief executive officers (CEOs) and managers seemed less affected by long hours – as opposed to those working irregular shifts and nights, or who have job-related stress.
On his part, the Head of Research at the Stroke Association, Dr. Richard Francis said: “There are lots of simple things you can do to reduce the risk of a stroke, even if you work long hours. “Eating a healthy diet, finding the time to exercise, stopping smoking and getting the recommended amount of sleep can make a big difference to your health.”