Five students of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) were yesterday re-arraigned at an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos, for allegedly gang-raping a 17-year-old student of the institution.
The students are Moboluwaji Omowole (19), Chuka Chukwu (19), Peace Nwankama (19), James Aguedu (20) and Josephine Osemeka (20).
They were initially arraigned on February 26 and had pleaded not guilty to a three-count charge of defilement of a child, permitting the defilement of a child on a premises and procuration.
Yesterday’s proceeding was scheduled for cross-examination of the victim, but the prosecution re-arraigned the students on an amended five-count charge.
It was as a result of new facts or evidence which emerged during the testimony of complainant on February 26.
During the re-arraignment, they pleaded not guilty the new charges of defilement of a child, permitting defilement of a child, procuration and sexual assault.
According to the state prosecutor, Dr. Jide Martins, the defendants committed the offences sometime in 2017 at the UNILAG, Akoka, Lagos.
He said: “Omowole, Chukwu and Aguedo sometime in the month of January and sometime in the month of February 2017 defiled the complainant by having unlawful sexual intercourse with her.
“Chukwu sometime in January 2017 at No. 25, Shobande Street, Akoka, Yaba, Lagos knowingly allowed Omowole to defile the complainant by having unlawful sexual intercourse with her.
“Nwankama, Aguedo and Osameka between the months of January and March 2017 were into the procuration (obtaining) of young girls for the purpose of defilement.
“Osemeka sometime in the month of January 2017, in UNILAG, sexually assaulted the complainant by kissing her.”
According to Martins, the offences contravene Sections 137, 138, 140(1)(a) and 263 of the Criminal Law of Lagos 2015.
Following their re-arraignment, Mr Adebisi Ademuwagun, the defence counsel to Omowole in view of the new charges, requested for an adjournment in order to re-strategize.
Mr. R. A. Oshodi, the defence counsel to Chukwu; Mr. O. C. Aigbangbee, the defence counsel to Nwankama; Mr. O. C. Fapohunda, the defence counsel to Aguedu and Mr. Ken Edechime, the defence counsel to Osemeka, aligned themselves to the submission of Ademuwagun.
They all said that in view of the new charges, they requested for adequate time to evaluate the charges, prepare for the trial and to cross-examine the complainant.
In a brief ruling, Justice Abiola Soladoye obliged the requests of the defence counsel.
She said: “Having listened to the submissions of both the defence and prosecution counsel, it is in the interest of justice that sufficient time be given to counsel to evaluate and re-strategize.”
The matter was adjourned till October 15.