 One person was killed and many others injured after members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) and ticket officials clashed at Mosholashi , Alagbado area of Ogun State. The police have since arrested two members of the OPC for killing a commercial tricycle rider during the clash. The suspects, Kehinde Oladipo(38) and Kofoworola Olanipekun (35), were arrested by operatives of the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS), led by its commander, a Chief Superintendent of Police, (CSP) Gbenga Megbope. According to police, the suspects were arrested after a petition was sent to the Assistant-Inspector General of Police, (AIG) Lawal Shehu, in charge of Zone 2, Onikan, Lagos State. The AIG directed operatives of ZIS to carry out a discreet investigation. It was after the investigation that the two suspects were arrested. Items recovered from the suspects were three live cartridges, two cutlasses, one expended cartridge and assorted charms. During interrogation, the suspects confessed to being members of the OPC under the leadership of Bakare Taofeek, alias Olori. They claimed that Olori ordered them to work for the opposition to take over the garage, which was actually the bone of contention. One of the suspects, Kehinde said: “We were ordered by our coordinator to fight those controlling tricycles’ garage at Moshalashi bus stop, Agbado. We were also promised some money.”  He continued: “On the fateful day of the clash, I went to the garage as a tricycle rider. When I got to the park, the ticketer demanded for my ticket. I told him that I had nothing to do with ticket. My response did not go down well with him and other officials. Before I knew what was happening, fighting had broken out. During the crisis, we killed a commercial tricycle rider, later identified as Shakiru Bashiru.  “Unfortunately, some of my colleagues, who had earlier laid ambush, when they saw us fighting, rushed out to join. This escalated the crisis and then we started shooting sporadically. Several people were injured and many scampered for safety. My colleagues and I left the scene and went home. This was after we had succeeded in chasing the chairman and other executives of the park out of their offices. Two days after the mayhem, policemen came to my house to arrest me.”  Stating his own story, Olanipekun said: “It was after I was arrested that I got to know that my boss, Taofeek, was part of those who wanted to take control of the park.”  He added: “I received a phone call from Taofeek that I should meet him at Odo-Pako. Before I got there, he had gone to Moshalashi bus stop where they were fighting. Before I got to the scene, they had finished fighting. It was then I heard that a commercial tricycle rider was killed. I was at the scene when police came. I was arrested and two guns were collected from me. We are six that were arrested, but our boss is yet to be arrested.”