 The management of the Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) Limited has reiterated commitment to the development of education and youth empowerment programmes, especially in the host communities of its operations across the federation.
This was disclosed by Mr. Ekuma Eze, the Public Affairs and Communication Director of the producer of Coca Cola, Fanta, Eva Water and Sprite, among other products during the unveiling of the company’s “Sustainability Report 2016-2017,” also tagged: “2016/2017 Footprint on Our Products, people and Planet,” at the Radisson Hotel, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos.
Unveiling the document, he said the company, which in its corporate social responsibility initiative, was determined to leave their operating communities better than they met them, focused on school renovation, provision of infrastructure, ICT development, youth empowerment and vocational skills training, among others.
Towards this end, Eze hinted that under the school renovation project, NBC supports investment in education infrastructure in public schools across the country.
He said: “We have invested in several schools under our school renovation project in which education is one of the major focal areas of our corporate social responsibility. Apart from infrastructural development of schools where we do business and other indigent communities, every school year, we supply school materials such as school bags, writing/instructional materials and school sandals to children in disadvantaged communities across the country to assist their education.
“No fewer than 14 schools have been supported by NBC with computers and other equipment under the ICT development programme based on the NEEDS Assessment we carried out on the needs of the schools and children.”
Eze, who also spoke on plans to equip laboratories and libraries in many schools across the federation, however, bemoaned a situation in which pupils still learn under terrible environment, especially in the North and South-South, where NBC has carried out various developmental projects.
Under the youth empowerment/vocational skills training, Eze recalled that no fewer than 500 youths recently benefitted from the programme in Ogun State, while that of the South-South would soon hold for the youth in the area.
However, Eze further added: “NBC has also developed the Maritime Technical Skills Project in Oginigba community inn Port Harcourt. The project aims at empowering the youths in the area with skills that would lead to employment and improved standard of living.
“As part of our economic development programmes we partner the Lady Mechanic Initiative to sponsor over 100 young Nigerian women in Edo State to train, intern and work as automobile mechanics over a three-year period.”