Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has proscribed the activities of all transport unions in the state and set up a 13-member interim committee to coordinate the unions. The proscribed unions include the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), Amalgamated Commercial Motorcycle Owners and Riders Association of Nigeria (ACOMORAN) and Articulated Motorcycle and Riders Association of Nigeria (AMORAN). A statement issued by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, indicated that the interim road transport unions’ committee will be headed by Barrister Sunday Adeniyi. Other members of the committee are Hon. Kunle Adeyemi, Hon. Afolabi Afuape, Mr. Aremu Babatunde, Hon. Olaitan Asekun, Mr Jokotade Taofeek Kashimawo and Hon. Kunle Mudashiru. The committee also include Hon. Sule Abbas, Hon Razaq Adetokunbo, Mr Lekan Oguntayo. Hon Yaya Fadipe and Hon. Kayode Fabiyi while Engr. Tunji Akinosi was appointed to serve as the secretary of the panel. New Telegraph reports that there had been leadership tussle within some of the unions since Abiodun took over reins of power after the expiration of the tenure of the immediate past governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. According to Somorin, the mandate of the interim committee is basically to review the operations of the transport unions and make recommendations on how they could be better organised to support the developmental agenda of the state. He said the committee is expected to educate and create awareness among stakeholders in the transportation sector on the need to ensure peaceful conduct at all times and avoid activities that could undermine peace, security and safety of lives and property in the state. The CPS added that the committee was constituted to harness the revenue potential of the road transport for enhanced internally generated revenue and identification of any issue that may improve the overall performance of the transport sector in the state. Somorin also stated that the panel is saddled with the responsibility to institute disciplinary procedures/actions against any conduct or behaviour that could undermine public peace. Meanwhile, the governor has also constituted an ad-hoc committee to coordinate the 2019 Hajj operations for Muslim faithful in the state performing this year’s holy pilgrimage in the absence of a substantive Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board. The ad-hoc committee is chaired by Imam Mufutau Majekodunmi while the governor also appointed Alhaji Abdul Yekin Arimyau Parakoyi as the Amirul Hajj for this year’s pilgrimage. Other members of the Hajj committee are Alhaji Abdul Gafar Orunsolu, Imam Rufai Sile, Alhaji Misbau Salako, Alhaji Tijani Hassan Ishola, Alhaji Tunde Oladunjoye, Dr (Mrs) Raheemat Oloyede Hon. Kamaru Oduntan and Alhaja Bisola Aliu.