Startling revelations have emerged in the recent arrest of Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) president, Ahmad Ahmad by French police, with British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) unearthing several messy angles to issues put against the serving minister in Madagascar’s government.
The reports states at length that a joint investigation by BBC Sport Africa and Norway’s Josimar magazine can reveal some of the issues that led to Ahmad being arrested by French police and questioned by authorities in Paris last week, but not detained nor charged.
At its heart lies a little-known company, France-based Tactical Steel, that Ahmad introduced to CAF, and has become a key supplier of soccer equipment, including for this month’s Africa Cup of Nations, despite not appearing to offer football material on its website.
Ever since documents leaked earlier this year highlighted a deal made in 2017 – the year Ahmad took office – between Caf and French company Tactical Steel, the Caf president’s role has been under scrutiny.
The deal in December 2017 was notable as Caf cancelled an order worth 210,217 euros ($248,055; £186,899) with sportswear company Puma to take up an alternative order with Tactical Steel for $1,015,313. The Puma deal included a 60% discount.
Caf says it wanted to use a different sports brand to Puma but when the desired equipment – football and kits – could not apparently be obtained in time from a local manufacturer, Tactical Steel was appointed to provide them instead.
The switch to a new and unfamiliar supplier attracted attention, as Caf insiders say it is unusual for the African football body to buy sports equipment through a third party, rather than deal directly with major sports manufacturers as has happened regularly in the past. Media reports suggest orders for the African Nations Championship in Morocco in January 2018 were identical but BBC Sport Africa and its Norwegian collaborator Josimar have been told this was not the case.
Based in La Seyne-sur-Mer, near Toulon, in the south of France, Tactical Steel was registered with French authorities in 2016 and specialises in making gym equipment.
No mention of its Caf partnership is made on the Tactical Steel website whose online shop does not appear to offer football sportswear nor football equipment.
But when Ahmad was mandated to arrange Chan equipment in November 2017, seven months after taking office, the company became a key supplier for Fifa’s second-largest confederation