Dr. Rotimi Adesanya is a family physician with certification in hepatitis B management. In this interview with APPOLONIA ADEYEMI, he discusses strategies to prevent hepatitis, the need to embrace treatment from orthodox medical settings and how to avert infections from progressing to cancer stage   Forty countries including Nigeria are not doing well in eliminating hepatitis. What are the evidences on ground that show that Nigeria is not doing well to eliminate the disease?
Well, we are not doing well. We see people that are infected with Hepatitis virus in our clinics on a daily basis. In our antenatal clinics, we see up to three people that are newly diagnosed with this condition and before they arrived the clinics, they did not know that they have the ailment. It was when they came to antennal clinic that they knew.
One of the tests conducted for persons that donate blood is hepatitis B Virus. When they screen them, two to three from every donation center are newly infected with hepatitis and it is at that point that they become aware of their hepatitis status.
These show us that we are not doing better. Even, there are some random studies that have been done when we ask people what is hepatitis B. What we hear from them is nothing to write home about for a city like Lagos. I am using Lagos as an example. What is the current prevalence of hepatitis in our country and what is the number of people that die yearly from this disease?
Over 20 million people are infected with hepatitis virus in the country. For every 10 people one to two are infected with hepatitis B virus. What is the death rate from hepatitis in Nigeria?
We normally say that Hepatitis virus is deadly. It is not at the early stage but it is those people that are having complications from it that mostly die.
The patients we have been treating for hepatitis have tested positive for years because they have been coming for treatment for years. Their conditions deteriorate to the stage of death but for they those that get to the end stage, which is that stage of liver cancer or liver cirrhosis, that is what is called liver failure, even when they get to this stage the best doctor won’t be able to help. Most of them will die within one year because at that time the liver is already cancerous and spreading the cancer to other parts of the body.
The goal of our treatment is to make sure that those that suffer don’t have liver cancer and it is by coming to the clinic and getting all the drugs that they need to use that this could be achieved. The truth about Hepatitis B is that it is not curable but what we do is to manage it and the goal of managing it is that we don’t want the person to get to stage of liver cancer.
There is an injection used to treat hepatitis B, which is out of the reach of the common man. One dose of that injection is N35,000 and a patient needs a dose every week for one year. Is hepatitis disease preventable?
It is very preventable. What can people do to prevent it?
Let’s look at it from the sexual intercourse part, those that are not married could abstain from having sexual relationship while those that are married need to be faithful to their partners.
Those involved in heterosexual relationship need to make sure they use condom because using condom prevents the transmission of hepatitis virus during sexual intercourse among heterosexuals, which is people with many sexual partners.
Some people can’t stop cannot stop having sexual intercourse with several partners, but they have to make sure they use condom even though condom is not 100 per cent protective. The 100 per cent protection against the hepatitis virus is for them to be faithful to their partners.
However, from blood contact through blood donation, there is law in Lagos State which requires that everybody that is donating blood must get a certified blood from Lagos State. They have a special test that they run on the blood to discover hepatitis even when it is at the window period. When other tests cannot discover the virus, there is a test in Lagos State that discovers it. Hence, any blood that anyone is getting in Lagos State, you need to ask for Lagos Certified Logo, which is a guarantee of the safety of that blood product.
There is a law that any blood that must be transfused in our private and public hospitals in Lagos must have that Lagos Certified Logo on it to be sure that people can’t get Hepatitis through that means. What are the new things that we should be telling Nigerians about Hepatitis as a strategy to join the league of countries that are eliminating the disease from the world?
If they know anyone that has been diagnosed with hepatitis, they should direct them to medical specialists. In Nigeria, most of all the teaching hospitals, have a specialist for Hepatitis B, but our people still go through traditional medicine practitioners to treat this disease. They still use herbs and cure the thing on their own and as a result, it takes them to the stage of liver cancer. People should take care of themselves early.
The others are that people should avoid sharing sharp objects such as razor blades, barbing instruments, hair dressing instruments and anything that will involve blood contact should be avoided.
What we do is that there are some instruments we use that are disposable. Some of them have plastic forms; we use and discard them. We don’t use such on another patient, unlike in the past that we reused it on another patient. Even when patients go to the hospitals, they must make sure the needles are opened in their presence and ensure that they don’t share blade or razors with other people.
You will be surprised to hear that tailors that were infected with hepatitis got it through the tagging pin that other tailors use. Hence, all those tagging pins are supposed to be for an individual; use and discard. They are not supposed to be shared. How should pregnant mothers prevent themselves from hepatitis?
If the pregnant mothers are in their antenatal stage it is best for them to take care and to protect their babies. There is a special injection we give the baby. You can’t get it for less than N50,000 per dose. Will one dose be enough for a baby?
Yes, once the baby is delivered one shot of that will do for the newborn. That injection washes off the hepatitis B from the babies blood. There is contact between mothers’ and babies blood. That injection washes off the mother’s blood from that of the baby. Is this injection among those the three tiers of government emphasise should be given to children under five?
No, we give this one first to babies whose mothers are hepatitis B positive.
The baby will still take the normal immunisations at birth.
After delivery, both the new born and its mother will be given that injection before breast feeding of the baby will commences. What is the role of government in all of these?
Government has set up policy, and has set up strategic partners for eradication of hepatitis. We are still not there yet.
The ministers of health are not putting in the best for now. For example, there is a guideline for national hepatitis B from the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) in 2015. It is supposed to made available for all doctors at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, showing how it is and how to prevent the disease.
The guideline released in 2016 by the FMOH and the international guideline for Hepatitis B treatment in Nigeria present uniform treatment guideline that doctors are supposed to follow, but most doctors in the country don’t know it nor have it.
Doctors don’t have it at the primary health care (PHC) centres. If they don’t know the guideline some of them are mislead. The guidelines are what the doctors need. The governments should make it available to all the health workers so they will know about the disease. Could you enlighten us on the different types of hepatitis?
Hepatitis is the inflammation of the liver. Hepatitis is caused not only by hepatitis virus; it can be caused by alcohol.
There is alcoholic hepatitis, which is caused by toxins such as chemicals. It can also be caused by drugs. There are some drugs that can affect the liver. It can also be caused by virus.
There are have 5 types of hepatitis: A to E. There is F and G as well, but they are for research purpose. They don’t have clinical relevance.
A to E are the ones that have clinical relevance.
Hepatitis A and E are acquired through fico-oral (through contaminated food). Within six months, the body can get rid of these hepatitis A and E.
Hepatitis B, C and D are caused by blood transfusion, using unsterile instruments and infected sharp objects, through sexual intercourse and through mother to child to the unborn children.
Out of hepatitis B, C and D, B and C, lead to liver cancer. Based on the fact that hepatitis B is preventable, that is why doctors are worried that this is preventable. Why are people dying from it? Why are people who have it getting to liver cancer stage?
It is largely preventable through immunisation. If a baby is able to take all the full immunisation the child is protected for life.
Even adults that are negative once they take the three immunisations, they are protected for life.
We encourage people that are negative to go for the test. If they are negative they will be immunised, but if they are positive, they cannot be immunised; they have to go for treatment.