 Process and Industrial Developments Ltd. (P&ID), a firm incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, will today ask a British court for the right to seize up to $9 billion of Nigerian government assets – some 20 per cent of the oil-rich nation’s foreign reserves – over an aborted gas project, Reuters reported yesterday.
The request is part of a long-running battle over a 2010 deal in which the Federal Government agreed to supply gas to a processing plant in Calabar that P&ID – a little-known firm, founded by two Irish business men specifically for the project – would build and run.
When the deal fell through, P&ID won a $6.6 billion award at arbitration, based on what it could have earned during the 20-year agreement. It now says the total owed has ballooned to $9 billon because of interest accrued since 2013.
According to the news agency, the case highlights a risk to Nigeria’s foreign assets, potentially clouding its appeal to some investors.
Nigeria has tried to nullify the award, saying it was not subject to international arbitration, but British courts rejected the argument.
P&ID is now asking the Commercial Court in London to convert the arbitration into a judgement, which would allow them to try to seize international assets.
Reuters reported a source close to President Muhammadu Buhari as saying that they were fully aware of the matter and the government “is not sleeping,” adding they were optimistic the matter could be resolved in the courts.
There are also proceedings pending at a U.S. District Court in Washington D.C.
Buhari, who was inaugurated for a second term on May 29, has not yet appointed cabinet ministers and officials contacted by Reuters said the lack of an attorney general or petroleum minister made it difficult for anyone to comment on the record.
“This is a problem that the Nigerians are not facing up to in any serious way,” said Andrew Stafford, Q.C. of Kobre & Kim LLP, which is representing P&ID.
Experts said it would be difficult for Nigeria to fully extricate itself.
Specifically, the news agency quoted Simon Sloane, a partner with UK law firm, Fieldfisher, as saying that: “Under UK legislation, state immunity does not operate to protect a sovereign state where it has entered into an arbitration agreement.”