The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG}, has apparently resolved that the action of Justice Folayemi Omoleye of the Akure Court of Appeal, Ondo State, who was reportedly alleged to have invaded the RCCG Glory Tabernacle Akure and assaulted its ministers, cannot just be dismissed with a wave of hand. The Church’s Head, Media and Public Relations, Pastor Olaitan Olubiyi, made the disclosure in a statement he personally signed and made available to our correspondent. Pastor Olubiyi, was reacting to a widely reported denial by one Julius Olususi, described as the Personal Assistant to Justice Omoleye, in which he claimed that the alleged invasion and assault was fake news.  Pastor Olaitan said that the press release by the Personal Assistant to Justice Omoleye was rather unfortunate and unnecessary.  His words: “The said Press release is not only untrue, it was unnecessary. The regrettable events of Wednesday June 5, 2019 cannot be swept away in such a cavalier manner.”  He explained that on the fateful day, members of the RCCG Glory Tabernacle, Ijapo Akure had gathered in the church to observe their regular weekly prayer programme tagged “Divine Encounter” which holds every Wednesday between 1Oam and 12noon.  “While the programme was going on, Justice Folayemi Omoleye, a Justice of the Court of Appeal whose private residence is located near the Church, came into the premises and began to make a video recording of the service. When questioned as to the reasons for recording the service, she assaulted two members of the Church.  “Video evidence of threats and physical assault of a Pastor and a 68-year old female minister within the hallowed premises of the Church are available. The situation could have degenerated but for the kind intervention of law enforcement officers on patrol and senior Pastors who restrained the members from reacting to the unfortunate incident, as all attempts to reason with her were rebuffed.  “It is therefore unfortunate to read a press release by one Julius Olususi who claimed to be the Personal Assistant to Justice Omoleye in which he described the widely reported assault as fake news,” Pastor Olubiyi narrated.  He stressed that he RCCG is a global church with branches in not less than 198 countries.  The cleric added: “It is a decent, peaceful and law-abiding organization that serves the interests of all the people in any community it is located, regardless of their religion or status.  “The Redeemed Christian Church of God is a global church with branches in not less than 198 countries. It is a decent, peaceful and law-abiding organisation that serves the interests of all the people in any community it is located, regardless of their religion or status.”  Pastor Olubiyi stated that the Glory Tabernacle had been on the location for about 30 years; adding that the church is fully air-conditioned, without any external loudspeaker; pointing out that Justice Omoleye’s complaint of noise really does not arise. According to the cleric, the fact could be verified by anyone whosoever desires.  Olunbiyi, however, disclosed that before the incident, the Judge had written a petition in which she complained of noise and disturbance, an issue he said, the Church was already addressing in the spirit of following peace with all men.  “The Pastor in Charge had scheduled a meeting with her prior to this sad incident.  “We trust that the Personal Assistant who published the statement is aware that resorting to self-help is neither a dignified or lawful process of seeking redress or resolving any matter.  “The RCCG has a mandate to bring all men to the knowledge and life transforming relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, and will yet pursue the path of peace to resolve this issue. This is not a sign of weakness; this is our cardinal approach to disputes,” Olubiyi further stated.