Shareholders of Chemical and Allied Products (CAP) Plc yesterday at their 54th Annual General Meeting (AGM) endorsed the company’s N2.03 billion dividend, amounting to 290 kobo per every 50 kobo share, for the 2018 financial year just as the company assured of steady growth in profitability and expansion.
The shareholders, who commended the company for the dividend pay-out, said the shareholders were appreciative of the efforts, which the company put in place to drive the bank for increased return on investment.
They said over the years, the company has been very consistent in delivering results.
One of the shareholders, Ajayi Oluwafemi congratulated the company for good showing in 2018 and for doing the needful to the shareholders.
He lauded the company for improving the gross earnings and the bottom line.
Mr. Odunlami Afolabi, another shareholder, expressed confidence that the firm remains in good stead to deliver good returns to shareholders in the future and congratulated the board and management for remaining strong and making profits even in the midst of economic challenges.
Addressing shareholders at the meeting in Lagos, Acting Chairman of CAP Plc, Mr. Solomon Aigbavboa said that despite the challenging operating environment in 2018, the company ended the year with an impressive performance.
Aigbavboa noted that the business recorded a sales turnover of N7.76 billion, representing a growth of 9 per cent over the previous year while the operating profit was N2.28 billion, a growth of 15 per cent over 2017.
Speaking on the outlook, the Chairman said: “The economy is expected to gain traction this year, on the back of stronger household consumption and public spending. The recent slide in oil prices and OPEC’s oil output cut pose downside risks going forward. Economic analysts see Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increasing by 2.4 per cent in 2019 and 2.9 per cent in 2020 respectively.
“Your company is closely following developments at all levels and is prepared to key into opportunities that will be created. We are equally poised to take advantage of other structured reforms of the Federal Government, which might impact the housing and real estate sector.