When a man does something good, I expect him to be commended. President Muhammadu Buhari scored the bulls eyes with June 12 Democracy Day and I must commend him for that. What his predecessors couldn’t do, was accomplished effortlessly by him.
While June 12 is not all about Chief MKO Abiola, the recognition of the date as Democracy Day not only immortalized the memory of the late Abiola as the symbol of our democratic struggle, President Buhari unwittingly elevated himself to the chief apostle of democracy.
Even as I commend him for getting it right with June 12, I will further encourage him to complete the circle by imbibing all tenets of democracy, especially with regards to living a legacy of respect for rule of law, human rights, credible, free and fair elections.
I will like to see him begin to respect the several orders of different courts to release from detention Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd0 and other political prisoners held by the regime. A true democrat does not arrogate the law unto himself. A great leader they say is always willing to be little. Dasuki must not die in custody, otherwise posterity will judge the regime harshly. If there are personal scores to settle between President Buhari and Sambo Dasuki, such a private disputes should be privately settled and not at the risk of our building a nation governed by law.
The president must ensure and respect the principle of Separation of Powers. Reinforcing this advice becomes necessary in view of various attempts in the past to use executive powers to undermine the legislature and judiciary. We risk enthroning a full blown dictatorship if the expanding powers of the president remain unchecked. The assault on the judiciary and the desperation to enthrone a pliable and amenable National Assembly with subservient leadership is a worrisome sign. We saw in pictures where some member of the new leadership of the National Assembly, the Deputy Speaker was kneeling in genuflection before the President. The President is neither an emperor nor kabiyesi for the other arms of government to be prostrated for. If that picture of the Deputy Senate President did not embarrass the President, we the people are deeply embarrassed on his behalf.
Thankfully the presidency has said that it does not need a rubber stamp legislature as no meaningful progress can be achieved with a legislative arm that is a mere appendage of the executive. Democracy requires critical thinking and robust legislative oversight which from every indication will be lacking from the 9th National Assembly except but for a miracle.
I will again urge the president to see the abnormality in pluralistic democracy where the lesser amount of votes gotten from people of a particular religion and ethnic group are used as justification for oppressing, persecuting and marginalizing them. This unfortunate conduct has become a new normal under this regime. Those who descent or disagree are no enemies that must be hammered or bludgeoned to death. Critics are like a mirror. They reflect and bring out the alternative view that helps informed decision making.
No matter how we pretend to be politically correct, we must recognize that some parts of Nigeria are not fully represented in the topmost hierarchy of the current leadership in Nigeria. As things stands, no Igbo man is within an ear shot in the corridor of power. Politics of exclusion should not have a place in our society. And no one can convince the Igbo that they are not being persecuted and marginalized. No one will convince the Igbo that they are wanted in Nigeria as equal partners. No one will convince them that the civil war has ended and that they are fully integrated in Nigeria. No one will convince the Christians in the far North, for instance, that there is no widespread agenda to kill Christians and forcefully convert the survivors to Islam.
The beauty of democracy is that people are allowed their choice and to freely vote their conscience. In June 12 which we now celebrate, Nigerians voted for a Muslim-Muslim ticket as a matter of choice. The winner that emerges from such democratic contest has the duty and obligation to ensure no group is left behind. Democracy we are seeking to promote through June 12 will die if the system, the ruling party and the President continues to single out and punish any zone for voting their conscience, for without choice democracy is dead.
Those supporting and justifying this current aberration because it suits them now should realize how we came about to the sorry state that we are today as people without morals and values when rightly or wrongly we saw corruption and rather than resist, we conveniently invented the doctrine of ‘if you can’t beat them, you join them’. This was prior to 2004.
Evil persist because good people keep quiet about evil. I will not stop talking about Nigeria. I will continue to talk because Nigeria makes me cry because of her too many lost opportunities. A lot of people say the country is irredeemable, that corruption has permeated so much into her arteries to the extent that it will be impossible to curb corruption in Nigeria except everyone of its over 180 million people are either fumigated or incinerated. This is probably exaggerated because there are still millions of people who are good people. That we don’t know them by names doesn’t mean they done exist. I will call on the good people of this nation to rise and denounce evil wherever it exist.
Nigeria has become a place where those who are supposed to be in prison for several felonies are in direct charge of either making laws or executing laws. Imagine a commander who is supposed to face the firing squad for the pilfering of soldiers’ salary and welfare is now the one frog jumping his victims who dare not question his recklessness and bad behaviour. How can such a troop win any serious battle against terrorists or bandits or herdsmen?
We are a nation under siege with bandits and terrorists on rampage. Our plethora of security forces has no clue of who the culprits are. While the C-in-C informs a bewildered nation the killers are foreigners, his ministers will liken them as our brothers cut out by poverty and lack of education. In fact the governor of Kaduna admitted paying the bandits to buy peace for his state, yet Kaduna has not known peace, and the Zamfara State Commissioner of Police said he will prefer negotiations rather that declare war against the bandits. Yet the insurgents and bandits are faceless. Whatever the government want to do and how they want to do it is no more our concern. Let them do all that is necessary to stem the tide of insecurity in the land. We risk breaking up into smaller nation states if we are not able manage our being big. The alarm bell is sounding and we must make hay while the sun shines.