The Benue State House of Assembly yesterday took its final decision on the proposed Fulani settlement in three local government areas of the state and directed caretaker chairmen of affected councils to remove any signposts concerning Ruga or anything of such in their areas. The order came as hundreds of youths yesterday shut down Zaki- Biam, the commercial nerve centre of the people of Ukum, one of the local government areas penciled down for the location of the project. The lawmakers unanimously turned down the proposed Ruga establishment following a motion of urgent public importance moved by the Majority Leader, Hon. Damian Cheme, calling on the House to reject the proposed establishment of Ruga Settlement in any part of state. Cheme, in the motion stated that the state government following the constant conflict between herdsmen and farmers in the state which led to the killing of innocent lives, enacted Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Law as a permanent solution to the crisis. He expressed worry that the Federal Government has abandoned ranching which is a global best practice in breeding livestock and had been adopted by the National Economic Council (NEC), adding that the development is an attempt to scuttle the resolve of the state government to protect the land and people of the state. Contributing, Deputy Speaker, Christopher Adagi, Majority Chief Whip, Thomas Mlanga and Deputy Chief Whip, Peter Onche, all condemned the action of the Federal Government, saying the establishment of Ruga Settlement would not work as it is against the existing law of the state. Ruling, Speaker, Mr. Titus Uba, who said the motion was apt, described the action of the Federal Government as a distraction to the state as the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law has come to stay. Meanwhile, socio-economic and vehicular activities were grounded to a halt at Zaki Biam, the commercial nerve centre of Ukum Local Government Area as hundreds of youths Thursday, shut down the town in protest against the proposed establishment of “Ruga Settlements” in the area and other parts of the state.