The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, yesterday condemned the destruction of properties of the Nigeria High Commission in London by an aggrieved Nigerian, describing the action as despicable, unwarranted and condemnable.
Acting Spokesperson, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja, Mr Friday Akpan, reassured Nigerians of the commitment of the Missions to providing efficient services to Nigerian citizens living in other countries.
A 32-year-old Nigerian, Mr. Jeffrey Akpovweta Ewohime, was reportedly at the High Commission on Monday, June 17, 2019 to collect his international passport . He was said to have arrived the High Commission after the closure of the Passport Section. He insisted on collecting his passport but failed to provide the collection slip required.
Ewohime left the High Commission agitated . He, however, returned later and damaged five cars belonging to the High Commission and two cars belonging to visitors to the High Commission as well as two other cars belonging to some visitors. The report also said that his attempt to destroy the High Commissioner’s car failed as it was a bullet proof vehicle.
“The Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemns Mr. Ewohime’s behaviour and urges all Nigerians abroad to exercise restraint and be of good behaviour on the grounds of our Missions.
The Ministry wishes to reassure Nigerians of the commitment of our Missions to providing services efficiently to our citizens,” Akpan said. In the same vein, Chairman, Nigerians In Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, described the attitude of Ewohime as despicable and condemnable. Dabiri-Erewa said that such an attitude was unpatriotic, and an unconscionable act of indiscipline. According to her, it would of course be wrong to hand over a passport to someone, without a collection slip. “I am told that he has been arrested by the police. He destroyed seven brand new cars , except the Ambassador’s car which is bullet proof. This is a despicable act, which must be condemned by all. Of course, the law must take its course,” he said. Dabiri-Erewa implored Nigerians abroad to exercise restraint and be good ambassadors of Nigeria at all times in all circumstances. However, New Telegraph learnt that in recent times, many Nigerians living in the United Kingdom have been having difficulties renewing their passports and obtaining visas from the High Commission. According to our source, many Nigerians had missed travel opportunities and had had cause to reschedule their flights after the High Commission allegedly failed to deliver these travel documents to them on the expected days.