 Against the backdrop of the excuse by shipping companies that the controversial ‘Container Deposit’ fee was their only guarantee that importers would return their empty containers, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) has hinted that it would soon abolish the payment of the fee. The Executive Secretary of NSC, Hassan Bello said it was for this reason that the Council embarked upon the recent stakeholders’ registration exercise, saying the registration was aimed at obtaining relevant data, and using same to press for the abolition of the container deposits, a gesture capable of reducing the cost of doing business in the Nigerian ports. “We need to register service providers and those who use those services. The registration is on know your customer basis, and it is for the benefit of those people we are going to register.
“It is to ensure that our customers are known to us and to the authorities who provide them the service”. Bello further said that the registration was embarked upon after NSC decided to abolish the payment of deposit on containers, having been convinced that it was an avoidable, burdensome expense; regardless of the excuse of the Shipping Companies that it is the only way they can ensure that the importers return their empty containers. Sunday Telegraph learnt that the unfortunately aspect of the terms and conditions of the transactions which stipulates that except the containers were returned on time, the deposit would be forfeited; put a lie to the claim by the shipping companies that it imposed the arbitrary fee of about N350, 000 to N750, 000 to just to ensure that the empty containers are returned by importers after removing their goods. Bello assured Nigerians that the Council was determined to simplify the process of cargo clearing in Nigerian ports, not only to ensure the ease of doing business in the country, but to physically ensure that the ports and the port users operate in a cost effective environment.
He also hinted of his plan to realize the nation’s vision of a national single window, anchored to a relatively cheap cargo tracking note regime, so as to ensure genuine timeliness in clearing of cargo from the ports. Meanwhile, most importers spoken to by Sunday Telegraph, lauded the move by Shippers’ Council, saying, the Shipping Companies took advantage of the Apapa gridlock which has defiled all solution over the years, to impose the arbitrary fee, knowing that no importer will be able to return their empties in timely, as the trucks queue for weeks, either leaving the ports or returning the empty containers.