The Bible speaking in the book of Joshua 2: 9-11 says ‘’And she said unto the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land, and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the Red Sea for you, when ye came out of Egypt; and what He did unto the two kings of the Amorites, that where on the other side Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom ye utterly destroyed. And as soon we had heard these things, our hearts did melt, neither did there remain any more courage in any man, because of you; for the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above, and in earth beneath.’’ Brethren, I have to emphasis here that the devil and his agents know the Lord’s Chosen charismatic Revival Ministries. They know that God is with us. They know that God has given us authority, and power to evangelize all the Nations, and take over the world for Him. The Devil knows our ten billion souls mandate. They know our three fold vision; [1].Grassroots Revival all over the World [Mark 16:15, [2] Revival of the Apostolic Christian Experiences among the body of Christ all over the World. [Acts2:17], [3}Revival of Heaven Consciousness in the minds all believers all over the World; Heaven at Last [Matt.6:33]. As a result of this knowledge of our power and authority, Satan, and his agents, is usually panic stricken, and terrified whenever we enter into any town or state, or Nation. They know that no matter how difficult or ugly the situation maybe, we have the God who can do this or that.
Demon and their agents know that we have a covenant with God. The principalities, powers, devil and their agents knows us, they know the source of our power, and authority. They probably know us more than we know ourselves. Consequently, they usually fight, and make spirited efforts to counter, and possibly frustrate our work for God. As was the case with the Israelites on their journey to the promise land, God had promised them the seven ungodly Nations. The seven Nations being aware, made various efforts, including building walls to fortify themselves, and deter the Israelites from possessing them. All that could not stop the promise of God. Because God has the power to do all things, and He will always keep to His promise, He ensured that the Israelites, against all odds, entered the promise land, and possessed them. Therefore, as the Lord’s Chosen Charismatc Revival train berths in the Garden City of Port Harcourt, the River State capital, with the theme ‘’God has Power to Do This, or That’’ this weekend—Saturday, and Sunday, the stage is set for a Holy Ghost inspired spiritual fireworks that will culminate in signs, and wonder, Salvation, deliverance, miracles for the people of River State, and other participants.