The Society of Book and Magazine Editors of Nigeria (SBMEN) has announced that the second edition of its editing workshop for the year themed: Editing for Magazines and Digital Platforms would hold from 26 to 27 June 2019.
The workshop, organised by SBMEN, is for those who desire to write or edit for print and digital magazines, or design their own magazines or understand how to launch a successful website.
“At the end of the workshop, participants will create their own unique magazine concept by learning the entire process of planning, creating, writing, and developing editorial content for print or online platforms.
“The training will explore a broad range of subjects from how to design an editorial mission, using digital tools to advance your craft, how to write content for blogs, websites, and interviews, a fool proof guide for generating unique content ideas, and developing editorial tools to meet required standards,” the Board of Trustees and Management of the Society of Book and Magazine Editors of Nigeria (SBMEN) announced in a statement.
The workshop will be facilitated by a rich coterie of editorial experts, accomplished in their fields through lectures, interactive sessions, class exercises, case studies, and breakout sessions. It is being supported by the British Council Nigeria and Quramo Publishing Limited.
Interested participants are encouraged to apply, bloggers, journalists, content developers, vloggers, and those involved in digital platforms.
The Society for Book and Magazine Editors of Nigeria (SBMEN) is a new educational and professional association that represents and supports aspiring and existing editorial professionals to develop editorial skills that meet global best practices. It is also extended to other professionals who work within publications, broadcasting, digital media, legal services, communications, public relations and academia. The organisation provides training and resources for professionals to increase their proficiency in editing.