 The Director General, Okowa Campaign Flow 2019, Engr. Bemigho Ofoeyeno, FNSE has described the second coming of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as an act of God, insisting that Delta State will further experience massive development.  Ofoeyeno, who led the group during the swearing in of the Governor in Asaba, lauded Deltans across the 25 local government areas for their massive support and enjoined them to continue to support the governor in his effort to transform the state to a greater height.  He promised that the campaign flow group will continue to support the governor and his administration that have been doing excellent work to make Delta the Dubai of Africa.  “Governor Okowa has done a lot of things elevating the people of the state, ranging from empowerment of Deltans in all areas and the rehabilitation and construction of roads in all the 25 local government areas of the state,” said the campaign boss.  The Campaign Flow boss also congratulated the Delta State House Assembly Speaker Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, member representing Warri North Area, Hon. Fred Martins and all members of the Delta State House of Assembly. He also congratulated the Senator representing the South Senatorial District and Member representing Warri Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Sen. James Manager and Hon. Thomas Ereyitom.  Ofoeyeno lauded the abundant peace pervading the state since the governor came on board, adding that Delta has become one of the most peaceful states in the country. Beside the good network of roads being enjoyed across the state, a lot of infrastructural development such as bursary scheme to a lot of students from the state, free primary education, health care system and a lot more to make Deltans enjoy the dividend of democracy.  Ofoeyeno, on behalf of the group congratulated the new appointees by the governor, such as Hon. Chinedu Ebie, as the Secretary to Government, Olorogun David Edevbie, Chief of Staff, Government House while Hon. Funkekeme Solomon the Director General, PDP Campaign organisation, was named the senior political adviser to the governor.  “Governor Okowa has been able to empower many youths, both male and female and engaged them in useful positions that will not make them wanting and advised all the youths to join hands with the governor to move the state forward,” he said.  The Campaign Flow boss is highly elated that a lot of international sporting events are now taking place in Delta just as international flight have been patronising the Asaba International Airport; adding: “All these are the Smart Agenda and Prosperity being brought to the state by the workaholic governor.”  Also speaking, the Chief Adviser of the Campaign Flow, Pastor Jossy Honnah described Governor Okowa as a man who can also rule the country as president because of his abundant wisdom, integrity, and administrative capacity.  “Okowa’s giant stride is the Lord’s doing; against all odds, yet the Ekweme of Africa has again come out victorious.  “If we had person like Okowa in the past, Delta would have since become the Dubai of Nigeria because he is full of wisdom. The worse thing that can happen to a state or country is to have a leader without wisdom, but Okowa’s leadership quality is unequalled; hence he is delivering on his campaign promises.  “For instance, the popular Ughelli Asaba road that have been a death trap has been rehabilitated and is now one of the best roads in the state. In this wise I plead with the people of the state to join the governor in his bid to put further smile on Deltans,” he said.