 A rights organization, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), has dragged the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) to the Federal High Court in Lagos for rejecting its Freedom of Information (FOI) request on asset declarations by successive presidents and state governors between 1999 and 2019. The CCB had, in its response to SERAP’s request, argued that providing such information would amount to an invasion of privacy of presidents and state governors. The Bureau, in a letter with reference number CCB/HQ/LU/047/59 and signed on behalf of its Chairman by Musa Ibrahim Usman, said: “…Section 14(2)(3) of the same Act stipulate conditions for granting requests for private information, but these have not been met by SERAP’s application.” However, dissatisfied with CCB’s response, SERAP, in the suit filed last Friday, insisted that asset declarations of presidents and state governors submitted to the Bureau are public documents. The organization noted that public interest in disclosure of the details of asset declarations sought by it, clearly outweighs any claim of protection of the privacy of presidents and state governors, as they are public officers entrusted with the duty to manage public funds, among other public functions. “The right to receive information without any interference or distortion should be based on the principle of maximum disclosure, and a presumption that all information is accessible subject only to a narrow system of exceptions. “It is a settled principle of law that details such as asset declarations of presidents and governors should be disclosed if there is an overriding public interest in having access to such information, which is clearly so in this matter. “Given that many public officers being tried for or convicted of corruption are found to have made a false declaration of their assets, the CCB should no longer allow politicians to undermine the sanctity and integrity of the asset declaration provisions of the Constitution by allowing them to continue to exploit legal gaps for illicit enrichment,” SERAP further argued. The organization is consequently seeking for the following reliefs among others: “An order granting leave to the applicant (SERAP) to apply for judicial review and to seek an order of mandamus directing and compelling the respondent (CCB) to compile and make available to the applicant, information on specific details of asset declarations submitted to the Code of Conduct Bureau by successive Presidents, Vice Presidents, Senate Presidents, Speakers of House of Representatives, State Governors and Deputy Governors from 1999 to 2019 and to publish widely, including on a dedicated website, any such information. “An order granting leave to the applicant to apply for judicial review and to seek an order of mandamus directing and compelling the respondent to compile and make available to the applicant information on the number of asset declarations so far verified by the Code of Conduct Bureau and the number of those declarations found to be false and deemed to be in breach of the Code of Conduct for Public Officers by the Bureau and to publish widely, including on a dedicated website, any such information.” The matter has not been assigned to any judge and no date has been fixed for its hearing.