‘Enhanced intelligence gathering, state police, panacea for insecurity’  The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) including some of its members have picked holes in the nation’s Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu’s position that there is sharp decline in crime rate across the country. AKEEM NAFIU reports  Piqued by unending wave of insecurity, banditry and kidnapping spreading across the country, lawyers and its umbrella body-the Nigerian Bar Association have upbraided the federal government on what they described as “pervasive insecurity of lives and property in the land” and “systematic erosion” of the independence of the judiciary. Specifically, they said judges and lawyers had been so intimidated and blackmailed by the Federal Government that they nursed a fear of being visited with “inquisitorial terror” should they rule against government or take briefs considered to be anti-government.
For instance, NBA President, Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN), said this in a speech he delivered and unanimously adopted by the National Executive Committee of the association at its meeting held last week. According to Usoro, the level of insecurity in the country and attacks on the independence of the judiciary and the legal profession had constituted a threat to the rule of law, and by extension the country’s democracy. Usoro said: “Without the rule of law and security of lives and property, society gradually descends into a state of anarchy and democracy becomes a mere pretension. Democracy itself cannot survive without the rule of law. “These twin elements – rule of law and security of lives and property – are what drive society and the economy. It would be revealing if we were to have proper and verified statistics on the investment opportunities that have been lost by Nigeria because of these twin pervasive challenges: insecurity and the erosion of the rule of law.” Usoro was echoed by tens of lawyers, who expressed dismay at the manner the menace of banditry, kidnapping and insecurity had spread across the length and breadth of the country while proffering solutions to the menace. The lawyers while expressing concerns that the menace was increasingly becoming a nightmare for many citizens also faulted news of a drop in crime rate in the country credited to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu. The IGP had Monday, last week while addressing senior police officers at a conference in Abuja declared that crime rate in the country had declined amidst new patterns and threats of criminality which had necessitated a review of strategy. Adamu while noting that decline in crime rate could be linked to the successes recorded by his men through the ongoing ‘Operation Puff Adder,’ tasked Zonal AIGs and Command CPs to redouble their effort as the battle was still far from over. He said: ”Sequel to the launch of ‘Operation Puff Adder’ in all the states of the federation and other security strategies recently emplaced to address internal security threats, a total of 424 kidnappers were arrested between 10th May, 2019, and 14th June, 2019. 101 kidnap suspects were arrested in Kaduna State, followed by Katsina State with 79 arrests. 54 suspects were apprehended in Nasarawa State and 32 in Taraba State. “In the same vein, a total of Forty Four (44) murder suspects were arrested during the period under review, with the highest number of seven (7) in FCT and six (6) in Kano State. In addition, two hundred and seventy six (276) armed robbery suspects were arrested within the same period with the highest number of thirty eight (38) in Edo State, followed by twenty five (25) in Nasarawa State and twenty three (23) in FCT. “It is to be emphasized that the achievements were recorded with the cooperation of members of the public in a manner that clearly demonstrates the increasing determination of the citizens to support the police in restoring internal security. It was also the result of the sacrifice, courage, zeal and exceptional dedication of police commanders and other ranks. “I therefore wish to use the opportunity of this forum to immensely thank all well-meaning Nigerians for their support and to commend you and other personnel of the Nigeria Police across all ranks for aligning to my policing vision and supporting the implementation of the strategies emplaced towards restoring internal security. “We might have taken giant steps against crime and criminality but the battle is still far from being over. I therefore charge you to sustain the sense of commitment to duty as it represents a sacred call to nation” However, some members of the Inner and Outer Bar disagreed with the Inspector General of Police, saying contrary to a drop in crime, crime rate across the country had increased tremendously. The lawyers, however, believed that media reports about upsurge in terrorism, kidnapping, banditry and other vices had eroded IGP’s assertion on dwindling crime rate. First to fire the first is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria 3(SAN), Chief Mike Ahamba who noted that the current trend of events in the country did not support IGP Adam’s view on crime rate. He said: “I don’t agree with the Inspector General of Police that crime rate in the country is reducing because we are still reading of more kidnappings and killings across the country in national dailies. “Until some of these people in authority are affected, they may not have some pains in their hearts about this issue of growing insecurity which has created fear and tension in the country to the extent that people are scared of moving around.  “What I read in newspapers were very far from declining insecurity in Nigeria. We are still far from it. Let nobody say that crime rate has declined. The fight to restore sanity in the country should continue”. Another silk, Chief Ifedayo Adedipe, also disagreed with the Inspector General of Police that crime rate in the country is going down. He asked the Federal Government to upgrade the architectural set up of the nation to address growing spate of insecurity. “I don’t agree with the IGP’s assertion that crime rate in Nigeria is declining. The Federal Government should take a second look at the architectural set up of the country. My view is that the centralized arrangement is not helping us at all and like politics, security could be local. “The growing spate of kidnapping in the country is worrisome. I remember that one of the selling points of Buhari in 2015 when he came to office was that as a former Army General, he would be able to deal with this security issue. But it’s unfortunate that things have degenerated into this level. You can no longer travel on the high way. “People are now being abducted at random. Foreigners are also not spared and somebody is telling us that Buhari has done well in the area of security, I don’t think this is correct because people’s lives are no longer secured. “Nigeria is not the only heterogeneous country in the world, but the incursion of foreigners through our borders is worrisome and something urgent must be done to put it under check. Particularly, from the Sahel, people who fought in Libya had unrestricted access to Nigeria. This had to be tackled head on by government. “Besides, the unresolved issue of importation of arms into the country is also fuelling kidnapping. People now buy arms and they use it at random and at will. “Then, we do not have enough policemen in this country. Lagos with an estimated population of about 20 million, how many policemen do we have there? The same thing for other states of the federation; so, we need more “I also think we need to seek foreign help to tackle this menace. We should stop pretending that we are capable. I am not sure either Afghanistan or Libya is worse than us at the moment in terms of insecurity. Something is not adding up in the way we handle our security in this country. “The President is the Commander-in-Chief and the buck stops at his table; the failure of the nation’s security is his own failure. There can be no question about that. He is the one that we voted for and he should find solution to it. The menace has spread across the length and breadth of the country,” Adedipe said. Mr. Seyi Sowemimo (SAN) called for an enhanced intelligence gathering efforts and military deployment to flash points to tackle the menace. He said: “To tackle the problem, I think we should seriously reconsider the idea of establishing state police. This is because it is very clear that the police force as federally constituted cannot deal with the issue. “We can also look into having more individuals in the police force to tackle the problem on ground. The country is not well policed at the moment. “Besides, we should also deploy more military personnel to flash points across the country. More intelligence activities must also be carried out by security operatives to arrest this ugly trend because certainly some of these kidnapping activities appeared organized and well planned.
To Dr. Biodun Layonu (SAN), prior to the establishment of state police, state governments can create special force to handle violent crimes. “Pending constitution amendment to create state police, State Command Special Unit only for violent crimes must be created. “They are to be paid for by state government according to number of personnel stationed within the state, under the Commissioner of Police and to be deployed at the direction of the governor, not for any other purpose except violent crimes”, he said. Another silk, Mr. Norrison Quakers, asked the Federal Government to put in place policies that will tackle unemployment and turn round the economy as a way of tackling the growing trend of insecurity in the nation. He said: “I think we got to this stage because of our economic downturn. Even if you kit the police and the military without economically empowering them, these personnel will also be involved in acts of brigandage and criminality. That’s what is going on. “We have a restive population of youths who are unemployed with no sense of direction. Nothing to uphold or look up to and state of medicare is also in comatose. We have teeming graduates roaming the streets and looking for jobs that are not available. “We also have people going into governance as politicians and coming out wealthier and richer. People now flaunt their wealth around without any reasonable means of livelihood and no evidence of hard work. These people continue to live large. That’s the recipe for the crisis that we have. “Therefore, if we want to address all these societal ills, government must create an environment for businesses to thrive. There are artisans who can no longer do business because the jobs are no longer there. Whether we like it or not, there are starvation and hunger in the land.
“The only way out like I said earlier is for the economy to work and government must come up with policies that will address unemployment and create jobs in place.” A former National Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mazi Afam Osigwe, said security operatives should do more in tackling the menace. He added that necessary infrastructure and intelligence must be put in place. “Security agencies have failed to put in place the necessary infrastructure and intelligence needed to nip the menace in the bud. We are not even getting the right statistics because I believe more people are being kidnapped around the country than was reported. We may never get the accurate number of people that lost their lives either in the course of being kidnapped or while being rescued by security operatives. “Until the society shows that it is a matter to be taken serious and not only to be concerned only when a high profile individual is kidnapped, we may never get it right. “We need to see the capacity of the police and the State Security Services (SSS) in tackling banditry and kidnapping. What numbers can people call when in distress that help will come their way? These are some of the things we need to do to tackle the problem which has fast becoming a criminal enterprise. “Police should also device means of arresting those involved in kidnapping and banditry so that information retrieved from them will be used to arrest others associated with these criminals. “Besides, the police involvement in these crimes should be preemptive. There should be an intelligence network that will give out information about those involved in kidnapping and banditry. It’s all about methodology and building up the capacity to prevent commission of a crime. “State police may also help in some aspect, particularly, as those in a community where a crime is committed are usually in the know as to who are the offenders”, he said.