Retired Archbishop of Lagos Metropolitan See, Anthony Cardinal Olubunmi Okogie yesterday decried the security situation in the country, describing it as progressing from deplorable to worse. He also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to show leadership Okogie, who wondered if there was still a government in Nigeria, wondered what the leaders of the country were doing while insecurity took over the country.  In a statement he released yesterday, Okogie wondered for how long the insecurity in the country would last while Nigerians watch passively  . In a statement titled: “Nigeria is under attack” Okogie joined former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who spoke of “Fulanisation and Islamisation” saying the ex-president “was ‘pointing to an open secret, and that is: there is a synergy between Boko Haram, herdsmen and ISIS.  This synergy, leading to a gradual implementation of the Islamisation agenda of ISIS, is what is being referred to as “Fulanisation and Islamisation”. He said: “It is about’ the imposition by ISIS of its own version of Islam. Whoever opposes it, be that person Christian or Muslim or Fulani, is eliminated.”  Cardinal Okogie said: “On a Monday in Septem-   ber 2015, former finance minister, Chief Olu Falae, was on his farm in Ilado near Akure when some armed men came looking for him. At gunpoint, they abducted him and held him until the following Thursday. At the age of 77, he was made to walk several kilometres.  He was made to sleep in the rain. According to his own account published in some national dailies, every half an hour, his armed abductors threatened: “Baba, we are going to kill you. If you don’t give us money we are going to kill you.”  ‘By 2018, herdsmen were wreaking havoc in the states of the middle belt of Nigeria. Then, a retired Chief of Army Staff, a veteran of military intervention in Nigerian politics, General Theophilus Danjuma, warned that there was ethnic cleansing in the middle belt.  Having lost confidence in the government’s willingness or ability to deal with the situation, General Danjuma called on the people of the middle belt to take responsibility for their own security. “The reaction of aides to the President of the Federal Republic was to insult him and call him names he did not deserve to bear.