A 43-year-old farmer, Francis Joseph, has allegedly defiled a 12-year-old daughter of his neighbour at Lugbogi area in Ondo West Local Government Area of Ondo State.
Joseph, who has four wives and nine children, allegedly lured the girl to his house and violated her.
Joseph and the father of the victim live in the same locality at Lugbogi area.
It was learnt that Joseph warned the girl, after having carnal knowledge of her, not to tell anybody about the incident, otherwise she would die.
A family source disclosed that the girl was scared to tell her parents until she started bleeding in the middle of the night and was rushed to hospital.
The source added: “The victim, who was bleeding profusely from her private parts, was rushed to the hospital. She is still in the hospital as we speak. Her parents reported the incident at the Enuowa Police Station. Joseph, however, had left his home before the arrival of the policemen. Joseph was arrested at a park in Ondo town on Thursday, while trying to board a bus to Lagos. He was subsequently handed over to the police.”
Joseph has denied the allegation of defiling the girl. He said that the people of the community conspired and implicated him. The suspect, however, did not explain his reasons for running away from the community.
The victim, however, insisted that his father’s friend, Joseph, was responsible for her situation. She explained that he defiled her in his house and later warned her not to inform anybody.
It was learnt that the family of Joseph had been pleading with the victim’s family to settle the matter amicably. The girl’s parents, however, refused to accept such pleas.
It was also learnt that the state Ministry of Women Affairs has stepped into the matter, to ensure that the incident is not swept under the carpet.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, confirmed the incident.
Joseph said the case had been transferred to the state Police Headquarters in Akure, the state capital.
He said: “The command has commenced investigation into the matter and will charge the suspect to court after completing its investigation.”