 Nigerians have been advised to embrace true love for one another and the fear of God for all to enjoy peace, security as well as eliminate other societal ills. The Special Guest of Honour at the just concluded 57th Annual Synod of the Diocese of Lagos Methodist Church, Bro. Ifeoluwa Oyedele, made the appeal at the Wesley Cathedral Olowogbowo, Lagos Island. Oyedele, who is also an Executive Director, Niger Delta Power Holdings Company Ltd, Abuja, also bemoaned what he described as the unfortunate social challenges fronting the Nigerian society and the world as a whole. He called for a complete rethink and sober reflection urging all to seek the face of God with honest sacrifice in order to provoke God’s mercy and concern for humanity. Delivering his sermon at the Sunday thanksgiving, the Bishop of the Diocese of Kwara Methodist Churc, the right Reverend Simon Oluwole Onaleke, warned against the consequence of disobedience to God’s dictates.
He took a swipe at some political office holder, who he accused of recklessly lining up their pockets with looted public funds at the expense of the masses. “They were expected to serve, honestly with God’s endowments to reasonably justify God’s abundant blessings, protection and other providence to expand His kingdom,” he noted. He therefore pleaded with leaders at all levels to always have a listening ear to the plights of the masses, with the fear of God.
He also enjoined the audience to revive their trust and believe in God in order to make the nation better than they met it. On the subject of insecurity, the Bishop urged Nigerians to contribute their quotas towards the efforts to curb crimes and vices.
He charged those in position of authority to get more committed to arrest the incessant kidnapping, insurgency and other crimes that has engulfed the nation and threatened our peaceful co-existence as a people. Bishop Onaleke, however, pleaded with Boko Haram to release Leah Sharibu, the Chibok Secondary School girl, who is still in Boko Haram captivity for holding unto her Christian faith, from their custody. Addressing the Synod, the Archbishop of Lagos, Methodist Church Nigeria, His Grace, the Revd Dr. Isaac Ayobami Olawuyi, expressed the church’s profound gratitude to the Delegates for their moral, financial and outstanding contributions to the success of the Synod.