Ekiti State House of Assembly has directed the 16 suspended local government chairmen to refund N3.6 billion to the state treasury.
The lawmakers at their sitting on Monday said the order was predicated on the report of a panel which indicted the chairmen of mismanaging the cash. The Fifth Assembly used the occasion to hold its valedictory session as the Sixth Assembly would be ushered in by Governor Kayode Fayemi on Thursday. In a resolution, the Assembly ordered the suspended chairmen to refund the N3.6 billion into the coffers of the state government and also recommended appropriate sanctions against them. This is part of the recommendations by the House Committee on Public Account in its report on the local government chairmen, which was adopted by the House.
The panel’s report was presented by the member representing Ikere Constituency 2, Mr. Sunday Akinniyi. The former Speaker, Mr. Kola Oluwawole, representing Moba Constituency 1, pleaded for leniency on behalf of the suspended chairmen but his plea was turned down by the majority of his colleagues.
Oluwawole, as well as the suspended chairmen, are members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The PDP members opposed the recommendation for the sanction, claiming that the screening was full of irregularities.
They were, however, overruled by the Speaker, Adeniran Alagbada, who claimed that the chairmen went too far in their actions. Alagbada cited example of his local government area, Ise-Orun, where over N300 million was set aside for building of secretariat but the contract was not executed. Meanwhile, chairmen and members of three commissions nominated by Governor Kayode Fayemi were screened and confirmed by the House.
The commissions are – House of Assembly Service Commission, Civil Service Commission and State Independent Electoral Commission. All members of the House of Assembly Commission headed by Chief Taiwo Olatubosun were only asked to take a bow and leave, having served at one point or the other as members of the House. The Assembly ratified Justice Jide Aladejana as the chairman of the State Independent Electoral Commission and former Head of Service, Mr. Bunmi Famosaya, as the chairman of the Civil Service Commission.
Other members of the commissions also sailed through, having proven their high level of integrity and diligence to the house.
During the exercise, Alagbada congratulated the appointees and urged them to justify the confidence reposed in them.
In an interview, some of the appointees expressed happiness over their confirmation and promised to put in their best towards assisting the present administration in achieving its dream of running an all-inclusive government for social and economic development.
———————————