For many Nigerians, this evening’s event in faraway Egypt, where the Super Eagles kick off their Nations Cup campaign, at the seaside Egyptian city of Alexandria, will afford them the opportunity to, at least, forget the teaming problems they face on a daily basis living in the “Giant of Africa”. Although the African Cup of Nations actually kicked off yesterday with hosts Egypt tackling Zimbabwe, for millions living in the most populous black nation in the world, it is the showdown in the oldest stadium on the continent, the 20, 000-seater Alexandria Stadium, that will engage them intensely. And at least for the duration of their stay in the land of the Pharaohs, every evening that the Eagles are in action Nigerians will be transported away from their woes for the 90 minutes that the “beautiful game” lasts. The soothing balm that the game of football gives Nigerians cannot be over emphasised. It is one of the things that truly brings the diverse nation together, where Igbo, Yoruba, Hausa, Fulani, Efik and the mired of other tribes and ethnic groups, all set aside their differences and unit behind a common cause – the success or otherwise of the national team. Be it football, athletics, boxing, basketball or whatever sporting discipline, as long as they are flying the famous green-white-green flag on a foreign land, the whole nation gets behind our men and women, with the hope that they will do them proud. Of course the “baba” of them all is the “king of sports” football! Be it the “papa” Eagles or the kiddies’ team; be it a male or female competition, once it involves the round leather game, the nation gets involved. From Sokoto to Lagos, Maiduguri to Port Harcourt, Abuja to Warri, the main topic of discussion in various road-side newspaper vendor stands, offices, beer parlours, saloons and what have you is football. Even the so called “weaker sex” gets caught up in the frenzy with many espousing intelligent views that will put many of the “stronger sex” to shame. In fact it its often said that many married women eagerly look forward to the World Cup and other major tournaments because that is when they often have their husbands rushing home to catch the games live on television. Those that are not too into the “beautiful game” swallow their aversion, with the joy of having their stay away hubbies or partners around them at home, filling their hearts. The more smart ones even take crash courses in football (101) in order to be able to have intelligent conversations with their spouses during the course of the matches. However, for husbands with spouses whose only knowledge about football is that it is played on a field, such times can be very trying as their wives or girlfriends may not allow them enjoy the game with their frequent questioning like: “Who is playing?”, “why is it a foul?”, “why is the referee giving a yellow card?” and so on! But like I said earlier, generally the impact of the world’s most popular sport on the citizens of the world’s most populated black nation cannot be under estimated. Please allow me cite a number of examples starting way back to 1994. Although the celebrated elections of June 12 had been annulled a year earlier and the late General Sani Abacha had taken over from Chief Ernest Shonekan, the head of the Interim Government contraption of the then departed Military President, Ibrahim Babangida, the fact that the Super Eagles had lifted their second Nations Cup in Tunisia in 1994 and had qualified for their first ever World Cup finals, USA’94 played a big part in keeping a lid on the anger boiling in the people following the cancellation of the election believed to have been won by the late Chief MKO Abiola. It was not until the Super Eagles crashed out to Italy in the second round of USA’94 on July 5, a day after America’s Independence Day, that the bottled up anger burst open and protests broke out across the land against the military government over the annulment. Fast forward eight years to Korea/Japan 2002. Due to the time difference the games took place in the morning here in Nigeria. And I vividly remember my pastor wondering why there were not too many men in church on that Sunday morning (June 2, 2002). Before it dawned on him that the Eagles were in action against Argentina on that day, which kept many of the men away from the service. The mass appeal of football is, however, not limited to Nigeria alone. My brother was to tell me that during that same competition (Korea/Japan 2002) offices in Britain adopted a policy of allowing their workers come to work late whenever the Three Lions (England) were playing. Now back to the present, the opponent of three-time winners, Nigeria, is the Swallows of Burundi, which is making its first appearance in the showpiece football event for national teams in Africa. On paper the more experienced Super Eagles will start as firm favourites to kick off their quest for a fourth Nations Cup title with a victory over The Swallows in the opening match of Group B. Under the guidance of 48-year-old Olivier Niyungeko, who has been in charge of the national team since 2016, The Swallows placed second behind Mali in their qualification group ahead of Gabon and South Sudan. They will be led by their 32-year-old striker and skipper, Selemani Ndikumana, who has been part of the national team setup since 2006 and has won 30 caps and scored 12 goals. And although The Swallows finished second behind Mali, they did score more goals – 11 to the West African’s 10 – an indication that the Eagles should not underrate them. Niyungeko aware of the formidable opponents he is going up against will most likely adopt a safety first approach hoping to hit on the counter or at least secure a draw. The onus will clearly be on Gernot Rohr and his boys to find a way to break down a resolute side hell-bent on spoiling a possible Nigerian victory party. Speaking ahead of the competition, Nigeria’s coach, Gernot Rohr, who turns 66 during the competition, said he expects a demanding season in Europe, plus the heat in Egypt, will mean the fittest team will be crowned African champions. On his team specifically he said: “We have to work hard. We have to be fit because only the fittest team have the chance to win the Nations Cup.” Millions of Nigerians will be hoping and praying that the Franco-German tactician is able to make his team the fittest at the tournament so much so that the Eagles go all the way to the final, and by extension ensure that at least for one month, we will be able bask in the euphoria of a good run from our boys, while we forget our domestic challenges, even if its temporarily.