 The Senior Pastor of Elevation Church, a crowd-pulling non-denominational church located on the Lekki axis of Lagos, Pastor Godman Akinlabi, speaks on the recently a released ‘Alder Church Report 2019’, an outcome of a nationwide survey on the church and millennials, the many ills bedeviling Nigeria, especially the increasing rate of suicide among young Nigerians, and the carefree attitude of the government and its agencies in this interview with Tai Anyanwu. Excerpts  Some of the things highlighted by the Alder Church Report 2019 seem to indict the church in Nigeria on its response to the youth; what is your view on this? I would say that I don’t consider it as indictment; I consider it more as motivation. Sometimes you do things but the way people perceive it is different and if truly we want to serve people we need to get feedback from them; feedback is very important. Even Jesus asked a question, ‘who do men say that I am?’ So the church in Nigeria – it’s ok for us to ask the question; who do men say that we are, and we shouldn’t say we don’t care about what people say if truly we are sent to lead and influence these people: then we should be willing to accept what their perception is. There is difference between real needs and felt needs; sometimes felt need is more important than real need but people feel this is what they need and if we don’t fill that even their real need we may not be able to fix it. This is more for me from the point of view of felt need because this is what people are saying and we should respond appropriately to them without feeling indicted – it is a motivation in my opinion.  What do you think is responsible for the increasing rate of suicides in in the country Nigeria?  I think suicide comes from hopelessness and hopelessness is not something that happens in one day. It’s something that starts from cluelessness from not knowing what to do; from feeling helpless; from feeling constrained; then to the point you feel there is no point living. And when the economy is down, when the aspiration of the youth are becoming unrealizable, when people can’t make ends meet, relationship/marriages are breaking down.When people have issues in their emotional live they are very quick to judge themselves as being hopeless or useless. When there is lack of economic empowerment; when you see what your mates are doing and what you are doing, it’s also possible for you to feel that you are hopeless. For anybody to take his or her life, the person has to get to the point where it feels like this life is no longer worth living – there is an atmosphere that can put people off easily; that is the kind of atmosphere we have in Nigeria right now, which we are believing to change over a period of time but that is the atmosphere we have, and that is why we see more people wanting to commit suicide. Also, as churches, civil societies, government there has to be a response to that; I believe that right now the government as policy makers should come up with enlightenment campaign that tells people that look this is what we are doing – give us some amount of time, things are going to get better, don’t kill yourselves; we recognize that things are going up, but they behave as if nothing is happening. In fact governmental organisations that should keep the records (the data) of how many suicide we have on a weekly basis in Nigeria, I don’t think they have it. Because we do not even measure the level of these things, it’s difficult for us to make statement about it. We who are pastors know that we get reports: people write us saying they are depressed; people write us about suicide, for instance somebody called this morning saying my father is about to die and we are not in good terms; what should I do, and the doctors have said that he is going to die anytime – I said you need to go see him, so you can make peace because I know someone I had counselled like that before whose father died: this guy in his 40s is still depressed because he feels that it was that unresolved issue that killed his father and that is affecting him. He is not an emotionally healthy human being, and that is how we create lack of emotional health; so we know what is going on but like we said the real issues cannot be addressed only by churches. Churches lay hands on people to be healed for instance but if there is an health policy that can make healthcare available en-masse to all Nigerians so that headache does not become something else before I am able to go to the pastor to say – pray for me; so that I can access healthcare easily. That is the kind of thing we are talking about; as church we will respond but government also have to respond and not bury their head in the sand and just behave as if everything is ok: because everything is not ok.  In other words, what are you telling the churches to do? In other words what I’m saying is that the churches should get this report; download it, read through it, know what the yearnings and aspirations of young Nigerians are and tailor solutions towards it. I mean young people want jobs; how can the church and religious organisations help them to be more employable. We have a graduate employability program that we run – we run like two sections with a hundred people in attendance in each. A lot of these people have gotten job because when you coach them and give them the right skills that the employers are looking for – the next interview they go for; they will get a job. Because if they cannot use Excel before or PowerPoint, or do not know anything about project management and now if they ask them those questions, they know about it and this is the skills that we are giving them. For instance in the church that I pastor, we said this year we want to help a thousand people to get jobs, not that we are going to provide the job but we are going to prepare them because we have researched what jobs are available in the market; what is the skill level and help them to bridge the gap so they can get jobs. It’s the same thing to help 200 people to start a business, it means we are going to train them on entrepreneur; we need to know they are cut-out for entrepreneur, we need to make a little fund available as start-up funds for them which will run through a microfinance institution and the church guarantees it – they get guarantors, have something to start the business. So, rather than church looking to start a bank, we don’t have to start a bank; work with existing banks, guarantee that they can pay back – you have a pull of funds with which you can guarantee that, that’s how wealth is created, that’s how a nation can get better. So, if we see many more churches doing this, that would be the appropriate response and when the government creates the enabling policies, it will then make that happen on a higher scale.  Let me give you another example about what I’m talking about: when we say that young people are not going to school, a lot of the time it is because they don’t have anybody to pay their school fess. In developed countries government collaborates with corporate institutions to make student loan available for graduate and undergraduate studies.  Many more people from the down trodden will be able to go to the university if they know that if they get a loan to go to school; your first 10 years of working can be used to pay back the loan. It is a government policy that can solve that, the church cannot create student loan for instance, the church can only give a few scholarships and how many people will be able to participate in it. We have mass problem but we are using small scale solutions, so the number of people that are excluded are too many and that is what is resulting into all these crimes and other things because many people feel excluded – so you mean I have to come to your church to get all these things; why can’t we create something at the policy level that is available to everybody and then we see massive changes happening in our country.  The church has been contributing to help the less privilege in the society; what is the motivation for this? It is an understanding of the scriptures first of all. Acts 10:38; the bible said how God anointed Jesus with the Holy Ghost and with power, he went about doing good – the doing good there in some interpretation is an art of philanthropy. When it said he went about doing good; some people thought he went about preaching; doing good is about creating solutions for people, so the church as it was configured will not fulfill our potentials if we focus only on the spirit of man without the soul and the physical well-being of man. Martin Luther King Jr., said: “Any religion that professes to be concerned about the souls of men and is not concerned about the slums that damn them, the economic conditions that strangle them and the social conditions that cripple them is a spiritually moribund religion awaiting burial.”  In James chapter 2 or so, the scripture says what is pure religion? Pure religion is to bridle your tongue but apart from that, is to visit the widows and the orphan – so this is pure religion. Religion is beyond we want to go to heaven; we want to go to heaven quite alright but how do we make the earth better and how do we be the good neighbour. Remember the story of the ‘Good Samaritan’; who is your neighbour and he said anybody that is around you is your neighbour – make sure that they are ok. So, we need to go beyond religion, just come together every Sunday, we clap and worship God and pray fire over our enemies; that would not be church anywhere.   Elevation Church appears to be doing much better than some older denominations, with wider spread. What is the secret? I won’t say it is a secret. I think it is still a matter of undertaking. If we go traditional, sometimes a lot of the routes are not responsive and progressive. It is just like I am a young parent with two daughters, they are teenagers now. I cannot bring them up the way I was brought up; because when I was growing up there was no internet; there was no social media; I didn’t live in Lagos. So if have to go traditional, I will say the my father and mother brought me up is the way I will follow. No, I have to change the methodology, I have to read more, I have to understand that they are in generation Z. I have to understand what is the psyche of generation Z. What are the issues they are dealing with, so that I can bring them up properly. So it is the same thing. The church is dealing with different generation of Nigerians. Now anybody can be taken up on social media. When some of these churches started, all these things were not existing; and the people that are leading need to come to terms that the world has changed a great deal. The responses has to be different and they have to allow some younger people, youths to be in leadership, and that’s the way. You know, not too-young-to-lead is not only for government. It is also for the churches. Youths need to participate in leadership and that how we can have more rounded leadership when we allow younger people to be a part of what God is doing.  Could you mention some of the programmes that you carry out to impact on society? We have quite a number of them. We have medical outreaches; we just had one in February. During the programme we had free medical surgeries; we carried out over 200 major surgeries and simple surgeries. The doctors are there to participate, we only lodge them and provide transport service; and they charge us. If they see a viable organisation that they can work with, they will always want to do that. We have teachers excelling to train teachers in public schools so that they can get better and teach children better. We run an academy for kids where they learn robotics, coding. They pick up these kids at affordable cost, but we get their parents to     commit to something but very highly subsidized to put those skills in the hands of young people. So I talked about graduate employability programme which seeks to bridge the gap insurance n there. We also have the project management training to give people project management skills.  We run career fairs. The last career fair that we had, we had over 1,500 people in attendance. We invited major organisations, multinationals; close to 600 people were interviews right there, that day. We bring recruiters in to come and interview the young people right there so that they can get jobs. Some of them, ordinarily, may not be able to set their feet in the offices of these people. But because they want to work with reputable organisation and they know we bridge the gap, they came. And because they know we run good employability programmes, they know that they will get good graduates so they came. They were able to interview about 400 people and 100 of them were able to jobs eventually.  How do you get funds to sustain your empowerment programmes? You see, when people see that you are trying to create things, people give. Our church members give, they give towards these initiatives. Some of them are partners with us on these initives; we have people in church who participated in time past who now have their businesses and they know that church has been a blessing to them. They take their time to give, they get their companies to support what we are doing because they have been beneficiaries also. So we don’t put people under pressure to give, they give willingly. I don’t stand on pulpit to say how many people want to give us N1million; We just announce what we want to do, give an idea of what is going to cost and we give them email addresses. And say if you want to give let us know, tell us your commitment; and we add so so number of people can partner with us to make it happen. People respond because the see what we are doing.  How would you say that your upbringing shaped what you are doing today? I will say to an extent I am not a traditional pastor. I studied Minning Engineering, I started out in oil and gas; I have a degree in law and I have an MBA. So I have a business approach. For me it’s like managing a not-for-profit rather than growing church. The spiritual aspect is there but in a Third World like Nigeria, church has to have a big philanthropic and charitable focus. So my training over the years and exposure working with people like Mr. Leke Alder, my pastor Sam Adeyemi and several others had a great influence on me. Yeah! This is the kind of focus he also trained me and preaches. So it’s church not traditional way but focus on people, not focused on pastor but rather on people.  What impact would you say these activities have had on the nation generally? It has had a lot of impact. One of the things I have noticed is that churches are beginning to take a cue from some of the things that we are doing. That is to say we motivate other churches and religious organisations even Muslims and other organisations. If that is the only impact we have made I am happy because we need to replicate the influence. This is not just about a church based thing, this is worth other organisations and religious bodies should be doing. So the impact, if you want, is actually for us to be able to say in 10-years 80% of churches in Nigeria can be very socially active with purpose of social impact and really transforming lives as much as they are propagating the tenets of their religion; religion without national development is chaos, it’s disaster, it’s not good for us.