Perturbed by the spate of insecurity ranging from kidnapping, armed robbery to other prevailing inhuman acts in the country, ex-students of the Osun State College of Technology (OSCOTECH), Esa-Oke, yesterday agitated for community policing in the form of private security experts, with the technical intelligence to effectively reduce the high rate of criminal acts in the country.  The old students who made the agitation in a press conference held at the NUJ Press Centre, Osogbo, argued that community policing is the only solution to checkmate the unwanted acts and called on the concerned authorities to act on this to allow peace reign in the country.  Speaking on the activities heralding this year 4th Bi-annual event, insecurity with the theme: ‘The Bane of Our Economic Development,’ the group’s Organising Secretary, Abdulghaniyy Adekunle kareem, stated that, “with the rising cases of insecurity and crime in the country, the time has ripped for states to have their own police even at the local government levels. Adekunle speaking under the aegis of OSCOTECH Ex-Sportsmen/ Women Association, maintained that, with the introduction of community policing, there would be economic development and stability in the country.  He said: “There is need for community policing as the activities of Police Force needs to be supplemented.” On the students of the school, he advised them to give back to their Alma Mata in order to enhance sports development so as to inspire future generations adding that, through their activities, they have been able to bring management and the students to engage one another in a cordial environment.  He stated that students should know that insecurity is a problem affecting the country and also the economic development of the nation. In his remark, the group’s Co-ordinator Administration, Adegbenga Onaneye, explained that the alumni was trying its best to improve on the welfare of the students through the school’s management. Onaneye further explained that they have made numerous contributions towards the development of their Alma Mata amongst which includes the provision of sports equipment. He said the event was postponed from 2018 to this year because of security challenges and the kidnap and killing of an academic staff of the institution last year.