Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has repeatedly tried to manage expectations as his team gets set for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, which starts on Friday. It’s a well-known tactic by coaches: play down your team’s strengths and highlight the weaknesses so that fans will accept failure and laud success as some kind of miracle. Apparently, Rohr’s cop-out is that he has a young, inexperienced team and you don’t normally expect big things from a young team. But does this ‘young team’ claim stand up to scrutiny? Should Nigerians demand much more than mere participation from these Super Eagles?
Let’s have a close look at the squad’s composition. There are three players with not just AFCON experience, but who actually won the title in 2013, the last time Nigeria featured: Mikel Obi, Kenneth Omeruo and Ahmed Musa. These three are key members of Rohr’s squad. At least 14 of the 23 players in the squad were at the FIFA World Cup just a year ago and have therefore experienced a tournament even bigger than AFCON. All the three goalkeepers, the centre-backs Leon Balogun and William Troost-Ekong, as well as midfielders Oghenekaro Etebo, Wilfred Ndidi and John Ogu were in Russia in 2018. Forwards Alex Iwobi and Odion Ighalo were also at the World Cup. Add these players to Mikel, Musa and Omeruo and you can see clearly that the core of the squad have been to at least one major tournament. Rohr could have a starting XI of players with AFCON and/or World Cup experience. Not many coaches in Egypt will have that. Even some of those without big international tournament experience have played in huge games and competitions with their clubs. Henry Onyekuru has played in the UEFA Champions League, undoubtedly the highest-profile club competition in the world, while Samuel Chukwueze had a fine season in LaLiga, one of the world’s top leagues where the youngster was unfazed against giants Barcelona and Real Madrid. Contrast this with the late Stephen Keshi’s squad that did not have this much tournament experience but went on to win the AFCON title in South Africa in 2013. Keshi had 17 players who were featuring in their first AFCON, several of them from the Nigerian league. Herr Rohr has a very solid squad with a balanced mix of youth plus experience, toughness at the back, composure in midfield and bags of pace and power in attack. Rohr has also had an almost ideal preparation. He had all his players report to camp early in Asaba and they have played two friendlies against fellow AFCON sides. They were also one of the first teams to reach Egypt, giving them ample time to acclimatize before their first game this Saturday against Burundi. It’s left for the German to get the best out of this squad in Egypt; it’s worrying that a squad with so many forwards have struggled for goals in their recent games. They were held to a goalless result in Asaba and lost 1-0 to Senegal on Sunday in another friendly in Ismailia. Hopefully, what happened in Ghana in 2008 will not be repeated. Then, the running joke among Ghanaians when they saw us Nigerians was “you have nine strikers but no goals” as Berti Vogts’ team struggled. Rohr has to quickly work out his best attacking combination and settle on a formation that suits the players he has. He has often played 4-3-3 with Ighalo as the arrowhead but reports from the behind-closed-doors friendly defeat to Senegal suggested the Eagles played a 3-5-2 formation. The advantage Rohr has is that the Eagles are in a relatively easy group and he can use Madagascar and Burundi to play around a bit with some tactical tweaks. After the group phase, the other big guns are waiting and mistakes will be brutally punished.
Of course the Eagles are not expected to stroll to the title in Egypt but they are favourites along with the hosts, Senegal, Morocco and Cote d’Ivoire. You cannot also rule out defending champions Cameroon and Ghana. But the Super Eagles would be considered to have failed if they cannot reach at least the semi-finals. That should be the barest minimum although Rohr seems to be happy just taking his team there for their participation medals. When I asked during an interview session in Lagos last November if the Nigeria Football Federation had set him any AFCON targets, Rohr replied: “You know our president (Amaju Pinnick), he already believed that we could win the World Cup, so he will say the same thing, ‘we go to win the AFCON’. “But the mission was first to be qualified for the World Cup and for the AFCON and do the best, so there’s no special target written in my contract or something. But I know that my officials are waiting for a very good AFCON.” In other words: he has no specific target. And we all know ‘a very good AFCON’ could be anything. It all depends on how the story is told.