The Emir of Muri, Alhaji Abbas Tafida, yesterday condemned the continued killings in Taraba and called on residents to show utmost restraint and give the government the peace it needs to build a future for them.
The Emir, who spoke to journalists in his palace in Jalingo, also called on the people of Ardo-Kola and Jalingo to shun all forms of hate speeche and build bridges of love and live in peace.
“We have elected Governor Darius Ishaku and have re-elected him again, so we should shun all vices, cooperate and support him to work for us.
“The minimum support we can give him is peace and should make sure we all avoid any act or action that will lead to the breakdown of law and order,” he explained.
While commending security agencies in the state for acting swiftly and professionally in handling the recent conflict in Jalingo and Atdo-Kola Council Areas, Tafida thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for directing an end to the killings.
He said: “I will out of my modest experiences as a leader inform Mr. President, the Governor of Taraba State and all our people that if we have to wait for security agencies to stop us from killing each other, it is already a disaster because security agencies will have to start by killing us also.
“The tribes of Jukun-Kona, Fulani and all other tribes in Jalingo and Ardo-Kola Local Government Areas and indeed Muri Emirate have been together for the last 300 years.
“If we were killing each other there would not have been any of us left,” the monarch stressed.
To stop the killings, he said the government and all major stakeholders must identify and eliminate the facts that lead to easy breakdown of law and order.
Tafida identified mental blindness, which he said had led to the production of a population of young men and women who were driven into poverty and destitution by lack of any production skill and low moral standing. “We are supposed to be training our children into knowledge-driven wealth creation, but because of corruption, we are pushing them into poverty by ignorance. “Religion that is supposed to produce people of high moral standing had been hijacked by criminals to the forum of private jet-owning preachers and agents of politicians for the sake of making money while their followers resort to kidnapping because of absence of morality. “We must invest in correct education, honesty and established proper rule of law and educate our people to be able to measure the consequences of their actions. “The followers must be able to demand honesty from those leading them. “When we restore justice, people’s trust in leadership, it is then we can stop killing each other,” the Emir said.