Stakeholders condemn SEC actions against firm  SANCTIONS
SEC, last Friday, directed among others, the resignation of the affected board members, and also barred the GCEO and DGCEO  Stock price of Oando Plc. has recorded a 18.28 per cent drop in value in the last two trading session, costing shareholders of the company about N10.567 billion of their wealth following the ongoing crisis rocking the company. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had last Friday released its investigation on the allegation of corporate governance breaches. Investigation by New Telegraph also showed that Oando – the only company listed on Integrated Oil and Gas Services of Oil and Gas Sub sector – closed last Monday at N3.80 per share at N47.239 billion in market capitalisation as against the opening share price of N4.65 per share at N57.809 billion last Thursday before SEC released its decision on the company. This depicts a loss of N10.567 billion or 18.28 per cent. This is just as some stakeholders has condemned SEC action. Speaking on behalf of the Sokoto Shareholders, Alhaji Kabiru Tambari, said: “We are not happy at all with what has happened. Wale Tinubu and his management team have suffered, they have put their resources, energy, and time to keep this company moving forward and now the SEC wants to take it away from not just them but us the shareholders as well. “When the company was making losses the SEC didn’t bring up all these infractions and sanctions, but now the company is doing well, and has returned to profit and they’ve come with such drastic actions. This will foil the company’s attempt to pay us dividend at the end of the year. “It is clear that the SEC wants to kill the company. How else do you explain an action such as this that defies logic? We the shareholders, who the SEC are meant to be protecting are not satisfied with the way this has been handled.” Following conclusion of investigation, SEC last Friday directed among others, the resignation of the affected Board members, and also barred the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO), Mr. Adewale Tinubu and the Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer (DGCEO) Mr. Omamofe Boyo from being directors of public companies for a period of five years. The SEC also directed the convening of an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting on or before July 1, 2019, to appoint new directors. These among others, the SEC stated, are part of measures to address identified violations in the company. Consequently, SEC on Sunday appointed Mr. Mutiu Olaniyi Adio Sunmonu as head of Interim Management for Oando Plc following the ban of the ban of Mr. Tinubu and Mr. Boyo from being directors of public companies for a period of five years. In a statement made available to newsmen, SEC said: “Further to our press release on Oando Plc, dated May 31, 2019, the Commission hereby informs the public of the constitution of an Interim Management Team headed by Mr. Mutiu Olaniyi Adio Sunmonu, to oversee the affairs of Oando Plc, and conduct an Extra Ordinary General Meeting on or before July 1, 2019 to appoint new Directors to the Board of the company, who would subsequently select a management team for Oando Plc. The Commission wishes to reiterate its commitment to maintaining the integrity of the market.” Reacting to the development, Oando in a statement noted that it is of the view that the alleged infractions and penalties are unsubstantiated, ultra vires, invalid and calculated to prejudice the business of the Company. The statement signed by Ayotola Jagun, the Company Secretary said: “The company has not been given the opportunity to see, review and respond to the forensic audit report and so is unable to ascertain what findings (if any) were made in relation to the alleged infractions and defend itself accordingly before the SEC. “The Company reserves its rights to take all legal steps to protect its business and assets whilst remaining committed to act in the best interests of all its shareholders”. However, Justice Mojisola Olatoregun of a Federal High Court on Monday in Lagos has restrained the SEC from enforcing any sanction against Tinubu and Mr. Boyo, over alleged infractions. This was sequel to the granting of an ex-parte motion filed by the duo through their lawyer, Mr. Tayo Oyetibo (SAN), in which they were seeking to enforce their fundamental rights.