Barring any last minute changes, the anointed candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila will, today, emerge as the speaker of the 9th House of Representatives.
The erstwhile house leader may square up against the immediate past chairman of the House Committee on Marine Transport, Hon. Umar Mohammed Bago from Niger State, who has refused to step down.
Gbajabiamila, who lost to immediate past speaker, Yakubu Dogara, in 2015, has received more endorsements from individuals and groups never witnessed in the history of contest for speaker since 1999.
As at yesterday’s night, Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, Hon. Aliyu Betara, Hon. Abdulrazaq Namdas, Hon. Olajide Olatunbosun and Hon. Segun Odebunmi, had all withdrawn from the race in support of Gbajabiamila.
Director General of the Gbajabiamila Campaign Organisation, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, confirmed that only Bago was still reluctant to step down for the APC’s preferred candidate.
He, however, expressed optimism that Gbajabiamila has the numbers to coast to victory.
Jibrin also disclosed that with the endorsement of Gbajabiamila by the South-East caucus in the House, the Lagos lawmaker was set to emerge as speaker of the new assembly.
“We have gotten the endorsement of the South-East, which is the home of the opposition PDP, meaning, we are home and dry because we already have overwhelming majority of votes from the APC.
New Telegraph investigations also revealed that Gbajabiamila may be the speaker as most of the members-elect spoken to at the venue of their accreditation yesterday gave tacit approval to his candidature.
But Gbajabiamila’s main challenger, Bago, has said he is the candidate to beat because “he has no baggage” against him.
A statement signed by Bago’s media director, Hon. Afam Ogene, explained that Bago’s campaign is anchored on a just demand for equity, justice and fairness.
Meanwhile, while Gbajabiamila’s fate looks certain, but that of his adopted deputy speaker, Hon. Idris Wase, is still hanging in the balance as some forces within both the APC and PDP caucuses in the House are insisting that there must be a religious balance in the composition of presiding officers in the lower chamber.
New Telegraph reliably gathered that there is pressure on Wase to withdraw from the race to pave way for Hon. John Dyegh, the only ranking APC Christian member from the North-Central to take the slot of deputy speaker.
“Nigeria is a secular country and we don’t want people to believe the narrative that there is an agenda to Islamise the country. We have convinced Dyegh to withdraw from the speakership race and contest for deputy. This is for harmony and religious balance,” a top member of the Gbajabiamila group disclosed.