…as anti-stigma law sets to reverse deadly trend Results released from the Nigerian National HIV/AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey (NAIIS) on March 14, 2019 indicated a national HIV prevalence of 1.4 per cent among adults aged 15 to 49 years. Previous estimates had indicated a national HIV prevalence of 2.8 per cent. Both however indicate reduction in infections. But stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV is not reducing, which is a hinderance on the progress in the fight so far. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports   I have been a squatter right from onset. I was living with my friend then when I was diagnosed with HIV at 17 and it was not a secrete in my family, among friends and peers as well as within my neighbourhood around Ayilara in Suru-Lere, Lagos. Thereafter, anywhere I went to, people there will say that the HIV I was burdened with was an ‘evil arrow’. Based on that attitude, the people would promptly reject me and these reactions made me go to different churches, where I sought succour from various congregations some of which actually reached out to me.
These were the lamentations of Adeola Ajetunmobi, now 22 years, a female HIV advocate now openly living with HIV. Before I was diagnosed, “I used to have persistent cough and boil. Whenever my body just itched me, before you knew it, I would have pain and very big spots all over my body, from my head to my toe, my breasts, private parts, everywhere. I was so lean, people used to call me ‘oku,’ the Yoruba word for a moving copse. Both my physique and state of general health was that bad.
“Looking at my skin then, it looked like a screw-driver was used to pierce my body, which regularly emitted pus and blood. Before then, I was advised to go for HIV test, which turned out negative. When a subsequent HIV test conducted for me was positive, I thought probably, the first test was done during the HIV window period.
“From 2011, I started growing slim, I was skinny, and then if I should sit with you, you will not want to seat with me. Flies was swarming around me everywhere I went because whenever I scratched my skin blood and pus were emitted.”
Notwithstanding that she was the first born of her family, her siblings and other relations chased her out of the one-room, which her mother and siblings inherited from their father in an extended family home setting located in Surulere.
The story of Ajetunmobi captures the plight or the ordeal that majority of PLWH face in the hands of fellow countrymen, not only in Nigeria, but in several African countries. Relating her bitter experience in the hands of her siblings, relations and other neighbours, she lamented that at some point, she had considered ‘ending’ the anguish by taking her life because, according to her, the HIV status was not the issue as the use of medications – the ante-retroviral therapy (ART) boosted her health again. Her major challenge was the stigma and discrimination, perpetuated against her by close relations, friends and neighbours.
She said: “HIV does not kill; taking the recommended drugs has suppressed the opportunistic infections – the rashes, persistent sours, open wounds, coughs, among others that used to fester on me. What is killing me today is the stigma and discrimination that I face in the hands of fellow Nigerians.”
The lamentations of Ajetunmobi has once again brought to the fore what millions of people living with HIV (PLWH) in this country have been going through since the emergence of this medical condition.
UNAIDS and the National Agency for the Control of AIDS estimate that there are 1.9 million people living with HIV in Nigeria.
Results released from the Nigeria National HIV/AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey (NAIIS) on March 14, 2019 indicated a national HIV prevalence in Nigeria of 1.4 per cent among adults aged 15 to 49 years. Previous estimates had indicated a national HIV prevalence of 2.8 per cent.
The survey provided a clearer understanding of Nigeria’s HIV epidemic and shines a light on progress and the remaining gaps and challenges, which includes the stigma and discrimination the 1.9 million people living with HIV in Nigeria face. The difference in HIV prevalence between women and men is greatest among younger adults, with young women aged 20 to 24 years more than three times as likely to be living with HIV as young men in the same age group.
Among children aged 0 to 14years, HIV prevalence according to the new data is 0.2 per cent.
Quoting President Muhammadu Buhari during the launch of the NAIIS, a report stated, “For the first time, the end of AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 is truly in sight for our country,” but medical experts, civil society organisations (CSOs), donor agencies, among others believe that without addressing stigma and discrimination squarely, it would set back the gains so far recorded in the fight to eliminate HIV.
Although, the HIV And AIDS (Anti-Discrimination Act) was passed into law in Nigeria in 2014, its impact, in terms of positive behaviour change among majority of Nigerians towards PLWH, is still very low.
Despite having been passed into law for almost five years, Ajetunmobi said through her advocacy works, she knew that the law was in place, she was not aware of any of its violatorss that has been brought to justice.
It is however known that discrimination against PLWH has driven many HIV/AIDS survivors underground where they hide their status, living unhealthy lives including practicing unsafe sex while spreading the virus.
Even recently, during a recent training on “New trend in HIV/AIDS,” held in Lagos early June, stakeholders said for Nigeria to achieve the global target to eliminate HIV/AIDS in the target year 2030, it must do everything to prevent new HIV infections.
According to the stakeholders, total adherence to the provisions of the HIV And AIDS (Anti-Discrimination Act) and working towards achieving solutions proffered in the NAIIS, would go a long way to end HIV/AIDS disease in the country and aid the achievement of the 2030 elimination target.
It is noteworthy to state that while the Federal Government in partnership with states and local governments has put the law in place, individuals, families, communities, civil societies, private organisations, among others have roles and responsibilities to end stigma and discrimination against PLWH so as to engender positive living among these Nigerians. Sadly, five years down the line, many people affected by HIV were yet to feel the impact of the law, the governments expected rapid implementation of the law on ground. Speaking further last week about her current ordeal almost five years after the passage of the Anti-Discrimination law, Ajetunmobi who is the Secretary, Association of Positive Youths in Nigeria (APYN), said up till last week, her siblings were neither keen to assist her nor to have any form of contact with her, based on their negative attitude towards HIV.
Recounting the ordeal leading to her falling victim to rape years back during her teenage years, Ajetunmobi said on that fateful day, it had rained cat and dogs, resulting in her shivering, occasioned by extreme cold from exposure to the heavy down pour. On several occasions that she sought refuge in that single room, her younger sister would resist her presence, insisting that the PLWH wouldn’t be accommodated based on her HIV positive status, to prevent her from infecting her siblings. This denial prompted her to sleep in the passage of her family’s home for several months.
Her appeal to one of the male tenants who resided in the same house in a one-room apartment, to allow her sleep in his room on the rainy night, as a measure to protect herself from the cold, got an approval by the tenant who ended up raping her as she slept in the man’s room. That singular unprotected sexual intercourse resulted in pregnancy, the product of which is today a five-year baby girl.
According to Ajetunmobi, who is also a member of the Association of Positive Youths in Nigeria (APYN), although, the rapist never claimed responsibility for that pregnancy nor the baby, he subsequently quit the one-room apartment in that family house.
However, she told the New Telegraph that today, she is a single mother to the five-year-old baby who lives with her grandmother.
The experience of Ajetunmobi is not new. It is the lifestyle that PLWH in the country faced and have continued to experience in Nigeria.
Stigma is the disapproval of, or discrimination against, a person based on perceivable social characteristics that serve to distinguish them from other members of the society. Social stigmas are commonly related to culture, gender, race, intelligence and health. In the case of HIV, many Nigerians who react to PLWH this way based on their believe that interactions and contacts with HIV persons will make them susceptible to contracting HIV.
Ajetunmobi is not the only person that has suffered variously in the hands of her siblings over HIV. In the case of another PLWH, Madam Theresa Cooker (not real name), she had lost several friends occasioned by her HIV positive status.
In the latest of such discrimination, she said that her very close friend of almost 20 years, walked out on her, abruptly ending the 20-year-relationship, based-on suspicion that “I am a HIV positive person.”
To say that Ms Cooker was not pained by the reaction of her friend would be an understatement. The truth, according to her is that every member of her family, beginning from her mother, to her siblings believed that she could infect anyone living close to her with the HIV virus and based on this, they demonstrate open hatred towards her.
According to her, for instance, she sincerely regretted informing her mother about her HIV positive status because her mother was in the forefront, informing other family members to avoid contact with her so as to protect themselves from contracting the HIV.
Speaking on future plan, Ajetunmobi said she planned to return to school. On my secondary ambition, “I intend to set up a business once I get the necessary financial support.”
While lambasting insensitive Nigerians who discriminate against their fellows on the basis of their HIV status, she advised PLWH to avoid self stigma. She said, “Stop self-denial. HIV doesn’t kill. You can still be who you want to be on earth in spite of your HIV positive status.”
On her part, Cooker advised every one to step out and know their HIV status. According to her, “Being HIV positive is not the end of the world.
On the contrary, she urged everyone that is HIV positive to take their ART as prescribed.
Furthermore, she urged people discriminating against PLWH to end such insensitive acts. However, Ms Cooker appealed to public spirited Nigerians to assist her start a catering business while lamenting that presently, she has no job, nor business to make a living from.