Kidnappers yesterday released Mr. Dayo Adewole, the son of the immediate past Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole.
Dayo’s freedom came barely 24 hours after he was kidnapped at his farm at Iroko village near Fiditi in Afijio Local Government Area of Oyo State.
An aide of the former minister confirmed that Dayo was released yesterday evening.
“The minister’s son regained freedom just this evening and he is with his family in Ibadan. Details are still sketchy but we will issue a press release soon,” the aide said.
The kidnappers, who invaded the farm about 6.30p.m. on Tuesday, reportedly wore facial masks to hide their identities and took Dayo away.
One of Dayo’s workers then raised the alarm which alerted the villagers who quickly sent local hunters after the kidnappers. The hunters found the car used by the kidnappers but neither Dayo nor any of the abductors were found.
But the police yesterday that they had arrested three suspects in connection with Dayo’s abduction.
The Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone 11 comprising Oyo, Osun and Ondo states, Leye Oyebade, who briefed journalists yesterday, said three persons had been arrested.
The suspects were the victim’s driver employed a few days ago, Gbenga Ogunleye, the farm manager, Sodiq Adebayo, and another worker on the farm.
Oyebade and the state Commissioner of Police, Shina Olukolu, visited the farm and the point where the victim’s car was abandoned near Aba Ode Junction near Amosun village.
Oyebade said the police had launched a manhunt for the kidnappers
He said: “Actually, this incident is very unfortunate because it is coming after we have been able to map out a lot of strategies to address the challenge we are facing by these undesirable elements.
“From our inspection of the scene, interaction and interrogation of the workers, and those that were present at the scene, we can say that the modus is changing, the tactic is changing, and their way of operating is changing.
“Since they now know that we have been able to cover the roads, they are now coming to isolated areas, looking for targets that can be approached, having monitored them.
“With what we gathered here, the suspects covered their faces and the story that is being given, we are not ruling out the involvement of those that are very close, in this particular situation. But whatever it is, we are going to unmask those that are behind this, and that is the assurance I am giving to members of the public,” he said.