The traditional ruler of Ohom Unadu community in Igbo-Eze South Local Government  Area of Enugu State, Igwe Collins Uwakwe has raised the alarm over what he called rising cases of killings, kidnapping and other violent crimes in his domain. The traditional ruler has consequently drawn the attention of the Enugu State Commissioner of police, Mr Suleiman Balaraba to the menace through a petition, which he copied to Government House Enugu, DSS and Civil Defence. The traditional ruler, in the petition made available to journalists in Enugu on Monday, called on police to save members of the community from activities of hoodlums and cultists that have taken over the community. “The gruesome murder of Prince Nnabuike Eze one of the sons of late traditional ruler Ohom Unadu on the night of 2nd June 2019 is a case in point, a horror that sent cold fears down the spins of the indigenes; a dastardly act that had received wide condemnation. “The community is now a rallying point for cultists, presently they are maiming, killing and intimidating innocent people within the Ohom Unadu community and the surrounding communities. “Indigenes of Ohom Unadu cannot move freely or express their opinions in town and family meetings for the fear of attracting the wrath of the cultists. “These hoodlums and cultist are under the influence of hard dangerous drugs that at the slightest provocation they will attack, maim or kill their victim and also destroyed properties,” he said. The petition noted that in the night of the 2nd day of June 2019, the alleged cultists; (names withheld) allegedly murdered prince Nnabuike Eze in cold blood in the said community. “One of the suspects has been arrested by police while others are still at large. “The police commissioner should use his good offices to investigate the murder as well as ensure that those who sell and smoke Indian hemp are arrested in order to restore sanity in the community. “It’s unfortunate that taking of hard drugs in the community is now the order of the day and as if it’s no longer unlawful,” Igwe said. Speaking on the issue,  Prince Ekene Eze the senior brother to late Prince Nnabuike Eze confirmed the killing of his younger brother by suspected cultists. He described the killing of his brother in cold blood as painful, stressing that his heart had been bleeding in a manner his innocent brother was murdered. “I still can’t believe that my brother is dead,” he said. Eze urged the police to intensify efforts to arrest the remaining three suspects at large so that they would be prosecuted. “The insecurity in Unadu community is alarming because of the activities of some youths who drink hard drugs like water. “Police should ensure that killers of my brothers are brought to book to serve as a deterrent to other hoodlums in Ohom Unadu community,” he said.