The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday re-arraigned an American, Marco Antonio Ramirez, before an Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos for allegedly defrauding some Nigerians in the tune of $565, 000 under the pretence of securing America’s Green Card. Ramirez was re-arraigned before Justice Mojisola Dada on an amended 12 counts charge bordering on conspiracy and obtaining under false pretence. The American was arraigned alongside his companies, USA Now LLC, Eagle Ford Instalodge Group LP and USA Now Capital Group. The defendants were first arraigned sometimes in June 22, 2017, before Justice Josephine Oyefeso of the same Ikeja Division, on a 16 counts charge of the offences and pleaded not guilty to the alleged crimes. Following his not guilty plea, Justice Oyefeso admitted him to bail in the sum of $25, 000 USD. Meanwhile, the EFCC alleged in a charge marked ID/2763c/2016, that the American and his companies sometimes in February 2013 and August 2013 in Lagos, defrauded three Nigerians of the said sum. Those allegedly defrauded by the American and his companies are:  Ambassador Godson Echejue, Abubakar Umar Sodiq and Olukayode Sodimu. However, midway to the defendant’s trial, his case file was transferred to Justice Dada, and was consequently re-arraigned yesterday. During yesterday’s proceedings, after the defendant’s plea was taken, the prosecuting Counsel, N. S. Oweize, asked the court for a trial date. But the Defence Counsel, Ademola Adefolaju, not opposing to the request for a trial date, pleaded with the court to allow his client continue with the bail terms earlier granted him by the previous judge. When asked by the judge, if the defendant has full complied with the bail term, Adefolaju confirmed that his client had fully complied and has been visiting EFCC’s office as directed by the Court. Justice Dada thereafter said, “having not been show any breaching of the bail terms granted by my brother Judge, the defendant is hereby allow to continue with the terms”. The matter was further adjourned till October 7, 8, 9 and 10 for the trial. An Ikeja High Court, Lagos yesterday declined to vary bail conditions initiated by an American national, Marco Antonio Ramirez, who allegedly swindled three Nigerians of $565, 000 on visa racketeering. Ramirez, who was remanded in prison for the alleged offence, approached the court for variation of his bail conditions. Ramirez… In "News" Justice Josephine Oyefeso of an Ikeja High Court, Lagos, yesterday admitted to bail an American, Marco Antonio Ramirez, who has been detained in Kirikiri Prison for allegedly defrauding three Nigerians of $565,000. The accused, being prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), was granted bail in the… In "Metro and Crime" Police have arrested a 50-year-old Italian, Blessing Fernando, for abducting an victim in Delta State. This came as Justice Josephine Oyefeso of an Ikeja High Court, Lagos, yesterday remanded an American, Marco Antonio Ramirez, in Kirikiri Prison for allegedly defrauding three Nigerians of $565,000. Fernando was arrested at Ogbe-Isoko community… In "Metro and Crime"