A 21-year-old man, Mr Efoghae Friday, has confessed to stealing underwear belonging to a grandma in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, for payment of N2,000.
The grandma, Modupe Adekoya, who expressed shock over the incident, disclosed that Friday was known to her and used to assist her with domestic chores.
It was learnt that policemen attached to Irewolede Police Station arrested Friday on Tuesday afternoon after a report was made by a relative of the old woman.
The suspect and three others, arrested in connection with the theft, were later transferred to the New Iyin Police Station on Bank Road, Ado-Ekiti.
According to police, the suspect has allegedly confessed to committing the crime. He also confessed to have stolen the old woman pants, on the line, where they were spread to dry.
Adekoya said: “I know Friday very well. He used to assist me with domestic chores. To appreciate him, I give him food. I never thought he could do this. I washed my panties and spread two of out on the line dry; this was about 3a.m. on June 10. The line was at the corridor of my house. But when I went to remove them the next morning, I found out that one was missing. I then raised the alarm. After a series of investigations, a relative, who suspected Friday, called him. He was urged to confess. They also told him that nobody would get angry with him. He eventually confessed to stealing the underwear. We then invited the police. When he was arrested, he took the police to the house of three boys. He claimed that one of the boys asked him to fetch female underwear and that he would pay him N2,000.”
The woman’s family are demanding that police should investigate the matter thoroughly and ensured that Friday and others were charged to court. They also want their granny stolen underwear to be returned.
Adekoya’s lawyer, Layi Obisesan, said: “We want the police to charge the case to court since Friday has made confessional statements. He even gave the colour of the underwear he stole, which was identified as Madam Adekoya’s. He also gave the location from where he stole it. He said he was asked to bring the underwear by one Enyinma, living around Irewolede area of Basiri in Ado-Ekiti.”