The struggle for who occupies the ministerial slot for Imo State took a new turn yesterday with some APC support groups in the state petitioning President Muhammadu Buhari, asking him not to consider the duo of former Imo Deputy Governor, Eze Madumere and former Senator representing Imo West, in the National Assembly, Hope Uzodinma, for ministerial slot. The petitioners described the duo as ‘ineligible to serve as ministers in the Next Level cabinet of the President.’In separate letters to the President, which were made available to our correspondent, the groups, Imo Patriots’ Front and Concerned Imo APC Stakeholders, alleged among others that the duo of Uzodimma and Madumere, were not inclined to the Next Level manifesto of the President, and therefore, would be wrong choices to represent Imo at the Federal Executive Council (FEC). In an open letter to Buhari, the Imo Concerned APC Stakeholders advised him to demand the polling booth, ward and LGA results of those angling to be appointed ministers. The group argued that a minister needs to be politically strong and trustworthy among his people, in order to; apart from helping to actualise the president’s vision in his second term, also help in rebuilding the party in the state, considering the poor showing of the party in the last elections. The group also accused some people it described as ‘party hijackers’ of being responsible for the party’s poor showing in the last elections, especially, the Presidential and National Assembly elections, where the APC only won two House of Representatives seats and one Senate seat. The group gave credit to the leadership of the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Rochas Okorocha, for helping to sustain the party in the state. The Imo Patriots’ Front, who wrote specifically against the nomination of Madumere, alleged among other things that he is politically weak and could not win his polling booth in all the elections of 2019. They also attached a United States of America document, purporting that the former deputy governor may have served time in the United States. Another group also adduced 10 reasons why former Senator Hope Uzodimma is not eligible to serve in the Next Level cabinet. The group accused Uzodimma of being behind the poor showing of the party in the state, and also of not having been able to clear his name of several allegations bordering on graft. They argued that the Buhari would be rewarding indolence and corruption, by appointing Uzodinma as minister.