His Excellency Humphrey Desmond Geiseb is the High Commissioner of Namibia to Nigeria, Cameroon and Ambassador to Chad and Permanent Representative to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). During his visit to the Corporate Headquarters of New Telegraph Newspapers in Lagos, he spoke with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE on the relationship between Namibia and Nigeria, his country’s forthcoming general elections and sundry issues  Why are you in Nigeria?  I am coming to Nigeria after 25 years in the Namibia Foreign Service. I joined the ministry in 1994 and I have served in various places. I spent eight years in Addis Ababa, working on our common destiny, the Africa we want in 50 years’ time. And then went to the ministry, went to China and I was told to come here and represent Namibia in Africa’s giant. So, I am here.  The language I speak in Namibia is called Namlish. Initially, it was sort of derogatory name because there is the proper English people speak. But today, we have adopted it as our official language. We sometimes refer to the English spoken in Namibia as Namlish. Some think it is heavily accented but I tell them this is Africa. It is a continent where we have tribes in ethnic groups and communities and we should be proud of people speaking in different languages even in a country like Nigeria, with a lot of tolerance with their interaction with foreigners  So, we are happy for many reasons. We are happy that this giant of Africa has been there for us when the people of Namibia faced dark powers, dark days of colonialism, and oppression. When people fought for basic freedom – freedom of religion, freedom of association, basic fundamental human rights. And in that process came what you may say today is journey of four hours and 30 minutes by plane from Namibia to Nigeria to seek the help of those generations before you in explaining the situation of Namibia. Namibia is a colony that people there are living in difficult situations because of the colonial powers that colonised the country and occupy the territory of Namibia.  So, your (Nigerians) past leaders, heroes and generations supported us and they stood with us and they said Nigeria considered itself as a frontline state. Frontline states then were neighbouring countries like Angola, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Botswana which fought against apartheid and colonialism. But Nigeria took a conscience decision to be associated like a frontline state. They accompanied the people of Namibia to help them achieve their independence.  So, we are very happy that Nigeria took that decision. It is out of choice as an African country but also a giant in being visionary and being far ahead each time to support the course of freedom and today Namibia is free; something that President Muhammadu Buhari acknowledged last week. The struggle for liberation in Southern African would have been much different with countries like Angola, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia and even South Africa. So, that is the context in which we see ourselves as a great friend of this giant of Africa; a country that has done many things for Africa and continues to still make a lot of sacrifices for this continent.  What are those things you think Namibia can benefit from in its relationship with Nigeria?  In 30 years’ time, there will be half billion Nigerians. So, in 30 years’ time we will have half billion Nigerians to play active roles in the future of the African continent. So, that is why we are here. We think the time to belong in staying in Nigeria is not 30 years from now; the time is now. It is not to wait until a market of half a billion is there to come and be part of that market.  So for us, we have been with Nigeria yesterday, today and very much part of Nigeria’s future no matter the realities that may prevail in these countries. So that is the ambition that we have to see Nigeria as an integral part of this great continent that when we move ahead and when we plan ahead and when we dream collectively, we need to be cautious that there is a giant of Africa and in 30 years’ time, 60 years’ time the role that Nigeria that plays cannot really be supplanted by somebody else because you will need a  country with half billion of citizens to replace the role of Nigeria.  So, ideologically, we are very much cautious of the place and the role that Nigeria can and will play in the future of this continent. We are happy and we think that Nigeria is on a good path. What was said last week by President Buhari to dream of lifting up 100million Nigerians by the next 10 years is something that we also support and then we can emulate. Because if Nigeria lift’s 100 million people out of poverty, a country worth maybe fewer millions will not have excuses for not having the same achievement. If Nigeria with all the challenges and its big population can do it in 10 years’ time, we will also do active work to lift large number of people out of poverty. In Namibia’s case, we want to achieve poverty eradication by 2025. The leaders have made it a decision among themselves to ensure that there is no absolute poverty by 2025.  What are you doing to achieve the task?  We have put in place a food bank and people who may not afford to buy food get assistance and they get donation of food to enable them to have a meal. But on the other end, the quickest way of lifting people out of poverty is education. And in the case of Namibia, the Constitution of Namibia says that there would be free, compulsory education for all its children.  The provision was drafted in 1989 and adopted in 1990 but it never been implemented for 20 years. And somebody took the Oxford Dictionary and tries to define the word ‘free’. What does the word ‘free’ mean? That free means, children should still go to school and pay development fund or admission fees. But the people said no, that is not the meaning of the word ‘free’. Just go and read it in the dictionary. The word means absolutely no expenses. So, today Namibia offers free education. You don’t pay anything. Just go to school, no admission fees. In term of health, we also enjoy free health. Although you pay a basic admission fee but you don’t pay for operations in state hospitals – they are free. When you are 60, you are also entitled to receiving close to $100 pension. So, we have free education, free health and free pension. We also have a free media.  Namibia is number one in term of press freedom in this continent. Last year, we were briefly replaced by Ghana but this year we did some innovations and we are again number one. If you look at other things, Namibia is also number one in terms of road infrastructure in this continent.  Over the past four years, the government of Namibia has tarred roads of over 800 kilometres. Also there is a side effect to the quality road when you look at the trend you see now. The number one causes of deaths in Namibia are road accidents. For many years, it was HIV but we made a lot of effort to fight it and we have been able to reduce the infection rate. But cars and driving still remain a big source of concern. So, if there is something that we can learn from Nigeria as to how to reduce road accidents, we will emulate it. We will be willing to learn from Nigeria as to how you deal with accidents and the best practices that we can look at to borrow from this giant of Africa.  How did Namibia address the issue of gender balance?   In Namibia, the ruling party, SWAPO, took a decision in 2005 to increase the representation of woman in our decision-making structure. And the decision that was adopted was to ensure equal number of men and woman in leadership position – 50:50. As you know there is an animal called Zebra, and it has white and black stripes. So, that is essentially what we did, we adopted a ‘Zebra policy’. For every male leader, we also have a female leader. If the president of the party is a male, his deputy will naturally be a female. If the Secretary-General is a woman, which is the case we have now, the deputy must be a male.  So, that is what the party decided in 2005 but it took 10 years before it was finally implemented. Of course, a lot of men went home and many others lost their positions. So, in Namibia, we have made a lot of progress in terms of women empowerment because of the policy of the ruling party. This policy has had a ripple effect so much so that other parties also adopted it. When they elect leaders, let’s say for instance in the Central Committee, you will have 40 male, 40 females in the committee of the party. Of course, in Parliament, because members go from the party there, the policy has therefore increased the number of female parliamentarians. it is not something we are exporting. We are not exporting our model because we are too small to export our ideology anywhere. But we can only tell our story of what happened in Namibia because we came to Nigeria with stories. We came in the 1970s, we told the story of colonialism. We were being occupied by foreign powers and we needed help to get our freedom and independence. But today we tell the story that in Namibia, we are making progress and one of the ways we achieved this was from looking at the     Zebra and adopting its colour pattern for electing leaders in the party and in Parliament. So, this is something that works for Namibia; it may work differently in other countries. But if people were looking at options; if Nigeria is looking from where they can take options, it is something that you can look at. In Namibia it works; it works for one party and other party adopted it and now it is becoming more popular. It is not only the policy of the ruling party. But even in the state when they appoint board of directors, they are more sensitive to having a board of directors where you will have an equal number of men and women in the board.  We have a lot of good policies but I have mentioned just two. It took 20 years to implement free education. For women and gender empowerment and equality, the decision was taken in 2005 but only implemented in 2015. This year, we have elections and soon people will go through the process of electing candidates. Again, you will get one list for females and one for males and whatever happens they will merge the list together and at the end of the day, you will have an equal number of males and females in the Parliament. This is how Namibia brought about significant changes in terms of woman empowerment. Of course, we have a Ministry for Women Empowerment.  We also champion at the global level something we call ‘Resolution 2025’ on Women, Peace and Security, which is a resolution of United Nations Security Council, which talks about the role of women in issues of peace, security, conflict prevention, conflict keeping and so on. And this year, Namibia also held a conference on women, peace and security.  What are some of the significant progresses and challenges facing Namibia?  We are a small country; maybe in terms of population. Our landmass is almost the same; just a little bit smaller than Nigeria. But we think our ideas are never small. We always feel that we should project our ideas and in recognition of what others have done for us. We see issues not just like seeing issues but also on the receiving ends of ideas but we should also give ideas and that is where our population might be small but our ideas might not be small.  When people talk about the country, I always tell people we have made a lot of progress in terms of women empowerment. We have free education, free health, free pension and free press. We don’t have political prisoners because for various ideas people went to war and took up arms to fight for our basic freedom. People paid with their lives for their fundamental freedoms. Freedom of expression is guaranted in Namibia. Although we don’t have political prisoners that doesn’t not mean we don’t have prisoners at all. Of course we do but only for other issues. When people talk and we have to talk about free education, free health, free pension, free press, gender equality, they think we are painting picture of paradise. Namibia is not a paradise. We know it; we ourselves know it.  We have a lot of incidences of gender-based violence. For instance there was a woman when she was tired of the relationship she tried to leave but was killed in the process. So, we have these incidents. Nigeria has bigger population. I am not very sure of how Nigeria handles the issues of gender-based violence.  But if there are few ideas we can take home on how Nigeria addresses the issue of gender-based violence, it is something we can look at. We can learn because we are also here for learning on how to reduce such incidents back home. A lot of Namibians come here; religious travellers come to Lagos because of the wonderful work of prophets, especially Prophet T.B. Joshua. I am not a prophet, so I cannot predict things. But if I see one or two best practices, I can tell Namibians that Nigerians are doing ABC to fight gender-based violence. Let us also try these policies and laws also. If there are certain laws that prevent gender-based violence, we can look at it also and copy the model may be it will help in Namibia because our population is only 2.4million and we have higher rate of gender-based violence and higher rate of accidents. There are other social challenges. However, one of the biggest challenges that we have is not manmade – it is draught. Right now, we are suffering drought; there hasn’t been rain for some time. Some people may ask, are these people going to church and are they not praying for it?  Yes we do pray for rain but unfortunately, we don’t get rain. So far rain is absent for many months. Last year, it was a bit of rain and personally I lost 50 cows. There was no grazing but in my own pipe had problem and the people who could have helped me did not come on time, so I started losing them one by one and I couldn’t do anything. There was no water and a lot of people lost their livelihoods because 70 per cent of Namibians depends on agriculture.  And if you don’t have rain, there is a big problem, because cows need access to grazing. Of course in the past few years, Nigeria has donated some food but this year we also have a prolonged drought. The situation is quite serious. But we are doing well in terms of diamond production and we have a lot of uranium mining. We are number four in the world in term of uranium production. China is one of the largest in the world; in Africa it is Namibia. The price of uranium is not like the price of crude oil but we are doing well. It has created a lot of employment. Another of the challenges we face is that we have a high level of unemployment – something between 20 and 25 per cent.  Naturally, the youth will be asking, we are doing very well in uranium mining, but it doesn’t mean a lot for me when I don’t have a job. When you don’t have a job, it is difficult to live a life of dignity because a job, salary and house are things that bring major measurements of dignity to human beings. So, those are some of the major challenges we have.  What are your expectations on the forthcoming general elections in Namibia?  We are looking forward to them and we pray to God to have peaceful, free, fair and credible elections. Normally, outsider observers come and judge if the elections are free, fair and credible. We hope that this will be the case this year. We have had incidents of violence in the past. By the way, we also allow voting outside the country. For this election, Namibians will be voting in Abuja. Right now, we are training our diplomats on how to prepare for elections abroad so that Namibians staying outside the country can go and exercise their franchise.  What are other major things you do in Namibia?  We export a lot of electronics here. We export a lot of salts. The only problem is that the bulk of the salt goes to Cape Town (South Africa) before coming here. It would be better if the Nigerian consumer can get the salt directly so that we can say they are consuming something from Namibia. We have a few companies from Nigeria who have helped us in Namibia, especially in the charcoal industry.  We have two companies that are producing charcoal and exporting it to choice markets in Europe and other places. We are hoping to be able to attract more industrialists from Nigeria. There are lots of natural resources that we have that Nigerians as experts in manufacturing know how can invest in. They are welcome to come to Namibia and set up their factories there so that Namibia can enhance its foreign exchange by exporting finished products.  A lot of charcoal used to go out unprocessed to South Africa but through our two Nigerian investors, we are improving our foreign exchange by selling the processed product abroad. Rather than just exporting raw materials, it is better one exports something that is packaged. It creates jobs and brings in more money. Ultimately, the investor is happy, the country and the youth are also happy.  