“Not everyone who says to Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will off My Father in heaven. Many will say to Me in that day,’ Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in Your name, cast out demons in Your name, and done many wonders in Your name?’ And then I will declare to them, ‘I never knew you; depart from Me, you who practice lawlessness!” (Matt 7:21-23) In continuation with our series of the pre-requisite into entering the Kingdom of God, we would look at the truth that outward appearances and offering lip-services is not a pre-requisite. The above scriptures explain the truth that there are many who offer lip-services to God; so many people call Him ‘Lord, Lord’, but it starts and ends on their lips. It is not about calling Him ‘Lord’, it is all about Him knowing you as a son. The question is what should we do for Him to know us? Luke 6:46 says;
“But why do you call Me ‘Lord, Lord’, and not do the things which I say?” We are recognised as His own when we quit offering lip-services or claiming to know Him while our hearts are far away from Him. According to our main text, we see the possibility of one calling the name of the Lord and still are involved in acts of lawlessness. Luke chapter 13 says “…all you workers of iniquity” (verse 27). He is pleased with those who obey His commands and do His will; the Kingdom is opened to such. Believers are found wanting in this, just as it was with the children of Israel. We live in a generation where we all profess our love for God on the outside; however our actions are going contrary. We shouldn’t serve Him with our lips meanwhile our hearts are far from Him. Most times we are quick to conclude our outward posture will qualify us for the Kingdom. It is not just about saying it with our lips or acting it outwardly to show off; it is about being genuine about our confessions. We will be denied access to the Kingdom if we continue to live in iniquity, and continue to act wickedly. The Kingdom is not for hypocrites and pretenders. We may be eating and drinking with Him (so it might seem); we may be teaching His word to the nations; we may be very busy with the work of God but the criterion is the position of our hearts- how close is our heart to Him? How genuine is our love for Him? Do we really love God, or we are just busy for Him? He is not looking for those who will offer lip-services, He is in search of those who will hear his voice and do His will, wholeheartedly. 