I am sure you’ve heard the saying – No PAIN, No gain. In this part of the world, one of the pains you would have to go through is the pain of rejection and betrayal from people you least expected. A little ugly situation would show the true colour of people around you. When you have physical stuff to display or give out, especially cash, you tend to have people flocking around you, singing to you all manner of praises. Some would even give you titles they know you don’t deserve – all because of what they want to get from you. Some people stay with you because of what you have or give at the moment, they hail you because of what they receive from you. Only a few of your friends are with you because of whom you are; this few would stay with you even if things are not going smoothly. They stay in spite of your highs or lows. Unfortunately, most of us have fallen into this ditch of fake friends. The one a friend of mine tagged “Friendnemies” – Friendnemies is a word use in describing an act of taking enemies as friends. (Though, not in the dictionary; it is formulated in this part of the word). A friend of mine recently shared his experience regarding this phase of life. He told me how someone he had helped severally, and even at some point, got him an accommodation when he was homeless, turned his back at him when things were no longer going on well for him. According to him, it got so bad that this friend stopped picking his calls. Some of us have been in this phase at one point or the other. We felt so disappointed and betrayed. However, one big mistake some fake friends do make is – they tend not to see beyond the present. Some don’t know that great changes can happen within seconds.
Things have changed for my friend. He’s doing great now. It’s a pity how some people have this attitude called ‘use and dump’. Do I have a witness on this? I mean they relate with you when all seem well, but back out when things go the other way. Someone once said – some people’s friendship with you stop once the benefits they get from you is no longer coming. There comes a time in your life where things are not just going the way they used to. A time where what used to be there is no longer there. A time when what was in abundance is now very scarce. A mentor of mine called this phase “Passing through the shadow of death”. It is a time where your once-upon-a-time-big-dream now looks like fallacy. A time where the picture you are seeing or visualizing on your inside is different from what you are experiencing on the outside. It is a time where you are being mocked by people you least expect. Many don’t like to experience this phase but it’s unavoidable. However, the good news is this – After this phase comes a greater and better version of your life. Are you in this phase of your life presently? Just chill, ok. You’d soon be out – sooner than you expect. What is about to hit you ‘positively’ is what you never envisaged. Your come back will be a great shocker even to you.
In my view, God permits this phase to do the following amongst others: 1. For you to discover your inner strengths and many potentials you never knew you had. 2. To get some wrong persons away from you. These persons are not supposed to be close to you. They are dream spoilers; so most times, God orchestrate situations to get them off you. 3. For God to prove Himself as the one who has the final say over your life. When some persons feel that your life’s chapter has closed, God tend to show Himself by opening a greater new chapter 4. To prepare you for the palace “But he knows where I am going. And when he tests me, I will come out as pure as gold”. (Job 23 vs 10 NLT) Most great men were mocked before they were made. So if you are being mocked now as a result of your present circumstances, I congratulate you – welcome to the league of great men. Stand strong, believing that the situation won’t remain the same. Your comeback will be a great shocker. Have a great week