 Lagos State Public Procurement Agency has unveiled a new classification and price schedule for contractors, consultants and service providers interested in doing business with the state government.
In the new regime, contractors, consultants and service providers who have anything to do with the government are expected to pay registration fees ranging from N10,000 to N10 million depending on the worth of contract with government.
The government, in a circular issued by the Office of Head of Service of Lagos State, the Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, said the registration fee was in compliance with the state Public Procurement Agency Law, economic realities and the ease of business.
Government said that contractors handling project or services worth above N20 billion were expected to pay N10 million while renewal of such registration would attract N4 million.
The statement added that those rendering consultancy service worth N10 billion for the government would register with N2 million or above.
“The new registration fees and classification of contractors, suppliers and consultants of the Lagos State Public Procurement Agency takes immediate effect in compliance with the circular from the Office of Lagos State Head of Service and approval of the Governing Board of the agency.
“In a bid to ensure a transparent, competitive, inclusiveness, sustainable and value-for-money public procurement system that support the state development goals and engenders public confidence, the Lagos State Public Procurement Agency has designed the new categorisation and price schedule for contractors/suppliers/consultants registration in Lagos State,’’ the statement added.
The General Manager, Lagos State Public Procurement Agency, Mr. Fatai Idowu Onafowote, explained that the objective of the agency in introducing the new classification and price schedule was to encourage the participation of small and medium scale enterprises thereby creating a new class of entrepreneurs. He said: “The move is further aimed at boosting internally generated revenue by creating a new price schedule for contractors, consultants and service providers. The new classification and price schedule for contractors, consultants and service providers as approved by the Governing Board of the Lagos State Public Procurement Agency is contained.” Meanwhile in the new regime, the new registration fees ranges from N500,000 to N20 billion depending on the worth of contract while the renewal price ranges from N5,000 to N4 million.