Reviewing listing process on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) will create enabling business milieu and policies that will attract more firms to the local bourse. Chris Ugwu writes   Following the sustainable depression, market operators had always believed that for the local bourse to restore its past glory as an engine room for economic development, the regulatory environment in the Nigerian capital market would need to be reviewed in order to attract large firms especially from the telecommunications and oil and gas sectors of the economy to list on the Exchange. It is believed that an enabling business environment, policies that promote ease of doing business and market forces in line with best practices are key factors that can encourage companies to list on the local bourse. Analysts have continued to crave for connection between critical sectors of the economy and the capital market in order to broaden the market and create avenues for Nigerians to partake in the wealth creation process. Upstream oil firms such as Shell, Chevron and telecommunications firms like Airtel and Globalcom are yet to list on the Nigerian market, despite the huge returns these firms have reaped from the economy. However, the clamour for the new set of requirements to save investment in the stock market from further depreciation has yielded fruit, as the SEC and NSE aside from previous review of listing requirements, which granted number of waivers to companies willing to list also recently further made move to streamline listing process to be more effective and cost effective.  SEC, NSE restructure listing process SEC and NSE have moved to make the processes involving listing on NSE more efficient and cost effective by streamlining the approval process between SEC and NSE. The streamlined process, which came into effect on June 1, 2019, was aimed at reducing the regulatory burden on issuer’s by eliminating duplication of processes between SEC and NSE, reducing the time to market for the issuance and listing of securities and ultimately driving more listing on the Exchange. According to statements from SEC and NSE, with the streamlined processes, SEC and NSE will carry out joint site visits of companies intending to get listed, following the registration of their securities with the SEC. Also, certain offer documents such as the Vending Agreement, Underwriting Agreement, Trust Deed and ISPO, identified to be strictly within the jurisdiction of SEC are to be submitted only to the SEC. Also, The Exchange will rely on SEC for approval of offer documents such as a Prospectus. Mr. Isiyaku Bala Tilde, the Ag. Executive Commissioner Operations at the Securities and Exchange Commission disclosed, “Streamlining the issuance process with the listing process of the NSE is a major milestone for the Commission in its quest to create an enabling environment capable of attracting New Listings. One of our core values is leading by example, and we hope that other stakeholders will also look inward to explore similar initiatives, which will ensure quick time to market of securities in our market. We have no doubt that the streamlined process will enhance the competitiveness of the Nigerian capital market as a global investment destination.” Speaking on this development, Ms. Tinuade Awe, Executive Director, Regulation at The Nigerian Stock Exchange said, “I commend the SEC for working with us in streamlining the listing process for securities on The Exchange. The NSE is much obliged for the SEC’s demonstration of a worthy example of effective collaboration all through this process in the interest of the market. As an agile exchange, we are determined to make it easier for issuers to list their securities in our market in an efficient, timely and cost effective manner. The NSE began its collaboration with the SEC by identifying areas of duplication and overlap between the two organisations, paving way for a better experience for issuers. We believe this will potentially attract more issuers to list their companies and other securities on the NSE.”  Approval of NSE’s rule on free float NSE also recently received SEC’s approval to the rules and amendments on free float requirements for issuers listed on the Exchange.  Free float means the number of shares that an Issuer has outstanding and available to be traded on The Exchange. It includes all shares held by the investing public, and excludes shares held directly or indirectly by promoters, directors and their close relatives; strategic investors holding five percent and above of the issued share capital or government. According to a report obtained from the Exchange, to qualify for listing on any of the Boards of The Exchange and maintain same, an Issuer shall ensure that it complies with the following minimum free float requirements for the Board on which listing is being sought: “For any Issuer seeking to list on the Premium Board, its free float shall be: (a) twenty percent (20 per cent) of the Issuer’s issued share capital made available to the public and held by not less than three hundred (300) shareholders; or (b) valued at N40 billion or more, or any value prescribed by The Exchange from time to time, on the date The Exchange receives the Issuer’s application to list. “For any Issuer seeking to list on the Main Board, its free float shall be: (a) twenty percent (20 per cent) of the Issuer’s issued share capital made available to the public and held by not less than three hundred (300) shareholders; or (b) valued at N20 billion or more, or any value prescribed by The Exchange from time to time, on the date the Exchange receives the Issuer’s application to list”. The report noted further among other things: “For any Issuer seeking to list on the Alternative Securities Market (ASeM) Board, its free float shall be: (a) fifteen per cent of the Issuer’s issued share capital made available to the public and held by not less than fifty-one shareholders; or (b) valued at N50 million or more, or such value as the Exchange determines is appropriate in the circumstances, on the date the Exchange receives the Issuer’s application to list. “For any Issuer seeking to list on the Growth Board, its free float shall be: (a) Entry Segment: ten per cent of the Issuer’s issued share capital made available to the public and held by not less than twenty-five (25) shareholders; (b) Standard Segment: fifteen per cent of the Issuer’s issued share capital made available to the public and held by not less than 51 shareholders; or (c) valued at N50 million or more, or any such value the Exchange determines is appropriate in the circumstances, on the date The Exchange receives the Issuer’s application to list”. The study noted that the Exchange might grant extension of time to an Issuer to comply with the minimum free float requirements if: “It believes that the market can operate fairly and in an orderly manner with the Issuer’s existing level of free float, or it receives an undertaking from: (a) a majority holder of shares in the Issuer holding a number of securities equivalent to at least five per cent of the issued shares, or (b) a combination of holders of shares in the Issuer, holding a total number of securities amounting to at least five per cent of the issued share capital, to make available to the investing public a specific number of securities, required to restore the Issuer to the required free float level within such period as the Exchange may approve. The Issuer shall produce and submit to The Exchange for consideration and approval, an acceptable compliance plan in that regard”.  Strengthening govt’s engagement To enhance listing prospects in the nation’s local bourse, the NSE said that it had strengthened its government engagement efforts on privatization and listing of state owned enterprises. The Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, who disclosed this recently, said the Exchange expect to take advantage of opportunities within this space during the current year 2019. “We also intend to maintain our collaborative efforts with public and private sector stakeholders to advocate for market friendly policies, and cater to infrastructure financing needs as well as other capital requirements necessary for sustainable economic growth. The Exchange intends to work with the private sector as well, to catalyse the listing of more companies,” he said.  Last line In as much as the Federal Government planned intervention is a welcome development, to get key enterprises quoted on the official list, the NSW on its part needs to speed up its evolution process and become more like its counterparts in other economies by adjusting its business and economic models from being only a source of raising capital for listed firms to one that creates economic linkages in the resident country thus becoming a vehicle for infrastructural development, job creation and economic benchmarking through its internationally benchmarked market segments.