Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for fulfilling his promise to address the identified challenges threatening the safety of air travellers at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu.
The FAAN Managing Director (MD), Capt. Hamisu Rabiu Yadudu, gave the commendation during the inspection tour of the airport and its environs to ascertain the level of compliance by the state government and other relevant institutions to the request made by authority.
Yadudu told Ugwuanyi that FAAN was satisfied with the interventions made so far by his administration, such as the relocation of the Orie Emene market, abattoir, and the dismantling of the Enugu State Broadcasting Service (ESBS) Radio/TV Mast.
The ESBS MD, Mr. Chukwuma Ogbonna, promised during the inspection that the mast would be completely dismantled in the next one month.
The FAAN boss disclosed that the issue of relocating the ENPOWER Free Trade Zone, adjacent to the runway of the airport, had been resolved with the management of the establishment, which was confirmed by its Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr. Emeka Eneh (an engineer), during the inspection.
Ogbonna said that after a negotiation by both parties “the required land that FAAN wants to protect is secured” for safety and security.
He said: “We are happy with that and ENPOWER Free Trade Zone is also happy that with the remaining land, they can still go ahead with their initiative and develop the land.”
On the airport runway, the MD said the engineering team of FAAN and its consultant from the Federal Ministry of Aviation would “soon commence a comprehensive exercise to make sure that our passengers are safe”.
He added: “The entire matter has been resolved.”
According to him, the agency is working with two solution providers to solve the issue of water scarcity, and equally fence the airport.
Yadudu frowned at those living “on the air field” near the airport and requested the governor to take prompt action on the matter as usual.
He said: “The issue of illegal residents is very much of safety concern and risky.”
Responding, Ugwuanyi promised to take prompt action on the issue.
According to him, his administration is fully committed to the safety of lives and property as well as the progress of the Enugu International Aairport.
The governor added that he had to shelve other official engagements to be with the management of FAAN to ensure that all issues affecting the safety of the airport were resolved expeditiously.