RISING DMBs seek to benefit from N65 ATM charge  The total number of deployed Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) in Nigeria jumped by 201 per cent (37,487) to 56,102, in the first three months of this year from 18,615 at the end of last year, findings by New Telegraph show. According to the electronic-payment fact sheet for Q1 2019 released by the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS), the total volume and value of ATM transactions during the period stood at 203 million and N1.5 trillion respectively. This newspaper’s analysis of NIBSS electronic-payment fact sheet for 2017 and 2018 shows that the total number of ATMs operated by financial institutions in the last two years is less than the 37,487 ATMs deployed in the first three months of this year. For instance, the NIBSS data indicates that between January and December 2017, there were a total of 17,449 ATMs in the country. The figure increased to 18,615 in the same period of last year. This means that there were a total of 36,064 ATMs in the industry as at the end of last December. However, Q1 2019 electronic-payment fact sheet recently released by NIBSS shows that the number of ATMs has surged to 56,102. The NIBSS data also indicates that the total volume of ATM transactions increased from 800.55 million in 2017 to 875.5 million last year, while the total value of the deals rose from N6.44 trillion in 2017 to N6.5 trillion in 2018. Industry sources told this newspaper that the sharp rise in the number of ATMs in the last three months was due to deposit money banks (DMBs) stepping up their deployment of off-site ATMs. According to the sources, many lenders, as part of their cost cutting strategies, now prefer to install their ATMs at off-site locations instead of building branches in such areas. The Head of Operations at a Tier 1 bank, who did not want to be named, also attributed the development to quest by DMBs to benefit from the N65 charge, which the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) allows lenders to impose on other banks’ customers when such customers make withdrawals from their ATMs more than three times in a month. “There are so many densely populated areas of big cities like Lagos and Port-Harcourt that do not have bank branches,” the bank official said. “In these days of electronic banking and given that banks are doing everything they can to cut costs in order to remain profitable, many banks prefer to install ATMs in locations where foot-traffic is high instead of spending millions to build and run a branch. “Not only will this save the banks a lot of money, they can also make good income from the N65 ATM charge. This is because customers of other banks living in such distant places would be forced to make withdrawals from any available ATM.” Also, a top official of another Tier 1 bank, who spoke on condition of anonymity, attributed the increase in the number of ATMs to    the fact that the cash machines are still the most popular electronic payment channels.  The official pointed out that most Nigerians are yet to fully embrace Point of Sale (PoS) terminals.  According to the official, Nigerians generally still prefer to pay and receive cash for transactions when they could easily have used a PoS terminal.  “For instance, if you carry out a survey of operators in the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) as well as the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sub sector, you will find that only a negligible percentage use PoS,” the bank official stated. Corroborating him, the Head of Operations at a Tier 2 bank branch in Lagos, who did not want to be named, revealed that from her interactions with customers, a lot of them said that they prefer using ATMs over PoS because of the shorter period it takes banks to resolve issues of dispense error for the former compared with the latter.  According to her, “despite CBN’s cashless policy, most Nigerians still prefer carrying cash about instead of using PoS and that is the reason why you see long queues at some ATMs. Also, most customers feel that the length of time it takes to resolve issues such as when a customer’s account is debited for a payment that the intended beneficiary never receive, is far too long for PoS transactions compared with ATMs. It takes about a month to resolve this kind of error when payment is made at a PoS terminal whereas it can be corrected within a week if it is an ATM transaction.”  With the significant surge in the number of ATMs in the first three months of this year, analysts point out that the financial sector is close to meeting CBN’s target, which is that, at least, 60,000 ATMs are required to be installed across the country to ensure effective financial inclusion.  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) last year reported FirstBank of Nigeria Ltd’s Group Head of E-Business, Mr. Chuma Ezirim, as saying that the Tier 1 lender had the highest number of ATMs in the industry, having deployed 2,897 of the machines across the country in 2017.  He stated that the bank’s ATMs dispensed over N2.8 trillion from January 2017 to December 2017, adding that the lender also accounted for 37 per cent bill payment services on ATMs in the nation’s banking industry during the period.  It would be recalled that the financial data website, statista.com, forecast that the number of ATMs worldwide will rise from two million in 2014 to 4.3 million in 2020. 