 The Badagry Recreational Park was agog with cultural activities recently, playing host to traditional rulers, culture aficionados, artists, culture promoters among others.
The event was the 12 years anniversary of Oba of Kweme and the visit of Olu Iwo of Iwo. Held at the Badagry Recreational Park, which provides state-of-the-art recreational facilities for the youth and adults, the event had in attendance Olu Iwo of Iwo, a first class Oba in Osun State; Oba Akeem Oyebo, the Obateru of Egbin Ikorodu, who will be 10 years on the throne next year; Oba Ayadelu, who came from Epe; Oba Alabiru of Ikare; Aholu Agano of Ajara Agamathen, Badagry; Aholu of Ajido, Aholu De-Yeyi of Ajara Topa, and Oba Alapa of Egun Awori.
At the event ground in Kweme, the Olu said he came with greetings from Iwo, that his visit today is very historical as no king of Iwo has ever visited Kweme Kingdom. He urged the people of Kweme kingdom to appreciate what God has given them as a community, and that they should support and respect their king.
The following day Saturday 26th of May a tailor-made tour was packaged by Ijinla Arts & Tours. The tour began at the ancient Slave Market, Agia tree, where Christianity was first preached in September 24th, 1842, then to MOBEE Family’s Slave Relics Museum and a brief stopover at the Palace of the MOBEE of Badagry kingdom and across the lagoon to the point of no return. MOBEE Family’s Slave Relics Museum takes stock of the historical analysis of slavery and its abolition. Also the original slaves chains used during the Slave Trade Era (15th to 18th Century), are kept in this museum for history purpose, where students of history and the academia get first hand information.’
The tour ended at the Badagry Recreational Park, a beautiful park put in place by Lagos State Parks and Garden Agency under the leadership of Mrs. Bilikis Abiola. The park is now managed by Centre for Heritage Preservation, a division of Ijinla Art & Tours, an indigenous outfit which had been in the promotion of arts and tourism business for more than 20 years. On arrival of Oba Kweme and his special royal guest, the managing director of the Badagry Park, Amb. Emmanuel Afolabi Hunkanlin (IJINLA,) took them on a tour of the park which has facilities such as a new museum, food court, lawn tennis court, basketball court, football pitch, event and party ground, children playing arena, bar, gymnasium, table tennis, chess game, Scrabble, Opon Ayo, monopoly, and others. The new museum was put together by the Centre for Heritage Preservation, founded by Amb. Hunkanlin, who is also its president.