According to Marwan Bishara, Sudan and Algeria can easily evoke memories of the Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions of 2010 and 2011. Like their neighbours, Sudanese and Algerian protesters managed to overthrow their autocratic leaders after decades of rule, in a matter of months, and without a single shot fired. Marching, chanting, resisting and daring, the people of Sudan and Algeria pressed on with their calls for freedom democracy until they were able to disarm the old guard –politicians and generals alike – and forced them to acquiesce to their initial demands. It may still be too early to judge, but so far it looks like these latecomers have learnt important lessons from Arab as well as other revolutions. In fact, Sudan and Algeria may well be able to deter the counter-revolution and avert the dangers of civil war.
So far, the revolutions in Sudan and Algeria are still firmly on the path of non-violence. Peaceful protest has proven the least costly and the most constructive among all possible strategies and scenarios, but also to pave the way for democracy. Indeed, non-violent revolutions are most capable of splitting the regime’s rank and file and straining its legitimacy. If history is any guide, violent revolts tend to coalesce and galvanize a dictatorship’ base, making it harder to bring down. They also produce alternative leadership that is no less violent than the repressive regimes they aim to overthrow. Those who fight and kill their opponents with enthusiasm and determination are likely to turn against their allies and people with equal vengeance.
But for civil disobedience, boycott, demonstrations and other forms of non-violent strategies work, they require popular mobilization. In Algeria and Sudan, people of different ethnic and religious backgrounds, young and old, women and men, secular and religious came together in their demand for freedom and better living. Sudan’s leading popular voice, the Sudanese Professionals Association, reflected this embrace of inclusiveness rather brilliantly in its recent call to put “Christ at the heart of the revolution,” asking Christians and people of all other confessions to participate in a day of civil disobedience and worship for peace. Such inclusion of different elements of society prevents the regime from taking advantage of any potential splits or feelings of alienation, as has happened in both Syria and Egypt, in order to discredit the revolution and justify repression against its supporters.
Inclusion also means readiness to incorporate segments of the old order into the movement of change. Not only does it broadens the popular base of revolution, but it also diminishes the regime’s authority and hastens its demise. Autocrats depend on a system of political and financial patronage that involves the participation of certain segments of society mostly out of economic necessity, not political loyalty.
The Algerians and Sudanese people celebrate the bloodless ouster of Bouteflika and Al-Bashir, but they did so knowing well that this was only the beginning of a very long and fraught process. The swift introduction of substitute leaders from within the old system in both countries underlined the need for more comprehensive thinking about the way forward. In both Algeria and Sudan, the protesters know they need to get the military on this side and on their terms, like Tunisia, in order to avoid an Egypt-like scenario.
As the new Sudanese Freedom and Change alliance, a public committee representing the demands of the protesters, proposes a four-year period may be suitable to stabilize the country politically and economically and chart a new way forward. Algeria seems to follow suit, as it has rejected the announcementof presidential elections in July under the same old rules. Now the Algerian judges have decided to boycott supervising such premature elections, the pressure is building up for their postponement until the country is ready.
Meanwhile, another crucial process that has to take place is managing expectations. Like their neighbours before them, Algerians and Sudanese who have risked a lot in the struggle for regime change, will come to expect a lot.
The Sudanese who revolted against Al-Bashir for lack of bread, fuel, will indeed demand solutions not slogans from the transitional government. No doubt, many confused democracy with prosperity in the West. Democracy may facilitate creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship, but it does not guarantee a higher standard of living, at least not in the short term. And in a heavily indebted, underdeveloped nation with few national sources of income, freedom and democracy may generate more anger than wealth. So far developments in Sudan and Algeria have gone in the right direction, but there is also a lot that can still go wrong, considering the road to democracy is full of traps and pitfalls.
If recent “Arab Spring” experiences are anything to go by, the worst is yet to come, especially, as the generals continue to vie for control. But the long silenced Sudanese and Algerians majorities and their invisible elites have defied all the smear campaigns that warned of a descent into chaos. They have rejected all forms of domestic and foreign intervention, especially military intervention, to avoid the destruction seen in Libya, Syria and Yemen. In short, they prefer to be self-reliant, buoyantly industrious and innovative revolutionaries. And it takes innovation to confront violence, to protest loudly and negotiate calmly, to raise the stakes and reduce the risks, to elevate the aspirations and limit the expectations. It will also take more creativity to continue to use accessible means to realize inaccessible ends. The art of revolution entails deep societal transformation to ensure the sustainability and durability of political transformation.