A former international, FRIDAY EKPO, spoke to New Telegraph’s CHARLES OGUNDIYA on the forthcoming Africa Nations Cup in Egypt. Excerps   What’s your take on President Buhari naming the Abuja Stadium after MKO Abiola?
I will give a big applause to President Buhari for remembering Abiola and also making June 12 a remarkable day for the martyr of democracy. Those of us who are ex-Abiola Babes players, we usually have a match for him every June 12 organised by Tajudeen Disu; we all come together in Abeokuta to play in his honour. With Federal Government recognising June 12, they should also organise a game in his honour for the ex-Abiola Babes players and Nigeria selected, to come together and play at the Abuja Stadium ahead of next year. AFCON starts on Friday, what are your expectations from the Super Eagles?
As a Nigerian, I will want them to play to win but I will not want Nigerians to put so much pressure on them. I will want them to be calm and play without any pressure. They should be focused and play according to the instructions of the coach and also follow his game plan so that at the end of the day, they will come out on top. We should not undermine any of our opponents, we should play them as if it is a cup final because there are no minnows in football anymore. Eagles have to play every match like a cup final. All teams coming to AFCON already gone to the drawing board to see how they can play and win against Nigeria, but our own board is already full as we have been going there each year. But then we should not lose focus, we should play them the way it should be played. I will also advise the coach not to play players out of their positions. He should play them where they rightly belong so that they will be able to give their best for the team. The World Cup was nothing to remember by Nigerians; this time around, we should make them happy. I saw what the Nigeria Football Federation has been doing in preparing the team for the AFCON, they have given them everything needed to succeed, so they should go and do their best and I pray they don’t fail in Egypt. Personally, what will be your target for the team?
I don’t set targets for people because I didn’t give them the job, but I want the people that give Gernot Rohr the job to give him a target and the coach should work towards achieving it. As for me, I want us to lift the cup, but if we failed to do that I will still applaud the team as long as they can give it their all in Egypt. Nigeria was once called the giant of Africa, so what happened to that giant in us? We must go back to the past by continuing with grassroots development that gave us that name in the past. We should be having players who will graduate from the U-20s to the national team like we used to have in those days. Would you say the 23 players invited are the best in the country?
For now, they are the very best the country can produce although there are others that were not seen for years but can give the current ones a run for their money. We need to see them and bring them out and I hope chances will be given to them. I am talking about the home-based players who were not given much opportunity to fight for places in the team. The coach stays in Europe and it is difficult for him to see the players playing in the Nigeria Professional Football League, the concentration is more in Europe. He was supposed to be at most league games during the season. With AFCON coming up soon, he should do more to monitor the home-based players when the league resumes. We have good quality players in the league and I can see so many players taking over from those in Europe after the AFCON. What is your view on the decision of the coach to drop Kelechi Iheanacho from the team?
First, I will say dropping Iheanacho is to spur him to better days only if he can understand that. Money is good but it cannot buy you a place in a team. Iheanacho is a very fantastic player, but If he really wants to play football, he should look for a team where he will be able to play week in, week out and that will return his confidence and make him a better player. My prayer is for him to get back to his old self and return to the national team. I want him to correct his mistakes and not take the AFCON miss as a major setback but an opportunity for him to get back to his best. He has not been given the opportunity to play at Leicester, he should look for a place where he can play and ignore money for now because when you keep playing as a footballer, the bigger clubs will come for you. I am begging him to look for a club where he can get regular playing time and become what we knew him for. The Flying Eagles failed to excel at the FIFA U-20 World Cup in Poland, what is your take on their performance?
I will say they are the worst set of players we ever had at the U-20 level. The coach is my friend, but they disappointed everyone. They had one of the best preparations, played a series of friendly games to improve and failed to achieve anything. It’s so unfortunate. Give us your opinion on Samuel Chukwueze who made the final selection for AFCON…
I am looking forward to seeing all the youngsters who have the opportunity to represent the country in this AFCON excelling, but I will want the coach to give more people the opportunity to shine after the AFCON and I wish the team all the best in Egypt.