Police in Oyo State yesterday arrested a man, Mr. Fakorede Olabisi Johnson, for allegedly forging the letterhead of the office of the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Governor Seyi Makinde.
The suspect was accused of planning to secure employment as coordinating secretary of the state Local Government Service Commission. Johnson was picked up at the Local Government Service Commission and taken to the office of the Head of Service, while he was trying to secure office accommodation. The CPS, Taiwo Adisa, said in a statement that Johnson had earlier approached the commission with a letter purportedly signed by the CPS, which he claimed appointed him as the acting coordinating secretary (Local Government Service).
In the forged letter, the suspect claimed that his appointment was pursuant to Section 42(2&3) of the 1999 Constitution as Amended. He had on Monday presented the forged letter to the Service Commission and demanded to be allocated an office and an official car.
The staff of the commission had, however, told him to report on Tuesday when the office would have been put together. Checks by the staff of the commission at the Office of the Head of Service and the CPS confirmed the letter was forged.
Officials then set a dragnet, leading to Johnson’s arrest yesterday. Following his arrest, Johnson claimed he committed the crime in order to survive and that he was ignorant of the implications. When asked how he came about the letterhead, the suspect said he forged the letter when he heard the name of the CPS on radio, adding that he had always longed to get a political appointment. He said: “I am a native of Oyo town but I live in Lagos. I listened to the news and heard the name of the CPS on radio. I like political appointment, which was why I designed the appointment in the form of a political appointment. I forged the letter myself, nobody told me to do it. I was pushed to do it by ignorance.” Johnson was handed over to the police for further investigation and trial. While addressing journalists in his office, Adisa told indigenes of the state to be wary of fraudsters, who might want to take advantage of the change in government to commit fraud.