Recently, Nigeria joined the rest of the world to celebrate the Children’s Day. In Abuja, children from various schools gathered at the Old Parade Ground for the occasion. DEBORAH OCHENI and CALEB ONWE report   In Abuja, this year’s celebration was held at the Old Parade Ground located in Area 10, Garki District. It had in attendance, pupils from various Nursery, Primary and Secondary schools as well as uniformed voluntary organisations within the FCT who took part in the traditional march past, and other colourful activities designed to make children happy.
The theme of this year’s celebration is: “Drug Abuse among Children, Addressing the Challenges.”
In a goodwill message on the occasion, President Muhammadu Buhari, congratulated all Nigerian children and assured them of government’s commitment to tackling the national drug problem which has become a challenge to young people.
Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Muhammad Musa Bello, who represented the President at the event, disclosed that the government had since May, 2018, placed restriction on the use, importation and the sale of codeine as a cough syrup without prescription.
“As one of the interventions to ensure a protective and guaranteed future for our children, I constituted a two-tier intervention structure comprising high-level Ministerial Committee on the elimination of Drug Abuse for a coordinated response in addressing the challenges posed by Drug and substance abuse among the teeming populace.
“It is worthy of mention that the Presidential Advisory Committee is currently interfacing with core stakeholders, drug experts, rehabilitated drug users at all levels so as to make appropriate recommendations to government on interventions required to reverse this ugly trend.”
The President appealed to the children to avoid bad company, obey their parents, teachers, elders and constituted authority. He assured them of his administration’s commitment to providing the appropriate environment for them to attain their full potentials.
He said that this year’s celebration provides the government an opportunity to reflect on its responsibilities towards the actualization of children’s right.
“It is pertinent to know that the past four years have been very challenging and rewarding in our effort to improve on the welfare of the Nigerian children.
“The national campaign on ending violence against children was launched on 15 September 2015 with the aim of galvanizing actions to end violence against children by the year 2030. It was followed by the commemoration of End Violence against Children campaign in 2016. Gladly, ministers have followed up with their own campaigns to end violence against children.
“Furthermore, at the federal level, we are into action to end violence against children”
Buhari stated that the homegrown school feeding progamme initiated in 2015 has continued to improve on the nutritional intake of children, especially in states where the problem is operational. This programme has helped to enhance school enrollment as well create jobs, he said
“As we launch into next level, we hope to provide the appropriate environment for children to attain their full potentials; we also plan to improve immunization coverage and intervention to eliminate communicable and non communicable diseases for children.
“This administration is concerned about the effect of drug and substance abuse as this administration is desirous of building a better future for our children because children of today are indeed the leaders of tomorrow.
“If we allow drugs and other substances to destroy our children today, we are destroying our future. As one of the interventions to guarantee a secure future for our children, the presidential committee on drug abuse is working with drug expert, rehabilitated drug users to arrive at recommendations to address the menace,” he said.
Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajia Aisha Abubakar, called on children to note that education is the bedrock of any developed nation and for Nigeria to be one of the developed nations of their dream, they should concentrate on education and reject drug abuse.
Abubakar emphasized that the theme of this year’s celebration was adopted to create awareness among all stakeholders, including the children on the need to shun drugs and substance abuse.
“It is worrisome to note that, in present day Nigeria, children in primary and secondary schools engage in organized crime, disruption of school activities, gangsterism, armed robbery, mental illness and cultism as a result of the effect of drug abuse,” she said.
She said that the government, having signed the Disability Bill into law this year, hoped to provide the basis for the improvement of the livelihood of children living with disability.
In a message in commemoration of the Children’s Day, Senate President, Bukola Saraki, prayed for the release of Leah Sharibu, who has been in Boko Haram’s captivity since February 19, 2018.
Sharibu is the remaining girl yet to be released by Boko Haram out of the 110 schoolgirls that were kidnapped by the terrorist group from the Government Girls’ Science and Technical College, Dapchi, in Bulabulin, Yunusari Local Government Area of Yobe State.
UNICEF’s Country Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins, declared that despite many advances recorded over the years, children in the country are still denied access to health, nutrition, education and other rights.
According to him, the most disadvantaged children are the ones that suffer the greatest challenge in having their rights.
“Children’s Day 2019 falls during the 30th anniversary of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), which is being commemorated this year around the world.
“As part of the celebrations, UNICEF is launching a “Passport to Your Rights” a copy of the CRC in child-friendly language, in pocket format. UNICEF aims that every child in Nigeria has a copy by 2030, the deadline for the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals,” he said.