As Nigerians await the ministerial list from President Muhammadu Buhari, chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have stormed the private office of the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, lobbying him to recommend them as nominees to the cabinet.
New Telegraph gathered that the private office, located on Aso Drive, Maitama District in Abuja, had become a beehive of activities in recent weeks owing to the regular visits by politicians seeking appointments. A source, familiar with the developments, said that most of those visiting the Aso Drive are APC chieftains who contested one position or the other in the last 2019 elections but lost out. Among them are former governors, former members of the National Assembly and others who worked for the party’s victory at the elections and are seeking compensation. Although some party members have petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari, asking him not to appoint past governors on the platform of the party into the new cabinet, there are indications some of these governors have also been lobbying to be considered for new assignments.
Our source, who declined mentioning the names of those coming to see the APC National Chairman because of the sensitivity of the issue, said it was a daily ritual once Oshiomhole was in town. There have been anxieties over the perceived delay by President Buhari to constitute his cabinet. Some groups have expressed dismay at the delay. The ministerial list is expected to be submitted to the Senate as soon as the National Assembly resumes from its recess on July 2. Meanwhile, a source from the National Secretariat of the APC has hinted that Oshiomhole may not be able to wield the expected influence on the ministerial list, given the crisis of confidence between him and some bigwigs in the party.
According to the source, “The President would not consider the input or nomination of Oshiomhole on would be cabinet members. “You could recall that the governors recently said that the nomination of ministers was the exclusive right of the President.
“Also, the National Chairman is embattled now and the President would not want to consider his opinion seriously on the ministerial list, therefore those lobbying him might not have any positive result.”