 Two-time Nigeria’s coach Chief Adegboye Onigbinde had lauded the renaming of the Abuja National Stadium to MKO Abiola Stadium in memory of the late politician.
The Federal Government as part of events marking the June 12 as Nigeria’s new Democracy Day named the iconic sporting complex built in 2003 to honour the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993 Presidential election Chief Moshood Abiola and Onigbinde, himself a legend in Nigerian football, said the honour was well deserved for the late sports enthusiast.
“From the sporting perspective, we saw the impact of people like the Late MKO Abiola on the league through private ownership of clubs. He was deeply committed to the club and the club was well funded,” the Former FIFA and CAF Instructor said.
Onigbinde, who was the first indigenous coach to handle Nigeria at the World Cup noted that Abiola contributed significantly to the development of sports in the country.
“Remember, Abiola is not only known to love football, he loves other sports as well and made telling contributions to develop sports through the various rewards of teams that do well for Nigeria at international tournaments.
In his own reaction, President General of the Nigeria Football Supporters Club, Dr. Rafiu Ladipo, commended the gesture by the Nigerian government saying he believes that the spirit of the Egba-born billionaire would be lifted in his grave.
“First and foremost I must commend the President for pronouncing June 12 as the new Democracy Day because of the significance of the day to Nigeria’s democracy.
“I doubt if there is any Nigerian that has love and passion for sports like Chief Abiola and I say this will all sense of modesty because I have been opportune to be with him on several trips of Nigerian sporting teams especially football.
“He motivated our sportsmen and even the administrators to give their best all the time and as a sports stakeholder, I’m happy so as all other sports loving Nigerians.
Ladipo reckoned that alongside Leventis United, Iwuanyanwu Nationale, Abiola gave the Nigerian League so much lift such that the followership was huge.
He said: “Being one of the richest people in the country, his involvement in the Nigerian league also endeared interest of so many people.
“His love for football and sports in general is unquestionable and it’s a befitting gesture by President Buhari.”
Abiola, who also donated the defunct CAF Cup, died in government custody on July 7, 1998 after his arrest by the defacto military government of late Sani Abacha.