 The Managing Director, Chi Limited, Roy Deepanjan has decried the low rate of fruit juice consumption in Nigeria, saying it was far less than the per capital global average. Based on this development, the head of Chi in Nigeria consequently, said there was a need to educate and correct the misconceptions about fruit juice, some of which were not only misleading but have also constituted hindrances to consumers in this clime enjoying the bounty of nature in fruit juice. Quoting available data, he said, “Fruit juice constitutes about three per cent of total liquid consumed by Nigerians, a far cry from global average which stands at nine per cent. This implies that Nigerian are losing out on the health benefits of fruit juice” Deepanjan, who spoke at the Chivita Media Immersion session held at the company’s corporate headquarters in Lagos recently, said the company came up with the ‘no-added sugar and healthy living initiative to educate discerning consumers on sugar and benefits of drinking juice daily. According to him, the company currently controls about 50 per cent of the juice market through its diverse offerings catering to wide-ranging consumer needs and demographics with the Chivita Juices portfolio. Through this campaign the company is leading the conversation around the health benefits of 100 per cent fruit juice while demystifying the sugar debacle and other headwinds that have inhibited adoption of fruit juice consumption as a lifestyle like other developed climes. “Our passion to produce nutritious and healthy brands has over the years led to the birth of quality brands including Chivita 100 per cent Fruit Juice, introduced in 1996. Chivita 100 per cent Fruit Juice, is made from 100 per cent real natural fruits, with no added sugar, colour or preservatives. Like we always say: Its fruit Juice at its best,” he concluded. Also speaking at the event, Marketing Director, Probal Bhattacharya, said the company was compelled by the level of misinformation about fruit juice and sugar to start the campaign. He noted that the campaign, which started last year would provide the correct information consumers need to make the right choices. He said: “As a stakeholder, we are committed to the production of quality and healthy foods. But it is not enough to provide nutritional solutions. As a socially-responsible company, we also have a responsibility to inform and educate consumers. “In doing this, we started this campaign last year, hoping to support the sharing of unbiased information on the benefits of 100 per cent fruit juice, by the independent efforts of experts such as scientists, nutritionists and dieticians to show how 100 per cent fruit juice contributes to the health and wellness of consumers. We have sustained the campaign this year with more consumer engagements.”