Hibbatun-Nasser Adeola Shobamb was called to Bar in 2017 after her LL.B from Girne American University, Cyprus. In this interview with JOHN CHIKEZIE, she shares her two years’ post call experience  Background My name is Hibbatun-Nasser Adeola Shobambi. I am a 23-year-old associate in one of Nigeria’s full service law firms, SimmonsCooper Partners. I am also an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, United Kingdom.
I am a native of Ibogun-Olaogun in Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State. In 2012, I obtained my Secondary School Certificate from Queen’s College, Lagos. And in 2016, I graduated with high honors from Girne American University, Cyprus where I obtained a Bachelor’s Degree in Law. In December 2017, I was called to the Nigerian Bar and in October of the following year (2018) I concluded the mandatory National Youth Service programme.  Law I chose law because I was passionate about helping people and hope to make a lasting impact in the world; I know it sounds very cliche but true. Secondary education in Nigeria is highly regimented and rigid and anyone familiar with the system will testify that choosing a discipline, be it Science, Commercial or Arts, at the start of senior secondary school can be a dilemma. I am a person who has always had a wide range of interests that seem impossible to combine. For example, I loved Math, Business Studies, Literature and writing, Social Studies, Integrated Science, fine art and many more. Despite my many interdisciplinary interests, I was certain that I would choose a profession where I would make a significant contribution to my world. Then I chose “Art” which was to guide me on the path to becoming a lawyer. And I have no regrets.  Endearing aspect of law Again, I’m interested in a wide range of practice areas such as, Taxation, Intellectual Property, Commercial Litigation, Antitrust/ Competition Law.
But primarily, I’m enthralled by Intellectual Property Law because of my interests in Innovation, Business and Technology.  The journey so far I would say my journey has been a great learning experience inclusive of tears, frustration, sleepless nights and happy days. Ultimately, I will say it has been a challenging yet rewarding journey. Although my experience in the legal profession has been good so far, I’m not oblivious to the challenges faced by many new wigs especially as a saying among young lawyers goes, “to excel in Law School is one thing but to excel in your first three (3) years of legal practice is another.”
But most importantly, the Nigerian Law School doesn’t prepare students for legal practice at all. This is because the Curriculum of the Nigerian Law School primarily focuses on the theoretical aspect of the law with little to no focus on practical learning. So once you leave Law School, you’re essentially relearning the Law.  Challenges affecting young lawyers One budding issue affecting young lawyers today is the scarcity of jobs. There’s a paucity of well-paying jobs and as a result the process of securing one is long and arduous but it is especially difficult if you are female because there’s a preconceived notion that a male lawyer is more inclined to thrive when it comes to the dirty nitty-gritty of the physical run-arounds or strenuous demands that come with practicing law. Another challenge is lawyers’ remuneration: The remuneration for young lawyers and in a metropolitan city like Lagos is not proportionate to the standard of living and it is largely inadequate. This financial strain generally reflects in the standard of their work output.  Intellectual property rights in a modern competitive market The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act is primarily aimed towards promoting healthy competition at all levels of the Nigerian market by eliminating monopolies, abuse of dominant markets and penalizing restrictive trade and business practices. It is a crucial step in promoting economic expansion by building investor’s confidence in the economy while simultaneously protecting the interest of the consumers. Generally, Competition Law seeks to encourage healthy competition among various suppliers of goods, services and technologies while Intellectual Property (“IP”) law promotes exclusive control rights to a person over his personal innovations or properties by granting monopoly rights as incentive for innovation. The major anti-competitive issues dominating the interface between Intellectual Property and Competition law is the potential abuse of monopoly pricing and abuse of exclusionary licensing restrictions, tie-in agreements, excessive exploitation of IP and other commercial practices that prevent, restrict or distort competition in any market Although IP rights are not in itself anti-competitive, it can potentially become so when exercised above its intended scope of exercise. Thus, the lack of unambiguous legislation causes problems for companies interested in technology transfers and in signing licensing agreements. An example of such is the popular Microsoft case (Microsoft v. Commission T-201/04): The Microsoft case became a landmark case on a modern interaction between intellectual property and competition law in the European Union. The case was instituted as a result of a complaint made by Sun Microsystems alleging that Microsoft refused to supply it with information necessary to inter-operate with Microsoft’s dominant PC operating system. It also alleged that Microsoft tied its Windows Media Player to its Windows 2000 version of its operating system thereby exploiting its dominant position and restricting competition.  In summary, the European Commission held that Microsoft’s refusal to license forestalled other tech-firms from developing new products in the markets in accordance with customer demand, thus Microsoft’s refusal to license was considered a violation of EC competition law. The Commission found Microsoft liable and imposed a penalty of € 497.2 million against Microsoft. Consequently, Microsoft began providing its consumers with the option of using any browser of preference with the windows operating system. After a review of this case, it is safe to say that intellectual property and antitrust/competition principles are necessary elements of a progressive legal and economic system. Thus, an urgent need to have clear legislations catering to disputes arising from the protection of intellectual properties and free competition.