Chams Plc is set to deploy its e-voting platform for this year’s election into the council of Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN),  Speaking during the flag-off ceremony in Lagos, Chams Executive Director, Innovation, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Mrs Funke AlomoOluwa, assured CITN of data security, transparency of electoral process and simplicity of use of the platform before, during and after the election. AlomoOluwa, explained that Chams had always been a partner in progress with CITN. “We are assuring CITN that we have put together, the highest level of data security for this election,” he guaranteed. “Our infrastructures are robust and these guarantee seamless voting. We have also assembled professional support team for enhanced assistance at any time”. Corroborating her, the President and Chairman of CITN, Chief Cyril Ikemefuna, represented by Chief Davidson Alaribe, urged the committee saddled with the responsibility of the election, to work with the service provider Chams Plc to ensure transparency and credibility of the election. “We are pleased with the process so far,” he said. “We urge everyone to ensure that the process is transparent and credible in order to enable a credible leader that will take the Institute to another greater heights emerge.” Speaking on the process of accreditation and voting, the E-voting Administrator and Chief Scrutineer, CITN, Mr Rasaq Quadri, stated that the total accredited members was 22,206, while the total number of eligible voters for the election accredited through membership identity number, telephone number and their email addresses stood at 7,257. He explained that each voter would log -in through his or her email address to the platform and vote. The e-voting platform opened at exactly 12:00 noon for all eligible voter to start voting. Quadri noted that 10 candidates were contesting for positions in the council this year. According to him, the election shall commence on Thursday, May 30, 2019 and close at 12 midnight of Wednesday, June 12, 2019, while the result shall be announced on the 13th of June at the Institute’s Annual General Meeting (AGM). He expressed optimism in skills and competence of Chams Plc to deliver free, fair and credible election for CITN.  According to him, the best way to go in election is by e-voting, which Chams Plc is offering the institute.  “To a large extent we have been working with Chams and we are enjoying the relationship we have with them,” he said. “We now have good data base that is secured and this is the beginning of everything. We have confidence in Chams to deliver free, fair and credible election by the time the result will be out.”