First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced its winning of three awards at the Interswitch Connect Sales Dinner & Awards Night held in Lagos recently.
According to a press release, the awards won by FirstBank at the event were: “Most improved Mobile Banking Application”, “Highest Transacting Bank” (across Interswitch’s Solutions) and “Highest Number of Verve Transacting Cards (Unique Cards)”.
FirstBank processes about 25per cent of monthly transactions on the Interswitch platform and has over 7.5million Verve Cards issued.
Speaking on the achievement, the Chief Executive Officer of First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, said: “We are pleased to be recipients of these awards, especially as they add to the spice of an eventful 2019, the year of our 125th anniversary. Indeed, the awards are a reflection of the confidence Nigerians reposed in us and our digital channels as well as a reward of our efforts in driving the various cashless initiatives of the Central Bank of Nigeria.
“We are very committed to providing cost efficient payment services to our discerning individual and corporate customers leveraging on the most modern and secure payment channels. We commend Interswitch for their giant strides in promoting electronic payment processing in Nigeria,” he added.
Only recently, FirstBank was recognized for its high transactional volume and leading role at promoting cashless transactions and financial inclusion in the country by winning two awards – Cashless Driver: Highest Volume in Bill Payments and Cashless Driver: Highest Transaction Volume in Real-Time Payments – at the CBN Electronic Payments Incentive Scheme (EPIS) Efficiency Awards.
The Interswitch event was hosted to recognize the performances of members of staff and key partners who have contributed immensely to the company’s successes over the past years.
Speaking at the event, GMD/Founder of Interswitch, Mitchell Elegbe, said: “Today’s award ceremony is Interswitch’s token of appreciation of our Sales team and our customers who have contributed immeasurably to our strong corporate performance over the past year. We understand how the ripple effects of the efforts of an inspired few can positively affect the larger group, as such we hope to use this event to set up the awardees as character examples for the rest of the team to emulate.” Interswitch is an Africa-focused integrated digital payments and commerce company that facilitates the electronic circulation of money as well as the exchange of value between individuals and organisations.