 Funds transfer through mobile devices rose to N46.8 billion in May, New Telegraph has learnt.
This represents 11 per cent growth compared with N41.5 billion transfers recorded in the previous month.
According to data released by Nigeria Inter-bank Settlement Service (NIBSS), the volume of mobile transfers also rose to 1.7 million from 1.4 million recorded in April.
Throughout last year, the highest monthly transfer was N28.1 billion, which was recorded in December. However, from February, the deals crossed N30 billion monthly. In March, N38.4 billion was transferred through mobile, while in April, the figure hit N41.5 billion. This indicats that efforts to deepen financial inclusion by banks, Fintechs and telecommunications companies are yielding positive results.
With high penetration of mobile phone in the country, Nigeira’s target of achieving 80 per cent financial inclusion by 2020 is getting close to reality through the embrace of mobile transactions.
However, rising cases of mobile-related financial frauds stand as threat to this target even as banks roll out more mobile applications and Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) services. Industry statistics shows that mobile payment fraud in the country rose from N248.14 million in 2015 to N347.645 million in 2017 and still growing.
According to the Managing Director, Digital Knowledge Associates, Mr Benedict Anyalenkeya, this is happening because banks, in their bid to make the mobile services easier, are securing only their own end, thus making the customers vulnerable. He noted that while almost all banks in Nigeria offer banking services using mobile phone and USSD, they most times “prioritise security of their back-end while making the front-end open for customers to use.”
Highlighting some of the scenarios in which the frauds occur, Anyalenkeya, who is also a banker, said some times, bank staff connives with fraudsters by providing them account number and phone number of bank clients. “They usually target customers with low electronic transactions, aged customers or customers with remote addresses. The fraudster calls the uninformed customer pretending to be the bank and secures customer’s PIN or ATM card Number and use it to launch transactions,” he explained.
In another scenario, he said the fraudster tries to get as much information on victim as he can by stealing their credentials, using social media profiles, or tricking victim into installing malware. “The fraudster then call the telco’s contact centre, saying victim’s mobile is lost or stolen. They will use the information they have collected on victim to answer basic security questions and then the telco will cancel the old SIM and activate a new one. They use the information they’ve collected to hack into victim’s online banking and open a business account or savings,” he said.
While there has been argument over whether the banks or the telecom operators should be blamed for mobile frauds, Anyalenkeya said both parties have key roles to play in mitigating the frauds by strengthening security and creating more awareness. He urged the telecom operators to create and sustain customer awareness messages through their networks. He also advised banks to implement apps that will provide real time check on SIMs during USSD transaction. “Use fraud prevention software to analyse customers’ historical mobile network data to help them to verify the authenticity of transactions and communications,” he advised. “These technology solutions automatically check for any data mismatches for certain actions, such as an account password request, to help the bank assess the risk of SIM swap fraud.”