Pastor Prince Adams, in this interview with ALI GARBA, narrated how God saved him and his family from kidnappers’ den, how they escaped being killed and their body parts sold  What is your experience in the kidnapper’s den?  April 11, 2019, my wife and I with our two children and three other passengers took off from Lagos to Port Harcourt in a Sienna vehicle. When we got to Owerri, Imo State, the driver said he changed his mind and wasn’t going to Port Harcourt again, so we were exchanged from that vehicle to another one. We took off from Owerri at about 9.30pm on a Friday, and we had just passed the third Checkpoint, when suddenly, we heard sporadic gunshots and our driver, all of a sudden just lost control of the car and veered off the main road and I told the driver: “driver, can you just calm down and control the car.” I didn’t know that a bullet had hit him on the forehead and he died instantly while stile on the steering. The car started somersaulting and I think it somersaulted about four times. All I was just saying was “blood of Jesus!” “Blood of Jesus!” My family and I were all in the middle seats of the vehicle. And finally, it came to a standstill. And we were trying to open the door and we couldn’t and whilst doing that, they were still shooting all around us and were coming towards us. I can still remember clearly, how the glasses of the vehicle were shattered by their bullets and were falling.  Finally, they got to where we were and all I was still doing was pleading the blood of Jesus. So, they came with guns and cutlasses and started hitting the car shouting: “Everybody come out!” “Everybody come out!!” My wife was by the other side of the door and I told her to lie on the ground and I was trying to come out because of the kids. I started shouting out to them: “please, these are children, let them come out first.” I don’t know how they managed and got the other guys, but I realised I was the only one and the kids in the car. So somebody hit me on my lips and immediately it was swollen and then one of them was trying to pull my boy and use the cutlass and cut him with it. I had to find a way to pull the boy back to me and in trying to come out, he was to use the cutlass again and without thinking twice, I just fell on the boy and the cutlass hit me on my back. That was how I was able to come out with the kids. I was thinking it was just a robbery, but the next thing was that, after taking our luggage, before we realised it, they asked us to start moving. They were taking us one by one, one of them took my wife to the other side, and another took the other passenger to the other side, so I was left with the kids. I had to carry them and I put the baby girl who’s about 4-years-old on my neck while the other boy was close to my arms. So, I asked them where we were going but they told me to keep quiet. We started walking into the forest and that was around Elele Police Station and we walked for about 1:30mins and then, their big man came and they had to halt the movement and they said we should sit down. Their big man started asking them: “who did you bring?” It was like they were all given responsibilities and they had to give an account. They took my bag first of all and opened it and in it, there was my laptop, my wallet, my ATM Cards, my Passports and other valuables like that, there was money inside too and I also remember I had an anointing oil inside the bag. So, when they opened the bag, he asked me: “please Sir, are you a Pastor?” And I told him “yes, I am by the grace of God.” He asked me again, “please Sir, where are you coming from?” Then I told him that I was coming from Ghana with my wife and children, so they checked my Passport. He saw my ATM Cards and then asked me if I had money in my account, I told him that I had. I told him that the other ATM Cards weren’t Nigerian Cards but the ones I use in Ghana and in the Nigerian account, I had about N370, 000 or so and he asked me to tell him exactly how much I had, but I told him I couldn’t but I told him it is close to that. He asked me if I know how much money is in my bag and I told him I had. I told him it was about N400, 000 or so and the other ones are Cefas and Ghana Cedes because whenever I am traveling, I try to keep some Cefas and Cedes and all that.  Their leader said: “Sir, we’re sorry, you’re not the ones we are really targeting, it’s a wrong information that we got, however, just accept it that you have entered ‘one chance’ and we’ve wasted a lot of bullets, so we have to use these as compensation and one good thing is since the bullet could not touch you and your children or any other person in this vehicle, then it means you guys will not die again because our plan was that we will sell each one of you for N5 million each. So, my wife, my two children and I would have been sold for N20 million and that means that with the other passengers, that would be N35 million for all the seven of us. He then said: “Sir, just thank God because from what I can see, God is the one who has saved you otherwise all of you would have died, can’t you see that the driver is dead? At that moment, I was thinking that maybe after taking our money and valuables, they’ll free us.  But they asked us to start walking and this time around, we started walking into the thick forest, I think we walked for about two hours meaning we walked for about 3 and a half hours in all. We got to a place and they brought water for us to drink and that was how we just laid on the bare floor like that with the kids. It rained that day, water was all over the place and it was very cold and it was a thick forest. Fortunately, my legs were not tied that night but the legs of the others were tied, it was their boss that told them not to tie me and my family. We all slept and the next day in the morning, at about 6 am, he came and asked me if I knew anybody that I could call and I told him not really because most of the people I know are in Ghana. He told me that if I had someone I could call because instead of selling me and my family for N5 million each, all of us should just pay N5 million and you are free to go and he told the other ones to think of what to do to bail themselves too.  I told him that I would call my Pastor in Port Harcourt and one of the main reasons I decided to call the Pastor is that I believed if I tell him, they will back us up in prayers. So, he gave me his phone and I called the Pastor and I told him that even though I was not yet in Port Harcourt because     we had an incident on the way and there was robbery, accident and kidnapping and presently we’ve been kidnapped and they snatched the phone from my hand. I remember I had two phones and as soon as we had the accident, I threw one of it under the seat of the vehicle because that that was the idea that came to me. The other phone was on the seat which they took but they couldn’t see the other one. As soon as the incident happened, I think they knew Police would be coming around, so when they (Police) came, it was phone they picked and called the last number I dialed informing them that there was an accident but we couldn’t tell where the people were. There was confusion all over because they were expecting us since I had just called them that I would be in Port Harcourt within an hour or so and just within that time another went through to tell them and you can imagine a whole family would have been wiped out completely. After they snatched the phone from me, I couldn’t talk again and I couldn’t tell again what was happening, we never heard from them and that was on Friday. Then on Saturday, their big man came back in the evening again and said ‘go to town and see how I can raise some money leaving my wife and children behind. But I said I can’t, if I leave my wife and the children, she can’t handle them because if they don’t see me, it will be another problem. At that point my children didn’t even know what was happening, all I could tell them was that we had a problem with the car but they are bringing another one for us. The good thing is that they didn’t panic, they stayed calm all throughout. My son, Michael is 7-years-old while my daughter, Serena is 3 years. Then he asked me to leave the next day to see if I can go and raise the money, but I told him I can’t leave them behind. Instead, I told him to allow my wife and the kids to go but he said no except if she can go with the daughter and leave me with the son, I refused. Then they said, they are coming and they left and I didn’t see their leader again but there were people guarding us. The funny part is that when we lodged in a particular area, the next day, they will move us to another area, we didn’t stay in a particular place, and they kept changing us. They would just go and clear a particular place, cut the grasses, the small trees and that is where we would stay. They would do same thing the next day. The next day was a Sunday, at night, two of the guys decided to run away but they caught them again and brought them back. How were those ones caught? Well, I don’t know but they had this talisman that they tied around their waist, their shoulders and all that and they had one particular one that they called Odi eshi or so. I heard one of the guys saying that: “if these guys who ran away are still within the environment, hit me.” They got to know that the guys were within the environment. They still had their own networks and they knew how to communicate to the other guys. At that moment, we were not the only victims in that forest, there were other victims because they kept rotating the kidnapped people, these ones will come and look after us while others go to the others. So that same Sunday, one of their top big men came around and when he came, he asked who the Pastor was.  He was dressed nicely, he was a clean looking guy. When you meet this guy somewhere, you will never think he was a kidnapper because he was looking too smart. He wore this Senator type of dressing. They pointed at me and he said: “Sir, we are sorry, you are not really our target, but don’t worry, you guys will leave,” that was what he told me and he left. I remember, I kept talking to the other guys, not to worry that we would leave that place and I told them not to worry about what was happening. That particular Sunday, they called them out and they whipped the other three guys seriously and made them lie down on the bare ground and pretend that they were sleeping with a woman, and they told them to do it harder and if you don’t, they’ll whip you the more with cutlass and I think that was what scared those guys and they decided to escape that night. And because it rained the whole day, so the place was very cold and even they (kidnappers) fell asleep with their guns. They all slept, that means even that their particular odi eshi failed them that night. So those two guys escaped but unfortunately for them, as they were running, they met two other guys and they were shouting for help, so they asked them what was wrong, they told them they’ve been kidnapped not knowing they were those particular guys. They told them to hold on, so one of them shone the light on their faces and he realised he knew them. He then called their big man and he instructed the kidnappers to keep the guys. So they kept them and early in the morning, they brought them back and from that distance, they shot their legs. They were pleading that they were sorry but they told them that “if you are really sorry, then why did you run away? Assuming you succeeded in running away, probably, you will go and report us and that was how they shot their legs again. They then used cutlass and we could hear them shouting since they were not far from us, they were alive but that was how they died whilst these guys were still inflicting pain on them.  When they killed them what did they do with their bodies? When the other guy came around, he said they had cut their heads and their private parts and placed it in the bag and that they were taking it to an Alhaji. There’s an Alhaji that buys human parts and he buys it at a very high price. I remember from day one, they kept saying that if we don’t produce that money, they will just send us to the waterside, they will send them over in a canoe and if we don’t produce that, we are gone. For me, I knew this was not just a physical but spiritual battle and the only thing I could do was that I kept on praying in tongues throughout and anything I heard them wanting to do something particular, I still had to pray against it. They killed those guys on Monday morning. The painful part for me was when I saw how they dealt with those guys and killed them, I couldn’t really stand it but one of the kidnappers came to me and said “Sir, please, forget about these people, you don’t have to feel for them, that’s their own case, just worry about yourself.” I had to put myself together and after the incident that Monday morning, I told my wife that we would leave that place that day. At about 6pm, a call came through and I heard them talking and one of the guys came to me and said “Sir, you guys have to get ready, you are leaving now.”  So, I woke up, with my wife and children and carried our bags and they placed us on three motorbikes that rode from the thick forest to a place close to the town, they left us there and asked us to keep walking until we see light. We then walked and finally found ourselves in an area called Ahoda and we asked for direction, thank God one of the kidnappers gave me N1, 000 and that was how we used it to get to Port Harcourt and we hit to the family house. Fortunately for me before then, one of the guys brought back my keys, my passport, voter’s ID, my other ATM cards, and some of my documents, but the rest of the things were all taken away. Even though I heard their boss saying they shouldn’t temper with my things but since they are all thieves, they didn’t give me back my things complete. When they were about to discharge us, he asked me if my things were intact, I told him that I couldn’t see my bag and he told me that I should just accept what has happened because I can’t go back into that forest again. The next day Tuesday, we had to go back to the Police station and that was how I got my phone back and we gave account of what was in the vehicle and our things.  According to the Police officer, he said they retrieved more than 30 empty shells of bullets in the car and amazingly, they just can’t believe how none of the bullets couldn’t hit any of us in that vehicle except the driver. So, when I look at it today, I realised that God did something marvelous beyond human comprehension because from my kids to still be alive and even the trauma, they don’t even remember what has happened, it’s only my wife and I that sometimes talks about it. But none of them has come to me and complained, they are still calm and happy.    