 The Akinlowo Olaife family in Shasha area of Lagos has dragged the Lagos State Government before a High Court for allegedly taking over their ancestral land without compensation, appropriating it for a non-existent housing project. In a suit before Justice O.A Ogala, six members of the family, Chief Tajudeen Odubiyi, Karamot Ahmed, Abibat Ahmed, Kudirat Ahmed, Sule Ahmed and Kazeem Bankole claimed that the disputed land covered by a survey plan No. LAT/437/L77 was allegedly encroached on by one Alhaji Salami Tijani through a fake memorandum of land sale purportedly issued by their late father and three other members of the family in 1976. They noted that despite the fact that the said memorandum of land sale and other documents purportedly used to purchase the land had been ascertained to be fake as the said Tijani had allegedly continued to trespass on the land while selling to some portions to unsuspecting third parties. Besides, the family further averred that when some members of staff of Ministry of Housing, Lagos State discovered that the disputed land was vacant, they allegedly used the apparatus of government for their private interest to encroach on the land sighting a global acquisition of 1976. According to them, the land was subsequently given to private developers, Architects Jagunna Abiodun and Abiodun Rufai, and allegedly operated with a non-existent company-TOOBI Projects Ltd. for the construction of a building project under 70-30 sharing agreement. However, the family sought amongst other things N1billion as damages for trespass, an order of possession of the land including all 18 block of flats constructed on the land and perpetual restraining injunction against all the defendants. The Lagos State Government through the Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice and Ministry of Housing has however filed a joint defence to the suit, claiming that the disputed land was acquired through a Global Acquisition dated July 1976 as the customary land owners, the Akinlowo Olaife family could not be found when the land was acquired. They further claimed that the disputed land was subsequently allocated to the Ministry of Housing in 2009 for the development of a-108-housing unit under a Public Private Partnership (PPP). The state government was, however, silent on the allegation that the company which was awarded the contract to execute the building was fake and not registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission. But the company’s alter ego, Arc. Abiodun Rufai and Arc. Abiodun Jagunna in their joint defence simply dismissed the allegation that their company TOOBI Projects Ltd was not registered with the CAC, describing it as gold digging on the part of the claimants. Also, in their reply to statement of defence, the Akinlowo Olaife refuted the government’s claim, stating that the Global Acquisition referred to by the state had covered the entire land west of Muritala Mohammed Airport and not particularly the disputed land. The family also affirmed that TOOBI POJECTS Ltd. was an illegal company, insisting that a search conducted for name registration had indicated that the company was available for registration.
Further hearing in the matter was, however, fixed for July 8.