CHUKWU DAVID reports on the intrigues, drama and surprises that characterised the inauguration of the 9th Senate and emergence of Senators Ahmad Lawan and Ovie Omo-Agege as the President and the Deputy President, respectively, of the 9th Senate  The inauguration of the 9th Senate of the National Assembly, which took place last week Tuesday, actually ended peacefully though it might not be to the satisfaction of all the senators. Unlike in 2015, when there was rancour and lingering agitations among members, elections for the leadership of the Red Chamber ended without protest or agitation from any senator or group of senators after the election of Senators Ahmad Lawan and Ovie Omo-Agege as the President and the Deputy President of the Senate, respectively. However, prior to the inauguration, senators-elect and their political parties were involved in a lot of intrigues, lobbying and negotiations that practically provoked anxiety and the drama that took place on the floor of the Senate during the inauguration. For instance, after all efforts to persuade Senator Ali Ndume to drop his ambition to contest for the position of the Senate President, as Lawan was the preferred candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the camps of Ndume and Lawan resorted to the use of propaganda. While Lawan’s Campaign Organisation went about telling people that all the APC senators-elect and about 38 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senators-elect had adopted him, Ndume waved that as mere propaganda, saying that, while Lawan claimed adoption, he would get the actual votes on the inauguration day. For the office of the Deputy President of the Senate, the contenders against Senator Omo-Agege, who was the choice candidate of the party and President Muhammadu Buhari, insisted that they would not step down from the race even up to the eve of the inauguration. Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu (APC, Abia North), Francis Alimikehena (APC, Edo North) and Kabiru Gaya (APC, Kano South) as at Monday afternoon, vowed not to shelve their ambition. However, Kalu decided to step down and circulated a statement to that effect in the early hours of Tuesday. But Alimikehena and Gaya remained resolute to their determination to contest. Gaya, who arrived the Senate building about 7.25 am on the inauguration day,told journalists at the lobby of the National Assembly complex that he would pursue his ambition to the end, having remained in the race till that time. “Since I’m already in the race for the position of Deputy President of the 9th Senate, slated for inauguration in less than two hours now, I will run it to the end and confident of emerging victorious,” he said. However, during nomination of candidates for the position, Gaya was not nominated by anybody, indicating that he yielded to pressure from the party and President Buhari, whom it was learnt, insisted that Omo-Agege must be supported by all to emerge as the Deputy President of the Senate.  This was as the APC senators-elect, frustrated a seeming last minute coup by the senators elected on the platform of the opposition PDP, to install Senator Ali Ndume as the President of the 9th Senate. The members of the ruling party also outsmarted their opposition colleagues, in their attempt to elect their own, the immediate past Deputy President of the Senate, Dr. Ike Ekweremadu, as the Deputy President of the 9th Senate. Senators-elect of the PDP and other party stakeholders had held series of meetings in the last few days, with the climax on Monday when they met at the official residence of Ekweremadu at Apo Legislators’ Quarters in Abuja, and another one with the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, at the Governor’s Lodge, Abuja. It was during those meetings that they planned how the members of the opposition would vote in yesterday’s National Assembly elections. It was after their meetings that the party made official statement to the effect that it had adopted Ndume as the next President of the Senate. However, in the Senate presidential contest, Lawan polled a total of 79 votes to beat his only challenger, Senator Ali Ndume, who scored a total of 28 votes. In a similar circumstance, Senator Omo-Agege also floored Ekweramadu, in the Deputy Senate presidential election by 68 to 37 votes. When the roll call preceding the elections of the presiding officers was taken, all the 107 senators elected in the last National Assembly elections across the country on different political party platforms were physically present in the chamber. During voting for the office of the President of the Senate, the whole 107 senators-elect participated, with no void votes recorded in the exercise. Meanwhile, before the election, there was uproar in the Senate, as the Clerk to the National Assembly (CNA), Mr. Mohammed Sani-Omolori, declared the first session of the 9th Senate open, to elect the presiding officers. Trouble started when the CNA announced that the elections of the presiding officers would be held in accordance with the provisions of the rules of the Senate, as contained in its Standing Orders 2015 (as amended). Meanwhile, an Abuja High Court had on Monday, issued an injunction, restraining the Clerk to the National Assembly from using the 2015 Standing Orders of the Senate. The court further mandated the CNA to use the 2011 Standing Orders (as amended) to conduct the elections of the presiding officers, as the 2015 edition was said to have been forged and used for the election of immediate past President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki and his Deputy, Ike Ekweremadu.  However, the CNA, in responding to the agitations and questions being raised obviously by supporters of Ahmad Lawan, making reference to the court decision, said that he had not been served with the court injunction. When the protesters persisted, Sani-Omolori reminded them that the only business of the day was to conduct the elections in line with the provisions of the constitution, and the rules of the Senate. He said that there was no provision for entertainment of questions, neither was there room for raising of point of order but however, noted that he only decided to honour them by responding to their inquest into whether or not he received the said court injunction.  “You have no voice till after the election”, Clerk bluntly told the senators-elect, and immediately mandated the Clerk of the Senate, Nelson Ayewoh to take the roll call, which he did. At the end of the count, the CNA announced that 107 Senators out of 109 were present in the chamber. Results of two senatorial seats of Imo East and Imo North are still pending. Thereafter, the CNA called for nominations of candidates for the office of the President of the Senate. Senator Yahaya Abdullahi (APC, Kebbi North) nominated Lawan and seconded by Senator Solomon Adeola (APC, Lagos West). Lawan was given a time to address his colleagues, where he assured them that he would run an inclusive administration and also ensure harmony between the Executive and the Legislature. After his speech, Ndume was then nominated by a PDP senator from Adamawa and seconded by another PDP senator from Rivers State. He was allowed a time to address the chamber, and he briefly spoke to his colleagues, promising to make the office of the President of the Senate less attractive and also to make the Senate to be an institution of equal members, with the presiding officers applying the provisions of the law to lead their colleagues.  The greatest shocker of the moment came when Senator Chukwuka Utazi (PDP, Enugu North), nominated Ekwerenadu to contest for the office of the Deputy President of the Senate, and he gladly accepted.  Ekwerenadu was never mentioned in the race since the jostle for the leadership of the 9th Senate, neither did he ever indicate interest in the second highest political office of the Senate till when he was nominated by Utazi, which was seconded by Senator Rose Oko, another PDP chieftain from Cross River State.  While nominating Ekwerenadu, Utazi said that he was doing that to restore the sanctity of the Senate that was desecrated recently, when some thugs invaded the hallowed chambers of the Senate and carted away the Mace, which is the symbol of authority of the Parliament.  Ekweremadu had showed no open interest in the race since the process commenced after the 2019 general elections. He had held the position of Deputy Senate President for a record 12 consecutive years, was perceived as someone who had seen it all and might naturally want to take a break.  In fact, earlier this year, he had told his constituents that he would no longer seek re-election into the Senate after the expiration of the current session. The announcement was interpreted by many as a mark of honour and self-fulfillment. It was also seen as an altruistic move by an accomplished and consummate politician who was preparing to give way to the younger generation.  If the nomination was a surprise, Ekweremadu’s acceptance of it was even more bewildering. Indeed it sent cold shivers down the spines of the ruling party and forced many to think that members of the PDP Caucus in the Senate really had something up their sleeves.  Meanwhile, there were speculations on Monday, at the eve of the inauguration, that Ekweremadu might be one of the jokers in the pack of the opposition but, many dismissed it as one of those permutations that would not fly.  In the reasoning of some analysts, Ekweremadu has had it so rough in the 8th Assembly as his election alongside Bukola Saraki turned out a nightmare. The two presiding officers had no peace because they were not the annointed candidates of the ruling party for the coveted seats.  The APC practically made the seats uncomfortable for both of them as they were being hounded every now and then for various reasons. Both of them were dragged before the courts to answer to different allegations bothering on corruption and undeclared assets. It was also under them that the Senate came under attack by hoodlums, who snatched the mace, the symbol of authority of the parliament.  Some analysts have said that Ekeremadu accepted the nomination in order to play the spoilers game because of the presence of Omo-Agege in the race. Ekweremadu however, is seen to have lost to the determination of the APC to ensure a clean sweep of the polls without compromise.  There were also many among the senators-elect even of the PDP extraction, who felt that Ekweremadu had actually been on the stage for too long and should not have thrown his hat in the ring. Yet, there were also those who saw the Ekweremadu adventure that day as sheer greed which must not be allowed to thrive.  Perhaps if Ekweremadu had humbly declined the nomination and transferred same to another of his less exposed colleagues, it would have made a lot of difference.