Mr. Adetokunbo Mumuni is the Executive Director of the Social Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP). In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on President Buhari’s acceptance of retirement letter of convicted Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, EFCC’s withdrawal from the N5 billion alleged fraud case against former Governor Danjuma Goje of Gombe State and sundry issues  What is your agenda for the 9th National Assembly as members settle down for legislative business? Let me say straightaway that the National Assembly comprising the Senate and House of Representatives have the powers and authority to make laws for the peace, order and good government in Nigeria. That means they should be concerned mostly with matters of security and issues that will bring economic benefits to Nigerians. The 9th National Assembly should be concerned with making laws that will ultimately improve the standard of living of Nigerians. They should not make laws to promote their selfish interests. Government is a tripod-the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary. That is why Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Constitution talked about the powers of each arm of government. So, no arm should engage in grandstanding when we are talking about what is good for Nigeria and Nigerians.
They should act cooperatively but not subjectively. No arm should be subservient to the other.   What is your take on the dust raised by the withdrawal of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) from the N5 billion alleged fraud case of a former Governor of Gombe State, Senator Danjuma Goje, about 24 hours after he quit the race for Senate Presidency upon his meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari? Let me say that Nigerians must continue to demand that whoever has committed any offence known to Nigerian law must face the music, irrespective of whether he is close to the president or not. That is what we owe Nigeria as Nigerians. It is not enough for us to be speculating that a case has ended because someone met the president. That should not be our business. We have to continue to demand for the prosecution of anyone that had allegedly run foul of the law. The best thing should be done in the interest of Nigeria. The best thing is that our criminal laws must be enforced, pungent and effective. We should not read any meaning to the EFCC’s action, but part of the business that we have as Nigerians is to insist that our laws must be properly enforced, if anyone has violated any of them irrespective of his or her status in the society. Nigerians must continue to make their voice heard at all times.  Do you think there is any cause for Nigerians to worry over the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari to make any appointment since he was sworn-in for second term on 29th May, 2019? I don’t think it will make sense for anyone to think that there will be a repeat of what happened in the president’s first term concerning appointments. If he had six months to select his ministers in his first term, I don’t think soundness of mind would allow him to take such a length of time again to make ministerial appointments. I think he will announce his ministers in the next few weeks. I am sure about that. If ministers were not announced in the next few weeks, you can call me and I will then comment seriously about the disposition of the president. As a matter of fact, what I am hearing is that the president has kept the ministers’ list close to his chest. Besides, I don’t think May 29 to this time is up to one month. So, there should be no worry that the president is yet to make any appointment. We should be hopeful that he will make the best selection for us in the circumstance.  What is the implication of President Muhammadu Buhari’s acceptance of the retirement letter of the immediate past Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, on his conviction by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) over false declaration of assets? The conviction of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria at the Code of Conduct Tribunal remains despite the president’s acceptance of his retirement’s letter. The only way the conviction can be nullified is by the publication of a gazette by government telling Nigerians that the convicted CJN has been forgiven. This, however does not mean he has not been convicted. We have had situations where presidents exercise prerogative of mercy in the public interest. So, the president should tell Nigerians if that is what he is trying to do by accepting the convicted former CJN’s retirement letter. All I know is that conviction remains a conviction and if government is trying to pretend that the conviction no longer exists, there must be a publication of the gazette indicating such. Therefore, the conviction of the former CJN by the CCT and the acceptance of his retirement letter by the president are two different issues. One cannot override the other.  President Muhammadu Buhari has extended the tenure of service chiefs. What is the propriety of this action considering the spate of rising insecurity in the country? The power to appoint anybody in the service of the Federal Government belongs to the president. If he thinks that he has the best team of service chiefs in the current security situation in the country, we cannot fault him. He is entitled to his considered opinion. The fact that we want something to happen and it has not happened does not mean the president is at fault. These people are his lieutenants, they are his service chiefs and we don’t know them more than he does. If he thinks they are not giving him the service expected of them, he has a right to change them and if he thinks otherwise, it is his decision. It is the president’s prerogative to hire and fire. Nigerians only need to watch and see whether things will improve. He has the totality of facts at his disposal. As a journalist, you are not privileged to the information he had, particularly on these service chiefs. Even, as a lawyer, I am not privileged to the information he used in taking his decision. He is at liberty to take his decisions but when things are not happening the way they ought to be, he will be blamed because the bucks stop at his table.   The Human Rights Watch released a report last week indicating that President Muhammadu Buhari rode to power on widespread violence. What is your stance on this? I fault this assertion because the president did not rode to power recently. He has been around since 2015 and violence has been part of Nigeria system even before then. Remember Boko Haram did not start with President Buhari. So, if the Human Rights Watch is now saying he rode to power on widespread violence, that would be a wrong assertion and inappropriate. The president has been in power since 2015 and violence has been part of Nigeria’s polity before then. At a point in time, we had some stability but now it has escalated. I only want to admonish the president to go back to the drawing board and see what can be done to stem the ugly trend of violence in the country as he continues in office. He should address the fundamental issues that he campaigned with before coming to power.  