 The South-West Governors yesterday tackled former Ekiti State Governor, Mr. Ayo Fayose, over the claim that they were cowards in tackling the menace of Fulani herdsmen in the zone. The former Ekiti helmsman was quoted as saying on Thursday, that: “Unless the leaders and governors in the country, rise above being seen as Cabal Yes Men, at the expense of their own people, Nigerians will continue to be defenseless and conquered.” However, the South-West governors through their Chairman, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, said they have been working to check insecurity without making noise or seeking cheap publicity about it.Akeredolu in his reaction by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr Segun Ajiboye, said the menace of insecurity had been giving the governors sleepless night and would soon be a thing of the past in due time. He said: “It is funny that Fayose would accuse anyone of cowardice. However, his action will not be a surprise to anyone with a discerning mind. “His actions and approach to issues like this is tantamount to partisan political opportunism. The five Governors are urbane and mature minds whose approach to issues of governance are tailored to meet the needs of today. “Having said that, it must be noted that all the governors have vowed to implement the reports of the summit, which are expected to solve all the security problems besetting the region, both in the short term and the long term.” On his part, the immediate past governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, also absolved himself of any blame in the worsening security situation in the South- West region. Amosun also rejected the claims by Fayose that the security challenges in the South- West arose from its governors’ preference to be in the good books of cabal in the corridors of power at the expense of the well-being of the people. He said this while reacting to a statement credited to Fayose on the spate of kidnappings and herdsmen menace bedevilling the South-West and Nigeria. But Amosun, while reacting yesterday through his media aide, Mr. Rotimi Du-rojaiye, said he was among the most security conscious governors during his tenure. He noted that during his tenure, Ogun was ranked among the first three secure states in the country. Durojaiye said: “Senator Ibikunle Amosun was one of the security conscious governors in Nigeria during his administration. “He placed a high premium on security by investing massively in security equipment like the state-of-the art Armoured Personnel Carriers (APC) and Hilux Vans fitted with modern communication gadgets, among others. “During his time, Ogun State was ranked among the first three secure states in Nigeria. He ensured that Ogun State was secure for the people and other investors who thronged the state to do business.”