At least two children and a teenager were killed and several others injured after gunmen suspected to be herdsmen attacked a Kaduna community.
The attack took place at Unguwan Rimi village, Kauru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The police command confirmed the attack in a statement yesterday. The attackers were said to have invaded the village about 2.30p.m. on Monday, shooting indiscriminately at residents. The children, unable to escape, were gunned down and died on the spot. A resident in the community said that the gunmen started shooting immediately they entered the village, while residents scampered in different directions.
The police said that the attack might be a reprisal because of an earlier attack on a Fulani settlement within the vicinity.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Yakubu Sabo, said: “Preliminary investigation later revealed that the attack might not be unconnected with the attack on a Fulani camp in the morning of the same date in the area.”
Sabo gave the names of those killed as Monday Yahaya (8), Samson David (17) and Ashimile Danladi (9). The PPRO added that a manhunt had been launched to arrest the perpetrators and bring them to justice. He said: “Information reaching us is that on June 17, about 2p.m., the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Kauru, received a distress call that armed men entered Unguwan Rimi village, Chawai District of Kauru Local Government Area and started shooting sporadically. In the process, the victims, Monday Yahaya, Samson David and Ashimile Danladi, were killed. Teams of policemen quickly moved to the area, evacuated the bodies to the hospital and ensured that the situation was brought under control. “Preliminary investigation later revealed that the attack might not be unconnected with the attack of a Fulani camp early morning of the same date in the area. However, efforts are on to apprehend the perpetrators and the command has intensified patrols and other proactive measures to forestall further breach of peace in the area.”