With the impending emergence of the minority leader in the House of Representatives, PHILIP NYAM x-rays the lawmakers in contention for the position  There are eight opposition parties in the House of Representatives. They are Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Action Alliance (AA), Labour Party (LP), Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Accord Party, African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Social Democratic Party (SDP).
But following the numerical strength of the main opposition party – PDP – it is expected that the party will produce the leader of opposition and the following candidates are said to be vying for the prime position. Leo Ogor (PDP, Delta)
The immediate past minority leader of the House, Hon. Leo Ogor is serving his people for the fifth time in the House of Representatives. Born in 1959, Ogor represents Isoko North/Isoko South federal constituency of Delta State and is one of the highest ranking members in the lower chambers having been first elected in 2003. He is the only lawmaker apart from the speaker, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, to have held the position of majority and minority leader.
Ogor obtained his West African School Certificate (WASCE) from Notre Dame College Ozoro. He then went to Emile Wooff College of Accountancy where he obtained an A.I.B before attending Chartered Institute of Administration and finally became a Chartered Administrator. He also holds an International Executive Master of Business Administration (IEMBA) in Strategic and Project Management from the Paris Graduate School of Management (PGSM), France.
In the 7th Assembly, he served as the majority leader after the plot by the Dogara camp to support him become deputy speaker was thwarted at the last minute following the emergence of Senator Ike Ekweremadu of the PDP as Senate Deputy President.
A very competent and efficient lawmaker, Ogor was ill during most part of the Eight Assembly and not a few expected that he would be reelected. In the run to the election of the speaker of the 9th House, he issued contradictory statements at a point on PDP’s position.
His first statement endorsed Gbajabiamila, but a day after, he amended the statement to say that the party had not endorsed. He is said to be interested in retaining the minority leadership position, but feelers are that due to health, his followership has significantly dwindled and he may lose out this time around. Ossai Nicholas Ossai (PDP, Delta)
A chartered mediator and member of the Projects Management professionals of Nigeria, Hon. Ossai Nicholas Ossai, represents Ndokwa/Okwuani federal constituency of Delta and is serving his third term in the Green Chamber.
Ossai was one of the most hardworking lawmakers in the 8th House, having sponsored the second highest number of bills and motions. A vocal and gregarious lawmaker, Ossai is noted for his vibrant contributions on the floor.
He is interested in becoming the minority leader and has carried out a robust campaign to that effect. He believes that the opposition and indeed the PDP “needs a minority leader who is a unifier with deep legislative knowledge and experience, a transparent and honest leader with capacity, a loyal party man and a fine legislator with the courage to deliver our great party’s legislative agenda in the House of Representatives and the National Assembly.”
He further said of his ambition: “My decision to offer myself for this office is based on my conviction to bring my rich legislative knowledge and experience; unique inclusive leadership and your support to bear in providing a virile opposition that will engender good governance and national development as well as give our party the requisite standing in the 9th National Assembly.
“A vibrant minority leader will sure lead a virile opposition and help our party avoid the political risk of loss of our hard earned regained trust of the Nigerian people, unique identity and national relevance.”
An erstwhile majority leader of the Delta State House of Assembly, Ossai obtained a Bachelors Degree in Agriculture from the University of Nigeria (UNN), Nsukka as well as a post graduate diploma in public administration. He holds two masters degrees in Business Administration from Edo State University as well in Public Administration from UNN. He has also defended his thesis at the UNN for the award of a Ph.D.
Ossai, who was chairman of the Ethics and Privileges Committee in the 8th Assembly, is said to be backed by his governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, but his biggest challenge is Hon. Kingsley Chinda, who is said to be receiving the tacit of his governor, Chief Nyesom Wike of Rivers State. Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers)
Hon. Kingsley Chinda, represents Obio/Akpor federal constituency of Rivers State and is a top contender for the position of monitory leader of the 9th House.
With the support of his governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, who is said to be one of the major financiers of the PDP, Chinda is clearly the candidate to beat in the race and has been reported to have been endorsed by the PDP hierarchy as the leader of opposition.
A lawyer by training, Chinda is very meticulous and he was chairman of the House Committee on Public Accounts in the 8th Assembly.
Born on March 24, 1966, he attended Stella Maris College, Port Harcourt and Rivers State School of Basic Studies before proceeding to the Rivers State University of Science and Technology, where he studied Law.
He served at various times as the Legal Adviser to the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP), the Grassroots Democratic Movement (GDM) and the PDP. Before being elected to the House in 2011,he had served as a commissioner for Environment under the administration of Rotimi Amaechi as well as on several boards in the state. In his first term in the House, he was appointed as deputy chairman of the Committee on Customs and Excise by the then speaker, Aminu Tambuwal. Upon reelection in 2015, he was made chairman of the Public Accounts Committee by Speaker Yakubu Dogara. Apparently because of the solid backing from his governor, Chinda’s campaign for the position has been somewhat discreet as not much is heard from him regarding the contest. Barring any last minute changes, he may just emerge as the next minority leader. Ndudi Elumelu (PDP, Delta) A younger brother to billionaire banker and entrepreneur, Tony Elumelu, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu is making a second coming to the House of Representatives. He represents Aniocha/Oshimili federal constituency of Delta State. Elumelu came to limelight in 2008, when he chaired the House Committee on Power and led the investigation into allegations of $16 billion wasted by the administration Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. A courageous legislator, in spite of the obvious threats and intimidations he faced from those he was investigating coupled with the opposition from some of his colleagues, his committee made serious recommendations. But, since it is often said that “when you fight corruption, it fights back,” Hon. Elumelu was almost consumed as he was accused of a N100 million bribery allegation and was consequently moved from the power committee by the then speaker, Dimeji Bankole, to the committee on health. He would later be prosecuted on allegations pertaining to contracts at the defunct Rural Electrification Agency (REA), but has since being discharged and acquitted. He consequently failed to be reelected in 2015, but made a comeback by defeating his challenger, Hon. Onyeamachi Mrakpor, at the primaries and subsequently won the general elections. A chartered insurance broker, Elumelu is the chairman of Transglobal Insurance Brokers Ltd and holds a PGD in organisational leadership from the University of Oxfrod, United Kingdom. He is also a product of the Harvard Business School, Boston and has Masters in Business Administration from Edo State University. With his pedigree in the House, Elumelu is also a strong contender for the position of minority leader, but he has two other equally experienced and powerful lawmakers from Delta vying for the same post to contend with. This has certainly whittled down the strength of his ambition giving that if it comes to voting, they may have to share votes, while Chinda, who is the only candidate outside Delta State, will be placed on an advantage. The calculations and permutations, notwithstanding, the new minority leader of the House of Representatives may emerge before the lower chamber reconvenes on July 2, all things being equal.