Amidst the crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Forum of State Chairmen of the party, yesterday, passed a vote of confidence in Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the party.
The forum, made up of state chairmen of the party across the country, conveyed their decision during a meeting with members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party in Abuja.
They said Oshiomhole delivered on the mandate given to him to ensure APC won the 2019 presidential election, adding that there was no substance in the allegations levelled against him.
Secretary of the Forum and Enugu State APC chairman, Dr. Ben Nwoye, who spoke on behalf of the Forum, said any attack on the APC National Chairman was an attack on President Muhammadu Buhari.
Nwoye was at the meeting alongside party chairmen drawn from 21 States of the Federation.
“We met with National Chairman of our great party in company of members of NWC. We talked on relevant issues on the party. We discussed in details on party unity. At the end of the meeting, we were informed fully on party issues and unity of the party.
“Based on the information we have and the readiness of National Chairman to lead this country to the Next Level, we have all unanimously passed a vote of confidence in the person of the National Chairman and the NWC.
“Any news making the round that sometimes somewhere our National Chairman is facing troubled time, should be disregarded. We need to bring that to a rest. He is our chairman. He is a strong leader. He has all it takes to lead this party to the Next Level,” he said.
Nwoye dismissed the allegations of dictatorship and highhandedness levelled against Oshiomhole, describing them as untrue.
“We found out that those issues are without merits. It is to malign National Chairman. It is frivolous allegation with no counter evidence. The report came out on the day President Buhari was inaugurated. It is to malign the President, APC and bring the party down,” he said.
It would be recalled that the former National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and the Deputy National Chairman (North) Senator Lawal Shuaibu, had accused Oshiomhole of lacking the capacity to lead the party.
According to them, Oshiomhole, through his leadership style, de-marketed the APC to the extent that the party lost five states during the last governorship election.