 A combined team of the Lagos Building Control Agency (LASBCA) and the Task Force yesterday dislodged labourers, sealed and demolished buildings worth millions of naira.
The buildings were to sealed while others were demolished for allegedly flouting building regulation guidelines.  A mild-drama, however, played out the scene of one of the buildings as a suspected security officer attached to the building threatened LASBCA officials with gun.  One of the buildings sealed and partially demolished was a six-floor building named, “Pinacle House” located at No 6, Samuel Manual Street, Victoria Island. The building owner, identified as a retired military officer, was accused of breaking off seals placed by officials on structures.  According to the agency, when the owner eventually got approval for a residential building, he criminally converted the building to a commercial one, an offence punishable under the Building Regulation Laws of Lagos State.
The Director of Enforcement Unit, Oyewole Ganiyu, a town planner, said that the owners of the sealed buildings were guilty of deliberate violation of building laws in the state. He explained that while some of them refused to get approval before erecting the structures, others deliberately contravened the approval given.  Oyewole, who wondered why people would commit billions of Naira into building without getting necessary title documents to validate their buildings, said government would continue to enforce the law by demolishing more buildings to serve as deterrent to others.  He explained that some areas were strictly designed for residential buildings, according to the master plan of the state. Oyewole said that only residential approval could be given in such areas, if the property owner met the entire building regulation requirement.  Speaking on a four-storey building complex at No. 17, Ester Adeleke Street, Lekki Phase 1, where about 100 labourers and artisans were dislodged before the building was partially demolished, Oyewole said that owner of the building was yet to get any approval at all before putting up the structure.  He said: “It’s forbidden for anyone to build without approval according to the Urban and Renewal Planning Law of 2010. The property was initially sealed, but the owner continued the construction illegally, which was why the building was partially demolished.”
Meanwhile, the security personnel, who threatened to shoot officials, was overpowered and his pistol confiscated.