…says wife demands ‘bribe’ before sex  A 48-year-old pastor, Abayomi Adegboyega, is seeking dissolution of his 16-year-old marriage, alleging that his wife always demands `bribe’ from him before sex.
The pastor threatened to kill himself if the court did not end his marriage to his wife, Riskat.
Adegboye told an Igando Customary Court in Lagos State yesterday to end the marriage on grounds that Risikat denied him sex.
He said: “My wife starves me of sex; she will never allow me to sleep with her unless I give her money or buy her a gift.”
The pastor said that he would kill himself if the court refused to dissolve the union, which produced four children.
“Risikat should never come near me; I do not want to have anything to do with her again.
“She is irritating me, I will kill myself if the loveless marriage is not dissolved,” he told the court.
The petitioner, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), also alleged that his wife cooked his food late and tarnished his image in public.
“My wife wants my ministry to collapse; she defames my character before my members and others. People who want to help me refuse because of what they hear from her,” he said.
Adegboye added that Risikat fought his church members.
However, the 39-year-old Risikat denied all the allegations and accused her husband of threatening her life with charms.
She said: “My husband told me that he would use charm to destroy my life; indeed, after a few weeks, I was very sick; everywhere my family took me to, they said it was a spiritual attack.”
The mother of four claimed that she never denied Adegboye sex not cooked his food late.
She also denied fighting her husband or members of his church.
The respondent accused her husband of beating her at the slightest provocation.
She added that Adegboye chased her and the children out of her matrimonial home nine months ago, without sending money for their upkeep.
She said: “He is just looking for an excuse to dump me. If he wants to marry another wife, he should go ahead instead of making false allegations against me.”
Risikat prayed the court not to dissolve the union, saying that she still loved him despite his misbehaviour.
President of the court, Mr. Adeniyi Koledoye, urged both parties to maintain the peace and forgive each other for the sake of their children.
He adjourned the case till July 11 for judgement.