After two straight wins at Egypt 2019, the Super Eagles conclude their group games today hoping to make it a clean sweep of victories for the first time in their African Cup of Nations history when they face the Barea of Madagascar, reports Tunde Sulaiman  Nigeria’s Super Eagles wrap up their group matches of the 32nd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations this afternoon with a game against the Barea of Madagascar, with the team on the verge of making history with a win. Since their Nations Cup debut some 56 years ago in Ghana and 18 appearances later, the Super Eagles have never won all their group matches at the continent’s showpiece competition for national teams. However, as things stand should the Eagles get the better of the Barea this is one unwanted record that they would have finally laid to rest. Incidentally in most of their 17 previous outings, they have often had issues successfully prosecuting the second group games of the round-robin stage of the Nations Cup, which has led to this anomaly. For instance even when Nigeria hosted the tournament for the first time in 1980, the Eagles kicked off with a 3-1 win over Tanzania before playing a goalless draw in their second game against the Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire, on their way to their first ever triumph at the competition. Two years later as champions, Nigeria kicked off their title defence in Libya with a 3-0 win over Ethiopia only to lose to the Desert Warriors of Algeria in the second group tie. Fast forward to the next time the Eagles were crowned African champions at Tunisia’94, they began with a victory over Gabon only to labour to a goalless draw against the Pharaohs in their second game. Things even appeared direr for the Eagles the third time they won the trophy at South 2013 with draws in their first two games against Burkina Faso and Zambia. These are just a few of the instances highlighting the jinx that the Nigerian national team has faced since their debut in 1963. But today ideally this record should be consigned to the dustbin of history as the Eagles should be confident going into their final group game. And why not, the three-time African champions are currently ranked third best team on the continent while their opponents are ranked 22 places beneath them in 25th spot. However, besides the disparity in ranks, when it even comes to pedigree the gulf between the two is even wider than the FIFA Rankings – with Nigeria having never lost to the South Africa nation. In four meetings so far between the Eagles and the cow (which is the meaning of Barea), the Nigerians have triumphed three times with a solitary draw coming on October 7, 2000 in a Nations Cup qualifier played before 7000 fans at the Stade Municipal de Mahamasina, Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar. Incidentally for two key members of the current Super Eagles, the last meeting between the two nations on September 4, 2011 in Antananarivo holds fond memories for them because on that day, goals by Joseph Yobo (57’) and Victor Obinna (75’), meant that Nigeria left the Stade Municipal de Mahamasina with maximum points in our ultimately failed bid to qualify for Gabon/Equatorial Guinea 2012. Present skipper, John Obi Mikel and Ahmed Musa were members of the team that played on that day and will thus relish the idea of facing the Indian Ocean island nation again. But in spite of the one sided nature of the results recorded so far, Mikel, Musa and their teammates will be wise enough not to underrate the Barea because despite the gentle nature of the animal on their flag; they have been known to still carry a punch as the current Nations Cup hosts, Egypt found to their cost 15 years ago. Back then, the Pharaohs arrived Antananarivo confident that they would be leaving the island, located approximately 400 kilometres off the coast of East Africa, with their tales between their legs after suffering a shock 1–0 loss in the qualification rounds of the 2004 African Cup of Nations. However, with a knock out ticket already assured it is most likely that Rohr will opt to field as many new faces as possible in order to keep his side fresh for the more “difficult” challenges still lying ahead as he tries to not only add another trophy to the three already in the offices of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), but more important enter the record books as the man to guide the Eagles to three straight group wins for the first time. Speaking after the win over Guinea, Rohr alluded to this when he said that even though he’s delighted to go through at the earliest chance, his team which he said had no new injures, would still look to win their final game against Madagascar on Sunday. “It’s good to know that the next game against Madagascar we are already qualified but we play all the time to win our games and no injuries in my team it is very important and I hope that the new things that have been decided yesterday will be done so everybody can focus on the next game.” He, however, also appealed to Nigerian football officials not to derail his team’s impressive run so far at the competition when he told the NFF to ensure they honour the agreements reached with the players on Tuesday over their unpaid bonuses for the win against Burundi. On their part, the Barea followed up their impressive performance in their 2-2 against the Syli Nationale with a Marco Ilaimaharitra’s thunderous free-kick giving them their first Africa Cup of Nations victory in the match that end 1-0 over Burundi in their second game to further show their determination to put up a good showing in the tournament. The defeat has virtually ended Burundi’s chances of prolonging their stay in Egypt beyond today when they play their last group game against Guinea. For Madagascar, four points means that a draw will be enough to see them make the knock out round and with this in mind, the Barea will love nothing more than to deny the Super Eagles the chance to finally break their group stage jinx by grinding out the result they need to take them through. Although not yet considered one of the heavyweights of the game on the continent, Madagascar, under the tutelage of their French tactician, Nicolas Dupuis, is slowly improving. Appointed in March 2017, on October 20, 2018 Dupuis achieved what no previous manager of the Barea had – qualify Madagascar for her first ever Africa Cup of Nations after beating Equatorial Guinea 1–0 in Antananarivo. The second smallest venue for the competition, the 19,676-seater Alexandria Stadium, which is the oldest of its kind on the African continent having been built in 1929. In the second game of Group B, Burundi faces a Guinea side, which still harbours faint chances of qualifying should result in the other game go their way – of course they will still need to beat The Swallows first though! The Al-Salam Stadium, which seats 30,000, is the venue for this clash. However, for the home fans the game of the day for them is the one taking place at the Cairo International Stadium, where they Pharaohs will hope to conclude their group fixtures with a perfect record of three from three as they try to further extend their record of most tournament wins to eight. Egypt kicked off their campaign with a hard-fought 1-0 win over Zimbabwe, which is making only her third Nations Cup finals appearance, and then followed up with an impressive 2-0 over DR Congo on Wednesday to secure a round of 16 qualifications with a game to spare. But a below par performance today against the Cranes of Uganda will not sit pretty with the football crazy nation, and this the players and coach Javier Aguirre are acutely aware of this. Although the Mexican, like is Nigerian opposite number, is likely to make wholesale changes to his line-up, however, he will still expect the players he fields to satisfy the very demanding Egypt fans by delivering a top-notch performance on the field of play. Though the Cranes will strive to make it as difficult as possible for the home team, however, backed by an overwhelming support from the 70,000 plus fans crammed in the stands, one can see only one winner today – and that is the Pharaohs. And in the final Group A game, which for obvious reasons is being played simultaneously, Zimbabwe is facing DR Congo in a crunch game for them. As things stand, Zimbabwe will need to comfortably beat Congo while praying that they receive a helping hand from the Pharaohs. The Warriors currently have a solitary point and a minus one goal difference, while second placed Uganda has four points and plus two goals advantage so they will need to score at least four goals while hoping the Cranes are not able to breach the Pharaohs’ rear. – but while this is a possibility; what is doubtful it is the ability of Zimbabwe to put four unreplied goals past Congo. The 30,000-seater 30 June Stadium also in Cairo hosts this encounter. But fans following the game on television should not be surprised to see large swaths of empty seats – as most local fans will be either at the Cairo International Stadium or at home glued to their own TV sets watching their beloved Pharaohs in action. The intriguing nature of the games means fans should be in for any afternoon of high octane football action.   FIXTURES Group B Burundi v Guinea – 17:00 (Al-Salam Stadium) Madagascar v Nigeria – 17:00 (Alexandria Stadium) Group A Uganda v Egypt – 20:00 (30 June Stadium) Zimbabwe v DR Congo – 20:00 (Cairo International Stadium) 