President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, revoked six oil blocs with links to the family of late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Abiola; the Borno multi-billionaire, Alhaji Ibraheem Mai Deribe; Ibadan-born United States-based oil mogul, Chief Kase Lawal, and three others.
The President executed the revocation through the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), in a public notice.
Specifically, Buhari said the revocation was based on a presidential directive to “recover legacy debts” owed by the companies operating the licenses.
The revoked blocs, the oil sector regulator declared, included five Oil Mining Leases (OMLs) and one Oil Prospecting License (OPL) belonging to five companies.
The firms affected are Pan Ocean Oil Corporation (OML 98); Allied Energy Resources Nigeria (OML 120 and 121); Express Petroleum and Gas Company (OML 108); Cavendish Petroleum Nigeria (OML 110) and Summit Oil International (OPL 206).
Summit Oil International, the owner of OPL 206, is owned by the family of the late winner of June 12, 1993 presidential election, Chief M.K.O. Abiola; Allied Energy Energy Resources Nigeria, which owns OML 120 and 121 belongs to Kase Lawal while Mai Deribe is the owner of Cavendish Petroleum Nigeria OML 110.
Mai Deribe, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) at Cavendish Petroleum Nig Ltd. is one of the few lucky and controversial owners of crude oil wells in Nigeria. He also had his hands in some other pies such as soft drinks factory, the first of its type in North-Eastern Nigeria, which was commissioned by President Shehu Usman Aliyu Shagari in 1982 alongside the Deribe Hotel.
Lawal’s Allied Energy Plc., flagship project, OYO Field, produces oil in the deep offshore segment. Allied Energy Plc. manages the OML 120, OML 121, OPL 278, OPL 282, and OML 108 fields.
Formerly known as Allied Energy Resources Nigeria Limited, the company operates as a subsidiary of CAMAC Energy Holdings Limited.
On the other hand, Dr. Festus Fadeyi, the Chairman and Managing Director of Pan Ocean Corporation Nigeria (PANOCO) had, earlier in an interview, lamented that the hard times the company had faced and still faces was because its foreign partners had divested from the shareholding PANOCO and no longer had any interest in the affairs of the company.
The Swiss solicitors had told one Mrs. Annabella Timolini-Fabbri, the divorced wife of the late owner of the company, Dr. Vittorio Fabbri that PANOCO’s ownership cannot be linked to a single individual.
Fabbri was the sole owner of PANOCO through his two companies, Interocean Oil Exploration Company Nigeria and Interocean Oil Development Company Nigeria.
Pan Ocean hopes to commence the production of oil and gas from OML 147 at Owa Aladima.
OML 147 is one of the northern most developments in the Niger Delta, and also the first to be on production among the 2007 bid rounds.
Immediate past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu had, last February, announced plans to recover the oil licenses of the companies indebted to it.
He expressed worry that some of the companies had failed to make statutory remittances in spite of being in Joint Operatorship with the Federal Government, a development he said was denying Nigeria revenue running into billions of dollars.
Meanwhile, the founder of the One Love Family, Sat Guru Maharaj ji, has called on President Buhari to appoint him as his ‘spiritual adviser,’ to oversee the ministries of petroleum resources, water resources, and agriculture.
He said this during a press conference to mark the 26 years ‘Anniversary Celebrations of Nigeria Declaration as the new Holy Land of The Universe.’
He said this has become necessary because of failure of other religious groups and their leaders.