The Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) recently reconstructed some dilapidated buildings at the Local Education Authority (LEA) primary school, Dutse Alhaji, Bwari Area Council, Abuja. CALEB ONWE reports   When the Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) set out to renovate and reconstruct some dilapidated buildings at the Local Education Authority (LEA) Primary School, Dutsen Alhaji, in Bwari Area Council, it must have been conceived as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. However, to the teachers and pupils of the school, it was a long desired rescue mission.
Director General of BPE, Mr. Alex A. Okoh, said the intervention was designed by his agency to change the face of public education and give hope to indigent children, whose parents cannot afford alternative in a quest to educate their children.
Inside Abuja learnt that after evaluating the conditions of several schools within the territory, his team was attracted to the plight of this over populated public school where pupils were almost losing the taste of foundational education due to the unconducive environment.
Okoh said that he agreed to mobilize both men and materials for the project because he believes that ” the primary level of the education sector in the country is the basic foundation for educational pursuit of the children who are the future leaders.
“We have in this school today, future leaders, some of whom would be Directors General, Governors and a President of this country and we need to give them a congenial environment to excel”, he said.
According to the Director General, the intervention in the LEA Primary School, Dutse-Alhaji includes: ” Renovation of the Nursery and Primary Blocks, Construction of a new a toilet block (Male and female sections of four toilets each.)
“Provision of desks for renovated Nursery and Primary classes, provision of school bags (Back packs) and excise books, provision of School Uniforms (Male and Female). Provision of 20 Executive Chairs for the teachers, provision of desktop computers and monitors for demonstration classes, provision of visitors’ chairs for the Headmistress’ reception office; and construction of culverts, drainages, walkways as well as sand filling of water logged areas,” he said.
Listening to the Head teacher of the school, Mrs. Idowu Adebomi, reel out the catalogue of the school’s pathetic conditions, one would definitely imagine the pains of the indigent children, who had been subjected to a harsh learning environment for a very long time.
Adebomi, who was virtually shedding tears of joy while appreciating BPE for the benevolence, said that like a dream, BPE has transformed a once ” ugly ” structure of the school to a desirable ‘bride’. She recounted with nostalgia how the children were being harassed by rain while they were under the leaking roofs and broken walls.
The head teacher said she had been in the school for more than five years and had made frantic efforts to get the Bwari Area Council and other relevant government agencies to come to their rescue, but no success was achieved.
“ I cannot thank BPE enough for this act that has improved the learning environment in this school. We were faced with serious challenge before now. We were moving the children from one place to another once it begins to rain, because the roof was leaking.
“Sometimes, the rain would interrupt our classes and we will have no option than to close when there is no better place to move the children to,” she said.
The two blocks of classrooms renovated and toilets newly constructed for the school were not the main factors that spurred uncontrollably celebrations among the pupils but the new school kits, books and uniforms that were donated to them alongside the buildings.
The sight of the new gifts alone generated palpable joy among the pupils of this school, comprising mostly indigent children of both low and middle income earners, who are residents of the populous Dutse Alhaji , a major satellite town in the Federal Capital Territory.
Inside Abuja gathered that the hope of having the dilapidated buildings repaired for the school had dimmed and the management of the over populous public school had to be forced to make do with what was available.
The school, occupying a large expanse of land in the area had up to 11 structures, while some are manageable, some of them look like replicas of the colonial masters.
The Traditional Ruler of the Area, the Hakimi of Dusten, Alhaji Abubakar Bako pledged the commitment of the community to provide security towards the safety of the facilities and appealed to the BPE management to renovate the remaining building in the school which he described as an ‘eye-sore’.