Abia State Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, has said that in order to preserve the lives of the residents of the state and make the roads safer for their use, his administration is poised to construct 500-kilometers of new roads within the next 4 years.  The Governor said that having constructed over 76 high quality roads in his first tenure which has made life easy for the people, funds are already secured for the next phase of construction in order to ensure the safety of Abia road users. Gov Ikpeazu disclosed this during the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), 2019 bi-annual zonal retreat hosted by the Abia State Sector Command in Umuahia on Friday. It was attended by the Zonal Commanding Officer of Zone RS9 Headquarters, Enugu, ACM Osas Osadebamwen. Others in attendance included: Representatives of the Zonal Heads of the Nigeria Army, Navy, Nigerian Immigration Service, Nigerian Security & Civil Defence, Federal Road Safety Corps, Department of State Services and other security agencies. Ikpeazu went further to urge men and officers of the FRSC to build confidence within the society as the safety of the people on the roads constitute their primary responsibility.  The Governor who was represented by the Abia State commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi-Kalu, applauded the inter-agency cooperation in the state which, according to him, is the reason Abia remains the safest State in Nigeria. He said that there is no dichotomy among the agencies when it comes to operational areas and delineation of sphere of influence because they work together.  The Governor praised the FRSC for its vital roles in the security of lives and urged them to continue to focus on driving down the rate of accidents on Nigerian roads while placing less emphasis on generating revenue through the public they serve. He further promised to collaborate with the FRSC in order to help them perform their duties effectively and ensure safety of Abia road users. As part of his efforts to ensure safety of road users, Gov Ikpeazu disclosed that the Abia State Passengers Integrated Manifest & Safety Scheme (ASPIMSS), has been given 6 ambulances and deployed 4 new fully equipped mobile hospitals for emergency response services. He further called on the heads of military and paramilitary organizations present at the retreat to continue to synergize amongst themselves especially through the use of ICT in their operations.  The Sector Commander, FRSC Abia State, Meshach Jatau, applauded Governor Ikpeazu for supporting the operations of the agency in the state and assured that his team will continue to work with relevant government agencies to ensure improved road safety in the state.  Also speaking at the retreat, Commandant of the Nigerian Navy, Owerrinta, Navy Commander Waki Muhammad, stressed the need for good intelligence gathering as he noted that it has been the most effective tool that helped law enforcement agencies in the state to carry out their functions effectively. He added that the Nigerian Navy is always ready to work assiduously with the Road Safety Corps to achieve their common goal of keeping road users safe.