   As part of measures to ensure good welfare package for young medical doctors in Lagos, the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Lagos State Branch, has urged health facilities across the nation to end the practice of some ‘Resident Doctors’ and ‘House Officers’ working without earning salaries. The Chairman of the NMA state branch, Dr. Saliu Oseni, who made this call in Lagos recently, disclosed that the NMA was committed to end the practice, which exploited some junior cadre of medical doctors. He spoke at the ‘Young Doctors’ Forum,’ which was organised by the NMA, Lagos State Branch recently in Lagos. The event attracted many young doctors in Lagos. Dignitaries in attendance include the President, Medical Women Association of Nigeria (MWAN), Dr. Omowunmi Bakare, the immediate former Chairman, NMA, Lagos State Branch, Dr. S.K Adebayo, Chairman, Medical Guild, Dr. Babajide Saheed, President, Association of Resident Doctors at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH-ARD), Dr. Fatai Balogun, among others. Other issues discussed at the event were strategies for leadership skills, the need for young doctors to have mentors, how to navigate ladder of success in the medical profession, exploring alternatives to medical practice, among others. In his remarks at the occasion, Oseni said: “Let everybody and health institutions stop taking supernumerary.” He blamed health facilities for creating the situations that prompt some resident doctors and house officers to accept to work without remuneration.
However, Oseni stressed: “If we agree that we can stop supernumerary, we can. “Let everybody and institutions stop taking supernumerary. We create the scarcity and we are forced to employ the doctors without paying them.” According to him, the NMA would set up a committee that would work out the modalities of ending this practice of doctors working while without salaries in Lagos. Oseni said: “We need to have a committee that will look into the problem.” supernumerary is the practice whereby some doctors doing mandatory training including resident training and housemanship without being paid. House officers are newly graduate medical doctors, who are expected to do a mandatory one-year medical practice before they can be qualified to be deployed to serve in the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme. Due to inability to get facility to do their horsemanship work some doctors opt to work without pay. On their part, resident doctors are graduate doctors (post NYSC) who go through six to seven years training in mostly teaching hospitals during which they specialise in an aspect of medicine such as cardiology, orthopaedics, among others. While some resident doctors in Nigeria pay between N200,000 to N500,000 to health facilitates for residency training, other resident doctors receive salaries while doing their training. Hence, to ensure they get placement for the training these set of doctors opt to work without pay. These are the anomalies the NMA plans to rectify. On uniform salary for young doctors, Oseni said the NMA was still working on that. He also assured the young doctors that NMA would look into other anomalies where private health facilities employ young doctors without paying them salaries.