Wife of the Ekiti State Governor, Mrs Bisi Fayemi, has called on the Federal Government agency in charge of human trafficking, to consider establishing its office in the state owing to the urgency required at times to save trafficked persons. She explained that this would reduce bureaucracy and make interventions faster and easier in the fight to end human trafficking and modern day slavery. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that she made the call on Monday while delivering a lecture titled, “Human Trafficking: A Menace to Socio-Economic Development of the Society”, during the International Federation of Women Lawyers,(FIDA ) week in Ado-Ekiti. The governor’s wife said there would be zero tolerance for sex offenders and human trafficking in the state . She said that there would be a strong political will to support all the activities of the International Federation of Women Lawyers,(FIDA) in fighting for the cause of the girl-child and women in the state. Fayemi also used the occasion to warn Ekiti citizens not to obstruct the law enforcement agencies in cases of human trafficking and other related sex offences, adding that they should allow the law to take its course. “Anyone who begs on behalf or follow human traffickers and sex offenders to the police station to beg on their behalf should be detained with the culprits,” she added. Earlier, the Chairperson of FIDA, Mrs Funke Anoma, said that the FIDA week was intended to sensitise and create awareness on the menace of human trafficking. She called on government and its agencies as well as individuals especially parents to be alert to their obligations, to ensure that no child, no woman and no girl is enslaved in this modern age. Anoma, however, charged Ekiti women to see this as a call to greater responsibility and opportunity to enhance their socio-economic development. In the same vein, the Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General of the state, Mr Wale Fapohunda, said the ministry was ready to support and promote the work to ensure that there was zero tolerance for domestic violence, rape and child defilement. (NAN)