The President of the South-South Consultat ive Forum, Moses Mugidi has said that the country’s next President in 2023 should come from the South. Addressing journalists in Warri, Delta State, while reacting to the statement credited to Alhaji Shettima Yerima, the President of Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, Mugidi described the statement as an affront and insult to the South for saying that the North will hold on to power come 2023 . According to him, “Power comes from God and He gives it to whoever he pleases,” adding that gone are the days of ignorance and not these days when the South understands the potency of its economic power which is the engine room of the country. He called on the North to strive in all its capacity within the confines of the laws to encourage investment towards growing the North instead of trying to hold tenaciously to power by all means. Mugidi said that the North with its vast land can be a model for mechanized farming, thereby making the region home for agricultural produce rather than concentrating on it’s energy, finance, and human resources into politics and politics alone. He, therefore, called on Yerima to desist from saying that the North should not hand over power to the South, stressing that in as much as the North believes in political powers rather it is much better to have economic power “This is why the place of the South-South, South West and South East cannot be dismissed either politically or economically with just a wave of the hand in our current political dispensation” he further said. Consequently, he advised Yerima to know that power is secured via a collective responsibility by members involved and not by force of like the Military. “Therefore, the collective unity of purpose should be our driving ideals towards building a united and peaceful Nigeria instead of thinking Nigeria belong only to the North alone” Mugidi called on the people of south-south, especially the elders, traditional rulers and the youths of the region to stand and be on their watch over the current spread of insurgency across the country in order to protect the lives and properties of the good people of the south-south. “As a people, we must be at alert to watch our backs taking note of our economic position in Nigeria.” He also called on the federal government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari to consider the south-south by appointing sons and daughters from the south-south into his government and also attract more developmental projects and institutions to the region.