…seeks cancellation of Buhari’s election Hope Democratic Party (HDP) and its Presidential candidate in the February 23 Presidential election, Chief Ambrose Owuru, had, in a fresh motion, told the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Abuja that the said election was unlawful, illegal and unconstitutional. President Muhammadu Buhari was declared winner of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and had since been sworn in for the second term. The petitioners, who participated in the election, however, prayed the Tribunal to nullify the said election on the ground that the poll is unknown to law. In a fresh motion filed by the petitioners, they argued that the postponement of the election from February 16 to 23 had no backing of any law as no cogent and verifiable reason required by law were advanced for the postponement. The petitioners, through their counsel, Ezechukwu Kennedy Ifeanyi, in the fresh suit, insisted that the February 23 poll was never validly held by INEC and cannot produce any valid result or returns recognizable by law. Although the party admitted that the electoral body has powers under Section 26 of the Electoral Act 2010, it however maintained that no cogent and verifiable reason were adduced by INEC to postpone the February 16 election and thereby rendered the February 23 election a nullity under the same law. HDP, which cited several authorities to buttress its averment, said that since INEC breached the provisions of the Electoral Act, especially section 26, to conduct the February 23 poll, the purported election cannot stand in the eyes of the law. The party, therefore, prayed for an order compelling INEC to produce at the tribunal notice of election, original time-table for February 16, the press statement of February 16, as well as minutes of meeting where the decision to postpone the February 16 presidential was held. HDP also prayed that the return of President Buhari for a second term in office on account of February 23 election be invalidated and set aside because the election has no force of law. HDP and its presidential candidate had earlier filed a petition marked: CA/PETP/001/2019 asking the tribunal to nullify the election that brought Buhari to office. It was the contention of the petitioners that they were validly nominated for the 2019 general election, but were unlawfully excluded from the said elections by INEC by delisting their names and party logo from the ballot papers. Another grouse of the petitioners was that the electoral body placed a false version of their registered party logo on the ballot papers for elections and thereby cost them the chances of realizing their political ambition in the 2019 general election. Meanwhile, the tribunal will resume pre-hearing session in the HDP petition against the election of President Buhari tomorrow.