  After weeks of permutations driven by a combination of factors, ambition, personal interest and party interest, the leadership of the National Assembly emerged last Tuesday, as 107 Senators and about 360 members of the House of Representatives elected their leaders for the next four years – all things being equal. To the duo to Senator (Dr.) Ahmed Lawan and Chief Ovie Omo-Agege who emerged President of the Senate and Deputy Senate respectively, as well as Hon. Femi Gajabiamila and Hon. Idris Wase who clinched the positions in the House of Representatives in landslide margins, it is time for business. After all 107 senators present cast their votes, Lawan got 79 votes while his rival, Senator Ali Ndume finished with only 28, and was promptly sworn in by the Clerk of the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori. Similarly Gbajabiamila defeated Umar Bago by scoring 281 to 76 votes. But one very glaring thing from the elections was that the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC), this time sounded in the loudest terms “Never Again.’ For those conversant with the Semitic history, the phrase was coined by the Jews after the World War II, following the Holocaust which incinerated millions of them. Learning the lessons of history, the Israelis resolved that never again will they be scattered outside their homeland. And so for the APC, it was victory song as the party’s leadership candidates for the various positions emerged winners, a development that has bolstered the ego of its Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The later now has reasons to beat his chest as he has muzzled the nihilistic voices who have labeled him an undertaker in the APC. The latter’s position was almost justified as the post- primaries intra-party crises almost took the party to the cleaners. Some, like the Deputy National Chairman of the party, North, Alhaji Lawal Shuaibu, have hurled blames at him for the loss of many states in the last election to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the last elections. With the outcome of the elections, APC had successfully saved itself from the repeat of the 2015 hiatus and miscalculations which culminated in the emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki and Hon. Yakubu Dogara as President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives respectively. The party suffered what it considered the consequences of that action, though viewed differently by the then National Assembly leadership as a way of getting their desired leadership without imposition. But as the ruling party savours the joy of victory, one would not forget in a hurry the unexpected entry of the longest serving PDP senators and senator representing Enugu West Senatorial District, Dr. Ike Ekweremadu on the cards in the contest for the Deputy Senate Presidency seat, a position he has occupied for 12 consecutive years. Ekweremadu, however, got a deal he never anticipated as he scored 37 votes against Omo-Agege 68 to enable the latter emerge the new Deputy Senate President. The outcome hardly took anyone aback. Upon his nomination by the Senator Sen. Geoffrey Utazi, representing Enugu North, on the platform of the PDP, supported by Senator Rose Okoh, Cross River, many senators were taken aback, either because it was not in the plans or that they felt that Ekweremadu should have bowed out honourably, or towed the line David Mark who rescinded to the background in 2015. “I don’t want to believe he miscalculated or that he was a driven by avarice or ambition, because it was a clear that he would not have won in the first place, hence, some of us expected him to have turned the nomination down, more so as he is believed to be nursing the ambition to govern Enugu State in 2023.  “The honourable thing for him was to have turned it down to open the way for another senator from the South-East to take on that position. Many of us would have supported that. Prominent and ranking senators like all the former Deputy Governor of Abia State, Senator Eyinnanya Abaribe, and the Senator representing Anambra Central, Senator Uche Ekwunife would have fitted into the seat; they would have enjoyed the sympathy of many senators because the South-East has been excluded in the scheme of things,” a serving senator on the platform of the PDP said.  He added that PDP and Ekweremadu made a mistake by their failure to strike a deal with some senators in the APC, with a “Plan B” which would have trumped up a third nominee for the Deputy Senate President position, in order to enable them split the votes with a possible victory for their party.  But justifying his action, Ekweremadu gave a plausible explanation looking at what happened when Senate was invaded under his watch. “It would have been very embarrassing that somebody who led that operation would just be asked to take a bow and would be endorsed and we all walkover as if it doesn’t matter.”  ”So I wanted a situation where Nigerians, especially through their representatives, will be able to present a referendum in respect of what transpired and then be able to either endorse or condemn it…Only this morning because actually we weren’t minded to run for any office but we thought that our friends in APC will be able to come up with another candidate.”  As if he was not too comfortable with the outcome, he said: “I think that God has just given me that opportunity to have a rest. For over 20 years, I have been very busy with politics, with leadership, with governance. So I think this is an opportunity for me to have a rest and reflect on so many other things.”  Another dimension to the entire issue is the perception that Omo-Agege’s emergence as Deputy Senate President is a compensation for his alleged unlawful and degrading involvement in the invasion of the Senate last year and consequent theft of the mace by some hooligans under the watch of law enforcement agents. Besides, his genuflecting or near lick-spitted appearance before the President Muhammadu Buhari cast a doubt on his fair-mindedness to defend the nation’s democracy and the Senate’s check on the executive.