The building firestorm of protest that has been building against Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, Senior Pastor of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly Worldwide (COZA), reached a new level yesterday, with notable entertainers and Nigerians calling for his investigation and likely prosecution. It all began sometime last month when prominent singer, Timi Dakolo, who had earlier accused the pastor of sexual relations with teenagers in his church last year, had another go at the dashing and usually flamboyantly attired Pastor Fatoyinbo. Coming six years from a sex scandal triggered by the outpouring of her mind by a writer and former member of COZA in Abuja, Ese Walter, even when the “Iyawo mi” singer didn’t mention the name of the pastor accused of causing untold pain to women of different ages, backgrounds and classes across the country, thoughts of most people pointed in the man’s direction. Recounting her experiences which began over ten years ago, Busola said Pastor Fatoyinbo raped her more than once. The first, according to her was when he showed up at her house unannounced early one Monday morning, so early Busola Dakolo was still in her nightgown and her mother and sisters were not around. Without a word, she said he allegedly forced her onto a chair, pulled down her underwear and raped her before leaving for his car to fetch a bottle of Krest which she forced her to drink it. Coming at a time she said Fatoyinbo’s wife had just given birth to their first child, Oluwashindara, Mrs Dakolo said he told her: “You should be happy that a man of God did this to you” in this series of videos by YNaija. One of those to set off the fireworks yesterday on Twitter is filmmaker and music producer, Daniel Ademinokan, now married to another actress, Stella Damasus, “I just saw Busola Dakolo’s interview and I BELIEVE EVERY WORD she said because my wife and I had our encounter with this man and we saw the signs immediately. It’s a shame that Pastor Biodun is bringing shame to the body of Christ… Yes…COZA pastor should be held accountable for his actions. Any man, regardless of office who has multiple allegations like this should be investigated, prosecuted and convicted if found guilty. You can’t hide under spirituality to claim immunity,” the entertainer, formerly married to Nollywood actress, Doris Simeon, wrote among other tweets via his @DaBishop007 Twitter handle. He went on to praise Timi Dakolo and his wife for the courage to bring the matter to light as his Nollywood actress wife, Stella Damasus, added her own thoughts. “The problem with education in Nigeria is really serious. Some people actually use the phrase CONSENTED RAPE and believe they have spoken English sha. What the hell does that mean? Who gives you consent to rape them. If there was consent how is it rape? #illiteracy big disease. “When I said the #metoo movement will be in naija soon, ppl said I was stupid for saying it. I am happy to be alive at a time like this. A time when women can finally stand up for themselves and speak their truth. The truth that our society said we were not allowed to speak,” she wrote via @stelladamasus along with the hashtags: #IStandwithBusolaDakolo #RapeIsACrime. Another notable entertainer who commented in the sage is Nollywood actress, Kate Henshaw, with the Roti star, apart from retweeting most of Ademinokan’s tweets, wrote: “Truth no matter how long it takes will come to light….” before adding ‘#SayNo- ToRape no matter the title of the rapist’ – Amara.” Also commenting via her handle, @obyezeks, activist and former World Bank vice president, Oby Ezekwesili wrote in two tweets: “I have just read @YNaija interview with Mrs Busola Dakolo on her former Pastor, Pastor Fatoyinbo of COZA. What I read is too horrific an experience. I pray Healing. Rape is a scourge we must all fight. I’d advise the Pastor to quickly respond to her weighty charges. Quickly. “It is daily evident that our country does have a Rape Epidemic problem. It must be tackled swiftly. The Police & Public Prosecution must take the lead to seek Justice for victims&signal deterrent. Thanks to @ProjectalertVaw @MirabelCentreNG @StandtoEndRape for the heavy lifting.” On her own, star actress, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde also called for the so-called cleric’s prosecution, writing via her @Realomosexy handle. “I implore other Women who, if have been Raped/ Abused by this pastor or any other, to please speak out. I also hope we can find a way to prosecute. Dear lawyers, advise… Protect Women. May the truth guide all involved. #Osexyfriday #Rape #Cozapastor #Metoo #WeStandWithYou,” the Alter Ego actress wrote. With such topics as #COZA, #Biodun Fatoyinbo, #Krest, #TimiDakolo, #BusolaDakolo, #IStandwithBusolaDakolo, #SayNo- ToRape, #Consented trending all day, it was not until later on Friday that a press statement was issued via his Instagram account which had posted a message of a forthcoming church event earlier in the day. Posted as a PDF version, the statement reads in parts: “I am aware that there has been a recent media publication on YouTube by YNaija operated and owned by RED Media Group which shows an interview with Chude Jideonwo with Busola Dakolo. Prior to now, we had adhered to our policy of ignoring rumours from social media accounts as we knew that several statements had been made to extort the church of money and myself through blackmail, harassment and intimidation. We have refused time and again to accede to their requests, which has infuriated them overtime, because of this they have gotten more aggressive. Unlike previous statements where innuendos were used and there was no direct mention of myself or the Church, the recent video released on YouTube has now made direct Criminal allegations against me in the interviee granted by Busola Dakolo which are fallacious, non-existent and which are all denied in every measure. As an individual and as a church, we love and support people, and we will never any form of abuse, rape, harassment, or intimidation by anybody. I have never in my life raped anybody even as an unbeliever and I am absolutely innocent of this.” While acknowledging that Busola and her family attended the church in Ilorin in 1999, Fatoyinbo said he has instructed his lawyers to start civil and criminal against everyone involved in making the allegations. When Saturday Telegraph sought his reaction, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) President, Revd. Dr. ‘Supo Ayokunle, said the body neither regulates nor intervene in the running of churches. Speaking through his Special Assistant (Media & Communications), Pastor Oladeji Adebayo, he said: “I am sorry CAN does not intervene in how churches are running. Churches belong to denominations and these are the two bodies that regulate how pastors run their ministries, not CAN. CAN deals with intrareligious matters and stands between the church and the government.”