The National Committee of Yoruba Youth, NCYY has expressed its confidence in the ability of the Nigerian Security Agencies to tackle the rising cases of activities of some kidnappers and criminal gangs being witnessed in some parts of the southwest. The group also insisted that the region is not under any siege as being reported by some persons, mostly on social media. The group also frowns at the attempt to incite the Yoruba’s against the Northerners residing in the Southwest,  the group stated that it is highly sinister and despicable to limit criminality or violent crimes to an ethnic group or towards religious faith. In a statement by the leadership of NCYY, which was issued on its behalf by, Comrade Odeyemi Oladimeji, the group said tackling security challenges in any society should not be left alone for the security agencies and government. The group noted that, some Tribal warlords, Religious fundamentalist, some sections of the media and the desperate political opposition have found a habit of politicising and adding ethnicity to any security challenge in the country, while deliberately underplaying the efforts of the security agencies, just to massage their political egos with few points. Odeyemi said it is on record, that the swift response of the Buhari administration through the Military, especially the Nigerian Army in containing the activities of bandits and other violent groups that seek to create a state within the Nigerian state, through special military operations such as the operation python dance, crocodile smile, joint task force and the likes, is not only commendable but have also helped in reducing the activities of the bandits and other criminal elements. Part of the statement read: “Our security agencies, particularly the gallant troops of the Nigerian Army have continued to show capacity and capabilities in securing  lives and properties in Nigeria. We believe the situation being experienced in some part of the Country,  is not beyond control and as such, will be easily tackled with the cooperation of our people and most especially,  the various state governments in the southwest. The war on criminality is everybody’s business as government alone cannot solve the issue of insecurity. We are however satisfied with the action already being deployed so far, the administration is demonstrating the obvious fact that President Buhari takes seriously the safety and well being of Nigerian citizens.” While regretting the challenges in the few cases of kidnapping and killings, the group urged the people of Southwest  and Nigerians in general, to remain alert, informed and cooperate with the government in all measures being taken to halt possible spread of banditry, criminality and other violent crimes. The group also warned those using the security situation in the region,  for selfish and political gains to desist from such conducts as playing politics with issues like this, is to play God. The group also commended the Military and other security agencies engaging this evil monsters,  while also calling on all Nigerians irrespective of faith, creed and tribe to set out time everyday to pray for our uniform men,  and our great nation,  Nigeria.