Finally, the Nigeria Professional Football League regular season has ended with six clubs promoted to the playoff while eight clubs were relegated to the Nigeria National League. The playoff teams are currently slugging it out at the Agege Stadium Lagos at the moment with the Super Six expected to come to an end on Wednesday, June 12.  But the clubs are already clamouring for more abridged league seasons same as the fans, who believe they stand a better opportunity of achieving more success than a full league season. Some of the clubs who spoke with League Rendezvous on condition of anonymity said they played lesser games and also travelled less during the season compared to a situation whereby they tour the country for 19 weeks. “For me, I will love the abridged league to continue because it makes us travel less,” the player who craved anonymity said.  “We only travelled for 11 weeks during the regular season and it was less stressful for us as a team and even the players. “It was also a good season for us as there was a proper monitoring of the matches from the League Management Company and the Nigeria Football Federation, even though we still had some lapses during the season.  “It is going to be interesting for us to play the abridged season again, although this time around with fewer teams to go on relegation, maybe two from each group instead of four like we had this season.  “It was very tough especially with four clubs going on relegation, but it was an agreement from the start of the campaign, so there is nothing anyone can do about it.” A fan who spoke with our correspondent, Olalekan Oyinlola, said although he would want the league on television, he expressed his happiness on the outcome of the abridged season. According to him, the clubs were fighting from the start of the campaign since they knew they were going for lesser matches compared to when they played 38 matches.  He added: “They played all the games both home and away like a cup final because of the few number of games they are played in the season, so the fans were able to witness interesting games. “Some of the teams who were sluggish at the start of the campaign had themselves to blame at the send while those who started well enjoyed the campaign.  “Imagine a team like MFM, if they had waited for later, they would have been relegated while a team like Insurance failed to utilize the opportunity given to them as they drew their games at home. “I will want to appeal to LMC to continue with this setup and see how we can move the league forward, although I will want them to take the NPFL back on television.”