Not less than 2 children and a teenager were confirmed dead, with several others sustaining various degrees of injuries when gunmen suspected to be herdsmen attacked a Kaduna community. The attack took place in Unguwan Rimi village, Kauru local government area of Kaduna state. The Kaduna State Police Command has confirmed the attack in a statement in Kaduna on Tuesday. The attackers were said to have invaded the village around 2:30 pm on Monday, shooting indiscriminately at residents. The children unable to escape were gunmen and said to have died on the spot. A resident of the community disclosed that the gunmen started shooting immediately they entered the village, as residents scampered for cover in different directions. However, the police said the attack might be a reprisal on an earlier attack in a Fulani settlement within the vicinity. “Preliminary investigation later revealed that the attack might not be unconnected with the attack of Fulani camp early morning of the same date in the area.” Yakubu Sabo, spokesman of the Kaduna State Police Command had said in a statement. Sabo gives the names of those killed as, Monday Yahaya, 8 years old, Samson David 17 years and Ashimile Danladi 9 years. He said a manhunt is already underway to apprehend the perpetrators and bring them to justice. Part of the statement said, “Information reaching us that on 17/6/19 at about 14:25hrs, DPO Kauru received a distress call that, armed men entered Unguwan Rimi village, Chawai District of Kauru LGA, started shooting sporadically and in the process shot dead one Monday Yahaya 8 years, Samson David 17 years, and Ashimile Danladi 9 years respectively. “Teams of policemen quickly moved to the area, evacuated the dead bodies to the hospital and ensured that the situation was brought under control. “Preliminary investigation later revealed that the attack might not be unconnected with the attack of Fulani camp early morning of the same date in the area. “However, efforts are on to apprehend the perpetrators and the command has intensified patrols and other proactive measures to forestall further breach of peace in the area.” he said.