  The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 election, Atiku Abubakar and his party have vowed to approach the Supreme Court to challenge the ruling of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal (PEPT) sitting in Abuja.
The Tribunal, yesterday, refused their application seeking for access to inspect the server and data of smart card readers said to have been used by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Atiku and PDP are jointly challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari in the said election.
In a bid to establish their case, the petitioners had requested that the tribunal grant them access to inspect the electronic server and smart card readers used for the election.
The respondents – Buhari, INEC and APC – had separately opposed the application.
Ruling on the application, Chairman of the five-man panel, Justice Mohammed Garba, held that: “Granting of the application would imply that the court has delved into and resolved the contentious issue of the existence of a central server at INEC.”
Justice Garba added that doing so would further create the impression that the tribunal has concluded that there is a central server where results of the February 23 election were received and stored.
The tribunal had, on June 13, reserved ruling in the application filed by Atiku and PDP on May 8, seeking for access to inspect INEC’s central server and smart card readers allegedly used in the conduct of the February 23 presidential election.
However, the tribunal, in a unanimous decision, refused to grant the application on the grounds that since parties have joined issues. The tribunal cannot, at the interlocutory stage, make an order that would affect the substantive issue.
“I decline to grant the relief sought. This application is refused and accordingly dismissed,” Justice Garba held.
The tribunal later adjourned till tomorrow for continuation of hearing.
Meanwhile, lead counsel to the petitioners, Chief Chris Uche (SAN), said the decision of the tribunal would be challenged at the Supreme Court, adding that Section 151 of the Electoral Act allows them to inspect materials used by INEC for the election.
He pointed out that the nation is looking forward to the ruling of the tribunal on the petitioners’ application seeking to inspect the electoral materials, which he noted is pivotal.
Uche further stated that granting the application would, in no way, prejudice the substantive matter.
INEC, he said, is a public institution and had mentioned having a central server and wondered why it turned around to say it has no server.
“We are not asking the court to decide whether there is a server or not. So, the aspect of the court prejudging in the issue doesn’t arise at all. All we are saying is that the court should allow us access to inspect the materials which we are entitled to, as INEC is a public institution funded by public funds.
“So, we are going to challenge that ruling.”
Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), one of the counsels to the petitioners, also said: “INEC chairman himself, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, has maintained again and again before and during the election that there is a central server, that results were going to be electronically transmitted to that central server.
“And all the Electoral Commissioners maintained that the stage we are in now is a technological stage where things would not be done manually and anything not done with the PVC, which results would be transmitted electronically to the central server, would not be valid.
“What the court has said today (yesterday) is like more or less that you don’t have the right under section 151 of the Electoral Act to maintain your petition, but we didn’t ask for details, we didn’t ask for content; all we asked for is to allow us access.
“So it is not an issue. We are appealing the decision because it is like tying your hands behind your back and expecting you to fight. We are appealing the decision because we want to know what is in the central server that they are hiding.”
Ozekhome added that the public is also interested because budget was made for procurement of the central server in billions and it was approved by the National Assembly and it was disbursed.
“And INEC said they have done all that. So where is the money, what is there that they are hiding?
“This is not just a case between Atiku and Buhari; it is a case that has generated public interest for electoral transparency, credibility and freedom.”
The petitioners had premised the request for inspection of server and smart card readers on ground that the INEC server showed that Atiku scored 18,356,732 votes as against 16,741,430 votes by Buhari.
They argued that it was against INEC’s manual collation which showed that President Buhari won the election with 15,191,847 votes with Atiku polling 11, 262,978 votes.
According to the petitioners, “The servers from which the said figures were derived belong to the First Respondent (INEC). The figures and votes were transmitted to the First Respondent’s Presidential Result’s Server 1 and, thereafter, aggregated in INEC_PRES_RSLT_SRV2019, whose Physical Address or unique Mac Address is 94-57-A5-DC-64-B9 with Microsoft Product ID 00252-7000000000-AA535. The above descriptions are unique to the First Respondent’s Server.
“There is no conjecture in the votes and scores in the table pleaded by the petitioners. The figures are factual.”
Earlier, the tribunal had granted the application by Buhari to amend his reply to Atiku and the PDP’s petition against his victory at the presidential poll. Counsel to President Buhari, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) had, while responding to the petitioners’ claim that Buhari (2nd respondent) lacked the prerequisite qualification to contest for the office of the president of Nigeria, failed to include his name and National Identification Number (NIM) on the process as required by law.
The application to amend the reply to reflect the name and NIM on the process was, however, opposed by the petitioners on the grounds that failure to do so when the reply was filed had rendered the reply incompetent.
“An incompetent process cannot be amended. There is nothing to amend once time for filing of the reply has expired. Further amendment cannot be done,” Levy Uzoukwu (SAN), Atiku’s counsel, had submitted.
However, Olanipekun, in urging the tribunal to allow the application for amendment, submitted that the application was harmless as it does not affect the response of the 2nd Respondent in anyway or prejudice against the petitioners, adding that failure to supply address of the 2nd Respondent does not affect the process.
In its ruling, the tribunal, in a unanimous decision, however, agreed that allowing the amendment would do no harm to the petition.
“The omission of name and address does not make the reply incompetent, the order to amend is hereby granted. The 2nd Respondent is granted three days from now to file his amendment,” the tribunal held.