 Police said they had deployed patrols and surveillance to places of worship and public places in Lagos for Eid-el-Fitri celebration. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said the command had deployed adequate number of personnel to places of worship, markets, recreational areas and highways for a hitch-free Sallah celebration. Elkana said that personnel from Anti-Bomb units were deployed to prayer grounds and worship centres to screen people going into such places. He said: “Surveillance patrol teams are equally deployed to places of human gathering to monitor activities of criminal elements who may want to disturb the peace of the state or use the occasion to commit crime. “The command’s Tactical Units and Special Forces are deployed to strategic locations to deal decisively with any criminal elements before, during and after the celebration. Aerial, land and waterways patrols are intensified.  “The command’s Anti-Terrorism Units are placed on red alert to tackle any act of terrorism that may rear its ugly face anytime, anywhere. Traffic personnel are well positioned to control and regulate free flow of traffic.” The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, in his Sallah message, called on “Muslim Ummah to continue in the spirit of love, sacrifice and peaceful coexistence that the Holy Month of Ramadan signifies and pray that Allah in His infinite mercy will accept our supplications”.  He said: “The Commissioner of Police called on Lagosians to be conscious of their environment and remain vigilant at all times. It is our civic duty to report suspicious movements or persons to the police. The commissioner appealed to parents and guardians to monitor the activities of their children and wards. The commissioner also called on the youths to be law abiding and shun any act of lawlessness, gangsterism and violence. “The commissioner warned that, the command will deal mercilessly with criminal elements in the State in accordance with the law. “Our Rapid Response Squads are well positioned, to promptly respond to distress calls and emergencies. In case of any emergency or information we can be reached through any of the following numbers: 08063299264; 07055462708; 08127155150; 08065154338; 09053872208; 08127155071.  “Remember, together we can continue to make Lagos State safe.”