 Finally, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has zoned the position of the Deputy Senate President of the 9th Assembly to the South South zone, just as it has adopted Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for the position. The position of the party was made public yesterday through a statement signed by the APC South South National Vice Chairman, Prince Hilliard Eta and the South South zonal secretary, Mr. David Okumgba. According to the statement, to Senators from the zone, Francis Alimikhena from Edo State and Ovie Omo-Agege indicated interest for the position but the zone chose Omo-Agege given the fact that the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is from Edo State. In the statement signed by the two zonal leader, the zone said, “The Zonal Working Committee acting on behalf of the Zonal Executive Committee, Elders and Leaders of the South-South geopolitical zone of our great Party, the All Progressives Congress, (APC) wish to state categorically that we align ourselves with the decision of the national leadership of our great Party in respect of the zoning of the Principal offices of the 9th National Assembly. We commend our respected leader, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari for his sterling leadership of the affairs of our great country and our illustrious son, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for his sound administrative experience in piloting the affairs of our great Party. The leadership of the South-South Zone is fully in support of Mr. President. Our zone has been given the opportunity by our great Party to produce the Deputy Senate President for the 9th National Assembly and we are thankful. “It is important to state that our two illustrious sons, Distinguished Senators Francis Alimikhena from Edo State and Ovie Omo-Agege from Delta State had indicated interest to contest for the office of the Deputy Senate President. Both of them are eminently qualified for that office as both are ranking Senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” “However, considering the current zoning of political offices in our zone whereby Edo State produced the current National Chairman of our great Party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and other considerations, it became imperative that our zone supports the candidature of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for the office of the Deputy Senate President. “The South South geo political zone had demonstrated uncommon faith, courage and vigour in the just concluded general elections by voting massively for candidates of our great Party at all levels. “We implore all Distinguished Senators to please stand by us and support Senator Ovie Omo Agege for the position of Deputy Senate President.” However, the former governor of Abia State and Senator elect, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia North) South East and Senator Kabiru Gaya (Kano South), North West are also on the race for the Deputy Senate President position.