The unavailability of documents from the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) has stalled the forgery trial of John Abebe, the younger brother of former first lady, late Mrs Stella Obasanjo, yesterday in an Ikeja Special Offences Court. Abebe is alleged by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to have on June 22, 2010 knowingly forged portions of a letter belonging to BP Exploration Nigeria Ltd dated November 30,1995. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Christopher Ikem, a staff of CAC and the second defence witness (DW2), informed the court that the CAC was still in the process of collating the documents necessary for Abebe’s defence. He noted that some of the documents date as far back as 1992. The defence counsel, Mr Uche Nwokedi (SAN), requested for an adjournment of the suit to enable the subpoenaed CAC official to bring the necessary documents to court. Reacting, the lead prosecuting counsel for the EFCC, Mr Rotimi Oyedepo, however, expressed displeasure over the defence counsel’s request for an adjournment. He said: “My lord the learned SAN can tender the documents himself we should not use DW2 as a skyscraper of adjournments. The documents about to be tendered has no relation to the charge. “It is alleged that the defendant forged a document that was presented during proceedings at the Federal High Court. “I humbly and passionately pray my lord that proceedings should not be stalled as justice is not for the defendant alone.” Responding Nwokedi said: “We issued these subpoenas to the witnesses in May and this case is under constant review and we owe it to provide the best defence. “If my learned friend can state here that he has not sought an adjournment in this case, I will let it be. We were meant to take two witnesses today but unfortunately, the second witness is not well.” Obliging Nwokedi’s request, Justice Mojisola Dada adjourned the case until July 10 and 11 for continuation of trial. NAN reports that in a no-case submission which relied on Section 239(1) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law 2011 Nwokedi (SAN) had urged the court to dismiss the EFCC’s case against Abebe.