South-East Governors’ Forum, yesterday described as joke and unacceptable a request by Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) to establish Fulani vigilance groups across the zone.
MACBAN had requested establishment of Fulani vigilance group in South-East to combat crime in the area.
But Chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi said the governors would not accept such request as the region had its own local vigilantes working with security agencies to secure their states.
Umahi in a statement released by his Chief Press Secretary, Emmanuel Uzor also condemned insinuations in many quarters that the South-East Governors had approved the Fulani vigilance group in the zone, describing the allegation as strange.
He said: “I find it extremely strange for anybody to think that none locals in any part of the country including South-East could be allowed to form vigilante outfit. The Miyetti Allah group may have made that suggestion which I believe will never mean to form a vigilante in
South-East whichever is the meaning, no governor will allow that.
“South-East governors have their local vigilantes working with security agencies. Any such demand by Miyetti group is a joke and not acceptable. Governors of South-East are doing their best and we have no problems receiving insults from our people. This is the price for
leadership. The important thing to us is the safety and well-being of our people. OPC and other pressure groups may not have found it fashionable to be insulting their leaders even when their leaders may not be saints.
“My calling is not to insult others for me to do these. Have we been fairly treated? No. Can we solve the problem by hate speeches? No. Nobody no matter the level of pretence can change my style of peaceful leadership. Ebonyi in particular has suffered so much even in the context of South-East. We believe that we do not need hate speeches as a strategy to solve our problems.
“Finally, no Miyetti vigilante in South-East, no cattle ranch or colony but we must live peacefully with herdsmen that do not destroy our farm land especially those that were born here and have lived peacefully with us. All South-East governors are together in this position.”