Following a directive mandating funds to be distributed directly to the accounts of local governments, a civil society organisation, Evidence For Action MamaYe, has said it would work ensure that healthcare financing was not relegated to the background.
Speaking at the 2019 MamaYe Day celebration with the theme ‘The Importance of Accountability in Healthcare Service Delivery’ in Abuja, Dr. Gafar Alawode, expressed worry that local government administrators could place more priority on corrupt practices such as infusing nonexistent workers on the payroll, rather than on life saving projects and initiatives.
According to him, there was need to hold local government administrators accountable for the financing of basic primary health care delivery at the Primary health care centres.
“There has been a policy shift, now money meant for the local government will be going straight to their account. It has a lot of implications for primary health care financing.
“How do we hold them accountable at that level; their accountability is multi dimensional, it can affect everything because the local government that I know its not those ones that when they have more money they will spend more money on certain things. It could be a time to start putting everybody body into the payroll of the local government so we have a lot of work to do.
“How do we raise the accountability bar for financing, human resources of health? How do we ensure that the few doctors and nurses that are recruited are doing what they are suppose to do? We need to make a whole lot of difference on the health sector.”
The Country Director Evidence For Action MamaYe, Dr. Tunde Segun, maintained that a lot of lives in Nigeria would be saved if women and girls have access to quality healthcare services.
Lamenting the dearth of data, he noted that, “if data reaches decision makers and advocates in the right format and at the right time, we can advocate for government to invest in better services
“MamaYe strongly believes that evidence from maternal and perinatal deaths review can be use to improve quality of care at the facility level, allocate resources to tackle causes of maternal and perinatal deaths by health facility managements and policy makers,” he said.