Chief Mike Ahamba, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), speaks on N4.68 billion ‘welcome package’ for 9th National Assembly, June 12 as inauguration day, anti-graft war of Buhari’s administration and sundry issues. AKEEM NAFIU reports  Are you in support of the clamour by some of your colleagues that future presidents and governors in the country should be sworn-in on June 12 which has now been officially recognized as democracy day by the Federal Government? The reason for swearing-in on the 29th May is because it was in line with what the legislation says. However, to alter the date, what would happen is that the National Assembly should make a law making the swearing-in day to be June 12. That being the case, the calendar for institution of a new government will only change by some days. I don’t see any problem about it if the country wants it to be so. I don’t think it will create any constitutional problem. Anti-graft war is one of the pillars upon which President Muhammadu Buhari anchors his government. What do you think should change in the fight against corruption in the president’s second term in office?
The fight against corruption should not be sectionalized. It should be done equally with everybody. There should be no party bias in doing it. A situation where members of a particular party are targeted all the time amounts to corruption in itself. Sectionalism in the graft war is corruption in itself. We cannot use corruption to heal corruption. There should be no favouritism about it. Let the EFCC focus on facts and not on personality. The fight should be across board and not one-sided. It should not matter whether the person is from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or the All Progressive Congress (APC). Every evidence of corruption should be dealt with.
I also don’t believe that the anti-graft agencies need to wait till the end of tenure of a state executive involved in corrupt act before initiating prosecution. The governor must have carried out the action in collaboration with some other people and there is no law that says that all those involved in such act must be punished at the same time. So, prosecution should start with government officials who aided the governor to perpetrate the alleged crime. If there were evidences in the course of their trial that the governor was involved, the State House of Assembly concerned should wade in and wield the big stick on the governor by impeaching him. Once this is done, the governor will be tried for the offence he allegedly committed. A strong House of Assembly is more important that a strong Executive. The lawmakers are expected to stand in the gap for the people by doing the right thing when they are called to do so, particularly when a governor is involved in the breach of the Constitution
So, it is not the immunity clause in the Constitution that is causing the trouble. It’s the failure of institution of the legislature to do its work that is causing the problem. The legislators should detach themselves from their party affiliation and do their jobs.  Many of your colleagues believed that the recent woes that befell the judiciary could be traced to the ineffectiveness of the National Judicial Council (NJC) and the enormous influence of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) on members. Do you share their sentiments? An office holder usually act in accordance with his or her conscience. There should be no collective treatment of judicial officers. So, only the judiciary can restore its own strength by standing stinky on what it know is right and giving to everybody what is actually his rights. That I don’t l like what members of the NJC did does not mean they have sold their conscience. It’s unfortunate that a decision has been taken. This is exactly what happens in ordinary trial. But one would have expected that at that level they should know what to do. I think they are trying to avoid a more serious conflict in the circumstance and in that situation, somebody has to be a victim. What the NJC did was to remedy a bad situation.  How can the judiciary be repositioned to help in the fight against corruption? The judiciary is already positioned to fight corruption. This is because the judiciary can only dealt with what was brought before it. Many Nigerians are oblivious of that fact. Judiciary doesn’t initiate cases, it decides them and it is already doing this.  Do you agree with an assertion by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, that crime rate in the country is declining? I don’t agree with him that crime rate in the country is reducing because we are still reading of more kidnappings and killings across the country in the national dailies. Until some of these people in authority are affected, they may not have some pains in their hearts about this issue of growing insecurity which has created fear and tension in the country to the extent that people are scared of moving around. What I read in newspapers were very far from declining insecurity in Nigeria. We are still far from it. Let nobody say that crime rate has declined. The fight to restore sanity in the country should continue.  At a time poverty is growing geometrically in the nation, the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) has alloted the sums of N9.9 million and N10.1 million as furniture and accommodation allowances for each member of House of Representative and Senate. What is your take on this? My take on this is that poor people don’t care about these things and you can be rest assured that they would have even forgotten the issue before the next election and vote for these set of people again. If the National Assembly members are doing what people don’t like, it is the duty of voters to vote those individuals out at the polls, so that those who will go in will be cautious. The voting population should begin to punish elected politicians for their wrongdoings. This is not the first National Assembly that will spent money on furniture and accommodation. These issues have been there all this while. So, until people are tired of condoning what is wrong, they will continue to face the music.  Don’t you think the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) should also be blamed for its refusal to review such allowances in line with the current realities in the country? If you ask me about it, I will say RMAFC is wrong. But, I am telling you that in Nigeria, those in authority can do what they like because the people against whom the wrongs are done are not bothered. This is the truth of the matter. If for example, people lost elections in their constituencies or a party lost an election because of furniture and accommodation allowances received, the incoming house would not receive such funds. It is unfortunate that in this country, anything goes and people are less concerned. Until these ills are addressed, political dispensation in this country will continue to suffer defects.  The European Union Observers Team recently released a report condemning the 2019 general election conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). How best do you think the nation’s electoral system can be reformed? Let me tell you that what we have in our laws at the moment are enough for any reform on our electoral process. But, the problem has been lack of implementation by those saddled with the responsibility to do so. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), judiciary as well as the police are those saddled with the responsibility of enforcing the laws. They are the umpires of our democracy. If they do their work and apply sanctions where necessary, there would be less rough play on the field. Mind you, the first umpire is the voter, then we have INEC, judiciary and police. Look at what happened in Zamfara and Rivers States where the All Progressive Congress (APC) was sanctioned by Supreme Court for not following its Constitution in nominating candidates for elective positions. With these sanctions, I strongly believed that parties will be more careful during the next elections. By then, no party will want to risk what happened this year in the two states. That is how a society can be reformed. Scores of social media users are being arrested by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) for allegedly posting inciting materials. Does this action pose any threat to citizens’ constitutionally guaranteed rights to freedom of expression? Freedom of speech does not include dissemination of falsehood. Deliberate dissemination of falsehood is getting too rampant in the social media at the moment. I was also a victim of all these falsehood on social media. Can you imagine some people posting on social media that I have been appointed the Attorney-General of Imo State? No such thing happened and I was receiving congratulatory messages from abroad, thereby embarrassing the new governor that came in. So, I think there is a need to check what people are posting on social media. I am in total support of the crackdown by the DSS operatives but there should be no discrimination or vindictiveness. All individuals that were arrested must be given a chance to defend themselves or at least retract and apologize. Those that were arrested also have a right to fight back and justify what they have posted. I believed that with time, people will learn not to post falsehood. People should be mindful of what they post on social media. 