…shuns press conference as NFF confirms receiving AFCON money from FG  The issue of unpaid monetary entitlements that has constantly cropped into Nigeria’s national team camps on Tuesday reared its ugly head in the camp of the Super Eagles as the players threw up a protest at the ongoing 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. Indications from the Eagles’ camp in Alexandria reflected that, in their bold efforts to press home their demands early Tuesday, the players decided to shun press conference that was billed to take place the morning. Only Eagles’ coach, Gernot Rohr, showed up at the pre-match press conference, while the players stuck to their guns, with stern warnings that more would follow if officials of Nigeria Football Federation did not act fast and pay soonest. Although some NFF officials tried to placate the players, stating that they are waiting on government to release funds for the tournament, the players further threatened to boycott training, if they were not paid their agreed dues, 24 hours before their second match of AFCON 2019 against Guinea.
However, the NFF held emergency meeting with key players in a bid to avoid protest over delay in payment of their bonuses and allowances. Our correspondent learnt that the federation was yet to pay them $5,000 each as winning bonus for match against Burundi and backlog of allowances despite assurances. Sources in the team said the players were aware of the NFF’s cash-strap state and got more worried after the Flying Eagles and Super Falcons protested over non-payment of their bonuses and allowances after featuring in FIFA U-20 World Cup and Women’s World Cup. A source in the team confirmed. “The players are aware of what is going on, the NFF promised to pay them $5,000 as winning bonus when the two parties held a meeting after the friendly game with Zimbabwe last month. The players tried to push for something extra but the NFF declined, citing paucity of funds. However, the Eagles are unhappy that the federation is yet to secure funds that will guarantee the payment of their money.” Meanwhile, the Nigeria Football Federation has confirmed receiving part of the money approved by the Federal Government for participation of some National Teams in international competitions, including the Super Eagles’ participation at the ongoing AFCON. NFF’s Acting President, Seyi Akinwunmi (in the absence of President Amaju Pinnick who is fully involved with organization as President of AFCON) said on Tuesday that the Federation received part of the money on Tuesday morning and had immediately launched the process to convert the sum to American dollars to pay the players their only outstanding entitlement – the win bonus for the match against Burundi in Alexandria on Saturday evening – and for subsequent matches. “We want to specially thank His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari for his keen interest in resolving this matter quickly, which has enabled us to receive part of the money in record time. We have immediately started the process of converting the money to American Dollars at the Central Bank in order to pay the players the bonus for the win over Burundi three days ago as well as plan for subsequent games.” Akinwunmi added that on Monday, 24th June, the NFF had transferred to the players and their officials their camp allowances up to the last day of the group phase matches at the AFCON 2019, as well as the appearance fee for the friendly against Zimbabwe in Asaba on June 8. “We have paid these monies through our funds managers, Financial Derivatives Company on Monday, 24th June 2019. The only issue we had was that some of the players did not send their bank accounts and instead authorized the bank to pay their monies to some other individuals. The bank requested clear authorization for this to happen. “I was on a telephone discussion with the Captain of the team Mikel Obi this morning and can safely say that all clarifications have been made and the usual cordial relationship and understanding between the players and we the administrators is still intact. I have challenged them to go all out and win the trophy.”