Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday flagged off the sales and distribution of fertilizer for this year’s cropping season with a bag of the commodity going for N4, 000. Declaring the sales open, Ortom who was represented by his deputy, Benson Abounu, said other brands of fertilizer such as a litre of Liquid Organic Fertilizer shall be sold to farmers at subsidized rate of N2, 000 only while a litre of Plant Health Promoter would be sold at the subsidized rate of N3, 500. The implication of this, the governor said entails that over 40% cost on all brands of fertilizer will be borne by the state government to make the products affordable to our farmers. He noted: “I have the privilege and honour to declare the 2019 fertilizer sales and distribution open and to announce that one bag of 50kg of fertilizer irrespective of brand, be sold to farmers at 4,000.00 only. “Similarly, a litre of Liquid Organic Fertilizer shall be sold to farmers at subsidized rate of N2, 000 only and a litre of Plant Health Promoter to be sold to farmers at the subsidized rate of 3,500.00 only. “This means that over 40 per cent cost on all brands of fertilizer will be borne by the state government to make the products affordable to our farmers.” He urged farmers to maximally utilize the farm inputs on their crops for a bumper harvest and to avoid the quick gains of selling them to middlemen and black marketers. Ortom who tasked people of the state to ensure strict monitoring of the sales and distribution of the commodity to forestall diversion, warn that anybody caught sabotaging the exercise will face appropriate sanctions. The governor stated that Benue is blessed with a lot of agricultural potentials and his administration is poised to offer maximum support to harness them to fast-track economic and social development of the people. He maintained that already, government has worked out modalities for the take-off of the Rural Access and Agricultural Marketing Project 3 (RAAMP3) in the state to enhance the development and rehabilitation of 500 kilometers of rural roads across the state for easy movement of farm produce to markets.