Following the successful registration of a new pensioner group, federal parastatals and Private Sector Association of Nigeria (FEPPPAN), by the Federal Government, the body has called on aggrieved Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) leadership to accept the reality on ground. FEPPPAN in a statement issued in Abuja pointed out that its application for registration conformed with Trade Union Act as confirmed by a court of competent jurisdiction, to the effect that it was not an illegal body.  The new group in the statement by its General Secretary, Mr. Franklin Erinle, also asked the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) and all other pension related agencies to ignore NUP tantrums, saying that NUP had no rights to tell any government agency not to deal with it. FEPPPAN, however, called on NUP to accept its existence in good faith as the Nigeria Labour Congress, (NLC and Trade Union Congress (TUC) have accepted United Labour Congress (ULC).  According to the statement, “the Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners Association of Nigeria (FEPPPAN) wish to react to the insinuations in the press conference of the NUP held on Wednesday 22, May 2019 in Abuja.  “It is also self-serving of the NUP to refer to members of FEPPPAN who are legally seeking government recognition for effectiveness as splinter group. We wish to state that there is no organ called “NUP Parastatals and Contributory Pensioners” in the NUP Constitution. As such, the individuals assembled to issue the Communique denying ASU’s severance from the NUP lack both the capacity and constitutionality to do so. “Also it is important to note that the All Sectoral Unit (ASU) was before now an organ recognized in the NUP Constitution until the members unanimously resolved and severed from the NUP.  “It is equally noteworthy that Comrade Emeka Njoku who read the NUP Communique was part of the decision taken at the ASU meeting in Lagos on May 8, 2019 which was reflected in a Communique issued after the meeting.  “FEPPPAN, hereby call, on NUP to accept this Pensioners Association in good faith just as the NLC accepted the TUC.” Reacting to the NUP outburst, the interim executives of FEPPPAN said, “We are quick to assert that our application for registration of FEPPPAN is within the framework of the Trade Union Act as also confirmed by a court of competent jurisdiction.  “So it is preposterous for a union registered and supervised by the same Ministry of Labour & Employment to consider the Honourable minister as practicing illegality for exercising his statutory power to regroup any union.” NUP had kicked against the application for registration by FEPPPAN, but the newly registered pension labour centre said its application for registration was within the framework of the Trade Union Act.  NUP had described the association as an illegal body and had advised the former Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, not to register it.