I am dedicating this episode to my colleague and comrade in pen Kadaria Ahmed whose voice helped shape the discourse on the Zamfara killings and why we must keep pushing until all gangsters killing our people all over Nigeria are identified and destroyed. Kadaria Ahmed is a Nigerian journalist, media entrepreneur, and television host who started her career at the BBC London and has worked in print, radio, television, online and social media platforms. Here in Nigeria, she is mostly recognized as that journalist that asks very tough questions to politicians and public figures, forget the fact that some people have accused her in the past of protecting her favourite politicians from tough questions. The answer to this may be ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ depending on the side you stand, and you can’t please everyone hard as you may try. Truth however is that in politics, we are hardly neutral, our sympathy is always somewhere and I think Kadaria is human and entitled to her personal feelings. I never knew Kadaria was from Zamfara until she led that public protest against the wanton killings of her people. Her faith also came into question as a result of her activism when a tweeter user described her as a walking corpse and an apostate who is supposed to have been killed for converting to Christianity while in London. I am not sure what faith she practices after marrying her husband who was a Christian, who had to convert Islam before the marriage. Whether they both later reverted to Christianity and remained Muslims is in my view immaterial. The important thing is that she stood to be counted when her people needed her and she led from the front. All that she asked was for her people to be protected from bandits who are killing them. They are law abiding people and they want peace and nothing more. For being a woman, a journalist and a ‘converted Christian’ as alleged, though doubtful, she has been abused and threatened with death in 21st Century Nigeria. I also don’t think any arrest was made as a result. No one deserved to be killed or threatened to be killed on account of her political affiliation or religion. Nothing should happen to Kadaria and not a single hair from her shall drop. There will be need for those who still nurse the stupid ideas that they can kill because of religion to purge themselves of such archaic ideas. I salute Kadaria for her courage and zeal in what she does. Her activism helped brought to the fore the worsening security situation in Zamfara. Every day Zamfara hurts and bleeds as tens and hundreds of people are slaughtered by Fulani militias also known as bandits. The natives have lost count of the numbers of the dead. Just last week about 30 people were again killed. There is no week in the past two years that tens of citizens were not slaughtered, an indication that both the state and federal governments have failed in their primary duty of providing for the welfare of the people and protection of lives and properties. Without security the primary purpose of government is diminished. It was in this spirit of realization of failure of the government to secure the lives and properties of the people of Zamfara that Kadaria described former Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State as the most useless governor in the history of Nigeria. Her words: “Quote me: he (Yari) is the most useless governor in the history of Nigeria. This is a governor whose reaction to the killings in his state was to resign as the Chief Security Officer. He went on the record to say that he cannot be the Chief Security Officer. So, I don’t know what he is still doing in office; he doesn’t care. “He only cares about the people of Zamfara when it comes to politics. The fact that they are getting killed does not concern him. He lives most of his time here in Abuja. How can you govern a state for eight years from Abuja? What sort of leadership is that? “He is hopeless as a leader. He has not done well for our people. Under him, Zamfara has deteriorated.” Yari may be part of the problem but he isn’t the real problem. Yari has gone, he is no longer the governor of Zamfara, a new man has taken over from him and unfortunately except for the change in name of the person and party ruling Zamfara today not so much has changed as Zamfara remains under attack by bandits who kill and kidnap people, as well as burn down farms and houses. So, in a way, the problem was not Yari or the Zamfara State Government. The blame lies squarely on the Federal Government who controls the police and army, and is not protecting the people and yet not allowing them to organize themselves to fight back. In most part of the country where insecurity is the issue the military and police have employed the services of the local hunters and vigilante to assist them. In Borno, for instance, the local JTF has been fighting side by side with our soldiers with great success. Why is Zamfara different? Is it possible that our highly politicize security policy is now coloured also by ethnicity and nepotism. Recently in a meeting between the Commissioner of Police and the people of Zamfara, CP Nagogo who represented the Federal Government warned the Zamfara State Volunteer Group against fighting and killing bandits, vowing to deal with anyone killing the bandits terrorizing the state. In response to the threat by the State Commissioner of Police, the spokesman of the vigilante group vowed it will not stop fighting the bandits until the government protects their lives and properties. Before now, the state government invited the natives and the Fulani bandits for a reconciliation meeting. The people wanted peace and were happy to voluntarily surrender over 9,000 rifles in anticipation that the bandits will surrender their weapons. But as soon as the natives gave up their arms, the bandits resumed the killings with ferocious frequency. Worse is that, the state and its security agencies did nothing to stop the bandits or protect the people from the bandits. I support the position of the people of Zamfara who have vowed never to drop their arms again but rather fight to defend them no matter what happened. It is very unfair for the police or anybody to ask the people to stop defending themselves while they have done nothing to protect them from violence and attacks It’s time for the security agencies to openly declare whether they are for the people or for bandits and terrorists. The police in Zamafara should come out clearly and kill the people on behalf of bandits so that the world will know who the real bandits and their sponsors are. Otherwise the police and the military if they still have any modicum of integrity left should leave no stone unturned in the bid to protect and secure Zamfara State. We live in very perilous times where the country is generally unsafe. I will only encourage Kadaria to keep pushing for the peace and security we need in Zamfara and across Nigeria which cannot be obtained by just one road show and protest. The struggle must continue knowing we are not doing this for ourselves but for the future of our children.