 Although the 2019 edition of the Jos Festival of Theatre – the 12th in the series – has come and gone, the memory of the inspiring theatrical experience will no doubt linger.  The festival which was shifted from March to May due to the re-scheduled national elections featured six plays within a five days period, three workshops each on arts management, costumes and make-up for film and Salsa dance.  But for the support of the US Mission Nigeria, some of the plays staged for the Festival would not have seen the lights of the stage or delighted so many members of the audience in Jos and environs who trouped out in their hundreds and even from far away Nsukka to participate in the 2019 edition of the festival which is fast gaining ground as a festival of qualitative and superlative performances by the Jos based theatre organization, Jos Repertory Theatre (JRT). It was very interesting to note that some alumni of JRT facilitated some of the workshops. This is the kind of impact that the Jos based group is having as some of these alumni have gone on to start their own organisations in Abuja, Lagos and Jos.  The enthusiastic crowd that came out to grace the theatre offerings this year were so overwhelmed that they have requested that the festival be held every quarter but the Dr. Patrick-Jude Oteh led organisation has insisted that ‘the tough funding terrain does not make this a possibility’.  The American play, Arthur Miller’s “All My Sons” set the tone for the stimulating performances that will adorn the stage during the festival. ‘All My Sons’, directed by Kalbang Afsa-Walshak, is based on a true story originating from 1941-1943 when the Wright Aeronautical Corporation, Ohio conspired with army inspection officers to approve defective aircraft engines destined for military use. In 1944, three Air force officers, Lt. Col. Frank C. Greulich, Major Walter A. Ryan, and Major William Bruckmann were relieved of their duty and later convicted of neglect of duty.  The play examines two partners in a business where one is forced to take a moral and legal responsibility for the other. For the sons, they are torn between cherishing the idea of being rich and the idealism of moralism that the source of the money they will inherit is blood. One of them apparently commits suicide because he could not bear the thought of his military colleagues who went to fight in the war and never returned due to the defective parts supplied by his father’s company which caused their planes to crash mid-flight. The story gets complicated when the son of the owner of the company falls in love with his late brother’s fiancée before the true story of what happened comes to light.  ‘The Death Road’, a play by Nigerian dramatist and novelist, Sefi Atta took to the stage on the 2nd day of the festival. Directed by Patrick-Jude Oteh, the play which premiere at the festival is an interesting study in recruitment and radicalisation in a family setting which we all take for granted because in life as currently defined, radicalisation can occur anywhere and not only in worship centres. Atta’s play was very interesting especially with her choice of topic. The father of the house dies on the Death Road. His first son, Hassan, a mechanic is now the official head of the family though he has a senior sister, Binta, a teacher in the city. Both sister and brother despise each other. Their mother tries her best to hold the home together through a small shop where she sells provisions with the help of the eccentric Farook. She has two younger children – Mustapha Ali and Zenab.   Hassan is a devout Muslim and this has led him to the doorsteps of the Islamic cleric, Suleiman who is recruiting young men as foot soldiers to ensure compliance with Sharia Law by the residents of Town Two. Hassan is in the race to become his second in command. To achieve this he is sent for further training by Suleiman. He leaves the household in the care of Mustapha Ali.  Binta, the senior sister in the house is Western educated. She wants the same for her younger siblings but Hassan resists this as according to him, women should marry and have male children for their husbands. Zenab gets an admission and leaves for the city to continue her studies. Mustapha Ali does not get his admission to study Law much to his disappointment. On a day that no one except Farook is at home, Zenab wears a jeans trouser to demonstrate city dance moves for Farook. Mustapha Ali stumbles on the scene. He reacts by slapping Zenab. On his return from his training, Mustapha Ali briefs Hassan on the happenings in the home while he was away. Hassan is already seething with his rejection by Suleiman as the second in command, a rejection he blames on members of his family who are not “good Muslims”. He decides to teach them all a lesson – first, he wreaks the provision shop and he tries to kill Mustapha Ali. He further mobilizes his fellow followers to attack Zenab’s school in the city. They have an accident on the Death Road and they all die. Atta’s play laid bare for all to see the different levels and instances of recruitment.  According to Rev. Theophilus who was attending the festival with his students, they had discussed the issues of recruitment and radicalisation but it was laid bare for him and his students in the play.  Jerry Alagbaoso, who has variously been referred to as the ‘new and modern Cyprian Ekwensi’, was in his elements in the festival. Vigorously carving out a name for himself as a writer to be reckoned with, his play ‘Tony Wants To Marry ‘, directed by Sunny Adahson, was one of the ‘seriously funny’ plays within the festival. The audience relished the antics and foibles of the lead character, Tony, played by the comedian and on air personality, Gabriel Alechenu Ondoma. The play tells the story of Tony, a young man, unemployed who is under serious pressure to marry. There are no lofty heights or standards set for Tony’s prospective wife. Instead the quest for a wife becomes a façade through which Tony portrays the extent of his moral bankruptcy, sexual misconduct and gross irresponsibility.  In ‘Tony Wants To Marry’, Alagbaoso’s satirical light is beamed on the marriage institution but more importantly he lampoons the culture of selective training of children – which prepares young women for life’s many challenges and produces young men who are ill-equipped for life. Although the play is a social commentary on family life, gender discrimination and the marriage institution, it is sprinkled with enough humor to make its message light-hearted and entertaining. Alagbaoso did not disappoint especially with the directorial skills of Sunny Adahson, an alumnus of JRT who is also fast carving out a name for himself in the entertainment and stand-up comedy terrain. The festival even despite the rains of the evening went on to attract record attendees some of who came in the pouring rain. According to one of them, ‘the festival has become a regular for him and his family and only an earthquake can stop them from attending’.
In a departure from tradition, there was a group of performers from University of Nigeria, Nsukka, under the auspices of the  Development Performance Initiative, who are participating in the festival for the first time and who have indicated their willingness to return. Their performance ‘Twilight Mysteries’ dwelt on the reality and futility of existence. Perhaps, their play can be termed an African absurdist approach to the theatre. Their performance initially was not well received by the audience but then the acting skills of Samuel Adesunloye as Ifeonyemetalu which loosely translates as ‘what one has done’, saved the day and gave the hidden meanings of the play to the audience as the eternal struggle between a man and his maker and the elements ranged against him. The Nsukka efforts were rewarded by a spontaneous standing ovation which was also accorded the French entry to the festival, Eugene Ionesco’s The Lesson which is a classic of the French theatre of the absurd.  The memorable plays of the 12th festival were brought to a grand finale with the worthy performance of the iconic Zulu Sofola’s classic, ‘Wedlock of the Gods’. Attempting to answer the age-old question of who decides marriage partners and the disharmony in society’s treatment of widows and widowers, the fast paced play with its harsh curses and abuses by family, parents of the protagonists and townspeople the play discusses breaking from the oppression of tradition in a male dominated society. ‘Wedlock of the Gods’ tackles the subject of taboo and arranged marriages within the traditional context of pre-colonial Africa. It is a passionate and ultimately devastating exploration of love, culture, gender politics, superstition and women’s rights with its roots in the ritual of death and mourning. A young girl is given away in marriage to a man whom she neither knows nor loves. However her parents need the dowry to cure her very sick brother. When the man dies unexpectedly the young lady is expected to mourn for three months and then marry her dead husband’s brother. The young woman bewildered by this, rebels in the face of age old custom and tradition. She clings on desperately to the man she has always known and loved, a man she was never allowed to marry. Their relationship is a slap in the face of tradition and one that can only result in dire consequences.  According to the Artistic Director of Jos Repertory Theatre, Dr. Patrick-Jude Oteh, sustaining the festival in the past couple of years has largely been made possible by the US Mission Nigeria which was greeted with a rousing applause by the enthusiastic audience. It is worthy to note that the Jos Festival is the only one in Nigeria presently where you can watch all genres of the theatre with excellent programming and still have world class workshops on the side. It is a festival worth sustaining and the eyes of the world are watching whether this festival will die off like other efforts or whether this will be sustained in the years to come. Kudos to the other sponsors of the festival, Jos Business School, Grand Cereals Limited, IPAT and Alliance Francaise for providing the logistic support and venue for the festival. It is certainly a festival worth sustaining.