 The oil search in the North has, again, suffered a major setback as the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), whose staff have deserted the exploration site at Chad basin, declared yesterday that there would not be a return to the site until it receives security clearance.
The position validates investigation published by New Telegraph on May 27, detailing how investment of over $2 billion has been trapped at the site due to evacuation of geologists over insecurity.
Restating the corporation’s commitment to resume oil search in the Chad Basin, Group Managing Director of the Corporation, Dr. Maikanti Baru, disclosed that this would be done as soon as he receives the green light from the state’s security apparatus.
“We will go back there as soon as we receive security clearance. There seem to be some prospects there because Niger Republic drilled over 600 wells and now they are producing while we have only drilled 23,” Baru said when the Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed, paid him a business visit in Abuja
Oil search in the Chad Basin was suspended after a team from NNPC Frontier Exploration Services and their consultants from the University of Maiduguri were attacked and some of them abducted on July 25, 2017.
The team of explorationists and geologists from the NNPC, investigation by our correspondent showed, had deserted the site since the 2017 abduction of their colleagues from the University of Maiduguri.
The corporation, further checks showed, has effected a management change at the Chad Basin, with a mandate to get staff back on site.
The history of attacks at site has created panic among NNPC staff. One of them told this newspaper that no official would return to site until the security agencies, particularly the Nigerian Army, give green light on security.
NNPC had invested approximately $1.3 billion up to the end of 1998, while over $700 million had been invested afterward, according to this newspaper’s investigation.
Before an order was given by President Muhammadu Buhari, the prospects of oil in the North were still mere potential and remained in the realm of possibilities despite the huge investment made.
Aside the $1.3 billion invested before 1998, additional investments of about N27 billion and $340 million had also been made for seismic data acquisition and equipment for advanced search respectively.
Troops had, early last year, lost eight soldiers and killed scores of Boko Haram insurgents in an operation which led to the rescue of 10 top officials, including senior geologists on contracts with NNPC on the oil search mission in the North East.
This incident, which sent jitters down the spine of geologists and other supporting staff on the exploration mission, has again constituted a major setback to the North’s oil search, on which over N600 billion had been invested.
Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division of NNPC, Ndu Ughamadu, who validated the investigation by this newspaper, told our correspondent then that exploration could not commence as promised.
“We still await the clearance,” he said, adding that although “there are indications that it would be issued pretty soon.”
Checks by this newspaper, however, showed that the military could not give the corporation a go ahead based on security risks of mobilising personnel and equipment to site.
Meanwhile, Baru has commended the people of Bauchi and Gombe states, especially communities in the exploration area, for their support and hospitality, while assuring them of NNPC’s support in the provision of infrastructure and amenities.
On the proposed Institute of Petroleum Studies to be established in Bauchi State University, Baru pledged the support of NNPC and assured the governor of synergy between the institution and the Petroleum Training Institute, Warri, for exchange programmes and manpower development.
Speaking earlier, the Bauchi State governor said his visit was to seek collaboration with the corporation on how to move the state forward.   The Nigerian National Petroleum Cor porat i o n (NNPC) has deferred the return of equipment and personnel to exploration site in the Lake Chad earlier planned for this week. This is a major setback to the oil search in the North on which over N600 billion ($2 billion) had… In "News" …defers personnel, equipment return Military withholds green light for safety   An embargo has been placed on the oil search in the North on which over N600 billion ($2 billion) had so far been invested, confirming earlier reports by New Telegraph. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), which on… In "News" The aggressive push to make the North join league of oil producers through commercial oil discovery in Chad basin has hit a fresh brick wall, as geologists and consultants to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) who had earlier deserted the site refused plea for them to return. One… In "Business"