President of Women Arise and Centre for Change, Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin, in this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, speaks on the June 12 struggle and women participation in governance  What is your take on last week’s celebration of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day for the first time?
The day marked the 26th anniversary of the brazen annulment of a presidential election adjudged both nationally and internationally as the freest, fairest and the most peaceful election ever to be held in Nigeria; an election that saw a Muslim-Muslim ticket; depicted by the emergence of the late Chief MKO Abiola and Alhaji Babagana Kingibe of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), against Alhaji Bashir Tofa and Dr. Sylvester Ugoh of the National Republican Convention (NRC). Nigerians were prepared to say ‘enough is enough’ to military dictatorship and not only made that known, but also made good their promise with their votes on June 12, 1993. But the then military regime led by General Ibrahim Babangida, on June 23, 1993, shamelessly annulled the people’s mandate.
We also salute the memory of President MKO Abiola, the truly elected president of Nigeria, whose election was clean, free, fair and adjudged so by local and international observers. The decision to declare June 12 Democracy Day by President Muhammadu Buhari is acceptable because we asked for the declaration since 26 years ago. The Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) honour to MKO Abiola was long overdue, but a step in the right direction. What is your take on the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to name the National Stadium in Abuja after MKO Abiola?
The decision of President Buhari to honor Chief MKO Abiola, the winner of the June 12, 1993 Presidential election, is major step towards addressing the injustice meted on Chief Abiola and Nigerians who voted massively for him in that election. June 12 remains a constant reminder to us that whatever we have today as civil rule is a product of the sacrifice of Nigerians, Chief MKO Abiola and many who fought for the enthronement of democracy in our country. There must be due recognition of Abiola as a former president of Nigeria as well as other heroes/heroines of June. And for the polity at large, we must live the ideals of June 12. What is your take on the decline in the number of women in elective positions in this present political dispensation, considering the number of female lawmakers in the national and states Assembly?
It is a worrisome development that underscores the need to take affirmative action more seriously. One wonders why even the major political parties have not seen the necessity for the advancement of women representation in public positions at a time when it has become a global trend for women to be actively engaged in governance and other sectors of the society. It is sad that Nigeria is not yet counted in the forward historical march for humanity. With the emergence of males as leaders of the two chambers of the National Assembly, will you advise the legislative chambers to consider women as principal officers in the Senate and House of Representatives?
Unfortunately, these are major decisions that are often taken by the major dominant political parties hence one may only appeal to the major parties to make such considerations. But, beyond bringing in women as principal officers in lesser positions, we must demand for an adequate representation of women in the composition of the Federal Executive Council. This will only in some ways, address the imbalances that have been created by the number of women who were able to make it to the National Assembly What are your expectations from President Muhammadu Buhari in the second term of his administration?
My expectations as that of the average Nigerian is to see the administration, improve on its efforts towards making life more meaningful for the average Nigerian, most especially our women and other vulnerable groups. The administration must urgently address the deteriorating security situation in the country, as drastic actions must be taken against perpetrators of violence and their sponsors. Which key areas do you think President should accord priority?
The key areas should be security like I said, and one fundamental tool towards addressing this, is job creation for the teeming unemployed youths in our country. The level of unemployment is alarming and its consequences on our economy and national security cannot be underestimated. The International Day of the African Child was celebrated recently, what is your take on the African child?
This year’s Day of the African Child, with the theme: “Humanitarian Action for Africa: Children’s Rights First,” makes it expedient for us to reflect deeply on the unsatisfactory conditions of the average Nigerian child. In spite of Nigeria’s commitment to the provisions of the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child, Child Rights Act and several other international protocols, the Nigerian child is still being denied the full enjoyment of his or her rights in a wide range of circumstances.
Presently, only 24 of the 36 states of Nigeria have effectively enacted the Child Rights Act, thereby making 12 states all in northern Nigeria completely bereft of the requisite legislative framework to implement the child rights laws. In many of the states where the Act has been enacted, lack of effective implementation of the law account for the inherent gap, thereby negatively affecting the wellbeing of children.
It is absolutely necessary to remind ourselves about the lamentable condition in which Leah Sharibu has continued to find herself in Boko Haram’s captivity. Same goes for the Chibok girls, who are yet to be rescued since their abduction in 2014. Another mind boggling revelation has just emerged from a report ranking Nigeria in the 31st position in a list of 54 countries in African Child Policy Forum’s Child Friendliness Index 2018.
So, we call on government, as duty bearers, to urgently address the emerging issue of child hunger and child harvesting in Nigeria. We also demand immediate rescue of Leah Sharibu and all children in terrorists’ captivity. Let’s do everything in the best interest of the child.