As teams prepare to slug it out in the 2019 edition of the Higher Institutions Football League, draws for the group stages has been held in Lagos yesterday as the new team jerseys and logos were unveiled. The 32 teams that qualified for the group stage were draw into eight groups of four teams each starting from Group A- Group H from the Sahel and Coastal divisions.   Games in group stages will be held across the eight host institutions that were automatically ceded for the draws for ease of games logistics and facilities. The first two teams from each group will automatically qualify for the round of 16.  Explaining the reasoning behind the modalities for the draws, the Director of PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing, Mr. Sola Fijabi said the format was reviewed to enhance the league and create more excitement for its teeming fans.  “HiFL is a game changing initiative and it is heart-warming that the league has gained acceptance across higher institutions in Nigeria. We have reviewed the rules of the game in line with our experiences from last year and global trends in football and collegiate sports. We have done this in conjunction with our partner, the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) and other technical partners.  In his remark, the President of the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA), Prof. Stephen Hamafyelto enthused that NUGA is committed to ensuring a more successful outing taking key learnings from the past edition. The Group games starts on June 18 and will be played over 21 weeks. The round of 16 will be played in a return leg elimination onward the finals where the Super Four teams will play in a grand finale to be held at the Agege Township Stadium, Lagos.  Group A has UNILAG Marines, FUTA Tigers, EKSU Mountaineers, OAU Giants while Group B has UI Pioneers, AAUA Luminaries, LCU Gladiators, LASU Blazers. UNIUYO Tuskites, IAUE Minders, DELSU Titans, UNICAL Malabiites, will compete in Group C just as MOUAU Bloomers, RSU Dolphins, ESUT Explorers, NDU Oilers tango in Group D.  Group E will feature UNIBEN Royals, FUOYE Dazzlers, FUNAI Hawks and UNIZIK Cardinals while Group F include NILE Rovers, FUTMINNA Transformers, PLASU Boulders, UNILORIN Warriors. ABU Nobles, KUST Pyramid, ATBU Bravehearts, UNIMAID Dessert warriors are in Group G and Group H will have BUK Stallions, NSUK Miners, BSU Weavers, UAM Tillers.