Since 2018, the June 12 and whatever it represents has been seized upon and made object of politics by the Buhari administration and the All Progressives Congress (APC). June 12, 1993 was the day the military regime of General Ibrahim Babangida conducted the presidential election supposed to conclude the political transition programme that started in 1987, but effectively in 1989 after the political bureau set up by the then administration to study Nigeria’s political problems and advise it accordingly had submitted its report. The political bureau headed by S.G Cookey recommended multi-party democracy with the transition programme terminating in 1990. The supreme ruling body, the Armed Forces Ruling Council (AFRC), after consideration of the report recommended two party system with the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and National Republican Convention (NRC) established by fiat. The parties’ ideological underpin was “a little to the right and a little to the left”. The military regime adopted staggered transition process whereby election into the local, state and presidency were staggered through the period one after the other with the justification that the programme afforded participants a learning process. The local government system, the state governments, including the National Assembly was already instituted and functioning when the presidential election of June 12, 1993 was held under hazy circumstances. And it was a success in spite of the booby traps and impediments placed on the course of its realization. But it held and was a huge success as there was no violence or rigging due to revolutionary process adopted by the then National Electoral Commission (NEC) headed by Prof. Humphrey Nwosu. Before the holding of the June 12, 1993 election, the then military regime and its supporters and sundry mischief makers had made counter plans with the active connivance and collusion of the regime to work against its realization thereby presenting the country with fait accompli that would culminate in prolongation of military rule at the least or transmutation of General Babangida as a diarchic head of state. Despite all the booby traps and impediments through political and judicial interventions, the election was held and it was a success that shattered several myths and stereotypes bordering on religious, tribe and sectional loyalties and boundaries. You need to see the election and its clean organic makeup to know why the power-that-be vowed to annul it. The most important, and perhaps rarely understood or stated reason for its destruction as a template for the governance of Nigeria is that shattered the Lugardic template of false demographic data upon which rigging infrastructure from 1959, 1964/65, 1979/83 was built and held as sacrosanct. Not many Nigerians know this fact. In the June 12, 1993 election, 14 million Nigerians, real human beings not fictitious/ghost voters voted and the distribution across the 30 states accords with real demographic possibilities not the false census infrastructure and voodoo voters register built upon it. This is the singular and most decisive reason why the powers-behind-the throne prevailed upon General Babangida and his henchmen, all military officers from the North, to destroy the election and damn the consequences, if any. And there was none. The election was invalidated on 22nd June, 1993 followed by a promulgation of a decree to legalize the terse statement made by General Babangida’s press secretary. The actual reason for the nullification of the June 12, 1993 was documented and stated clearly by Prof. Omo Omoruyi, one of the dependable presidential advisers and confidants of General Babangida who confronted him as to the reason for such flagrant action capable of destroying the country and his regime. Babangida exasperatedly told Omoruyi point blank that he was under intense pressures of the ruling-power-elite of the North consisting in military and traditional. Omoruyi had stated in his book that one of the foremost Northern traditional rulers had confronted Babangida with the question as to why the election was allowed in the first place not to talk of allowing Abiola to win it. But having made the mistake of allowing the election held with the election results showing that Abiola won, that the election must be destroyed as allowing it would destroy the power-hold of the North over Nigeria. General Babangida, according to Prof. Omoruyi told him that the traditional ruler had told him that allowing June 12 election would amount to dismantling Nigeria on the political pedestal and template instituted by Lord Lugard and his succeeding British Governor-Generals, especially Sir Robertson and that it would take another Lord Lugard to reconstitute Nigeria on a pedestal and template favourable to the North. So it can be seen that Babangida did not just cancel June 12 election because of his desire for self-perpetuation alone. If it was self-perpetuation alone, Babangida would have buckled under the weight of domestic and international pressures. But it was a corporate decision executed by a ruler who owes his growth and rise to power to the Northern political establishment and its political power structure and therefore must pander to that sectional tendency and its desires. Many June 12 apologists rarely excavate the elephantine carcass of June 12 to discover and understand the dynamics that were at play in 1993when Babangida regime annulled the election. It is an irony of fate to behold that those who made the cancellation of June 12 possible and irreversible are now being held as the apologists. This obfuscation of history hurts Nigeria in several ways. One, the real facts underlying events are often buried in mounds of lies and falsehoods with effect that historical truths are misread, misunderstood thereby misleading the nation in its course of nation building especially in establishing wrongs or right and the requisite actions thereto to right the wrongs by upholding the truth or right course of action for present and future development of the country. If the present apologists of June 12 majorly domiciled in the South-West political and intellectual elites have had a circumspect x-ray of June 12 and read up the account of the dramatis personae they would have discovered that the real and worst victim of that wrongful act by Babangida regime was Nigeria and its long-suffering people that have been held in thralldom and benumbing autocratic rule since 1960 to date. What are we celebrating now? Are we celebrating the clean elections of 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 or 2019 as being a good representation of June 12 election or that Nigerians are freer now to determine their socio-political and economic future and progress? Or that our electoral infrastructure especially the voters’ register is free from ghost names? All the Yar’Adua good electoral reforms on electoral infrastructure and processes by the president’s admission at the EFCC’s organised summit have been rolled back particularly between 2015 and 2019 as vote-buying and violence even at the polling booths now overwhelms the elections. The president pointed out the ills bedevilling our electoral system yet there don’t seem to be a silver lining at the cloudy political atmosphere. And yet we are under an anti-corruption regime. Let the June 12 apologists sit back, think and beat a retreat from this unhelpful and unnecessary celebrations that dull the senses and achieve nothing but coax us into false sense of political wellbeing when in fact June 12 should have waken us from our political slumber and quicken our spirits to realise and appreciate the enormous injury caused to our freedom and existence in Nigeria.  Enough of this unhelpful ribaldry!