 AKEEM NAFIU writes that arrest of scores of social media users by the Department of State Services (DSS) for allegedly posting inciting materials has pitched lawyers against each other  Does the DSS’ arrest of scores of social media users breach Section 39(1) of the Constitution? Lawyers say yes, no. However, Section 39 (1) of the Constitution guarantees citizens’ freedom of expression. It says “every person shall be entitled to freedom of expression, including freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart ideas and information without interference.” But the recent disclosure by the Department of State Services (DSS) that its operatives had arrested some Nigerians for posting inciting materials on the internet has robbed off on the potency of the Constitution’s free speech safeguards. A press statement by DSS’ spokesperson, Peter Afunanya, said the agency’s action was sequel to its discovery that some social media users were skewing Nigeria’s history to promote ethnic violence and create confusion in the nation. Afunanya alleged that some unpatriotic Nigerians have been using social media platforms to make unguarded public statements thereby instilling fears in the minds of Nigerians. The statement reads: “The Department of State Services (DSS) has observed with concern, the deliberate plots and attempts by some subversive and undemocratic elements to incite or pit one ethnic group against the other by stoking the embers of tribal sentiments to cause disaffection and violence across the country. “These unpatriotic actors make unguarded public statements and/or use the social media platforms to instill fear in the minds of citizens. “These are reflected in the misleading statements and articles being circulated among unsuspecting members of the public. Such inciting materials often times are designed to make or convey false accusations by one group against the other. “They also resort to skewing historical narratives to suit their objective of masterminding ethnic violence in the nation. So far, some of the culprits have been arrested. “Community leaders and persons of influence are, therefore, enjoined to be most responsible in their utterances as well as rein in (their) people for national cohesion and peaceful coexistence. “Aggrieved persons and groups are encouraged to use dialogue as a true means of non-violent resolution of disputes or any misgivings”.  Cybercrime law Sections 24 and 38 of the Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention, etc) Act 2015 signed into by law by former President Goodluck Jonathan criminalizes sending certain types of offending messages as well as retention of traffic data and subscriber information by service providers respectively. In essence, Section 24 (1) of the Act provides that: “Any person who knowingly or intentionally sends a message or other matter by means of computer systems or network that; (a) is grossly offensive, pornographic or of an indecent, obscene or menacing character or causes any such message or matter to be so sent; or (b) he knows to be false, for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience danger, obstruction, insult, injury, criminal intimidation, enmity, hatred, ill will or needless anxiety to another or causes such a message to be sent commits an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not more than N7, 000,000.00 or imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or to both such fine and imprisonment”. This law has, however, been heavily criticised for being inconsistent with the express provisions of Sections 37 and 39 of the Constitution which guarantee citizens’ rights to private and family life as well as freedoms of expression and press. Law suits have been filed up till the Supreme Court to challenge the legality of the laws.  Lawyers speak on DSS’ crackdown Some members of the wig and gown have expressed mixed feelings about the legality of DSS operatives’ crackdown on Nigerians alleged to have posted incited materials online. Some of the lawyers faulted the agency’s action saying it amounts to an infringement on the constitutional guaranteed rights of the alleged offenders. However, others believed the DSS’ intervention is desirable going by the trend at which falsehood is being spread by on various social media platforms by some unscrupulous Nigerians. Speaking on the issue, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Mike Ozekhome, argued that the action of DSS’ operatives is an infringement on the constitutional guaranteed rights of those arrested to freedom of expression.
The silk opined that it is wrong for the DSS to constitute itself to a court of law. He said: “The DSS’ action poses a great threat to freedom of speech and the constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right to receive and impart ideas and opinion without let or hindrance. “The DSS is not a court of  law to decide or determine what amounts to inciting materials.That is the prerogative of the Judiciary under Section 4 of the Constitution. It is absolutely anti-democratic, anti-freedom of speech and anti-people.” Ozekhome was echoed by the National President of the Campaign For the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, who noted that the provisions of the laws from which the DSS’ operatives derived their powers to make the arrests are inconsistent with the Constitution.    “Both Sections 24 and 38 of the Cybercrimes Act 2015 criminalise sending certain types of offending messages and retention of traffic data and subscriber information by service providers respectively. “Similarly Sections 17, 24, 26 and 28 of the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2011 empowers law enforcement agencies particularly the National Security Adviser (NSA), Inspector General of Police (IGP), Department of State Services (DSS) as well as the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) to arrest anyone reasonably suspected to have committed or be involved in acts of terrorism for investigation within the parameters of extant constitutional rights. “These laws have however been heavily criticised for running foul of the express provisions of Sections 37 and 39 of the Constitution which guarantee citizens’ rights to private and family life as well as freedoms of expression and press. “In fact, Section 22 of the Constitution impose a responsibility on media practitioners to hold government accountable to the people. By virtue of Section 1(3) of the Constitution, the foregoing provisions of the laws under review ought to be struck down for being inconsistent with the constitution. Luckily, the Supreme Court is presently besieged with two appeals against the rulings of the Court of Appeal to affirm the position canvassed above”, he said. A Lagos-based lawyer, Mr. Destiny Takon, also believed the DSS’ action has portrayed the government of President Muhammadu Buhari in bad light. He said: “This is another clear indication of the dictatorship and repression of the government of the day, bad governments the world over, conveniently resort to censorship or repression of their citizens’ rights of expression in the hope of preventing them from calling attention to their sufferings.   “A short while ago, it was the AIT television outfit and then against the backdrop of constitutional protection of the right of expression of Nigerians, the Buhari administration thinks that the best dividend of democracy it can deliver to them is to proceed to gag the citizens from expressing their opinions about his administration. “President Buhari and his ill-advisers should know that they cannot succeed in this decoy to turn attention from their failed promises and incompetence in governance. “You cannot impoverish, disunite, make insecure and deceive Nigerians and think that you would succeed in also preventing them from complaining. When you misrule, anything the citizens say to complain would be classified as inciting, when indeed, it’s your misrule that qualifies as such and I dare to add, provocative”. However, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Mike Ahamba, threw his weight behind the DSS’ action saying there must be an end to numerous falsehoods being spread on the social media. “Freedom of speech does not include dissemination of falsehood. Deliberate dissemination of falsehood is getting too rampant in the social media at the moment. “I was also a victim of all these falsehood on social media. Can you imagine some people posting on social media that I have been appointed the Attorney-General of Imo State? No such thing happened and I was receiving congratulatory messages from abroad, thereby embarrassing the new governor that came in. “So, I think there is a need to check what people are posting on social media. I am in total support of the crackdown by the DSS operatives but there should be no discrimination or vindictiveness. “All individuals that were arrested must be given a chance to defend themselves or at least retract and apologize. Those that were arrested also have a right to fight back and justify what they have posted. “I believed that with time, people will learn not to post falsehood. People should be mindful of what they post on social media”, the silk said. Yemi Candide-Johnson (SAN) also believed the constitutionally guaranteed rights to freedom of expression is not absolute but conditional. He said: “Freedom of speech is a conditional legal protection. It should be tested. Eternal vigilance of the price of freedom and the law is able to sort this out”. A former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Adekunle Ojo, was also in support of DSS’ action. He wants Nigerians to be wary of what they post online. “When there are laws, they are meant to be kept and if they are not kept, whoever offends the laws will be subjected to his or her own days in court. “There are laws that classify certain postings as offensive and for as long as people flout it, sanctions must be applied. This is because the Constitution itself does not make freedom of expression absolute. “It says freedom of expression must be within the precinct of the law. People’s liberty to live is within the precinct of the law. “The only thing that I am appealing for is that there must be fairness and justice. People should not be victimized or hounded to prison unnecessarily. “So, as far as I am concerned, there is nothing wrong with the action of the DSS operatives. People should be mindful of what they post online. Nigerians must not take some of the liberties that they have for granted. “In some countries outside Nigeria, if an individual copied someone else’s posting and it was found out to be offensive, the individual will be arrested”, Ojo said. Ojo was echoed by Adetokunbo Mumuni who also believed that every irresponsible online posting must attract sanctions. He said: “Under the Nigerian Constitution, the provisions of the fundamental human rights can be derogated from depending on the prevailing circumstances. There is no absolute right anywhere. “So, if indeed, anyone has violated any law, the offence must have been committed within the provisions of a law that was properly and clearly written. “However, even when an offence is committed, it is not enough for the DSS operatives to say they are arresting the alleged offenders, they must not be detained more than the time allowed by the Constitution. They must be taken to court within 48 hours if government intends to press charges against them. That is what is expected in a democratic setting. Nobody can use any third party to deny Nigerians of their rights. “The DSS operatives must tell Nigerians why those picked up were arrested and they must justify it under the law.”