Lobbying by stalwarts of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and even technocrats for ministerial and other appointments has gathered momentum, but the belief in some quarters is that women should have a fair deal in the next federal cabinet. FELIX NWANERI reports   Again, it is echoes of affirmative action ahead of President Muhammadu Buhari’s composition of his cabinet. This is against the backdrop of the make-up of the President’s current cabinet that was inaugurated on November 11, 2015.
The list of 36 ministerial nominees picked from each of the 36 states of Nigeria that was submitted to the Senate then by Buhari in two tranches between September and October 2015, had only six females.
The six “lucky” women then were Aisha Alhassan (Minister of Women Affairs), Amina Mohammed (Minister of Environment), Khadija Bukar Abba Ibrahim (Minister of State for Foreign Affairs), Zainab Ahmed (Minister of State for Budget and National Planning), Kemi Adeosun (Minister of Finance) and Aisha Abubakar (Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment).
The expectation of Nigerian women prior to the submission of the ministerial list then by President Buhari was so high and it was quite understandable. The previous administration of Goodluck Jonathan had treated the women folk so good, as it tried to implement the 35 per cent Affirmation Action.
But, it was hope dashed, when it turned out that women will not be playing such prominent role in the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) government. Many, however, said that they were not surprised over the meager slots allocated to women due to the President’s disposition on gender issues.
But, Buhari, who acknowledged the significant role played by women and youths in his re-election for a second term, has promised to give them more appointments in his second term.
He gave the assurance on March 2, while speaking at the APC Women and Youths Presidential Campaign team dinner to celebrate his re-election. However, the promise came with a caveat. Only those with integrity and interest of Nigeria would be considered for appointments in the next cabinet.
No doubt, the President is revered as a man of integrity, but analysts, who x-rayed his promise, said it is a matter of time to establish whether he would walk his talk in line with the clamour for 35 per cent participation of women in governance across all tiers of government.
The belief is that improving women participation in government is necessary because it will help to strengthen the nation’s democracy.
It would be recalled that the Federal Government, had in Year 2000 adopted a policy called the National Policy of Women to ensure that women have equal opportunity as men to participate in government. The policy also seeks to address the imbalance of women representation in the country and attempts to strike a balance.
But, like most government’s policies, its implementation has only been on paper as there has been little improvement in women participation in governance since 1999, when Nigeria returned to civil rule except under Jonathan.
As it stands, women are still at the back bench in politics and governance and there is no sign that it will get better as the nation awaits the president to forward his list of ministerial nominees by the time the National Assembly reconvenes on July 2. According to analysts, this fear stems from intense lobby has commenced among the party bigwigs for who gets the respective lots for the states as regards ministerial and other appointments. Besides the pressure on the President by lobbyists, some of those also being reached out to are the President’s wife, Aisha; his nephew and close associate, Mamman Daura and his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari.
New Telegraph investigations revealed that the jostle is more intense in states, where the ruling APC is not in charge or where its former governors are among those, who left office on May 29 due to completion of second term or failure to win a second term. Among the states are Lagos, Oyo, Cross River, Adamawa and Bauchi.
The jostle in Lagos is interesting as many are waiting to see if the President will drop the immediate past governor of the state and current Minister of Works, Power and Steel, Babatunde Fashola, given the pressure from some quarters to have immediate past Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in the federal cabinet.
Fashola is seen as one of the “poster boys” of the Buhari administration given his track record, particularly, when he was governor of the nation’s former capital, and as a result, many are rooting for his return to the cabinet though his critics say he has performed below expectation as a minister.
In Oyo State, the jostle more intense as former Governor Abiola Ajimobi, who lost a senatorial bid is squaring against the likes of Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu (a close ally of Buhari) and even the party’s governorship candidate in the 2019 elections, Adebayo Adelabu.
Shittu, who lost a bid to fly the party’s flag in the governorship election, is banking on his relationship with Buhari to lobby for a return to the cabinet, but Ajimobi, is also said to be scheming towards making the cabinet or at worse secure an ambassadorial appointment else he glides into political oblivion.
It is a similar scenario in Cross River State, where the immediate past Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani Usani, who not only lost his bid to fly the APC flag in the governorship election, but was recently suspended by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, might find it difficult to return the cabinet.
Usani’s predicament is likely to open the door for former Senate Leader and immediate past chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba to join the federal cabinet.
The former Senate Leader, who represented Cross River Central in the Senate between 2003 and 2015 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) before he defected to APC, lost a come-back bid to the upper legislative chamber in the recent elections. Those rooting for him, say he is the most qualified among APC chieftains in the state eyeing the ministerial slot.
While not much have been heard about women in these political calculations and permutations, some stakeholders, particularly women right activists, are insisting that Buhari should seize the opportunity of his second term to address exclusion of women from governance.
Among those who made the demand is the chairperson of Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, who spoke on the need for more women in governance and expectation from President Muhammadu Buhari in his second term after a recent interactive between Nigerian women groups, activists and professionals belonging to 150 Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, to demand for more women representation in governance.
Her words: “We believe that the government has another opportunity to improve action for gender equality, address women’s participation in governance, reduce gender-based violence, create access to sexual and reproductive health products and enhance voice and participation in transparency, accountability and good governance in Nigeria. We believe that the new administration should be able to surpass former President Goodluck Jonathan’s over 40 per cent representation of women in the federal cabinet.
“So, we call on President Buhari to address political exclusion of women by implementing the 35 per cent affirmative action for women in appointive positions as ministers, as board members and in all other sectors. Government has a responsibility to define and increase the opportunity for women’s entry and growth into male-dominated careers including vice chancellorship of universities. There is a bill, which can help the government in doing this, so we expect the administration to lead and facilitate passage of the Gender and Equal Opportunity (GEO) Bill.”
For Joe Okei-Odumakin, the President of Women Arise and Centre for Change, who decried the decline in the number of women in elective positions in this present political dispensation, considering the number of female lawmakers in the national and states Assembly, it is worrisome that the major political parties have not seen the necessity for the advancement of women representation in public positions at a time it is a global trend for women to be actively engaged in governance.”