The National Think Tank Committee (NTTC) and National Executive Committee (NEC) members of the Action Alliance (AA) have suspended the party’s National Chairman, Mr. Kenneth Udeze and the National Secretary, Mr. James Vernimbe. Action Alliance is the party, Chief Uche Nwosu, son-in-law of the former Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha contested for the governorship of Imo State. The party members also asked the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) to put their searchlight into the party by investigating the suspended party leaders over the over N100 million that accrued to the party during elections. According to the members, the suspended executive had acted unilaterally in violation of the party’s constitution. The Acting National Chairman of the party, Alh. Mohammed Abubakar, who briefed the press in Abuja after the meeting of the executive committee said the party was still behind it’s governorship candidate in Imo State, Chief Uche Nwosu in the last election on his petition against the result of the governorship election in the state won by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Emeka Ihedioha. According to Abubakar, the statement of the suspended AA National Chairman that the party was not in support of Nwosu going to the election tribunal to challenge the outcome of Imo State governorship election was not true. Speaking, he said, “We as members of the NiTC and NEC of Action Alliance wish to unequivocally state as follows:
That our support for the party’s gubernatorial candidate in lmo State Chief Uche Nwosu is total and absolute;
that we are aware and in full support of his legitimate actions before the Election Tribunal to reclaim his mandate;
that we totally dissociate ourselves from the unwholesome acts of Barr Kenneth Udeze and James Vernimbe which is self – serving and unpatriotic. “We invite the EFCC, ICPC and INEC to as a matter of urgency investigate the financial transactions of the party from 2017 to date with a view to unearthing any infractions. Let the corruption fight be extended to administration of our party funds.” Suspending the two national officers,  Abubakar said, “That both Barr. Kenneth Udeze and Mr. James Vernimbe are suspended indefinitely from the paty henceforth for various forms of anti-party activities; that the public is hereby notified that the duo of Bar. Kenneth Udeze and James Vemimbe no longer represent the party as National Chairman and National Secretary respectively. Whoever accords then such prefix does so at his or her peril. “That in line with our Party’s constitution, the Deputy National Chairman in the person of Alh. Mohammed Abubakar takes over as Acting National Chairman while the Deputy National Secretary Mr. Raphael Onakorere assumes the office of National Secretary in an acting capacity.”