Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) has urged building contractors and developers in the state to always abide by building codes and regulations before and during construction.
In a statement issued yesterday by its Chief Executive Officer, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, LASEMA said that abiding by the regulations would help to prevent the unnecessary collapse of buildings and subsequent loss of lives and property.
Oke-Osanyintolu said there was a need for contractors to take caution, owing to the collapsed building which occurred about 11.05pm on Wednesday, June 26, at K Farm Estate, Fagba, Iju Road in Ifako Ijaye Local Government Area of the state.
He said that the agency received the distress call regarding the collapsed building through the emergency toll-free number 112/767 and immediately mobilised its Response Team with other stakeholders to the scene.
According to him, on arrival at the incident scene, it was noticed that the three-storey building presently undergoing construction suddenly collapsed.
The LASEMA CEO said a preliminary report by the agency after physical assessment of the collapsed building revealed that the incident could be as a result of the use of substandard building materials.
He said that the collapse could be due to lack of expertise in the construction of the building, adding that, “Fortunately, there was no loss of life in the incident due to prompt the response of the agency.
“However, all 12 victims of the incident were rescued alive, including one trapped adult male, and they were all treated and discharged immediately at the spot of the incident,” Oke-Osanyintolu said.
He said that the agency, with the use of an excavator, pulled down the building to ensure the safety of lives and property of people living in adjoining buildings in the area.
According to him, other relevant government agencies have also been contacted for further investigation as to the real cause of the incident, to prevent future occurrence in the state.
He said LASEMA would continue to partner with relevant stakeholders and continue advocacy on the need for all to always imbibe safety culture, to avoid unnecessary loss of lives and property in the state.