Prospective private candidates of the 2019 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) – Second Series (Aug/Sept WAEC GCE) across Nigeria can now conveniently purchase their registration PINs through any of the multiple channels available on Remita, the leading electronic payment platform in Nigeria.
This agreement was made recently as the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) formally announced the commencement of the sale of WAEC GCE registration PINs to commence on May 27 and end on July 19, 2019.
To enjoy this service, intending candidates are to visit the Remita website or mobile app and choose a preferred payment channel of the many options available which include Debit/Credit Card, Internet Banking, Mobile Wallet (Pocket Moni, Paga, etc), Branches of all Nigerian banks, and at designated Agent locations across the country.
Once payment is completed, the exam registration PIN is delivered to the candidate’s email and also displayed on the Remita payment receipt sent to the same email. The candidate is then expected to proceed to WAEC’s website to complete registration with the obtained PIN.
“We are glad to always provide everyday payment solutions for our customers across the value chain. In this particular instance, it is our pleasure to empower prospective candidates of the August/September WAEC GCE with multiple payment options available round-the-clock that would help them complete their registration in good time, with no hassles,” said David Okeme, Divisional Head, Applications and Vertical Markets, of SystemSpecs, owners of Remita.
Candidates are required to conclude registration within two weeks of first access to the WAEC registration portal during the registration period and to ensure that name, gender, passport photograph, date of birth and examination subjects are correctly provided. Upon completion, they are also to print the Admission Notice/Photo Card as evidence of successful registration which will serve as identification during the examination.
Remita is a leading payment platform in Nigeria that helps individuals and businesses to easily send and receive funds and also settle various bills.
The West African Examinations Council is an examination board established to conduct the examinations and to award certificates comparable to those of equivalent examining authorities internationally.