●Local investors uncertain over risks  Young innovative companies providing financial services with technology in Nigeria (fintech start-ups) have attracted a cumulative $266 million capital injection from foreign investors in the last five years, New Telegraph has learnt.
The funding was secured amidst high interest from foreigners in the country’s burgeoning fintech ecosystem.
This was revealed in fintech report released by Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFInA), a financial development organisation promoting financial inclusion in Nigeria. According to the study, the cumulative investments were achieved between 2014 and 2018. Breakdown of the figures showed that in 2014, a total of $16 million was invested in Nigeria’s fintech start-ups by foreign venture capital. The figure increased to $49 million in 2015 and by 2016, they received $62 million. In 2017, total foreign investments in the fintechs stood at $52 million, while the figure jumped to $87 million in 2018.
Analysis of recipient fintech companies in 2018 revealed that a payment infrastructure start-up, Cellulant $47.5 million in the year from two venture capitals. Another Fintech focusing on lending, MINE, secured $13 million, while the digital retail payment platform, Paga, got $10 million. Also, payment infrastructure Fintech, Paystack, received $8 million. Lending platform, Lidya and savings Fintech, Piggybank.ng received $6.9 million and $1.1 million respectively.
Speaking on the report, Head of Innovation at EFInA, Dayo Ademola, said investments in Fintech start-ups in Nigeria is coming from foreigners because investment vehicles in Nigeria are still uncertain of the risks and potential in Fintechs. “Many potential investors in Nigeria are not willing to take the risk but the foreign investors are coming from countries where the Fintech ecosystem is well developed and there is a lot more understanding around the risk and reward framework of investing in start-ups. This is the reason funding is coming from international sources,” she said.
She added that one of the best ways to increase local participation and investments in the ecosystem is through education and awareness building. “We need to improve the education of potential investors here in Nigeria to let them know this is potentially a good avenue for investment,” she said. “I know there are a few bodies that are looking to improve this education, including some of the regulators like the NSE”.
The EFInA report indicated that the 80 per cent financial inclusion target set by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the increasing smartphone penetration in the country is driving fintech growth in Nigeria. It added that surge in e-commerce activity in Nigeria and government intervention establishing innovation hubs across are also playing huge roles in the ecosystem.
With the fintech growth, EFInA said there has been increase in lending and savings players and increased partnerships with banks while competition from Telcos are helping to improve technological innovation. It however, noted that key gaps still exist in access to funding, appropriate regulation, adequate information, establishing strategic partnerships, corporate governance limitations and intellectual property rights for the Fintechs.
Fintech is one of the most attractive tech sectors for investment in Africa and Nigeria, alongside South Africa and Kenya, is leading the way on the continent when it comes to the number of fintech investments. A report released in March by French venture capital (VC) firm, Partech Africa, found that at least 33 per cent of total funding raised by African tech startups last year was in the fintech sector, with a total of 42 deals accounting for $379 million.
According to the African Tech Startups Funding Report 2018 released by Disrupt Africa, a total of 58 fintech startups raised funding over the course of last year, more than any other sector, while the US$132.8 million raised by African fintech start-ups was almost 40 per cent of the overall total. With funding increasing exponentially, the numbers of fintechs adding to their offerings and aspiring to be full digital banks are also expected to increase in coming years.
Globally, EFInA said the Fintech space has funding of over $100billion. “Funding in 2015 rose due to lending segment, however, in 2016 there was a dip, as investors were cautious. The market has since recovered in 2018 due to investments in Payments segment,” the organisation said in its report.