 The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has launched investigation into a helicopter that landed in the Ore axis of the Lagos-Benin Expressway to pick a high profile passenger at the weekend. Spokesman for NCAA, Sam Adurogboye, said initial reports indicate that the helicopter is owned by Tropical Arctic Logistics Ltd. with registration number 5N – BVQ and aircraft type AW139. Adurogboye disclosed that the pilot was compelled to land between Benin and Ore in an unscheduled diversion.
He noted that as soon as the investigation is concluded, the outcome would be made public. “The pilot was compelled to land between Benin and Ore in an unscheduled diversion to pick up someone.
“NCAA has begun full scale investigation to ascertain the circumstances surrounding the unscheduled diversion. “As soon as the investigation is concluded, the outcome will be made public,” he said.
A video had gone viral on social media of a Nigerian billionaire who was stuck in a gridlock on Lagos-Benin Expressway for several hours on Sunday, and called a helicopter to pick him. The unnamed billionaire was subsequently airlifted out of a soul-cringing stressful environment owing to a bumper-to-bumper traffic snarl that lasted for more than two hours on the busy expressway.
To everyone’s consternation, the helicopter landed right on the expressway, picked him up and flew away. Reacting to the billionaire’s action, Deyemi Okanlawon, who recently fulfilled his honeymoon promise of taking his wife to Paris, France, prayed that God should make him capable of giving his wife such a treatment. He, however, described the action as an act of lawlessness.
The unnamed man had been stuck on the road for hours running out of patience. Suddenly, the propellers of a helicopter could be heard from afar and within seconds, the aircraft landed on the highway and a man walked out of his car.
In a video that has since gone viral, the tycoon was spotted exiting his vehicle and majestically stepping onto the aircraft that came to his rescue.
Bystanders trooped on the streets to witness the once in a lifetime phenomenon. Of course, most of them could not believe that a man was powerful enough to be hoisted away using a chopper just because he could not deal with the headache of staying in a gridlock.