Oil and gas logistics giant, INTELS Nigeria Limited, has graduated a fresh batch of 80 women under its Women Empowerment Programme Scheme Synergy (WEPSS). So far, more than 1,000 women drawn from various communities have been empowered through the project. The successful trainees are the first batch of beneficiaries admitted into the scheme in January 2019, which is part of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme established in 2013 with the vision of empowering 5,000 community women drawn from various parts of Nigeria over a 20- year period through training in fashion design and tailoring. Speaking at the graduation ceremony held at the Federal Lighter Terminal, Onne, Rivers State, the General Manager, Legal and Corporate Services of INTELS Nigeria Limited, Mr. Mike Epelle, who represented the company’s Managing Director, expressed delight with the impact of the programme on beneficiaries since inception. “This is a programme that the management of INTELS Nigeria Limited holds very dear to its heart. We are so proud and happy to know that this has continued right from the time it started and sustained up till date. “It was the dream of the wife of the founder of INTELS that there should be something like this set up for the women because it appears we have been paying too much attention to the men. So the idea is to have a balance. Let there be something that can be done for women and that is how this programme started,” he said. In her remarks, WEPSS Project Head, Nancy Freeborn, restated the company’s commitment to women empowerment, saying that apart from the tailoring skills acquired, the programme also inculcated “soft skills” including personal hygiene and how to run successful businesses after graduation. She said: “The skill you have been given is a gift from INTELS through the Women Empowerment Programme Scheme Synergy (WEPSS). That skill is what has allowed you to explore new ideas to create and to design. Make INTELS proud by putting into use the skills that you have acquired. “It gives us a lot of joy when we go on our follow-up exercise and see people who are really putting into use the skill they have acquired.” 26-year-old Esther Osarodanwi, who emerged the best performing beneficiary, said she was provided with a start-up kit which includes an industrial sewing machine, steam iron, chair, scissors, seam ripper, box of tailors’ chalk and a measuring tape. The young woman, who broke down in tears while receiving her certificate and the start-up kits, poured encomiums on the management of INTELS for impacting positively on women through the acclaimed empowerment scheme.