The Acting President of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria, Olamide George, told CHARLES OGUNDIYA that his political career started while in school as an athlete and students’ union leader. The former hurdler and Nigeria University Games champion added that they are going to bring everyone together at the federation level. Excerpts…   Athletics is no longer the way it used to be in Nigeria, what’s really wrong?
I must thank God for sparing our lives and allowing the whole world to see what has transpired in almost two years since the current AFN board was inaugurated. We are not where we planned to be but we are grateful to God for the journey so far. Athletics in Nigeria is something we thought would have flourished better than it has at the moment. Nevertheless, there is still room for improvement and with our unity of purpose to drive the athletes and the federation, we will begin to get better results. Since the inauguration of the AFN board almost two years ago, there have been problems among the members. However, it is obvious the members are now coming back together, what are your plans to move the federation forward?
After the election there were few issues, which is a normal thing. There is never a perfect election in the world, and of course there must be complaints after an election. But the most important thing is for us to shift ground, especially in the interest of the federation which is bigger than everybody. The outgoing minister did what was necessary before leaving. The point is, as a leader, he observed a lacuna, a crisis within the federation, and he called for a meeting so as to bring us together as one, so that we can work together and achieve a better result than it used to be and that has been put in place. We all have learnt our lessons in one way or the other; our unity of purpose is important to us and we can go ahead from there. With the stepping aside order on the president of the AFN, Ibrahim Gusau, how soon are we going to have a new leader?
We cannot operate with a vacuum, so at the moment, the vice-president occupies the position as the acting president of the federation for now. By Wednesday June 5, the board members are going to meet and chart a way forward. Already the president has been served a letter to step aside for now, he has received and acknowledged it. We are going to inaugurate a committee to investigate all the accusations and the report of the committee will be used in moving the federation forward. The performance at the last IAAF World Relays in Yokohama, Japan, was the worst for the country, what is the board doing to restore the country’s pride in athletics?
I was not part of the selection for the World Relays; it was an open secret what happened to me on the board. But I am happy that God already restored me to my position as the Vice President of the federation. We had our hiccups, but hopefully we are going to have a board meeting, itemise our challenges and look for a way forward. Subsequently, what happened in Yokohama won’t repeat itself. Akure meet was one of the biggest in the past, what really went wrong?
If anyone is using the meet to spite me, then such person is wasting his time. If you look at the Akure meet, it has been one of the best in the country. I can mention few athletes who have recorded good results at the meet. Ese Brume did a very good jump in Akure, Divine Oduduru also ran good times there, likewise so many other athletes. We always have very good weather in Akure. The point is, the athletes are always happy coming to Akure for the meet. I want to assure Nigerian athletes that we are ready to host again and the meet will return soon. I can say it categorically that if as a board, we fine tune our calendar and Akure is listed as one of the venues for any meet, we will always give them the best. How soon can we go back to Akure?
I may not be able to decide that in isolation, the board will have to decide that. As an athlete turned politician, how was the transition for you?
I must be sincere, God has been faithful. It started when I was in the Federal University of Technology, Akure, running for Ondo State as a student athlete. I captained the university team to West African University Games and the NUGA Games, where I won gold, silver and bronze medals for the school. I have done well for the school and my country. I will have to say a big thanks to God because He has paid me back my dues as a sports person. When I left the university, I served as a Youth Corps member in the same Ondo State and few days to my passing out, I was appointed as a special assistant to the state governor, Olusegun Mimiko, on youths and student affairs. I was able to coordinate the students and the youths of Ondo State in the governor’s first term in office. In his second term, he re-appointed me as special adviser on sports development. When you look at all this, you will see that God has been grateful. I was an athlete in school, I was also a students union leader in school. I was the president of the Ondo State students union, I served with the governor as SA on youths and students, and later SA on sports. It is proper to say that in the area of sports and youths, I have been there and it’s not really new to me anymore; what I am doing are those things that I did while in school. Also, I have learned through the system. Governor Mimiko during his term provided good leadership in Ondo State, giving room for young men to be in his government. I was among the few men in his government and I will love to commend him for giving us such opportunity. I will advise other governors to emulate him by allowing young people to be in their government and work with them. During that period I’m talking about, I was able to learn the bureaucracy on how the government is run. The same opportunity was given to me to run on the platform of my party, PDP, to contest for a House of Assembly seat. I won my election and I was also given a committee to manage, which is the committee on youth, sports and information. It is still a big process for me and I must thank God for the opportunity. I really thank God for working for the past four years which will come to an end on June 2. Apart from what I was able to achieve, I was also the minority leader for Ondo State House of Assembly. I am grateful for everything in the last eight years. What is your advice to up-and-coming athletes or former athletes who want to follow in your footsteps politically?
The first thing for them will be to be very focused and also be sound academically. Without education as an athlete, there is no way they can go far. When I was in school, I was combining education with sport. You cannot run or perform sports forever, so there is need to balance the two together. If I had not worked hard to get my degrees, I wouldn’t have been where I am today. My advice to the youth is, they should shun cultism, shun violence and imbibe the spirit of sport, love and true citizenship. How did you come into athletics?
I started my athletics career when I was in primary school. My mum and dad were into sports, so maybe I followed because of their genes. Because with the two of them into sports, it allowed the children to see someone with same body mechanism. I was doing well right from my primary school; I was the head boy while also performing well in sports. Same thing in the secondary school but everything came to a climax when I gained admission into the university. I had a coach then who I called life coach, Lawrence Adegbehingbe, a Commonwealth medallist, who represented the country in the past. He discovered so many of us from FUTA; Oluwole Sunday, Taiwo Ajibade, Yemi Fagbamila, Kayode Isijola and so many like that. He was the coach that discovered me when I was in the 100 level and we were all training under him. He was the state coach then but the university employed him to manage the school’s athletes and likewise the state team and after like two years, there was progression in the performance of the athletes leading to the state to start paying us. We got on the payroll of Ondo State even as students, we were running for the school and also for the state. I have to make mention of the school for providing an enabling environment to excel and grow. As a sportsman in FUTA at that time, I don’t know if it still works today, you were always the first to be considered in the area of accommodation. We had provisions every semester, stipends to ourselves because we were athletes, so we had no regrets doing sports. Although there were some lecturers who were of the opinion that you were not on campus for sports, as athletes, we also understood that it was not just about the classes alone. There was the need to be involved in other extra-curricular activities too to widen your scopes of knowledge. As an athlete, I combined class activities, sports and other aspects of studying. To the glory of God, I have my first degree, two masters’ degrees and I’m starting my PhD soon. Athletics has really exposed me and I must commend my wife too for standing by me all through my university days and during my political career. My kids are also into athletics too, infact they have a very broad knowledge of the sports. They watch athletics and we are a family of athletics because sport is life and we all understand the purpose of it in our lives. If you must stay healthy, you must involve yourself in sports and it has been good to me and my family. Last year a Nigerian athlete was banned for using steroids and it the AFN recently suspended an athlete for disrespecting the leadership. As a former athlete, what are you trying to do to give the athletes a sense of belonging?
I will start with the issue of drugs. I frown upon it seriously and none of us on the board will support any athlete using banned substances to perform. About the suspension of the athlete, I was not aware of it; I saw it online like we saw the IAAF letter on the internet even though we are all members of the federation. The truth is we have to look at the process of the suspension. In the sense of it, it must be procedural. I am a legislator and when you want to suspend, there must be procedures. The question we should ask ourselves, have all these procedures been fulfilled? If it was so, what was the resolution of the procedure before the suspension? I am not going to comment on that because I am yet to see the procedures. What else makes you happy apart from sports and politics?
Serving God. The pathway to greatness is always your service to God. I always love to be in the house of God, have time for God. I am the youth coordinator in my church, a member of the drama department, in the security team and I always have time for God because without Him I am nobody. I also love to stay with my family at every available time.