 Two sisters were among those killed at Maba Junction, Asese on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on Saturday. The driver, who disappeared after the accident, was said to have been speeding and coming from Lagos direction. He lost control of his car and rammed into people standing at bus stop, waiting to board buses to Mowe. The driver killed the two sisters and a meat seller and then injured the mother of the girls. The mother of the girl had a broken leg. The two sisters have been identified as Uche and Ijeoma. The incident occurred about 7a.m. at Maba Junction, just as the two girls and their mother were returning from a Celestial Church of Christ (CCC) at Asese village, where they went for a vigil. The meat seller, however, was identified as Ibrahim. A witness, Mr. Adebiyi Idowu, said: “I was at the bus stop, waiting for a bus that would convey me to Mowe when the incident occurred. I saw the woman and her two daughters as they crossed from the other side of the road, to where I was standing. We greeted each other. Before I knew what was happening, a Passat car, coming at a top speed, skipped from the road and ran into people standing by the roadside. The girls and a man were killed, while their mother had a broken leg. “It was still like a dream to me; if not for God, I would have been killed too. I have not witnessed such an accident before. When I and other people rushed to the scene, the driver of the car had disappeared from the scene.” The victims’ bodies were evacuated by policemen from Ibafo Police Station and deposited at Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital Mortuary, Sagamu. Another witness said: “The car, which killed the victims, was burnt by angry youths in the area.” When our correspondent visited the two sisters’ house at Rainbow Street, Maba, the place was deserted. A resident of Rainbow Street, who gave his name simply as Mr. Shonibare, said: “The girls’ parents had been living in Maba village before some of us. When you hear them speak Yoruba, you would think they are Yoruba. For long, I didn’t know they were Igbo. They are the first Igbo people I have seen attending Celestial Church of Christ.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, to confirm the story, he promised to get back to our correspondent. But as at press time, he was yet to do so.