The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the attack on Supreme Court justices by the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof Itse Sagay over court’s judgment on Rivers and Zamfara states’ elections, as an invitation to anarchy.  The party also added that this was calculated to intimidate the judiciary, particularly, the Supreme Court, ahead of the determination of its presidential election petition, now before the Court of Appeal.  In a statement yesterday by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologondiyan, PDP noted that Prof. Sagay’s comment has revealed the level of condescension, derision and contempt the presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) have for the Justices of the Supreme Court.  “By declaring the upholding of justice by the Supreme Court as a ‘national tragedy’ and ‘unimaginable injustice,’ and suggesting that, ‘we (probably, his party members) should not allow’ the judgment as delivered, Prof. Sagay is calling for anarchy and rebelliousness against our constitutional democratic order and rule of law.  “Our party believes that such intentional attack on the integrity of the Supreme Court can only emanate from feverish apprehensions by the Buhari presidency and the APC that they might not have their way in the presidential election petition, hence this resort to blackmail,” the statement added.  It stated that Prof. Sagay’s resort to incitement and hate language against the Supreme Court justices further exposed the desperation of the presidency and the APC to cow, blackmail, intimidate and attempt to annex the judiciary.  PDP argued that there is no way Prof. Sagay, a professor of Law, could justify his call for the rejection of the Supreme Court judgment on Zamfara and Rivers States, noting that “the judgments were in protection of rule of law, democratic ethos as well as the wishes and aspirations of the people over the attempt by the APC to take control of their states through manipulations and awarding of fictitious votes to their candidates. “As a law-abiding party, the PDP holds the integrity of the justices as well as the institution of the judiciary very high and do not support this attempt by agents of the APC to clip and sequester the judiciary for their partisan interests.”  The party therefore, called on the Supreme Court justices to continue to be firm in upholding justice as has been demonstrated in the judgments on Rivers and Zamfara states’ elections, which it said, served as lessons to political parties to adhere strictly to rules of internal democracy in the electoral processes.