People were awed by the discovery of an old woman believed to be the oldest in Ekiti State who was found in one of the communities. Adewumi Ademiju writes  At 195, Elder Mrs. Aowe Osasona, a native of Iludun Ekiti, in Ilejemeje Local Government Area of Ekiti State, still exude energy and gait. Although, she couldn’t talk much, she sang praise/ worship songs joyfully and tirelessly. Indeed, she radiates happiness and fulfillment of life.
When New Telegraph visited her at the residence of the aged in Iludun Ekiti. She managed to mumble some words but not cleared. She later picked up and sang praise/worship songs fluently. At 195, Elder Osasona apparently depicted every sign of good care needed in old age. She however said, “if not for this kind of initiative, many might not know that someone of my age is still living, it’s a good programme that must never die.”
Speaking on behalf of the great grandmother, one of her children, Mrs. Comfort Ogundare, who is in her late 70s, described her mother as loving and caring. “That’s why we are all around her to ensure she does not lack care,” she said. She narrated the story of her mother who was born in 1824. She said that the mother stayed long before she got fruit of the womb as she gave birth to her first child in 1879 at the age of 55.
According to Ogundare, her first child (daughter) was born in 1879 and still alive at the age of 140! The first daughter she said is living in Igogo Ekiti, Moba LGA of Ekiti State. “Mama has five children; it took her long time in marriage before she could give birth.
She explained that her 195-years old mother was the youngest wife of the second late monarch of Ipere Ekiti HRM Oba Arowolobioyinbo, Osasona of Ipere Ekiti, a community close to Iludun Ekiti.
Ogundare said the programme of Aged Peoples Initiative, ( API) could be best described as an addendum to the longevity of her mother, Aowe Osasona. “They always visit her, pray and sing worship songs with her.”
The good care expected of old age is obvious in her appearance and the environment she stays in. Although, the abode is not characterised with modern aesthetics, she resides in a neat and decent environment that is likeable and just perfect for her age. Further describing the great grandma as energetic and dutiful, Ogundare recounted when her mother was a business guru in her youthful age. She recounted how her mother used to tell them her trekking days from one community to the other to buy goods, the story of ‘War of Hitler’ she used to tell them and other interesting experiences.
She however explained that mama’s children and the grand ones all agreed that she should stay permanently with her (Ogundare) and ensure mama is adequately catered for, while others give all necessary financial support.
New Telegraph came across the 195year old great grandmother at a program for the aged organised by a Non-governmental Organisation (NGO)-‘Aged Peoples Initiative’ (API), a foundation that cares for the aged. She danced gleefully and rejoiced with the anchor, Mrs Omotayo Olatunde who is also the founder of the NGO.
So far, the program according to the founder, has contributed to lives of the elderly ones immensely. She stated that the aim of the program is to lead the aged to the way of the Lord. “The Program is divided into two, there is one every 15days, there is also an annual one called ‘Festival for the Aged’ (Odun Arugbo).
Olatunde said that, “during the festival, we bring the aged from all communities in the state to wine and dine together. We buy cloth for them; make arrangement to bring them from their homes to the venue. They dance and we make them happy and feel relevant despite the old age. Those of them who cannot dance for health reasons sit and participate comfortably.”
Olatunde explained further that since the aged have been attending the program, their views about religion have been positively impacted. “Even there was a time when the annual festival coincided with Yam Festival of a community, surprisingly, many of the aged in that community trooped into the ‘Aged festival (Odun Arugbo) and abandoned the yam festival.
According to Olatunde, some of the aged people are abandoned by their children, but she pointed out that even those children too might not do that intentionally, but due to economic hardship and challenges of their own immediate family responsibilities. “API has taken it upon itself the responsibility of making the aged happy, feel relevant and belonging in the society. They are old people from 70years and above. So, this is not about empowerment, because they are not working, we make them happy and channel them to the way of God and make them feel important till they answer the call of God.”
However, Olatunde called on government officials to use their position to care for the aged medically and financially. “They are old, they can’t work again. Some of their children are far away, they don’t come home to take care of their aged,” she pleaded.