   The All Progressive Congress (APC) is obviously a house divided against itself, going by recent happenings within the party, since the call on the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshionmhole, to resign. The Deputy National Chairman (North) of the party, Senator Lawal Shuaibu, had asked his principal and the number one man in the party to resign based on some allegations he referred to, in a private letter sent to the chairman, which was leaked and had gone viral. However, the issue has raised a lot of discordant tunes within the party as the state chapters and different groups within the body are now sharply divided on the matter, speaking for and against. Oshiomhole brought rancorous leadership, he must go –Imo APC First to throw its weight behind the call for the resignation of Oshiomhole is the Imo State chapter of the party, which noted that the leadership of the former Edo State governor had become rancorous and no longer in the interest of the party. Speaking with Saturday Telegraph, the state chairman of the APC, Hon. Daniel Nwafor, described the conduct of the former governor as cantankerous, while arguing that the call for his resignation was late in coming. Noting that no time should be wasted and no expense should be spared is shoving Oshiomhole out of the party for the heavy losses he has inflicted on the party at both national and state levels, Nwafor said the resignation should have come before now. “The call by Alhaji Lawan Shuaibu for Oshiomole to resign didn’t come early enough. We waited till he ruined the party before calling him out. Nevertheless, I totally support his sack because Oshiomole’s Chairmanship created a lot of acrimony, rancour and heavy losses of elective political positions for our party. “We also lost quality members to the opposition due to his recklessness and highhandedness. Oshiomhole was overtly autocratic and arrogant, so I wholly support the call for his sack. In his best interest, he should honorably resign.” But the Oyo chapter would have none of that. Speaking on behalf of state Chairman, Chief Akin Oke, the Public Relations Officer, Dr. Abdulazeez Olatunde, said: “No, Oyo APC is not in support of those agitating for the ouster of Oshiomhole. Those agitating should explore party mechanism to channel their grievances”. Anambra supports Oshiomhole But the APC in Anambra dismissed the call for Oshiomhole’s resignation, saying it is a non-issue. According to the Anambra State Publicity secretary of the party, Okolo Madukaife, there has not been any kind of referendum across the country on the position of the National Chairman. Madukife also contended that issues being raised by Oshimole’s traducers are cases that are resolvable and do not fall within the realm of his resigning or being removed. “We in Anambra State do not subscribe to the demand by some people that our National chairman should resign because it is a non-issue and there has never been a referendum calling of his removal. I can agree with you that there were crisis arising from the conduct of primary elections in our party and these are issues that can be resolved and our party has always been on top of the moment”. Madukife noted that going by Oshiomhole’s performance as National Chairman, he should be given credit for the victories recorded in the last general election adding that winning the presidential election is also a credit to his tenure as National Chairman. “The Performance is there for everybody to see and when you look at the victories recorded in the National Assembly and gubernatorial elections, you can agree with me that it is a credit to his tenure as National Chairman, and we should not forget that our party was re-elected in the presidential election. “Demands for his resignation or removal is a constitutional matter and it is not up to the respective states to enforce or execute it. We have stipulated processes and procedure for the removal of a National chairman and the processes have not been initiated by the relevant bodies in the party”, he said. It’s long overdue – Ogun faction The factional chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, Chief Derin Adebiyi, also backed the call for the resignation, arguing that Oshiomhole had done irreparable damages to the APC, while insisting that the earlier he is removed, the better for the ruling party. “For the party to continue to progress and develop the way it should, Oshiomhole must go, to give way for a better leader and manager. He’s too controversial, he doesn’t have the temperament to lead at all. He’s too full of himself and he’s doing things in a very wrong way,” the factional chairman said. He argued that the party’s loss of several states to the opposition under Oshiomhole’s watch was enough reason for the national chairman to throw in the towel. “I support the call 100 percent. In actual fact, the call is coming a bit late because the man has done irreparable damage to the party and the earlier we start rebuilding the party, the better for the party. “You see, Buhari is the only figure that holds the party at the national level. This man (Oshiomhole) is working, from day one of his assumption of office, as an undertaker. He appears to be doing the bidding of the opposition. “He is fighting everybody. He is the only one that knows how to organise things and he is doing it in a very wrong, unacceptable way. He’s doing injustice to others in order to present himself as doing justice to all. “A situation whereby you sit at the helms of affairs of a party and within a year, without going to any contest, you lost more than two, three, four states to the opposition on purely avoidable circumstances, such a leader is not worth continuing to lead this type of party. “He’s too autocratic, he’s full of ego, he doesn’t see others as partners in progress. He sees himself as a boss above everybody. We will respect his office if he does the needful to make this party progress but otherwise is what Oshiomhole is doing.” Adebiyi, who served as Senior Special Adviser on Political Affairs to Amosun, dared Oshiomhole to convene a meeting of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC), expressing optimism that the NEC would support demand for Oshiomhole’s resignation because of his glaring leadership foibles. “Let Oshiomhole, if he is sure of himself, call a meeting of the National Executive Committee. I know if he calls a meeting today, that meeting will pass a vote of no confidence in him and if that happens, he goes. That is what the Constitution of the party says. “That is why he has been avoiding to call that meeting. The last one was in August 30, last year. He has been using National Working Committee to do cover-up and his illegalities. “And we all know that his so-called National Working Committee is one-man show, others cannot talk. But thank God they are now talking. There was a time his National Legal Adviser spoke about his autocratic tendencies. Now it is his deputy that is talking.” It’s mere opinion, says Abia APC When contacted, the APC Publicity Secretary in Abia State, Comrade Benedict Godson, said the calls were opinions which do not represent the total stand of the party. Godson went on to say that APC is a party that has a constitution and that any issues concerning leadership position is a constitutional matter of which every branch of the party are under. He said that it is only the party’s constitution that can decide who stays and goes in leadership position as opinion of anyone cannot be regarded as the party’s constitution. Godson added that Abia APC cannot decide on anything outside the constitution which every one of them must abide in and show respect to at all time. Adamawa undecided In Adamawa State, the leadership of the party was undecided as whether to support or go against the call for the National Chairman of the party to resign. Speaking, the State Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Mohammed Abdullahi said the letter by the Deputy National Chairman, to Adams Oshiomhole calling for his resignation was personal . Mohammed Abdullahi noted that the letter was not copied to the State chapters, therefore the state chapters cannot take any decision. We don’t subscribe to it, says Taraba APC The Taraba State chapter also dissociate itself from the call, saying it is unwarranted and may spell doom for the party. The state chairman, Barrister Ibrahim El-sudi Tukur, told Saturday Telegraph, that removing the National Chairman will not solve the problems of the party, but rather worsen the existing crises. He said what is most important now is for the National Chairman to learn from his mistakes and make amends, including respecting the constitution in the overall interest of the party. “If we dissipate our energy over the removal of Oshiomhole without looking inwardly to correct the mistakes of the party before 2023, the party will be a relic of a distant past” he said. He said the National Chairman is human and bound to make mistakes if there is any, adding that the party needs to go back to the drawing board after the 2019 elections and review her mistakes and make amendment ahead of 2023. South-South APC passes vote of confidence The South-South leadership, in what could be seen as backing one of its own, did not only flay the call, but also pass a vote of confidence in the National Chairman. In statement, the six South-South chairmen rose in defence of the National Chairman while faulting the public outburst of the senior party official, who they said, ought to be well acquainted with the provisions of the party’s constitution regarding how to channel perceived grievances if any exist. The statement reads: “The State Chairmen rising from an emergency meeting in Abuja called to review the content of the said letter and to critically evaluate the situation, came to the view that the Deputy National Chairman North merely expressed his personal opinion on perceived issues which is not a reflection of the views of the generality of party stakeholders who are yet to find anything untoward in the stewardship of the party’s National Chairman His Excellency, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. “The State Chairmen further disagreed with Senator Lawal Shuaibu’s claims that the actions of the National Chairman was responsible for multiplicity of court cases bedeviling various State chapters of the party rather, they asserted it was the landmines created by his predecessor who was bent on destroying the party before departing that fueled the unfortunate situation and wondered why Senator Lawal Shuaibu is just realizing the issues he raised barely few days after the NWC set up a committee to look into petitions against highly placed party stakeholders who were glaringly involved in anti-party activities which was responsible for the loss of the number of states mentioned in his letter vis a – viz the depletion also in the numbers of elected Senators in the just concluded 2019 elections. “The State Chairmen also debunked the allegations of high-handedness against the National Chairman with particular reference to the altering of National Working Committee decisions as a veil plot to crucify the National Chairman over his uncompromising stance on truth against elements bent on destroying the party from within. “The State Chairmen wondered whose interest the media outburst seeks to serve and its original intendment stating unequivocally that, the National Chairman cannot be removed on the pages of newspapers because the constitution of the party which Senator Lawal Shuaibu subscribed to, as a member of the NWC, clearly guarantees the tenure of office of the party’s National Chairman and the processes of removing him from office. “The Deputy National Chairman North is hereby given seven days to apologise to the National Chairman in order not to receive the wrath of party members in the South South. “The State Chairmen also frowned at the intermittent and most unjustifiable attacks on the National Chairman who have maintained unblemished records since joining active politics and has ensured internal democratic norms are entrenched in the party since his assumption of office. “The Chairmen thereafter passed a vote of confidence on the National Chairman and vowed to resist any attempt to blackmail him out of office for standing against injustice that has hitherto been the hallmark of his predecessor which was the only legacy he left behind.” The statement was jointly signed by the six (6) South – South APC State Chairmen namely; Ini T. Okopido (Akwa Ibom), Amos Lalabunafa (Bayelsa), John Ochalla (Cross Rivers), Prophet Jones Ode Erue (Delta), Barr. Aslem U. Ojezua (Edo) and Ojukaye Flag Amachree (Rivers). NWC must convene dialogue –Nasarawa APC On its part, the Nasarawa State chapter asked the NWC of the party to convene a national dialogue to resolve all squabbles in the party The secretary of the Nasarawa chapter, Alhaji Aliyu Bello, who argued that it was only by convening a national dialogue that the problems bedeviling the party could be resolved, said the APC could be riding on a rough way ahead, if such is not immediately implemented. According to him, the resignation call is not the only issue to be discussed, but there is every need to dialogue amongst party’s national executives with the view to correcting wrongs committed by any individual in order to remedy the party from danger ahead. “I think the a national dialogue be convened by the National Working Committee to dialogue with a view to resolving all issues otherwise I foresee a rough way ahead for the party. Leaders must be held accountable for their actions. “Calls for resignation of the National Chairman is not the solution. Only dialogue can give direction to the party’s followership otherwise there will be rough way for the party in future’’ Lagos backs Oshiomhole Speaking in the same vein, the Lagos APC, through its Assistant Publicity Secretary, Hon. Abiodun Salami, said the Lagos chapter is 100 per cent in support of the party’s National Chairman. “He is our national chairman. So, how can we be against our national chairman? We are 100 per cent in his support. We are not even interested in the campaign of calumny or the purported call for the removal of Oshiomhole or those asking him to step down. We are not part of the incident. We are in total support of Oshiomhole,” he said. Ekiti aloof The Ekiti chapter seems indifferent as the state Publicity Secretary, Hon. Ade Ajayi, said although the news had been on the pages of newspapers, Ekiti APC is yet to come out with any reaction, which would only happen after the state exco meeting. “We have read about it on the pages of newspapers, but in Ekiti, we are yet to react because the party has not met on any decision, so APC in Ekiti for now has no reaction on the issue. “When the state executive meets, they would be able to discuss on it for possible reaction”, Ajayi said” It’s a wicked call – Osun chapter The Osun state chapter of APC described those clamour as wicked while querying the motive behind the call. The party in a statement by its Director of Publicity, Barrister Kunle Oyatomiin Osogbo, queried: “Why should Oshiomhole be sacked? Why should we change the victorious team? He has performed well. Yes, there are challenges. Those who could not push through their personal political agenda would ordinarily be angry”. “But they should realise that the party has a book of rules. You don’t try and circumvent it to please yourselves. Mind you, it is impossible for the entire executive of the party to speak unanimously. That’s the beauty of democracy. Albeit, everyone is guided and protected by the rules.” “When there is a disagreement, we can resolve it among ourselves and reach out to each other for peace and progress. Asking Oshiomhole to go can’t be a solution now. “The APC nationwide is comfortable. We are the most populous party in Nigeria. See the checklist and you will be happy to belong to the party. That’s a credit to the leadership”, he submitted. Niger urges peace The APC in Niger State has called on the leadership of the party at the national level to sheath its swords saying that 2023 should be paramount in its agenda instead of calls for resignation. Responding to Shuaibu’s call on Oshiomhole to resign, one of the APC leaders in Niger State, Jonathan Tsado Vatsa, who spoke for the party, said the APC may not survive up to 2023 if there is rift amongst its leaders. Vatsa who was the party’s Publicity Secretary and former Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism said, “the President and governors have just been sworn in, what we need now is not resignation or crisis. We should start thinking of how the party can survive this next four years and beyond 2023.” He further disclosed that, “the call for Oshiomhole’ resignation is the Deputy national Chairman’s personal decision and not the resolution of the national working committee (NWC). “It was just a mere personal correspondence between the chairman and his deputy. So, it is not something that should get us derailed or distracted.” He added that the party may not discuss Shuaibu’s letter since it was not directed at either it or members of its NWC. Accordingly, he said “if the letter had been sent to the affected NWC members which include President Muhammadu Buhari, the governors elected on the platform of the party and members of its National Executive Committee, then it would have no option but to either ask Oshiomhole to respond to the issues raised in the letter or be suspended. “The letter, funny enough, was not directed at the party. It was a mere personal correspondence between the chairman and his deputy which unfortunately leaked to the media. “My advice for them is to shelve any grievances and call for anyone to resign, rather, we should sheath our swords because it will be difficult for a party that is just forming a government for another term to succeed with such internal crisis.