  Says over $82m NICFUND lent to operators   Indications were rife last week that the long years of waiting by operators in the Nigerian cabotage scheme for disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund (CVFF), would come to an end as the Bank of Industry (BoI), has declared its readiness to leverage on its years of experience in managing government’s development finance funds; to collaborate with the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) in ensuring a seamless disbursement of the fund to qualified and competent operators. The bank said in Lagos that it has only recorded minimal default in its long years of managing government development funds including the including the Nigerian Content Development and Management Board’s $200 million Nigerian Content Intervention Fund (NCIFUND). This is coming as BoI disclosed that it has already disbursed $82million out of the $200million NCIFUND, to some local contractors (who are contributors of the fund) operating at the upstream Nigerian oil and gas industry. The fund lent to the operators at a single-digit interest rate according to the bank, is to enable the operators acquire ships as well as for support of companies involved in ship repairs and allied investments under the Nigeria Content Development Fund (NCDF).
Managing Director of BoI, Kayode Pitan, said this in Lagos at the maiden edition of Nigeria Maritime Finance Fair organised by the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON). Pitan, who was represented by an official of BoI, Victor Agina, added that the funds provided have created 3,117 jobs across the country.
He urged NIMASA to partner the bank in the management and disbursement of its CVFF. Pitan explained to maritime stakeholders that companies with about 51 per cent Nigerian citizens’ equity that sources at least 40 per cent of their raw materials locally are eligible for the bank’s loans.
He added that borrowers under the NCIFUND are entitled to loan facilities with five year tenure inclusive of one year moratorium. Also speaking at the event, NIMASA Director General, Dr Dakuku Peterside, reiterated his agency’s commitment to ensuring the end of waivers regime within its earlier stipulated timelines. Dakuku, who was represented by the Director of NIMASA in-charge of Cabotage Services, Victor Egejuru, said efforts are being made for upgrading existing shipyards and support for new shipyard facilities According to him, the delay in disbursement of CVFF also has to do with ongoing amendment in the Cabotage Act. Dakuku expressed optimism that the ninth National Assembly will expedite action on the legislation.