Indications emerged yesterday that there may be more trouble in the way of the nine newly sworn in lawmakers and the 15 members-elect of the Edo State House of Assembly as those yet to be sworn in were said to have gone into hiding.
This followed alleged threat to their lives after the afternoon attack on them in a highbrow area of Benin, the state capital.
Already, the management of the hotel where the attack occurred was said to also be counting its losses following alleged video-recording by one of the members-elect.
It will be recalled that some thugs were alleged to have unleashed mayhem on the APC lawmakers-elect at the hotel where they had converged to strategise on their next line of action after they were schemed out of the inauguration into the 7th Assembly.
This was as a visit to the fourth floor of the hotel showed massive destruction of property worth several millions of naira.
The members-elect had held a press conference for about 15 minutes to explain their exclusion from the inauguration of the 7th Assembly, which took place on Monday when the thugs descended on them.
It will also be recalled that Governor Godwin Obaseki had suddenly parted ways with his predecessor and political godfather, who is presently the National Chairman of the ruling APC, Adams Oshiomhole, over the former’s alleged exclusion of leaders and other members of the party who worked for his election.
Also, the party was in deep crisis as the show of political strength over who takes control of the legislature took a dangerous twist.
The governor has come under intense criticism following the secret inauguration of the 7th Assembly by the Clerk of the House after a letter from the governor.
One of the members elect and younger brother to the APC chairman, Seidu Oshiomhole, was said to have been beaten black and blue during the attack that took place at the said hotel.
Seidu was reportedly stripped naked in the wake of the melee and his phones, laptop, and other personal effects, were seized by the hoodlums.
Meanwhile, the leadership of the Edo State chapter of the party yesterday condemned the action of some members-elect under the platform of the party, who were said to be throwing tantrums over the emergence of the leadership of the newly-inaugurated 7th Assembly.
In a statement, Chairman of the party in the state, Mr. Anselm Ojezua, said the action of the members-elect was a betrayal of the trust reposed in them by Edo people when they elected an APC-controlled House. He called on the national chairman, who he said should be aware of the issues, to call the members-elect to order, in the interest of the party and the state. He said: “The behaviour will not be tolerated. We are calling on the National Chairman who must have heard about their ignoble acts, to call them to order. What they have done is condemnable and will be handled with a firm hand. That is what we are going to do.”