As the Super Eagles of Nigeria intensify their build up towards a great performance at the forthcoming 2019 AFCON in Egypt with today’s frienldly encounter with Zimbabwe in Asaba, Delta State,, one player that would have the searchlight beamed on him is Kelechi Iheanacho.  The former world best player at U-17 level has been a shadow of himself in the past few years which culminated in his losing prominence at his English club, Leicester City where he has been reduced to cameo appearances at the King Power outfit, the same situation he has been facing at international level. In fact, when Nigeria coach Gernot Rohr left the former Man City forward out of the Super Eagles squad to play Seychelles and Egypt, in March, there wasn’t even the slightest murmurings of dissent by Nigerian fans.  If nothing else, the silence was a testament to the fact that the striker had not only lost the confidence of his coaches but also that of the fans who were expecting him to step up and prove FIFA right to be one of the best talents in the game. Had the German gaffer tried that a year before, it would have been met by huge criticisms Iheanacho’s popularity has dwindled so low to the point that he was a subject of discussion among the fans when his name appeared in the provisional list for the tournament starting in a fortnight in Egypt. As if leaving him out without protest from the fans was not enough, Rohr proceeded to twist the knife even further in saying the striker’s attitude was a factor in his poor form. “I think he must be more professional,” he said at a press conference before the final Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Seychelles.  “I am not really satisfied with his performance and his professionalism and I told him I needed to try new strikers.” Rohr’s statement was dumbfounding as it was coming a few months after the gaffer had backed the striker to get over his blip moment. To make matters worse for the 22-yearold, his replacement Paul Onuachu covered himself in glory blasting in a superb goal in just about eight seconds to give Nigeria a 1-0 win over Egypt. Observers are of the view that with that awesome display in Asaba in late March, Onuachu, who plays for Danish club FCMittjyuland has done enough to seal a striking partner spot with Super Eagles arrowhead striker Odion Ighalo. At first glance, Iheanacho’s early numbers with both Manchester City and Nigeria would seem to be encouraging.  He scored 10 goals in 41 mostly substitute appearances for Manchester City, but then tallied a stunning seven in his first 11 interna- tional games. However, he has not been able to prove those figures to b e sustainable as he has scored only four goals in 44 ap- pearances since join- ing Leicester, while add- ing just one more goal to his Nigeria over the next 14 games.  That goal came against Argentina in friendly game in November 2017 Winding back to his days at the U-17 World Cup, Iheanacho played as an advanced midfielder, scoring from his withdrawn forward position. Such deployment allowed him slightly more time on the ball but sadly the goals have dried up and the confidence is at alltime low as reflected in his display in the penultimate match of the season when Leicester City confront Pep Guardiola’s Man City in early May. Trusted by Foxes’ boss Brendan Rodgers to revive his fortune in a key game, Iheanacho was the first substitute ahead of Damacus Gray, a fellow youngster who has been much effective but rather than covering himself in glory, he emerged as villain by spurning a glorious chance late in the game. Perhaps, had he converted the begging chance, that would have been one of the major highpoints of a keenly-contested season which saw the Manchester side edge Liverpool to the league title with a solitary point.  Although, he seems to have the backing of his club boss as Rodgers assured him of his future with the Foxes, he would need to start firing consistently if he is to be in the train to Egypt as the likes of Onuachu and others are ready to grab any opportunity with alacrity. And for Iheanacho, today’s clash against the Warriors might just be the platform for him to bounce back to reckoning in the national tea