In line with the diversification of the country’s economy, the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has unveiled its new service charter that would ensure processing exporters’ certificate within 24 hours. Taiwo Hassan reports   Indeed, stakeholders in the country’s export market sector of the economy have been experiencing challenges in the course of export from Nigeria’s land borders, and ports following the malaise being encountered with improper documentation and other relevant requirements.
Precisely, these bottlenecks, according to the local exporters, have in one way or the other impede smooth trade facilitation with the economic effect being seen virtually on the high prices of goods in the market.
For entrepreneurs, the challenges being faced in the process of export from Nigeria are the reasons negating the country’s drive to increased volume of trade, productivity and competitiveness, including the economy losing huge foreign exchange revenue in the process. Effect of informal market
One of the key sectors of the economy has been the manufacturing sector, which is a major beneficiary of the country’s economic reforms embarked upon by President Muhammadu Buhari.
Expectedly, there is the belief that many of the goods being produced locally in the sector and that of agriculture would get to the international market with ease after passing through rigorous tests of relevant agencies including the NEPC and Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) for acceptability at the global market.
Ironically, it is interesting to say that the informal/unofficial market has been actively productive in that process, thus becoming an avenue Nigerians now export goods to global market without the inputs of regulatory agencies.
No doubt, this unregulated market has led to the economy losing fortunes in tariffs and duty payments to government and also killing the country’s manufacturing sector systematically.
According to NEPC, Nigerians are exporting goods worth over $40 billion informally every year to the global market without full documentation.
The council explained that a lot of goods were moving from Nigeria to other African countries without being documented.
Consequently, this has resulted to loopholes in revenue generation for the Federal Government. NEPC’s 24 hours certificate issuance
In a bid to reverse this trend, NEPC disclosed that plans were afoot to commence the processing of exporters’ certificate within 24 hours provided all the relevant documents and payments are submitted and confirmed.
The move, according to the agency, would raise the expectations and define the standard of service to be provided to customers and members of staff.
In addition, the move is also part of strategies to stimulate improvements and reforms in the way businesses would be conducted in the export promotion agency.
The agency noted that the unveiling of the charter would further give impetus to the promotion, development and diversification of Nigeria’s exports trade.
It will also assist in promoting the development of export-related industries in the country as well as spearhead the creation of appropriate export incentives.
In his remarks at the official launch of the charter recently, the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer, NEPC, Olusegun Awolowo, said if the economy must be diversified, then, there was the need for NEPC to provide prompt and efficient services to its clients. Expert’s view
In an interview with New Telegraph in Lagos, a former Director-General, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), John Isemede, lamented that improper documentation and book records among the agencies of government manning the country’s export space was fuelling smuggling of goods, which is taking a huge toll on local products.
According to him, the country lacks value addition and standardisation in the export industry.
For instance, talking about all the documents required before goods are allowed to cross the Nigerian borders, he explained that when an exporter approaches some officials in ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) to collect export forms for export, there are 37 agencies of government waiting for the exporter to check his documents. This results to delays in documentation.
“The effect of the multiplicity of agencies of government at the ports in our country’s economy is killing. What we lack in this country is value addition, especially in the area of agric development.
“It is amazing that when an importer imports agricultural inputs from abroad, in the process of clearing them at the ports, he or she will be confronted with various documentation papers by the multiple agencies in charge.
“This situation is not good for Nigeria’s economic development in all ramifications. There is need to ban some government agents at the ports for us to enjoy ease of trade facilitation,” he said. Last line
It is the opinion of stakeholders in the country’s export market sector that NEPC’s new move to process exporters’ certificate within 24 hours will check bureaucratic bottlenecks and corruption in MDAs.