A Kuwaiti national, Tawfeeq A. Al-Omar, yesterday confirmed to an Ikeja Special Offence Court, Lagos that Captain Everest Nnaji, and others defrauded him of $4.8 million sometime in 1998. Nnaji is standing trial alongside one Victor Uadiale, on a five-count amended charge of conspiracy and fraud. The duo, who pleaded not guilty, were arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC). The anti-graft agency had alleged the defendants between April 22 and October 12, 1998, with intent to defraud, obtained the aggregate sum of $1,292,000 from Al-Omar.  The commission alleged that the defendants falsely collected payment for 50,000 metric tons of Urea (Phosphate Fertilizer), which was claimed to have been produced from National Fertilizer Company of Nigeria (NAFCON, Port Harcourt.  However, during yesterday’s proceedings, Al-Omar said that the two defendants had defrauded him and another person of the sum of $4.8 million under false pretence. While being cross examined by the defence counsel, Abimbola Akeredolu (SAN), the witness narrated how his bank confirmed to him that the money sent at different times were received by the defendant. He said: “I was told the money was sent and they gave me this (pointing to a confirmation documentation from his bank) confirmation that the money was received and accepted.”  The witness further told the court that he never spoke with Nnaji but was in constant communication with Uadiale. “I only dealt with Mr. Victor who gave me bank details to which funds were sent but never seen or spoke to the second defendant (Captain Nnaji).”  Meanwhile, the EFCC had alleged that the defendants collected payment for 75,000 metric tons of diesel fuel (D-2), which allegedly claimed that the defendant produced from Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).  The alleged offences committed contravened section 8(a) and 1(3) of the Advance Fee Fraud and other Fraud Related Offences, No13 of 1995 as Amended by Act No 62 of 1999. Justice Mojisola Dada adjourned the matter till September 24, 26 and 27 for continuation of trial.