…upgrades institute to global standard  Concerned about the state of insecurity in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari has saddled the Department of State Services (DSS) with the additional responsibility of providing enhanced training for middle and top level managers of security, para-military and law enforcement agencies within and outside the country.
Among other things, the President further empowered the secret service in the area of providing strategic and critical security training for key public officials.
This is in addition to an enhanced focus terrorism, insurgency, subversion, espionage and sabotage, all of which are basic threats to internal security.
The additional powers were contained in the 2019 National Institute for Security Studies Act, which was formally unveiled at a press conference held at the DSS’ headquarters in Abuja yesterday.
At the joint briefing with other strategic Directors, the Services’ Public Relations Officer, Mr. Peter Afunanya, said the development followed the painstaking efforts of the Director General, Mr. Yusuf Bichi, to advance the course of the intelligence organisation.
According to Afunanya, the institute has now been brought at par with the prestigious National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), National Defence College (NDC), as well as similar global institutions.
He maintained that the Service will continue to enhance its mandate as a lead research organisation into types, trends, patterns, methodology and typologies of criminal behaviour, psycho-analysis, among other tendencies threatening national security.
Afunanya said the institute will: “Contribute uniquely and viably to the promotion of inter-service, inter-agency and international cooperation, collaboration and harmony among intelligence, security and law enforcement agencies locally and globally in order to achieve national security, regional and global peace.
“Serve as critical centre for research and dialogue where distinguished academics, policy initiators and implementers meet to cross-fertilize ideas on national and global security issues.
“Add critical balance and objectivity by providing timely, empirical research and contextual analysis of relevant security issues to policy makers, area specialists, advocacy groups, and the media.”
He added: “The Institute shall have power to enter into collaborative ventures, affiliate with the established linkages with other institutions within or outside Nigeria for the purpose of building capacity.
“Award certificates on completion of courses which shall authorise a participant, upon successful completion of the programme, to use the designated title of ‘Fellow of Security Institute’.
“Affiliate with credible and relevant universities on programmes leading to the award of Masters and PhD Degrees to qualified participants.”