Capital market operators have requested for urgent intervention of the Federal Government to resolve the crisis between the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Oando Plc. The calls stemmed from the outcome of a forensic audit on Oando released by SEC on May 31, as well as a court injunction restraining the Commission from sacking Oando’s Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO), Mr Adewale Tinubu and his deputy. The operators applauded the courage of SEC’s Acting Director-General, Ms Mary Uduk, in releasing the outcome of the forensic audit. Mr. Ambrose Omordion, the Chief Operating Officer, InvestData Limited, said that the Federal Government would need to intervene in the matter to safeguard investors’ confidence. He said that the unfolding events between Oando and SEC could dampen investors’ confidence and tamper with Nigeria’s integrity. Omordion said that the international investment community was watching to see the manner the Oando issue would be handled. “The way SEC and government will handle this issue will go a long way to determine the success of the nation’s drive for financial inclusion and attraction of new retail investors and foreign investors returning to the market,” Omorodion said. He also urged the government to strengthen the Commission by ensuring appointment of its board members soon. Omorodion expressed disappointment that SEC had been operating without board for about four years and had been with an acting director-general for over a year. Mr Moses Igbrude, Publicity Secretary, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria, alleged that shareholders had suffered enough loss in Oando with no dividend and poor market pricing. He said that court injunction could lead to long legal battles, which could further affect the company’s shares price on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). He urged the Exchange to place the share price on technical suspension to protect investors from further loss. Besides, the shareholder activist said that the SEC should not allow its authority to be undermined if the outcome of the forensic audit was true. “I will appeal to whoever that is affected to obey the directives from SEC for the sake of our investments. “Oando as a company has suffered enough of reputational risk. Shareholders for a long time, have not been paid dividend,” Igbrude said. Mr Boniface Okezie, National Chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN) who noted that only grass suffers when two elephants fight, said that the SEC and Oando must maintain the peace in the interest of all stakeholders, especially retail investors.