China Railway Construction Corporation Corporation (International) Nigeria Limited (CRCC-Nigeria) has lost a contract to rehabilitate and construct a 560-kilometre standard gauge railway “for breach of confidentiality” in Ghana. This is coming following a publication by a Nigerian news platform comparing the cost of a rail construction by CRCC in Nigeria with Ghana. According to the country’s minister of railways development, Joe Ghartey, this CRCC, as a Party to the MoU, has failed to act in good faith, having breached the confidentiality clause as spelt out. “Each Party agrees that the terms of MoU and all previous and subsequent discussions, documents and information exchanged pursuant to or otherwise related hereto will be treated in confidence and will not be disclosed except as required by law and otherwise”, the MOU reads. The minister in his statement further said CRCC was yet to submit any “report of feasibility studies to the Ministry of Railways Development, let alone the project cost estimate.” He added that the publication by the Nigerian news platform “contains a lot of factual inaccuracies.” CRCC had expressed interest in supporting the Ministry to develop and modernize Ghana’s railway network, particularly the Trans-ECOWAS line, which runs along the coast between Aflao, on the border with Togo, and Elubo, on the border with Cote d’Ivoire. Meanwhile, an attempt to blackmail Nigeria’s ex-minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has been uncovered by a group, Nigerians for Good Governance, NGG. The group, according to its coordinator, Ahmed Adamu, claimed some persons who are not happy with the rapid infrastructure growth of Nigerian under President Muhammadu Buhari are poised to paint Amaechi as corrupt and by extension, Mr Buhari. “We can confirm that some persons are not happy with the speed at which Rotimi Amaechi is achieving some of the infrastructural projects of President Buhari and they have resort to blackmail. We know how Mr Amaechi is bringing to life several rail projects across the country, these they are not happy about. “We urge Nigerians to ignore this blackmail plot. We know their game and thanks to the Ghanaian minister, he has revealed that CRCC never submitted any feasibility studies to the Ministry of Railways Development let alone the project cost estimate.” “Since there is no cost by CRCC, how come they are brandishing figures about? It is a clear attempt to blackmail Mr Amaechi.”