In its efforts to curb the high rate of crime in the state, Kebbi State Police Command have arrested 45 suspected criminals, comprising 10 kidnappers, three informants and 32 others for various offences. They were picked by men and officers deploy in “Operation Puff Adder”, which was introduced by the Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, to curb all forms of criminality in the country. Addressing journalists, the state’s Commissioner of Police, Garba Muhammad Danjuma, said the hoodlums were arrested between May and June this year. Danjuma said three suspected informants of the kidnappers were also arrested during police operations in Danko Wasagu Local Government Area. He said: “The suspects specialised in giving information to kidnappers who are terrorising border towns in Zamfara and Kebbi states. “On the 5th, 11th and 14th of May, 2019, Rufai Likita, Umaru Bube and Ibrahim Abdullahi, were arrested in Bena District of Danko Wasagu Local Government as suspects providing information for the kidnappers. “Investigation further revealed that whenever the suspect, Rufai Likita, is in the community, the spate of kidnapping and other heinous crimes are always on the increase. Likita has confessed to the crime.” Danjuma explained that besides arresting the informants, 10 suspected kidnappers were also nabbed along with 32 other criminals with various kinds of weapons, handsets, laptops, cables, knives and cutlasses. He said the criminals were involved in armed robbery, motorcycle theft, rape, and possession of illegal weapons, Indian hemp, drugs and cattle rustling across the state. The police chief stressed the need for effective community policing and information sharing with the police to check criminality in Kebbi. The CP who further stated that the Command has also arrested three kidnappers after collecting N1.4 million ransom from one Alhaji Umar Gabuje of Ilozowa Village in Koko-Besse Local Government Area of Kebbi State, adding that the arrest were made by the team of the security men at their hideouts in the area after spending some days from their hands.