The 9th Senate Presidency ambition of the Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan (APC), Yobe North, received a boost yesterday, as Peter Nwaoboshi, representing Delta North Senatorial District on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), openly declared his support for him. Nwaoboshi made the declaration at a press briefing in his National Assembly office, Abuja, explaining that he took the decision because the PDP has no candidate for the position in the coming Assembly. He, however, argued that, even if his party had a candidate for the coveted office, he has a right as a senator to decide who to support for the position, and most importantly, that his constituents, Anioma people of Delta State preferred Ahmad Lawan to other Senators-elect angling for the post. The politician also explained that though he didn’t support Lawan’s aspiration for the same position in the elapsing 8th Senate in 2015, realities on ground as far as the 9th Senate is concerned, point to the fact that Lawan is the most qualified. Lawan has been in the National Assembly as an elected federal lawmaker since 1999, beginning his legislative journey in the House of Representatives, where he served two terms before joining the Senate. “All those contesting for the position have approached me for support and as a student of history, I have studied their backgrounds which clearly show that in terms of experience, Lawan is the one with the requisite legislative experience. “I have found in him, competence and the required intelligence legislatively and politically to steer the ship of leadership of the 9th Senate and by extension, that of the 9th National Assembly,” he said. Nwaoboshi further stated that opposition of many of the PDP Senators to Lawan has been pacified by recent pronouncement by the Deputy National Chairman of the APC, Senator Lawal Shuaibu, that leadership at both chambers cannot be imposed but through consensus across party lines. He said the best the PDP leadership would do was to give the elected members of the incoming Senate, the direction to follow but not to necessarily impose a candidate on them. He said: “The PDP has not taken a decision as a political party as far as the presiding officers of the 9th Senate is concerned. Our party has not also told us the candidate we should vote for. “I know the PDP leaders will not say this is the candidate they want. They would only give us a guideline. I also have a right as the representative of my people to determine what is good for the Anioma people.