Two teachers at the Chrisland School yesterday took to the witness box to testify and defend a supervisor, Adegboyega Adenekan, accused of defiling a two-year-old pupil of the school. The 47-year-old supervisor is standing trial before an Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos State, for allegedly inserting his penis into the two-year-old girl’s private parts.
The state prosecutor, B. T. Boye, said the defendant allegedly committed the offence sometime in December 2017, on the school premises, when the child was two years old. The victim, who had earlier testified before the court said, “Mr Adenekan put his wee wee (manhood) inside my wee wee (private parts).” The girl further told the court that the supervisor defiled her twice, in his office and toilet. The victim’s mother also claimed that the girl drew the size of the supervisor’s penis.
Adenekan, had, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge of defilement slammed against him. However, during yesterday’s proceedings, the Assistant Head Teacher of the school, Mrs. Adebola Adeola Tolulope, debunked the allegations, insisting that there was no way the defendant could have defiled the child on the school premises.
While being led in evidence by the defence counsel, Olatunde Adejuyigbe SAN, Tolulope, who said she had worked in the school for 19 years, said that the little girl gave conflicting accounts of where the alleged defilement took place. She said: “When the matter was reported to the school, the victim’s mother was invited. She came along with her friend, who she described as a lawyer and church member. She told us that she is the only one that bathes her daughter. But when the child was brought from her class for questioning, she said, ‘Aanu used to bathe me and sometimes hurts my bum bum.’ The child’s mother was visibly disturbed on hearing that. She then opened up and said that Aanu is her husband’s niece. “When we also asked the child where Mr. Adenekan defiled her, she took us to the assembly ground which is an open space inside the school. Her mother now shouted that she should tell us about the other place.”