 President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to work out modalities in collaboration with the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) and the Solicitor General of the Federation for the establishment of state police.
The decision followed the recommendations of the report of the Presidential Panel on the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) reforms, headed by the Executive Secretary of NHRC, Tony Ojukwu.
Receiving the report yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, President Buhari directed that the IGP and the Solicitor General of the Federation/Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice meet with the NHRC to work out the modalities for the implementation of the Report within three months.
The panel, in its report, presented eight recommendations to the President which includes the establishment of state and local government police and strengthening information and communication technology of the force.
Other recommendations are significant improvement in the funding, kitting and facilities of the Nigeria Police Force, institutionalizing a Special Investigation Panel to annually hear and determine complaints on alleged human rights violations against operations of the Nigeria Police Force; and Strengthening the Police Rapid Response Complaints Unit of the Nigeria Police and other internal complaint mechanisms of the Force to make them more responsive.
The recommendations also include the renaming of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) to Anti-Robbery Section (ARS) which was its original name and to make the section operate under the intelligence arm of the Police from the divisional, area command, state command, zonal command up to the Force headquarters level.
President Buhari approved the dismissal of 37 police officers and the prosecution of 24 officers for human rights abuses as recommended by the presidential panel.
In line with the recommendation of the Presidential Panel, Buhari directed the IGP to unravel the identity of 22 officers involved in the violation of human rights of innocent citizens while the police was directed to pay compensation of various sums in 45 complaints.
The police are to also tender public apologies in five complaints, and obey court orders in five matters.
He said: “I want to thank the Panel once more, and hereby direct that since the recommendations of the Commission that constituted the Panel are enforceable as decisions of the court, that the Inspector-General of Police and the Solicitor General of the Federation/Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice meet with the Commission to work out the modalities for the implementation of the Report within three months from today (Monday).
“It is also in recognition of the fact that the decisions, determinations and recommendations of the Commission are binding and enforceable as provided under section 22 of the NHRC Act, 1995 (as amended).
“I am very happy with the work of the Panel and thank the Panel members for working hard towards the realization of the Presidential directive,” Buhari said. He continued that: “I believe that the report of the panel and recommendations contained therein would go a long way in redressing the grievances of the complainants, ensure accountability on the part of the police officers in discharging their responsibilities and facilitate the various Police reforms being introduced by this administration.
“I want to assure you and all Nigerians that this administration will continue to fulfill its obligations of promoting and protecting human rights of Nigerians, and will give the Commission all the support required to ensure full implementation of the recommendations contained in its report.
“In addition, we will strengthen the operations of the Commission to enhance its effectiveness and capability to resolve cases of human rights violations.
“This administration is conscious of the role the Commission plays in ensuring security and stability in the nation through the resolution of complaints of human rights violations, which if neglected, could result into major security challenges.”
According to the president, reforming and repositioning the Nigeria Police Force for more effective and efficient performance had become imperative if the country must guarantee the protection of human lives and properties, arrest offenders and improve internal security in accordance with best practices.
The President, who added that he had taken certain decisions, including increasing the police workforce and improving the welfare of the police in view of the sensitive jobs they do, said the police were duty bound to act within the ambit of the law.
Buhari said whenever the police violate the rights of citizens in the course of discharging their responsibilities, the government is duty bound to intervene in such situations, explaining that it was against this background that he constituted the committee.
“In order to reposition the Nigeria Police Force to effectively carry out its statutory responsibilities, I have taken major steps by increasing the workforce of the Nigeria Police as well as improving the welfare of police officers, because they put their lives on the front line on a daily basis so that the rest of us may freely go about our business in safety.
“However, in carrying out their statutory responsibilities, the Police must, at all times, act within the ambit of the law and must not violate the fundamental human rights of Nigerians whom they have sworn to protect.
“Where the rights of Nigerians are violated by police officers while discharging their functions, the government has a responsibility to address the instances of violation in line with its human rights obligations and ensure that such police officers are held accountable for their actions.”
Submitting the report, Ojukwu stated that the panel was constituted on August 14, 2018, following the president’s directive which ordered the NHRC to constitute a special panel of inquiry into various allegations of human rights violations and abuse of office by police officers operating under the aegis of SARS and come up with recommendations on how the dangers posed to the public by the group could be addressed.
He noted that the panel received 113 complaints on alleged human rights’ violations from different parts of the country, 22 memoranda on the reform and reorganisation of SARS as well as the entire Nigeria Police.
According to him, “At the end of its public hearing and having listened to complaints, as well as defendants and their counsel, the Panel recommended 37 police officers for dismissal from the force. Twenty four were recommended for prosecution.
“The panel also directed the Inspector General of Police to unravel the identity of 22 officers involved in the violation of the human rights of innocent citizens. The police were directed to pay compensation of various sums in 45 complaints and tender public apologies in five complaints and directed to obey court orders in five matters.
“The police were directed to immediately arrest and prosecute two retired senior police officers found to have violated the rights of citizens (one for extra-judicial killing and the other for illegal takeover of property of a suspect). The Panel also recovered two vehicles illegally auctioned by SARS officers and returned them to their owners.”
Ojukwu said the recommendation to rename SARS as ARS only implied a reversal to SARS’ original name with a view to making “the section operate under the intelligence arm of the police from the divisional, area command, state command, zonal command up to the Force headquarters level,” adding that doing so would remove the stigma associated with the name SARS.
Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, in a statement clarifying the position of Buhari on the issue of state police, explained that no approval was given with regards to the matter.
Shehu said the President requested that the report of the presidential panel be studied and a white paper produced within three months.
He said: “President Buhari’s specific directive is that a three-man panel be set up to produce the white paper.
“The report of the white paper committee will form the basis of the decisions of the government on the many recommendations, including the setting up of state and local government police made by the Ojukwu panel.
“Until a white paper is produced, it will be premature and pre-emptive to suggest that the recommendations contained in the report have been approved by the President in part or whole.”