In the era of ‘think home’ philosophy, there are people that are strictly and dedicatedly marching to meet the ever competitive market and global standards in business. One of such men, who is helping take unemployed youths off the road is Anambraborn Ebuka Onunkwo. Onunkwo started his journey in the business world as a teenager, selling auto spare parts in far away Cotonou. Despite being in a strange land away from his father land, his sincerity stood him out in business as he ultimately became every shopper’s delight. And, with the ladder set on a solid foundation based on truth, not gain, his business began to grow and thrive to the point where he decided to expand by delving into oil business. In that expansion, he has grown above his peers with sprawling edifices to his name in far away Cotonou. But, in the spirit of think home, aka, as propagated by the Anambra State governor, Chief Wiliie Obiano and the Federal Government’s promotion of made in Nigeria goods, Onunkwo decided to bring his thriving oil business to his home soil. In so doing, he has reduced the number of unemployed youths and graduates roaming the streets and engaging in shameful acts to eke a living vis-à-vis employment with his Sea Horse lubricant industries limited. The magnificent industry, which can only be likened to industries abroad so far has over a 100 staff on his pay roll. The industry which is located along the Onitsha/Owerri expressway is equipped with high tech machines ranging from rubber crushing machines for recycling purposes, rubber moulding machine, a well equipped laboratory for tests during oil production among others. According to Onunkwo, it is safer to have a business at home than abroad. He said:”It is my philosophy that whatever business I do must be brought to my homeland. That way it is insured.” The Chief Executive of Sea Horse, whose business has AMCAP certification was on May 21, 2018 visited by officials of Standard Organisation of Nigeria, SON from Lagos with the Anambra counterpart to verify his product and either certify it or otherwise. Though SON officials from the state had severally visited the company on inspection, the climax came with the visit of SON Deputy Director, Standard development, Mr. Afolayan Agbola Samuel. In the process of the inspection, the officials took time to visit the plant, lab and production sections of the industry. Addressing journalists after the inspection tour which included oil test in the lab to certify that Sea Horse oil met the specified minimum per cent range as mapped out by SON, Afolayan said the essence of the inspection was to ensure the product was produced in Nigeria and also meets SON standard and specification. He explained that mistakes cited in the process of inspection would be pointed out to the manufacturer for correction, adding that the visit was also to confirm that the certification given to the company was not done in error. At the end of the Sea Horse oil test which was collected from one of cans of oil, the result gave a 121 grade above the SON’s 120 grade. To this end, the Sea Horse oil was certified genuine and authentic by the SON official. While commending the CEO of the company for establishing such huge business at a very young age, he urged Nigerians to patronise home made goods saying “that is the only way we can encourage the manufacturers and others who also may have something to offer. “All we are fighting against is importation into Nigeria and that’s because we want to promote our locally made goods so as to improve on our economy and stop promoting other people’s economy while our own die. “It is the duty of SON to ensure that any product manufactured in the country also adheres to specification as laid out by SON. That is why we go on quarterly visits to such companies. That way we keep them on their toes and ensure they don’t shift away from the standard.”