 The news of a suspected case of polio virus in Lagos State has drawn attention to the importance of mothers ensuring their children between ages 0 to five years get polio varcination.
The Permanent Secretary, Primary Health Care Board, Dr. Tayo Lawal, who made this known recently, said eligible children between ages 0 to five years were the primary target of polio virus, which could cause paralysis at a young age.
This children are also at a high risk of getting infected with polio because of drinking water from sources that are contaminated with fecal materials this rainy season.
The atantic ocean water are washed away, mixing with our water which we can’t control and if this children don’t receive the oral polio vaccination, they might be infected with the virus which will result to paralysis.
According to World Health Organisation (WHO), polio is a highly infectious viral disease that invades the nervous system, and can cause total paralysis in a matter of hours. The virus is transmitted from person-to-person through ingestion of infected fecal matter
Lawal said, “There is an issue around polio now because there is an environmental strain found in town, in Lagos State, and to avoid the outbreak, we have to give the vaccine to all children.”
The initial symptoms of poliomyelitis include fever, fatigue, headache, vomiting, neck stiffness and pain, Lawal said.
The best gift that any mother could give her child is protection against polio which can be prevented through immunisation
According to him, parents and guardians need to ensure polio and other vaccines were the right of the children and considering that children couldn’t bring themselves to access the free vaccines, they should avail the children the right opportunity to get the vaccines at the appropriate place and time.
WHO has assured that polio vaccine is safe free and effective for children and it has a defined period when the particular vaccine will be given to the children. Hence, the world body said parents needed to avail themselves of the opportunity and ensure the children were given the vaccine.