…felicitates with Muslims  Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has approved eight bills presented by the House of Assembly. Fayemi said his administration would continue to demonstrate strong political will in the implementation of the existing laws in the state. The governor spoke in Ado-Ekiti yesterday while signing the bills into laws, marking the end of the legislative duties of the Fifth Assembly. The bills are – Ekiti State Development and Investment Promotion Agency Law 2019, Ekiti State Administration of Civil Justice Law 2019, College of Agriculture and Technology Re-enactment Law 2019. Others are – Ekiti State Logo Re-enactment Law 2019, Ekiti State Local Government Administration Law 2019, Ekiti State Property Protection and Anti-Land Grabbing Law 2019, Ekiti State Security Trust Fund Amendment Law 2019, Ekiti State Waste Management Authority Repeal Law 2019. The Sixth Assembly would be inaugurated on Thursday by Fayemi. The governor promised that the laws would be implemented for the overall development of the state.
Speaking about the robust relationship he enjoyed with the lawmakers, who are predominantly members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Fayemi said “history is made in different forms, but I consider our partnership as historic partnership not minding that many of you came from the PDP while the executive branch that took over October 16, 2018 was from the APC. Meanwhile, Governor Fayemi has congratulated Muslim faithful in Ekiti State and in the country in general on the celebration of this year’s Eid-el-Fitri. The celebration marks the end of Ramadan.
In his Eid-el-Fitri message in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, congratulated Muslims on the successful completion of the Ramadan fast, stressing that witnessing another Eid-el-Fitri was a special privilege from the Almighty Allah and not by power or might. Fayemi said the 30-day spiritual exercise had drawn the faithful closer to God. He, therefore, urged them to put all the lessons learnt during the holy month into good use, especially in their daily dealings with fellow citizens.
He said current situation in the country and in the world at large had made it imperative for Muslims and