The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) dipped to 57.4 index points in June from 57.8 index points in May, the Apex Bank has announced. According to the CBN: “A composite PMI above 50 points indicates that the manufacturing/non-manufacturing economy is generally expanding, 50 points indicates no change and below 50 points indicates that it is generally contracting.” The regulator stated in its PMI survey report for June released yesterday : “The Manufacturing PMI in the month of June stood at 57.4 index points, indicating expansion in the manufacturing sector for the twenty-seventh consecutive month.” Besides, the report stated: “The index grew at a slower rate when compared to the index in the previous month. Of the 14 subsectors surveyed, 12 reported growth in the review month in the following order: transportation equipment; petroleum & coal products; cement; chemical & pharmaceutical products; electrical equipment; food, beverage & tobacco products; printing & related support activities; fabricated metal products; paper products; furniture & related products; textile, apparel, leather & footwear; and plastics & rubber products. The nonmetallic mineral products and primary metal subsectors recorded declines in the review period.” The PMI report also stated that, standing at 59.3 points, the production level index for the manufacturing sector grew for the twenty-eighth consecutive month in June 2019. “The index indicated a faster growth in the current month, when compared to its level in the month of May 2019. Twelve of the 14 manufacturing subsectors recorded increased production level, 1 remained unchanged while 1 recorded decline,” the report said.
Similarly, the study shows that at 55.9 points, the new orders index grew for the twenty-seventh consecutive month, indicating increase in new orders in June 2019. Furthermore, the report showed that the manufacturing supplier delivery time index stood at 58.7 points in June 2019, indicating faster supplier delivery time even as the Manufacturing sector inventories index grew for the twenty-seventh consecutive month in June 2019.
According to the report, at 55.0 points, the index grew at a slower rate when compared to its level in May 2019. Equally, the study shows that the employment level index for June 2019 stood at 57.5 points, indicating growth in employment level for the twenty-sixth consecutive month. Specifically, of the 14 subsectors, 10 reported increased employment level, 2 reported unchanged employment level while 2 reported decreased employment in the review month. The Non-Manufacturing PMI report, like the manufacturing PMI report also eased in the month of June to 58.6 from 58.9 in May. According to the CBN: “The composite PMI for the non-manufacturing sector stood at 58.6 points in June 2019, indicating expansion in the Non-manufacturing PMI for the twenty-sixth consecutive month. “The index grew at a slower rate when compared to its level in May 2019. Sixteen of the 17 surveyed subsectors recorded growth in the following order: water supply, sewage & waste management; arts, entertainment & recreation; repair, maintenance/washing of motor vehicles; electricity, gas, steam & air conditioning supply; utilities; information & communication; transportation & warehousing; real estate rental & leasing; construction; health care & social assistance; finance & insurance; wholesale/retail trade; accommodation & food services; agriculture; educational services; and professional, scientific, & technical services. The management of companies subsector recorded decline in the review period.”