 Benue State government yesterday rejected the plan by the Federal Government to establish a Fulani settlement, otherwise called ‘Ruga Settlements,’ for herdsmen in the state. According to the plan, three local government areas, including Otukpo, Tarka and Ukum, richly endowed with green vegetation, had been selected for the establishment of such settlements.
The local government areas cut across the three senatorial districts of Benue North-East, Benue North-West and Benue South. But the state government described the plan, which had been hatched through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, as a gross violation of the validly promulgated Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law, 2017, being implemented in the state. The government, in a statement released to newsmen and signed by Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Terver Akase, viewed the plan as a purported plot to visit another heinous attack on the people of the state and reaffirmed its stand that there was no land for open grazing of cattle, restating that ranching remained the only solution to the incessant herders and farmers in the state. “We find the approach of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture not only as a gross violation of the Ranching Law, but also an insult to the sensibilities of the entire people of Benue State.”
The statement said Governor Ortom had at several fora made his position on the ranching law clear, particularly during the unveiling of the Livestock Development Programme (LDP) in Abuja; at the National Council on Agriculture Summit in Owerri as well as during the National Economic Council (NEC), saying that it still maintain the position. It reminded the Federal Government about provisions in the Land Use Act, which confered on the governor the power to administer land in all parts of the state, but expressed surprise that the government had failed to get acquainted with the provisions of the Act. “We wish to remind those pushing for Ruga settlements that the constitution of the country gives states the right to make laws for the governance of their people. Any attempt to subvert such right is a direct attack on the constitution. Those behind such a move are enemies of peace and progress.
“The Government of Benue State is willing to support cattle owners to establish ranches as stipulated by the law prohibiting open grazing.
“We, however, wish to reiterate that Benue State has no land for grazing reserves, grazing routes, cattle colonies or ruga settlements. The state only has land for the establishment of ranches,” he said.