The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), yesterday announced the end of the emergency phase of Lassa fever outbreak in the country. A statement signed by the Chief Executive Officer of NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, in Abuja, said the announcement followed a joint epidemiological review by the NCDC, WHO Nigeria and other partners. According to him, on January 22, 2019, the NCDC activated a national Emergency Operations Centre (EOC), to coordinate response activities. He said the EOC was in response to an increase in Lassa fever cases at the beginning of the year. Ihekweazu added that since the beginning of the outbreak, 578 confirmed cases including 129 deaths have been recorded from 21 states as at May 26. He said the NCDC, Federal Ministry of Environment, and that of Agriculture and Rural Development, as well as other partners coordinated by WHO Nigeria, led response activities across the country. He, however, noted that lessons from the 2018 outbreak and strategic response had improved preparedness through training of health workers across the country and communications campaign before the outbreak. According to him, this included “early deployment of One-Health Rapid Response Teams, to affected states and support for surge staff deployment. He added: “Establishment of new treatment centres in Kebbi, Benue and Kaduna and strengthening of existing treatment centres. Re-positioning of medical and treatment supplies in all 21 states with confirmed cases in 2018. “Improved collaboration with agricultural and environmental health stakeholders and introduction of rodent control strategies among others.” Ihekweazu said following a robust response, the Lassa fever case count has significantly declined in the past seven weeks and has now dropped below levels considered to be a national emergency. He added that this year, there was also a decline in case fatality rate of Lassa fever, from 27 percent in 2018 to 22 percent in 2019. The NCDC boss said that despite the end of the emergency phase of the outbreak, NCDC expects that sporadic cases may continue to be reported in endemic areas.