Technology enthusiasts have urged President Muhammadu Buhari to focus on developing information technology if his administration is serious about taking 100 million Nigerians from poverty to prosperity. They said the Federal Government must urgently address the challenges confronting technological advancement, especially epileptic power supply, poor internet penetration and dearth of infrastructure in the country.  The Chief Executive Officer, Verve Tree, Olaniyi Ayoola, and Project Coordinator of Tech Summit in Ogun State, Ibukun Olusola, said this at the 2019 edition of the two-day summit held in Abeokuta.  The summit with the theme: “Disruptive Innovation: Impact and Sustainability of Startups,” targeted about 2,000 youths. Speaking against the backdrop of Buhari’s remarks that 100 million Nigerians could be rescued from poverty in the next 10 years, Ayoola said only technology can transform the country, accelerate its economic growth and deliver the citizens from shackles of poverty.  He, therefore, stressed the need for government at all levels to invest more in technology and startup businesses. Ayoola, who served as special assistant to the immediate past governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, said improved funding should be made available to enhance technology. He said: “We want to build an ecosystem that helps businesses to thrive in Ogun State. But to achieve this, we would like more support to be the Silicon Valley of Nigeria. We want to reposition our state technologically.   “Our biggest challenge is funding. Government is not doing enough to support technological innovations. Government should invest more money in technology. They should empower the youths in the right way by channelling their energy into productive ventures. “IT and startups are not boreholes, roads and bridges.  Government is always reluctant to invest in these innovative ideas because they cannot be seen unlike boreholes and bridges.” Ayoola said the summit, which is the largest convergence of tech-disruptors, enthusiasts, innovators, startups and organisations in the state, would be held in collaboration with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).