The trial of a dismissed judge of the Federal High Court, Justice Rita Ofili-Ajumogobia over alleged graft charges was yesterday stalled at a Federal High Court in Lagos owing to her ill-health. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had arraigned Ajumogobia alongside a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Godwin Obla, on an 18-count charge bordering on corruption and unlawful enrichment by a public officer. They, however, denied the offence and were each admitted to bail in the sum of N10 million with one surety in like sum. Ajumogobia’s lawyer, Chief Robert Clarke (SAN), told Justice Rilwan Aikawa that his client is under observation in a hospital for high blood pressure and could not attend court for her trial. The silk came to court with a letter from the Police Hospital in Falomo, Ikoyi which was signed by a Commissioner of Police, to buttress his claims. The letter indicated that Justice Ofili-Ajumogobia is under observation because there were indications that her blood pressure was high. Clarke later urged the court to adjourn the matter to enable her receive adequate medical attention. In opposing the request, EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Oyedepo, questioned the claims, pointing out the letter also mentioned that Ofili-Ajumogobia “was not in obvious distress, was not dehydrated and was not pale”. He said the letter merely states that her blood pressure was 100/110 and that she needed to be observed. “This defendant is not a stranger to us,” Oyedepo said. In granting Clarke’s request, Justice Aikawa adjourned further hearing in the matter to 24th June, 2019. Justice Ajumogobia had already filed a motion before the court to challenge the court’s jurisdiction to entertain the matter. In the motion filed on May 13, Ajumogobia insisted that she is still a judicial officer and that the substance of the charge against her has been decided by Justice Hakeem Oshodi of a Lagos High Court in Ikeja. She said the earlier charge filed by the EFCC against her was struck out by Justice Oshodi based on the Appeal Court’s decision that a judicial officer cannot be tried unless the National Judicial Council (NJC) has looked into the case.