Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, has appointed Hon. Remember Ogbe, as acting chairman of the Bayelsa State Independent Electoral Commission (BYSIEC).
The governor charged members of the commission to conduct free, fair and peaceful local government election that would be acceptable to all.
A statement by his Special Adviser on Media Relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, quoted the governor to have given the charge during the swearing in ceremony of two members of the State Independent Electoral Commission in Yenagoa.
The new members are Hon. Charles Emmanuel, a former member of the House of Assembly representing Brass Constituency One and Perebigha Ajoko.
Governor Dickson said the local government election scheduled to hold in September should be conducted in a manner that would reflect the wishes of the electorate.
He said Ogbe was appointed acting chairman of the commission until a decision would be taken on the issue of the nomination of BYSIEC chairman-designate.
He expressed confidence in the capability of the new members to effectively oversee the affairs of the commission given their track record in their previous assignments.
The governor also urged political parties and their candidates to abide by the outcome of the election.
He said: “I congratulate the two members of the commission, who have been sworn in today. You are appointed to fill in vacancies that emanated from the resignation of some members. You are selected because of your capacity and experience. “I urge you to do what is right and fair and carry out your duties in a manner that would engender trust and confidence. You should be prepared to conduct free, fair and credible elections. “I have listened to some of the concerns expressed on the position of the chairman-designate; that is why he is not taking his office. “I call on the commission to carry out their duties in a way that would engender confidence. Let the elections be free and fair, and let the wishes of Bayelsa people be respected. We are giving you free hands and every party should abide by the outcome of the elections,” the governor said.