The need to curb illegal migration by Nigerians came to the fore at a recent symposium organised by the Nigerian Young Professionals Forum, WALE ELEGBEDE reports   Globally, international migration is one of the phenomena that is increasingly growing in scope, impact, and complexity. As an act, it involves the movement of people across political boundaries to a different country than an area of origin or birth.
Migration could be legal and illegal. Migration occurs for many reasons. Many people leave their home countries in order to look for economic opportunities in other countries.
While legal migration involves adherence to rules and regulations of mobility, illegal migration is the movement of people across national borders in a way that violates the immigration laws of the destination country. Illegal immigrants are also referred to as unauthorized/undocumented immigrants.
Across the world, there has been a rising trend in illegal migration, especially from underdeveloped/developing countries to developed countries and regions. With Africa being home to many poor countries, illegal migration to developed countries from the continent has been on an upward slope, and Nigeria is no exception.
According to statistics from relevant international migration agencies, no fewer than 602,000 Nigerians attempted to migrate to Europe in 2016. Out of the number, 2,007 died in the course of the movement, just as six per cent are university graduates.
The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) said in one of its reports that 60,000 Nigerians were held in detention camps in Libya in 2018 with majority of them from Edo State.
With these damning statistics, Nigeria continues to be among the top five countries of origin of irregular migrants entering the European Union (EU).
No doubt, these figures bring along with it a distorted image for Nigeria and show how illegal migration and human trafficking is the underbelly of the country’s perception in the comity of nations.
Apparently distraught by the alarming statistics and the tales of woes trailing illegal migration and trafficking which is ravaging the country especially among youths, stakeholders from the private sector, civil society, public sector, development agencies, and even the clergy converged on Abuja for an international conference to deliberate and proffer multi-stakeholder solutions.
The gathering, titled: “International Action on Illegal Migration and Trafficking in Persons Conference,” was primarily convened to strengthen a multi-stakeholder partnership in curbing illegal migration and human trafficking.
The August gathering, under the auspices of the Nigerian Young Professionals Forum (NYPF), became a platform where primary tales about the crisis was espoused and requisite solutions proffered by the ingenious participants drawn from international and local agencies working on human trafficking and illegal migration.
Despite the chilling stories of the experiences of victims of illegal migrations running emotions high in the gathering, stakeholders were able to latch on the scary patterns of the tales to provide a concise solution to the phenomenon of human trafficking and modern-day slavery.
Also, the event provided responses to questions on why people fail to live up to the acknowledgment of common humanity. The auspicious gathering which was presided over by the Chairman, Ocean Marine Solutions, Captain Hosa Okunbor, gave opportunities to various speakers to dissect the problem, its patterns, actors, geographical spread, and demeaning impact on humanity.
After the deliberation, participants at the gathering unanimously agreed that illegal migration and trafficking is a growing threat to Nigerians that should be urgently addressed through multi-stakeholder partnerships.
The first speaker to bell the cat at the gathering was the Chairman of the NYPF, Mr. Moses Siasia, who in his opening remarks recounted his experience of a young man who wanted to embark on a deadly voyage abroad, remotely implanted the idea for the conference in him.
Siasia said: “I took an UBER taxi to an embassy and was discussing on the phone. On our way, the taxi driver told me that he is a graduate who wants to travel to America. He claimed to have saved N1.5 million, pleading that I should assist him with N1 million. I advised him against traveling, but he insisted, saying he would earn $1,000 monthly as an UBER taxi driver in the US.”
The NYPF chairman explained that the encounter reminded him about thousands of young men and women, who are as desperate as the UBER driver in the quest to embark on dangerous trips abroad.
“There are so many people like him who embarked on such journeys and end up being trafficked for sexual exploitation and organ harvesting. It gives me a lot of concern that my generation suffers the impact of the menace. Those affected most are between the ages of 18 and 25.
“The youth embark on these trips without knowing the dangers ahead. They are deceived and in the process, their organs are harvested. Some organs are sold as high as N250, 000. For instance, one harvested heart sells for N250, 000,” he added.
Deputy Head of EU Delegation in Nigeria, Mr. Richard Young, said the alarming nature of the situation demands an urgent response from Nigeria.
“One in every 10 illegal immigrants who entered Europe between 2015 and 2016 was a Nigerian. 20,532 persons entered Europe illegally in those years. 2,084 were Nigerians, representing 10 per cent.
“There is a reduction in the figures of victims since 2016 but we have to be tough on the crime. There are the good, bad and ugly sides of migration. We have to promote the good, eliminate the bad and the ugly. This is a problem Nigeria needs to fight,” he said.
On his part, Okunbor, who aligned with earlier speakers on how embarrassing the problem has become, said it is saddening that Nigerians embark on deadly voyages to fairy tale destinations.
Sharing his perspective, Head of Public Enlightenment, National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, NAPTIP, Mr. Arinze Orakwe, who represented the Director General of the agency, Juli Okah-Donli, shared his experience combating human trafficking.
While highlighting instances trafficking, Orakwe raised the alarm that unlike in recent past when Edo State was the source of most trafficked persons, he said Oyo State and Osun State are now the new suppliers.
“Oyo and Osun states have taken over from Edo as the major sources of potential victims,” he lamented.
He added that the traffickers, “now target young people in those states. Mali, which the traffickers named ‘Maliasia’ is now the number one destination for those trafficked into prostitution. Some of them, who we rescued said they were paid an equivalent of N140 for a round of sex and they would have to be doing that until they realise the equivalent of N2 million to secure their freedom.
“Some of them were trafficked when they were 13. Human trafficking has become multidimensional to the extent that some Nigerian girls harvest their ovaries and sell to fertility clinics for N140, 000.”
The NAPTIP official further described human traffickers as highly organised and crafty.
Backing his assertion with an illustration, he said, “Every December, NAPTIP organises voluntarily return for trafficked victims, who want to return. Some of them would register for it and by the time we bring them home, they recruit young women and men, who they eventually sell into prostitution. Some are sold to organ hunters.
“NAPTIP has 5,923 suspected human traffickers and rescued 13,950 victims in its 15 years of existence.”
Divulging a more chilling experience, Rev. Sr. Monica Chikwe, who is of the Hospitaler Sisters of Mercy and Religious in Europe Networking Against Trafficking And Exploitation, RENATE, said trafficking could be tempestuous.
Sr. Chikwe, who was one of the guest speakers at the event, shared many heart-wrenching first-hand experiences with traffickers, their victims, and Italian farm owners, who exploit migrants.
The Italy-based nun said: “My job involves traveling around the world and most times, I feel ashamed hearing at conferences that Nigerians are most of the victims of human trafficking and sexual exploitation in Europe.
“Some of them who refused to engage in prostitution after being trafficked are starved and beaten until they agree. They sleep with different men for just 5.”
Revealing why the demand for sex workers, human organs and cheap labour make the illegal trade to flourish, Chikwe, whose organisation has succeeded in sending back many trafficked persons, said the patronage comes from countries outside of Africa.
Similarly, other speakers like the founder of Belama Oil Producing Limited, Mr. Jack-Rich Tein,Jr; Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Diaspora Commission, Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, represented by Mr. Gabriel Odu; Chairman of Sifax Group, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, represented by Mr. Auta Joshua; Editorial Board Chairman of Thisday Newspapers, Mr. Segun Adeniyi; and Dr. Ahmed Adamu of the Nile University, Nigeria, also, called for multi-stakeholder efforts to address the crisis.
Driving home his point, Adamu, who is a former Chairperson of the Commonwealth Youth Council, called for a repackaged educational curriculum that focuses on building mental energy.
On his part, the head of NYPF, Siasia called for the creation of an enabling environment capable of making traveling abroad unattractive to young people.
One of the high points of the gathering was the launch of a programme titled: Skill and Entrepreneurship Development Programme, SED-P. The scheme, according to Siasia, would rehabilitate, develop capacities, empower, mentor, and provide hope for returnees.
“When the returnees are dropped at the airport, nobody cares about what they later do in life. Everyone just moves on and forgets the victims. We are going to monitor and train them for the next five years. We are going to bring them out to showcase what they have been able to achieve from the initiative,” he added.
Clearly, the NYPF has gotten to the heart of illegal migration and trafficking in Nigeria, it is only left to be seen how the various relevant agencies would make use of the useful synopsis from the gathering to stem the raging tide.