The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba, Iba Gani Adams, spoke in this interview on the state of insecurity in the South-West and the need for collaboration among the states of the zone and the relevant security agencies. WALE ELEGBEDE reports   What is your take on the belief that the South-West geopolitical zone that the area is under siege by herdsmen?
With information at our disposal, we are having serious threat from herdsmen and some evil people in the South-West. The pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has called on all Yoruba to activate the traditional system of self-defence. Do you subscribe to this?
It is not only Afenifere, there was a statement credited to the Yoruba Summit Group, which is the coalition of all social cultural and self-determination groups in Yoruba land. They took that decision and a statement was issued by their Publicity Secretary, Dr Gboyega Adejuwon before Afenifere issued theirs’ as an organisation within that coalition. Definitely, it is a welcome development. One of the important laws in any living society is self-defence. We are looking forward to move beyond that.
During the week, the representative of Inspector General of Police was here and we discussed at length on how we can partner, not only with the office of Aare Ona kankafo, but other groups in Yoruba land. The meeting concluded that I should talk to some of the groups that IGP is ready to partner with them in Yoruba land to stop this evil act that is disturbing the peace and stability of Yoruba people.
Yoruba people are known for farming, which is the major occupation from the beginning of our lives. The truth is that as big as Nigeria is, we don’t have food security, we have the potentials of producing agricultural products and exporting then outside the country. But activities of criminal Fulani helmsmen have affected their business, their lives and way of living. The fear has been created in their mind not to go into farm. This self-defence has not been coordinated, we need the support of law enforcement agents, no matter the situation. What is your take on the decision by the governors in the South-West state to tackle the insecurity in the zone with a security summit?
The decision of the governors to convene a security summit is a welcome development. I proposed a security summit in July last year and I thought this security summit would have come earlier before now, but the governors stalled it, perhaps, due the general elections or they felt the crisis will not escalate to this stage. Perhaps, they thought it was something that can be curbed by security agencies in the state, but when it got to a stage where it is unbearable, they called for the security summit, and it is a welcome development.
Our proposition is that this summit will give us proper coordination in the region. The retired police, DSS, Army Generals, hunters, OPC and other relevant security organisation, Agebkoya, will be able to coordinate them well with the backing of government. The states Houses of Assembly have to enact laws that anybody that destroys other peoples’ farms through cattle grazing or other forms is a criminal and at the same time when you are going around on the farm with AK47, it is not acceptable.
In a modern society, you cannot just wake up and say you will attack hoodlums without the support of the government. You need the support of governors, LGA chairmen and the Obas. So, we have to carry out our activities in a legitimate way. That is why Yoruba security summit is important now. There are fears in some quarters that the outcome of the ssecurity summit may be subjected to political leaning, especially with a handful of the governors belonging to All Progressives Congress (APC). Some even said that the governors will be wary of Abuja in their position on the insecurity in the zone. What is your take on that?
We realised that some of the governors, based on their ambitions, may find it difficult to act on this issue, but they should have it in mind that the position they are today, the mandate was given to them by people who voted them into power and their first responsibility is to protect lives and property of their people.
When Fayose was Governor of Ekiti State, no matter what people may say about him, he encouraged the state House of Assembly to prepare a law to discourage and prevent herdssmen atrocities in the state. Even though the police in that state did not implement it to fullest, he has done his own and other governors should follow his example and the law should not be watered down by any governor. They should remember that whatever they do today will become history tomorrow. When you are in power, bear in mind that one day you will leave that position and if you don’t do the right thing, it will work against you. We will continue to sensitize people on the implication of what is happening because 70 per cent of the economy of this country in in the South-West.
Definitely, anything that affects the security of South-West will have impact on Nigeria’s economy. At the moment, hardly can 24 state governors, out of 36, pay salaries in their states. So, we have to be proactive on this issue and we must not play politics with it because the implication is enormous. With the information at your disposal, do you suspect that some elements in the South-West may be collaborating with the herdsmen?
I believe some Yoruba people are collaborating with them and I believe Fulani people who have been living in Yoruba land for more than 40 years upward are collaborating with external aggressors. The excuse that these people are from Chad and Niger is not acceptable because we discovered that they know all the nooks and crannies of the forest more than the Yoruba living in that environment. We suspect collaboration, but our focus is security of our people, irrespective of your tribe, whether you are Fulani or Yoruba. As the Aare Onakakanfo, will you be leading the fight?
There has been serious pressure on me to lead the fight due to my office and our people outside the country are even more concerned. It got to a stage that I received more than 200 calls daily on this issue and to the extent that I could not even pick some of the calls. It was until when we came out in the media before people realized that we are doing something about it. We have begun consultation, because there is the need to discuss extensively about this security threat. Yoruba people are not taking it lightly; some people see it that there is war already.
But, I believe there are many ways to go about it without going into war to solve this problem. People believe my office has power to move against these criminals. Yes, but in modern society and especially in a democratic era, we need to follow process no matter the potentials we have to solve the crisis. When Baado was threatening Lagos and Ogun, states, it was not until the police called us to collaborate with them, that we were able to solve the problem of Baado.