 Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has partnered with is Republic of Benin counterpart to unveil information technology management system that would enhance the ease of doing business by both countries at Seme border.
At the launch of the system performed jointly by the Nigeria’s Controller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), and the Director-General of Customs, Benin Republic, Sacca Boco Innousa Charles, both customs chiefs expressed optimism in the success of the scheme.
Ali said the new system would help to achieve information and data exchange through an intermediate server managed by Webb Fontaine Nigeria Limited.
He said the platform was one of the information technologies that would not only increase the ease of doing business but also help to contain border fraud.
Stressing the need to establish connectivity, the customs boss recalled the barrier between the two countries had been language difference.
He said: “However, today, with this system, we can exchange documents and do business together.
“Benin-Nigeria is more or less one state; we are partners in business. For us, it is a unique development for the two countries. Today’s momentous achievement will be a vehicle for free and quick business process.
“I employ you to ensure that your information is correct, this is going to give us the conviction that what you are posting is right or wrong. That way, customs will be cable to push the process.”
Business process explanations made by the technical team revealed that the system would involve information sharing and feedbacks from both ends.
The Nigerian Trade Portal domiciled in Abuja was used to demonstrate the workability of the system and process, showing how transit goods declaration made at the Cotonou Port could be assessed at the Nigerian end.
Transit goods destined for Nigeria but landed in the port of Cotonou would have all relevant information about importer, nature of consignment, time of arrival, commodity code, commodity description, number of packages, marks, numbers and details about containers used.
A stakeholder, who did not give his name, agreed that the use of this technology would help to fast track business.
He said: “This technology will check trafficking. We must heighten our fight against smuggling and that way we maximise this technology”