Rector of the Federal School of Surveying, Oyo, Dr. Dupe Olayinka, has warned the 2018/2019 matriculating students of the school against involvement in any vices alien to the 110-year old Institution.
The Rector, an Associate professor of the University of Lagos, and an ex-student of the school, gave the admonition in her speech at the matriculation ceremony of 294 students held in the school’s hall.
The Rector also charged the fresh students to set their priorities right in order to excel in life, urging them not to get distracted with the new environment they found themselves.
“This school has never had anything to do with cultism and we abhor examination malpractices here. I want you to maintain this clean record and never allow cultism to have an in-road into this Centre of Excellence in Surveying and Geoinformatics.
“This school also has zero tolerance for indecent dressing as students are expected to be presentable at all times. With regards to violence, this school has a tradition of tranquility. The reputation of maturity with its responsible students has been built over a century of her existence. I want this tradition to be jealously guarded,” she said.
Surveying School was founded on 1st July, 1908 as a Government Departmental Training Institution attached to the Colonial Survey Department in Lagos for the training of Technical Assistants. It later moved from Lagos to Ibadan in 1926 and later to Oyo in 1934. “The School has procured more modern Digital Surveying and GIS software and many HP branded computer systems which the University of Lagos cannot even boast of today. These facilities are second to none and are definitely going to provide a conducive learning environment for students’ educational pursuit”. Speaking on the theme: “Harnessing your potential in School towards Excellence”, Dr. Olubusola Adeniyi of the Federal College of Education, Special, (SPED), Oyo, charged the new students to be disciplined, adding that success only comes to those who are focused. As a form of incentive to the students, the Rector used the occasion to announce that the Student Union Government activities would soon be active in the school and a new election devoid of malpractice would be conducted.