•Order spiritual cleansing of official residences  Almost 72 hours after they took over as the governors of their states, especially the newly elected ones, most of them are yet to access their offices or occupy their residential quarters. Sunday Telegraph’s investigations revealed that many of the newly elected governors have engaged the services of either clergymen or Imams to help them cleanse the Government Houses, where they and their families would live in the next four years. Our investigations discovered that some of them, immediately after their inauguration, also went straight to either their church or mosque for special prayers or thanksgiving for the success at the polls and wisdom to enable them succeed in their new assignments. Also, while some of them hit the ground running, others are in the dark, as their predecessors left without leaving detailed hand over notes. For instance, the immediate past governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, failed to effect a formal handover to the new governor, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, as the ex-governor allegedly did not hand over a single document to his successor. Chairman of the Inauguration Planning and Handover Committee, Chris Okewulonu who made this known also said, no official handover was affected. He said: “We are literally in the dark so to speak. Of course, the out-gone governor gave us no cooperation whatsoever throughout the build up to the inauguration. Unlike what we have had in the past during previous transitions, here in Imo State and as was performed in other states, not one document has been handed over to the new administration. “Yet he (Okorocha) made fantabulous claims about the amount in the treasury but as at today (May 29), there is no single paper or document to back up those claims.” Meanwhile, Ihedioha as at Thursday was yet to enter the governor’s office. He had moved straight to his Civic Centre home amid cheers from jubilant residents of the state, immediately after his inauguration as the 6th executive governor of the state. Our correspondent also learnt that the portrait of the out-gone governor had already been removed, even before the new governor took over. Though many believe Okorocha may have left town, remnants of his supporters had on Tuesday in what appeared to be a ‘pulling out parade’, escorted the former governor back to his Spibat home in Owerri. Many of his key officials were conspicuously missing at the event as it was said that they were mostly lying low for fear of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Staffers of the Government House, who confided in our correspondent, were certain that Governor Emeka Ihedioha would not step into the Governor’s office without a clergy coming to sanitize the office. “This has been the traditional practice here over the years and it is obvious it would not be different now. A cleric would have to cleanse the office before our brand new governor will step into the office. And I totally support that,” he said. DSS apprehends technicians removing Kwara Government House property And in Kwara, men of the Department of State Services (DSS) on Thursday arrested some technicians who were going out with some government property from the Government House Ilorin. Staffers of the Government House, who confided in Sunday Telegraph, quoted those apprehended as insisting that they were authorized to take out the items on the orders of an unnamed former senior special assistant to the out gone governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed. Even before the inauguration there had been allegations of former government officials denuding the Government House of its furniture. The immediate past administration repeatedly denied it. The goods were reportedly retrieved while the technicians were arrested for interrogation. Also, it was learnt that few hours to the inauguration, the state government’s account in a new generation bank (name withheld) was frozen on alleged frivolous withdrawals by the immediate past administration. EFCC was reported to have been on the alert towards the expiration of the tenure of former Governor Ahmed’s administration with a view to forestalling any untoward situation. This notwithstanding, the inauguration of the new helmsman Governor AbdulRahaman AbdulRazak, with his deputy, Kayode Alabi went on smoothly as, even though the event was unexpectedly low key. It was devoid of the usual pomp and ceremony for an event of that nature and magnitude. Hence the major reason it held inside the Council Chambers of the Government House, Ilorin, the state capital. Attendance was strictly by invitation. Though it was supposed to be a low key event, there was a mammoth crowd outside the gates of the Government House and the surrounding places. Indeed, the reception was overwhelming as people lined the streets waiving at the convoy of their new governor. Curiously, they defied the early morning downpour which ordinarily should have kept them indoor. A strikingly noticeable thing at the event was that Governor AbdulRazak drove himself and his immediate family to the Government House for the inauguration. Also, former Governor Ahmed was conspicuously missing at the inauguration/swearing in programme. He was represented by the Head of Service, Mrs. Susan Modupe Oluwole, who performed the handing over of necessary documents on behalf of the ex-governor to his successor. AbdulRazak did not go straight to his office after inauguration as there were other events lined up for the day. While the governor proceeded to the Ilorin Central Mosque for prayers for the smooth take off of the administration as well as for God’s guidance, his deputy also attended an Interdenominational Service at St. Barnabas Anglican Church, Sabo Oke, Ilorin, for a similar thing. But the governor, it was reliably learnt, has not moved to his official residence at the Government House. He is still staying in his private residence for now. The early morning downpour meant different things to different people. To some, the rain was divine, meant “to cleanse the state and wash away all calamities, evils and rituals”, while to others who also spoke to our correspondent under condition of anonymity, “the early morning rain symbolised the clearing off of the bad government and the ushering in of a new regime that is truly for the people and by the people of Kwara State.” There has been a change of photographs of the former with the new governor. In fact, it happened almost immediately after the swearing in. Although Sunday Telegraph learnt that there was no purification of the Government House before the new helmsmen moved in, however, there had been series of prayers by both Islamic and Christian clerics for both the governor and his deputy prior to inauguration. Air conditioners, freezers others missing in Zamfara Immediately after the Supreme Court nullified the election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and named the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) the winner of all the elections in the Zamfara State, officers of the immediate administration began to remove items such as air conditioners, freezers and furniture from the Government House in Gusau. This was made known by some staffers who spoke to Sunday Telegraph on condition of anonymity. However, this did not stop the inauguration and the handover of the reins of government by former Abddulaziz Yari. Yari on Tuesday personally handed over to Bello Mohammed Matawalle of the PDP, 24 hours before to the official inauguration. During the hand over, Yari thanked Almighty Allah who spared his life to see the day and the opportunity to serve the people of the state and coming to the end of his tenure successfully without leaving a debt of single kobo. “I inherited a debt of over N40billion when I took over in 2011 and the good news for you is that I have left no single kobo as debt for you” said Yari. Sanwo-Olu banners, stickers replace Ambode’s portrait As the new governors take charge in various states across the country, Lagos State House recorded a total clean up with the change of guards, security pictures and some other apparatus. From the Governor’s Office Road to other adjoining roads in and around the Ikeja State House, Alausa large banners bearing the portraits of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Kadri Hamzat replaced those of his predecessor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode. Other pictures of the ex-governor placed at strategic places were also replaced. While some were removed on May 28, others were removed in the early morning of inauguration day. So also were the security apparatus. It was a total change of guards and other paraphernalia of office. In addition to that, the government, in a circular dated 24th May, 2019, signed by the Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, said that all appointees of the immediate past governor, resigned at the close of work on May 28. The government, however, explained that the political appointees whose appointments are by legislation and tenure-based are not affected by the directive contained in the circular. Almost all the blocks of various ministries and agencies in the state secretariat replaced Ambode’s banners with the new governor and his deputy. Areas or spaces said to be practically ‘customized’ for adverts of Ambode’s policies and programmes were immediately replaced with solidarity messages and pictures of the new governor and his deputy. Civil servants who had the stickers and pictures of the former governor on their cars and in their offices quickly removed them to avoid being labelled as loyalists of the out gone administration.
Marina State House which used to be the official residence of the state governor but which the past administration converted to historical centre is now wearing a new look, as Governor Sanwo-Olu plans to live in the posh residence like Mr. Babatunde Fashola did. Excitement as Abiodun takes over as Ogun gov The new governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, was sworn in on Wednesday. Since his inauguration, however, the governor has not accessed the Government House, Oke-Igbein, Abeokuta.  What he only did was to assume duty, barely 24 hours after his inauguration, at the Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Abiodun was accompanied by the newly elected deputy governor, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele and chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Shortly after the immediate past governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, left office, his portrait was replaced with that of the new governor. Some of the vehicles in the convoy of the former chief executive were seen parked at one corner of the State Secretariat. Besides, there have not been any noticeable changes at the Governor’s Office. On Thursday, Abiodun officially took over the reins of power as he assumed office. The governor, who arrived at 9:30am, inspected a guard of honour mounted for him by policemen attached to the Government House.
Makinde renames Agodi Link Bridge Immediately he was inaugurated as the 8th Civilian Governor of the 36 years old Oyo State at the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium, Oke Ado, Ibadan, Engineer Seyi Makinde, his convoy and that of his deputy Engineer Rauf Olaniyan, went straight to the Government Secretariat, where the Head of Service Mrs. Ololade Agboola on behalf of the former Governor Abiola Ajimobi handed over the reins of government. Before, then, the photograph of Ajimobi was removed from where it was hung in the past eight years and placed on the left hand side below those of past governors. Makinde’s picture was conspicuously hung in the middle of another row. The fly over, which connects the Agodi Government Secretariat with the Agodi Government House which ex-Governor Ajimobi had closed down and reserved only for his own, his family and Deputy Governor’s use, was immediately opened to the public for use. Makinde in his inaugural speech had said that the bridge, constructed by the Brigadier David Jemibewon military administration some four decades ago, be opened immediately for all. He christened it “Freedom Bridge”. Promptly following this, any people started traversing the bridge with their vehicles, taking photographs on it while advising Governor Makinde to urgently rehabilitate it because of cracks noticeable on some parts of it due to abandonment for the two terms of the former administration. However, Sunday Telegraph was unable to confirm if there items were stolen both at the Governor’s Secretariat and the Agodi Government House, which even former Governor Ajimobi had moved out of since about three months ago. But while we were unable to confirm whether Makinde slept in the Government House, a politician told us: “But that will be too early now! Does he not have his own house? Why will he rush to go and sleep in the Government House the very same day that he was sworn in?”