 The Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Opeyemi Oke will today retire from public service having attained the statutory retirement age of 65 years Justice Oke joined the Lagos State Judiciary as a Senior Magistrate and became Chief Magistrate Grade (1) from 1986 to 1996 and Deputy Chief Registrar from 1993 to 1994. She was thereafter appointed as the 16th Chief Justice of the State by former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in September, 2017. However, as part of her final contribution to the legal profession, Justice Oke has presented a handbook for the court registrars to ensure effective service delivery in the state. The Lagos CJ, who presented the handbook at a pull-out ceremony, noted that the handbook would guide the court registrars in their duties. According to Justice Oke, the appointment of legal practitioners as registrars was to improve service in the judiciary system. She said: “The handbook developed by the Justice Josephine Oyefeso-led committee is to guide the court registrars appointed from among legal practitioners in their daily duties and ensure that they give effective service to litigants and the people of Lagos State. “The court registrars would work as head of the judges’ chamber and function effectively to improve operations of the court and plans are on to appoint more legal practitioners as court registrars at the magistrate courts”. The pull-out ceremony, which was held for Justice Oke as part of the activities to mark her retirement had high court judges, magistrates and other stakeholders in attendance. While at the helm, the CJ introduced a number of reforms such as the Small Claims Court, Restorative Justice System, Sentencing Guideline for Judges and Magistrates, as well as Civil Procedure Rules and Practice Direction. Chief Magistrate Folashade Botoku of a Lagos Magistrate Court in Igbosere ordered three journalists out of her courtroom. The affected journalists were; Onozure Dania from Vanguard Newspaper, Yetunde Ayobami Ojo, from The Guardian and Ayodele Olalere of Take a Break Media. The journalists had gotten to the court very early… In "National news" Lagos State Chief Judge (CJ), Justice Opeyemi Oke, yesterday vowed to prosecute a lawyer, Mr. Edward Oseghale, who was arrested by the police on the premises of Surulere Magistrate’s Court for allegedly forging a court judgement. Oseghale allegedly forged a judgement purportedly given by Mrs. Toluwalase Abayomi, the Magistrate of… In "Metro and Crime" The Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Opeyemi Oke, has directed magistrates in the state to deploy more of non-custodial sentencing for minor offenders in order to decongest the prisons. Justice Oke issued the directives while granting freedom to nine inmates. She said the Chief Registrar had been directed… In "Life"