Army yesterday said an attempt by suspected terrorists to overrun Mafa town in Mafa Local Government Area of Borno State, was foiled by troops on clearance operation.
Specifically, the Army said the terrorists had made the failed attempt on Mafa with five gun trucks and other equipment.
The Acting Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Col. Sagir Musa, who made the disclosure in a statement, said troops had responded with superior fire power, leading to the capture of two gun trucks mounted with two anti-aircraft (AA) guns.
Musa noted that the encounter led to the killing of scores of the fighters, while over 100 victims, including women and children, were rescued.
He said: “Following sustained robust and aggressive clearance operations, in recent days, troops had recorded tremendous successes in the fight against terrorism and insurgency in the North-East. Dozens of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) fighters were annihilated, large cache of assorted arms, ammunition and so many variants of gun trucks and other fighting vehicles were captured.
“Therefore, in order to consolidate on the numerous successes so far achieved, the rugged troops of 112 Task Force Battalion deployed at Mafa in Borno State had effectively dealt ruthlessly with members of BHTs/ISWAP terrorists in Mafa, Mafa Local Government Area of Borno State, when some terrorists attempted to attack Mafa on 24 June 2019.
“The terrorists failed attack on Mafa was as a result of available intelligence indicating the desperate longing for food and other logistics by terrorists necessitated by the recent, incredibly tireless and ferocious troops’ operational exploits.
“During the failed attack, terrorists in five gun trucks and several motorcycles were seen. Consequently, the troops reacted swiftly with heavy fire power, forcing the terrorists to scamper for their lives and recovered two gun trucks mounted with anti-aircraft guns and a motorcycle and the extermination of three terrorists. There were indications that some of the insurgents were wounded in an exchange of fire.
“Additionally and most importantly, the operation resulted in the rescue and eventual liberation of over 100 women and children from the grip of the criminals/terrorists.”
Meanwhile, the statement said the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division, had charged troops to remain focused, during his visit to the location.
The statement added: “The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division and Commander Sector 1, Operation Lafiya Dole, Brigadier General Abdulmalik Bulama Biu, had since visited the conflict location with reinforcement.
“While being conducted round the camp to assess the situation, the GOC urged the troops to remain focus and not to be carried away by the successes. He directed them to redouble their efforts and doggedly maintain the momentum until they win the war on terrorism for Nigeria through total victory against the bandits.
“Similarly, he assured them of the Chief of Army Staff Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai’s continued appreciation and support in the collective struggle to crush the insurgency.”