Kidnappers of an Ado-Ekiti bus driver, Mr. Felix Akinde, have demanded N5 million to free him.
This came as the men of the Anti-Kidnapping Squad of the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Owena Barracks, Akure, in a collaboration with other sister security agencies, have launched a manhunt for the abductors in the forest of Iju town.
The family and the owner of the vehicle Akinde was travelling in have asked the abductors to reduce the ransom as they could not afford such amount.
However, the kidnappers have reduced the ransom to N2 million, according to a source. They insisted they would not reduce the ransom further.
But another source close to the family said the kidnappers contacted Akinde’s relations through their telephone lines.
According to him, the abductors are demanding a ransom N5 million before they will set the driver free.
He said: “The kidnappers contacted us, and they are demanding a ransom of N5 million before they would release him.
“They said that he (driver) is in the bush with them and they would only free him when we are ready to cooperate on the ransom.
“As I speak with you, they have already used two different telephone lines to contact us demanding to know how much we have been able to raise.
“Although we have met with family members and some of his friends in the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) to help us out in raising this money, the N5 million is just too much for us, and I don’t know where they want us to see such huge fund. But we are still begging them.”
Also, one of the executive members of the NURTW in Ondo State confirmed that the abductors have contacted the union and noted some fund was being raised with the families.
He said: “At least, we are pleading with them to spare the life our colleague and we have promised to raise some funds with the family in order to set him free.”
Gunmen abducted Akinde, a commercial driver travelling on Akure-Ikere Ekiti Road in the early hours of Tuesday.
Also the owner of the vehicle and former executive of NURTW, Prince Adedeji Adeyemi, said the kidnappers had contacted him for ransom.
He, however, said Akinde was the only occupant of the vehicle when he was abducted.
Adeyemi said the driver had left Ado-Ekiti aboutd 4.30a.m., en route to Akure, the Ondo State capital to pick some passengers to Onitsha. He was, however, abducted about 5a.m., thereby aborting the journey to the East.
The Chairman of the Ondo State chapter of NURTW, Mr. Jacob Adebo, said the union had intervened in the matter and that the driver would soon be released.
Adebo said the driver was abducted at NYSC Junction.
He said: “The hoodlums took the advantage of the bad spot to carry out their operation.”
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, had earlier confirmed that only the driver was abducted.
Joseph said that the officers of the command had already swung into action and would soon arrest the perpetrators.