There seems to be no end in sight to the Kano Emirate Council’s impasse, following yesterday’s allegation of fraud against Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II and recommendation for his suspension, FELIX NWANERI reports  History seems about repeating itself in Kano State given the new dimension to what many believe to be political persecution of the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi 11. The royal father, whose domain was recently split into five by the state government, with the creation of new emirates, each with its own emir, has been accused of fraud and consequently recommended for immediate suspension. The Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission, which made the allegation and recommendation in a preliminary report of investigation it submitted to the state government, said it uncovered over N3.4 billion allegedly misappropriated by Sanusi.  According to the report signed by the commission’s chairman, Muhuyi Magaji, the alleged amount was said to have been misappropriated between 2014 and 2017. The investigation was in respect of a petition of financial misappropriation filed against Kano Emirate Council. The interim report raised four cardinal issues bordering on indictments, amount involved, obstruction of investigation and recommendations. It indicated that the Kano Emirate Council had spent over N1.4 billion in various expenditures believed to be fraudulent and unappropriated. Also, the Emirate Council was alleged to have spent over N1.9 billion unappropriated on seemingly personal expenditures, making the total sum of the questionable expenditures. According to the report, the expenditures contravened the provisions of Section 120 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) and Section 8 of the Kano State Emirate Council Special Fund Law 2004. The Kano anti-graft commission further said that the expenditures also violated Section 314 of Penal Code as well as provisions of Section 26 of the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission Law 2008 (as amended). The report read in part: “It is also the opinion of this commission, based on the available evidence that Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II has continued to undermine the investigation through various means, which includes giving instruction to all officers invited for clarification to shun the commission’s invitation. “The act is seriously affecting the process of our statutory responsibility and offends the provisions of Section 25 of the Commission’s enabling Law 2008 (as amended).” Recommending for Sanusi’s suspension, pending the final outcome of the investigations, the commission advised: “This is a necessary administrative disciplinary action aimed at preventing the suspects from further interfering with the commission’s investigations.  “The commission further recommends that the contract awarded to Tri-C Nigeria Limited for renovation of Babban Daki, Kofar Kudu and Gidan Sarki Dorayi should be revoked as the company belongs to one of the suspects in person of Alhaji Mannir Sanusi, (The Chief of Staff in the Emirate).” It further recommended that an appropriate authority should be put in place to oversee the affairs of the Emirate Council in line with established statutes and policies, pending the final outcome of the commission’s investigations, while further legal action should be taken against all the suspects as soon as the final outcome of the investigations are concluded and legal advice accordingly issued. While neither Sanusi nor the Emirate Council is yet to react to the recent development, many believe that history is about to repeat itself in the ancient northern city.  The former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), who mounted the throne of his forefathers on June 8, 2014 after the death of his grand uncle, Emir Ado Bayero, is a grandson of the 11th Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi, who was deposed by the Governor of the Northern Region, Sir Kashim Ibrahim, in 1963. For Sanusi then in 2014, it was a dream come true as he never pretended about his ambition of ascending to the throne. His appointment was on the heels of his ouster from the nation’s apex bank and the legal battle against his suspension as well as challenge of Federal Government’s confiscation of his passport. The then Kano State government, in announcing his emergence said: “Allah has conferred on Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, the former governor of the Central Bank, the successor to the late emir.” In arriving at Sanusi, the four kingmakers of Kano Emirate considered a number of names and put four of them forward to the state government for approval. They were Sanusi; the late emir’s eldest son, Sanusi Lamido Ciroma; Wamaban Kano, Abbas Sanusi and Galadiman Kano, Tijani Hashim. The appointment was after frantic lobbying, and reports had it then that it attracted some of North’s most powerful traditional rulers, who pressed for a less divisive candidate in one of the former emir’s sons.  However, Sanusi had high-level support from politicians across the country and then governor of Kano State governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso, who had the final word on the matter. However, the choice of Sanusi, who was installed as the Dan Majen Kano in 2013, did not go down well with some youths, who immediately after the state government’s announcement, trooped to the streets to protest his emergence instead of the late Bayero’s son.  The resentment by supporters of the late Bayero’s son did not alter the choice and the former CBN governor, was placed as one of the most influential traditional rulers in the North, second to the Sultan of Sokoto. Exepectedly, Sanusi’s ascension to the royal throne did not take away the activist in him. He continued to champion causes that have bearing on the masses, particularly the Talakawas of the North, seizing any opportunity that comes his way to drum it on the region’s political leaders that they are responsible for the plight of their people. For instance, writing on his official Instagram page on April 11, 2017, Sanusi said leaders in northern Nigeria are using their knowledge to impoverish the people of the region. He pointed out that at a time, when many other Muslim countries like the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia are competing with other developed western countries, leaders in the North are racing backwards.  He was reacting then to a statement credited to then Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari, that the meningitis outbreak is a punishment from God for the sin of fornication. Describing the statement as an example of the ignorance rooted among northern leaders, Sanusi stated: “Muslim countries are holding their own in the modern world, proving that Islam is not a religion of underdevelopment. However, the likes of Zamfara State governor, Yari only strengthen this prejudice.” The Kano emir further said the belief by conservative Muslims that children do not need other knowledge than Islamic studies show that they are still stuck in the 13th Century.  Sanusi also stoked fire among Islamic scholars at a time, when he called on governors of northern states to convert mosques to prima   ry schools, especially in the villages. His argument was that mosques were not initially meant for prayers alone, but used for other things like marriages, scholarly activities and leadership trainings.  He also did not spare the governor of his home state, Abdullahi Ganduje in his criticisms. But, the monarch ran into trouble waters, when the Kano anti-graft commission announced in April 2017 that it will investigate alleged “questionable expenditures and financial misappropriation” against the Kano Emirate Council. Though the agency ruled out any political motive in the probe then, saying the decision was borne out of the need to ensure fairness, Sanusi declared that he was ready for any probe on his expenditures since he became Kano’s emir. The monarch, who spoke through the Walin Kano, Alhaji Mahez Wali, said allegations of questionable expenditure were “baseless, mischievous and utterly designed to tarnish his image and that of Kano Emirate Council.” Wali explained that N4.3 billion was spent since Sanusi ascended the throne, based on the Kano Emirate Council’s budgetary provision, and not the reported N6 billion. He dismissed the allegation that Sanusi acquired two Rolls Royce cars, saying: “The exotic cars were never purchased by the emirate council, but donated to the emir by his friends,” adding that the payment of N142,800,000 for two bulletproof vehicles, were based on the advice and approval of the state government.” Amidst the claims and counter-claims between the commission and the emirate council, emerged another move to investigate Sanusi by the state Assembly.  The House, like the commission, also hinged its plan on allegations of misappropriation of funds of the Kano Emirate Council. The member representing Nasarawa state constituency, Ibrahim Gama, who raised a motion of urgent public importance on the issue, decried a comment credited to the emir over the proposed Kano light rail project, saying that it portrayed the state government and the Assembly in bad light. The lawmaker also accused the emir of introducing religious issues contrary to the teachings of Islam as well as involving himself in political issues. The House debated on the motion and consequently set up an eight-man committee on May 10, 2017, headed by the member representing Warawa state constituency, Labaran Abdul. The Assembly’s decision prompted the Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission to suspend its probe of the emir. However, while the House committee was given two weeks to do its job and report back, the legislators made a detour and discontinued with the investigation following a letter from Governor Ganduje.  The governor said that halting of the investigation was necessitated by the need to respect the intervention of some notable Nigerians on the issue. Whereas the lawmakers heeded to the governor’s request and called off the probe, they resolved to review the law that established the emirate council. The Assembly mandated the Committees on Local Governments and Judiciary, as well as the principal officers of the House, to review the law and submit the report within three months.  The aftermath of the exercise was last month’s passage and signing into law of the Kano State Emirs Appointment and Deposition Amendment Law, 2019. The bill for the law emanated from a petition filed before the House by Ibrahim Salisu Chambers, which sought for the decentralization of the Kano Emirate Council and the need for the creation of four additional first class emirs in the state. Ganduje assented to the bill at the 136th state council meeting and the event was witnessed by the Speaker of the state Assembly, Hon. Kabiru Alasan Rurum and other principal officers of the House.  The law made provision for the creation of four new emirate councils in Kano, namely, Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi. With Kano Emirate Council, the state now has five emirates.  Though there were series of interventions by some prominent individuals to stop the governor from creating the new emirate councils, he explained that with the expansion and importance attached to the institution alongside preserving the cultural heritage, there was a need to bring forth the all-important institution to serve people better.  According to him, all the necessary requirements for the immediate take-off of the new councils would be done with dispatch. “Kingmakers will be known very soon. So, also all other process and procedures will be completed for appointing respective emirs, issuing them with appointment letters up to the coronation stage,” Ganduje said.  He thanked the state Assembly for the “historic work done,” emphasizing that Kano would now have sustained development in all aspects of life in the state.  While acknowledging the role traditional institution plays in the security of the larger society, he also noted that “in the areas of education, health, environment, traditional institution is indeed partner in progress. With this development, therefore, all hands will be on deck to take Kano to the next level.”  