Dr. Kunle Olajide, an elder statesman, is the Secretary of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE)  The South-West Security Summit held in Ibadan on Tuesday was a huge success because some us for have been clamouring that we should all rise up to address the insecurity challenges in the region. So, during the security summit, the governors in their various speeches assured us that they have actually been working behind the scene to address the issue.
They also gave us a detailed report of what they have been doing with assurances that the insecurity has been curtailed or at least, it is about to be curbed 100 per cent. So, they raised the hopes of the Yoruba nation and they reassured us that they were not going to allow political partisanship to divide us. They were united in the call for state police and some other things that will ultimately lead us to achieving true federalism. So, for me, the South-West Security Summit was a tremendous success.
With the assurances given by the governors that they are going to be united in addressing the issue, we have confidence in them that they will do what they have promised. But, of course, we also know that we also have roles to play. Everybody has a role to play as far as security is concerned.
But the governors being the chief security officers, we expect much from them though we got enough evidence during the security summit to be really sure that they are playing their part. So, we the citizens will also play our part; the obas (traditional rulers) too will play their part; the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) will also play their part. So, I have confidence in their ability to curtail the insecurity.
Everybody has specific roles to play in addressing the insecurity challenges. The people have to report strange faces around their environments to the security agents. They have to maintain contacts; telephone lines were given and when you begin to suspect anybody, you could contact the police and they will watch such person and trail him.
Members of the public have roles to play in addressing the security challenges, so they must identify strangers in their communities, localities and areas; find out what they are doing and report to the appropriate authority.
With the success of the South-West Security Summit, where all the six governors came together and speak with one voice, we are expecting them to proceed on their programmes for economic integration. It is regional integration that is very key and pertinent in our mind. They must continue to fund the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) programme.
We are watching them and we expect them to collaborate on all other issues; infrastructural development and so on. What we are trying to do is to rebuild South-West in anticipation of the true federalism that President Muhammadu Buhari promised us.