…battle interest groups, godfathers  Almost five weeks after their inaugurations, returning and newly elected governors across the country are facing a big dilemma – the need to appease the various interest groups and godfathers who played vital roles in their victories at the polls. From Lagos to Kano, Kaduna to Enugu, the story is the same-governors are in a quandary over the choice of executive members and key officers. Just like at the national level, they too have godfathers and interest groups to contend with in carrying out this crucial task.  However, in Enugu State, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Sunday Telegraph learnt, would soon name his cabinet. Sources close to the Government House, Enugu, confided in the weekly that the governor is putting finishing touches to the list of his lieutenants. This indication emerged on Tuesday, following the Enugu State House of Assembly’s approval of the Governor’s request to appoint 15 Special Advisers (SAs). Observers believe that the approval of special advisers to the governor was only a precursor to the appointment of commissioners. According to those close to Governor Ugwuanyi, but who want to remain anonymous, the delay in the compilation of list of cabinet members may not be unconnected with consultations with various stakeholders in the state.  The sources, however, said that unlike his first term where a majority of the cabinet members were not personally known to the governor, but recommended by powerful stakeholders, this time around Ugwuanyi would prefer to work with those he knows or at least those whose professional competence and reputations were well known. But in Kano State, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje is at sea over the list of 500 people who are jostling to be part of the governor’s second term cabinet.  Sunday Telegraph, reliably scooped that already, Ganduje is confused and seems to be in dilemma over who should be in his cabinet, as the who-is-who in the state are said to have forwarded the names of their candidates to the governor. A part from four names that are being speculated to be part of the government and probably continue in their former positions, none of the former cabinet members, including special advisers, and assistants are sure of returning to their previous posts.  Reports obtained by our correspondent indicated that only the former commissioners of Information, Local Government, Rural Development and Attorney General and Justice in the persons of Muhammad Garba, Sulen Garo, Musa Illiyasu Kwankwaso and Barrister Ibrahim Mukthar, respectively, have their offices waiting for them.  A top government official, who pleaded anonymity due to the sensitive nature of the discussion, said: “I can confirm to you that what is delaying the formation of our cabinet is the fact that even the governor is agonising over who he should pick among the outrageous list before him.  “Don’t forget that this second coming was with a lot of other interests groups who joined us at the wee hours of the campaign and helped in the victory of our party. So those people’s interest must be accommodated.”  The source pointed out that Mallam Ibrahim Shekarau, a former governor of the state, who defected to the APC at the dying minutes, has a lot of followers who are expected to be part of the government. Although, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has appointed some aides in the running of his government, choosing Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun as the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) -the first woman to ever occupy the position.  He has also announced Chief of Staff (Chief Bisi Ilaka); Chief Press Secretary (Taiwo Adisa); Chairman, State Universal Basic Education – SUBEB (Dr. Nureni Adeniran); Director-General, Due Process Office (Ms. Tara Adefope); Oyo State Advisory Committee, Chairmen of the Christian and Muslim Pilgrims Boards, among others. But he is yet to name his commissioners and other principal officers. Sunday Telegraph’s investigation revealed that the delay has been due to the sharing formula agreed on by the political parties that coalesced to support the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Makinde’s victory at the March 9, 2019 gubernatorial election.  Former governor, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, led the coalition group made up of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), and the African Democratic Congress (ADC). Governorship candidates in ZLP Chief Sarafadeen Alli; Senator Olufemi Lanlehin (ADC); Chief Bolaji Ayorinde, SAN (SDP) – all dropped their personal ambitions and canvassed votes for Makinde. Against the insinuation that Senator Ladoja was wielding ‘godfather’ influence in the choice of the commissioners, Sunday Telegraph can reveal that the coalesced parties, and not Ladoja, are the ones putting heads together lest there be lop-sidedness in the allocation of the commissioners, as well as other principal  officers.  A source, who pleaded not to be named, said on Thursday that: “By next week, I assure you that the names of the commissioners will be announced. The stakeholders do not want to engage in any shoddy arrangement that could lead to intra-party crisis, hence the slight delay. Nevertheless, nothing has gone awry with the government since governance has continued unhindered since the inauguration of the PDP administration on May 29,” he said. In selecting his enlarged executive council, Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State had to contend with various challenges and pressures from critical segments of the Imo society.  Most nagging among all the challenges was how to settle the teeming stakeholders and party faithful who committed time, energy and unwavering loyalty to the Ihedioha governorship project. Ihedioha, who is a stickler for excellence, was torn between settling party faithful and choosing only competent men for his team. According to Ihedioha, the mandate given to him by Imo people was too sacred to be gambled with, and as such, he cannot afford to engage incompetent hands in the tasking business of governance.  It is common knowledge that some kinsmen of Ihedioha had visited him in his country home to tell him to appoint their son to a certain position, and the governor lost his cool. He was furious that his kinsmen and leaders who approached him for an appointment was not thinking in the interest of the entire community but for just a few self-sided persons. He had expressed disappointment at their priorities.  In Niger State, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello tends to follow the footsteps of President Muhammadu Buhari when it comes to the appointment of cabinet members. However, he seems to be stamping his feet as he recently pulled surprises with the few appointments he made.   The governor seems not perturbed and not in a hurry to form his cabinet, but so many believe he intends to get the right persons especially technocrats on board in his second term in office. In his recent appointments of Chief of Staff, Secretary to the State Government, Head of Service, Chief Press Secretary and other Directors General, the governor disappointed not a few, as he shelved lists of applicants and lobbyists. The SSG, Alhaji Ahmed Matane, formerly of the PDP, was not in contention even though the Chief of Staff, Ibrahim Balarabe, was one of the favourites for the position. Also, the Head of Service, Hajiya Salamatu Abubakar, and Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mary Noel Berje, are both females whom many did not expect.  The governor’s father, Col. Sani Bello (rtd) is very influential in the state, but as an elder statesman, it appears he has not tried to pull strings in the second term appointments. Although, so many politicians have been visiting Kotangora, to see the retired military officer to lobby for various positions, Col. Sani Bello is either out of town or very busy with his foundation (Sani Bello Foundation). However, it appears the     governor’s wife, Dr. Amina Sani Bello, has been very influential as she played a major role in ensuring more women are appointed. The recent appointment of the Head of Service and the Chief Press Secretary are manifestations of her efforts.  But some of the interest groups recently condemned their exclusion in the appointment of principal officers in the state and they include the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Pan-Gbagyi Socio- Cultural Organisation under the auspices of Gbegnu Boknu Yakwo Association.  In Kaduna State, Governor Nasir El- Rufai is saddled with the burden of either sticking with those he worked with in his first term or some of the new converts that joined his camp in the heat of his re-election campaign. In a recent statement in Kaduna, the governor stated that the list of his new cabinet will be forwarded to the state Assembly as soon as the lawmakers return from their recess. In a statement by the state government restructuring the ministries ahead of the cabinet members, where the government abolished three ministries and created new other ones, El-Rufai said: “The list of commissioners nominated to lead these ministries (14 of them) will be forwarded to the Kaduna State House of Assembly as soon as it reconvenes.”   Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu of Lagos is also said to be contending with various interest groups that played a part in his election as he preps to form his cabinet. According to our investigations, it is these various interest groups that have even stalled the appointment of a Chief Press Secretary. So far, only a Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, along with a former Lagos State Head of Service, Mrs. Folashade Sherifat, who is the new the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), and six Permanent Secretaries have been appointed. In Osun State, nine months after occupying office, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola is yet to set up his cabinet primarily due to the fact that his September 22, 2018 victory is still being contested in court.  Although Sunday Telegraph also reliably learnt that like his colleagues, the former Chief of Staff to ex- Governor Rauf Aregbesola is also under pressure to satisfy those that helped him win the election. And in Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa last week surmounted the hurdle of political appointees by forwarding eight nominees as commissioners and members of the state Executive Council.  Also the governor requested for the appointment of 15 Special Advisers in line with session 196, subsection 1, of the constitution of Nigeria. He smartly did it to relive himself of excessive lobbying by politicians and godfathers who want their loyalists to occupy a vantage position in the corridor of power.  His surprise list of appointments, included making his former Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Mr Chiedu Ebie, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), the former Commissioner for Finance, Olorogun David Edevbie, the Chief of Staff and the Director-General of his 2019 Campaign Organization, Hon. Funkekemen Solomon, his Senior Special Political Adviser (SSPA). On the commissioners’ list, the eight nominees include, Chief Patrick Ukah, his immediate past Commissioner for Information, Chief Festus Ochonogor, his former SSPA, Rt Hon Basil Ganagana, a three-time former Deputy Speaker in the state, Mrs Florence Alanta, Chief James Auguoye, Barr Peter Mrakpor, Mr Chika Ossai and Prof Patrick Muoboghare, who were all former commissioners.  The Governor has since returned Mr Charles Aniagwu, as the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) but under a different nomenclature as Senior Media Adviser. However, in Ogun State, rival factions of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state have sharply disagreed over the offer of political appointments by Governor Dapo Abiodun.  While the Chief Adebayo Dayo-led state executive of PDP said his members would work with the governor to engender good governance in the state, the Hon. Sikirulai Ogundeleled group declared that no credible member of the opposition party would show interest in Abiodun’s government. Abiodun, who was elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), had promised to run an inclusive and participatory administration that would incorporate actors of other parties.  The governor had explained that his resolve to work with those who contested the governorship seat with him was aimed at ensuring the state benefit from the collective wisdom, knowledge and passion of all citizens that are in abundance across the state. Sunday Telegraph learnt that notable among parties that could benefit from Abiodun’s gesture include the PDP, African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Social Democratic Party (SDP).