An anti-corruption group based in Bayelsa State, the Credible Leadership For Peace and Development Movement (CLPDM), has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to disregard what it referred to as the ‘coup’ being orchestrated by some politicians to remove the Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Prof. Nelson Brambaifa from office. The group, which pointed accusing fingers at some unnamed political gladiators and enemies of the Niger Delta region, noted that all the recent criticisms and petitions to the antigraft agency, the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) were concocted by the politicians to vilify the NDDC helmsman before President Buhari so as to trigger his none confirmation and removal. The group, in a statement issued yesterday in Yenagoa and signed by its National Coordinator, Comr. Markson Agbana, stated that though the people of the region have resolved to give Professor Brambaifa the support needed to actualise the President Buhari dream in the region, the anti-Niger Delta elements behind the fictitious protests and petitions should stop and allow development in the region. The statement reads in parts: “We are using this medium to send a sound warning to those few selfish politicians, within and outside the APC, particularly in Bayelsa state, who want to rubbish the name of Prof. Brambaifa so that the president may replace him with their own choice of substantive managing director of NDDC to stop the campaign of calumny against him forthwith. “The MD of NDDC has always been rotated among the states of the Niger Delta and it is the time of Bayelsa to produce a substantive MD hence we were happy when a technocrat of no mean repute in the person of Prof. Nelson Brambaifa, a Bayelsan, emerged. “His emergence in a few months has brought rapid transformation and transparent management of the commission in line with the aims and objectives of the NDDC. “Prof Nelson Brambaifa is a Bayelsan and should, therefore, be confirmed substantive M.D. of the NDDC in the spirit of peace, equity, justice and fairness. “We urge president Muhammadu Buhari as a principled leader to avoid being misled by the selfish desires of a few to take actions that are capable of further distabilizing the already volatile Niger Delta region.