As world finance leaders prepare to meet in Japan this weekend, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) yesterday warned that current and threatened U.S.-China tariffs could cause some $455 billion in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to evaporate from the global economy next year. IMF Managing Director, Christine Lagarde, who said this in a blog and briefing note for G20 finance ministers and central bank governors, pointed out that taxing all trade between the two countries, as President Donald Trump has threatened, would slash global economic output by 0.5per cent in 2020. “These are self-inflicted wounds that must be avoided,” Lagarde said in an IMF blog post. “How? By removing the recently implemented trade barriers and by avoiding further barriers in whatever form.” In its Global Economic Prospects report released on Tuesday, the World Bank, citing a slowdown in trade growth to the weakest since the financial crisis a decade ago and a drop in global investment , cut its global growth forecast for this year to 2.6per cent compared with a projection of 2.9per cent it made in January and easing from an estimated 3per cent in 2018. The World Bank, however, forecast that the pace will pick up to 2.7per cent next year. Commenting on the report, World Bank President, David Malpass, said: “There’s been a tumble in business confidence, a deepening slowdown in global trade and sluggish investment in emerging and developing economies. Momentum remains fragile.” The Bank also warned that risks are skewed “firmly” to the downside, citing reignited trade tensions between the U.S. and China, financial turbulence in emerging markets and sharper-than-expected weakness in advanced nations, particularly Europe. “Heightened policy uncertainty, including a recent re-escalation of trade tensions between major economies, has been accompanied by a deceleration in global investment and a decline in confidence,” according to the report. The report also stated that growth among emerging market and developing economies is projected to fall to a four-year low of 4per cent in 2019 before recovering to 4.6per cent in 2020. “A number of economies are coping with the impact of financial stress and political uncertainty. Those drags are anticipated to wane and global trade growth – which is projected to be the weakest in 2019 since the financial crisis a decade ago — is expected to recover somewhat,” the report said. “While almost every economy faces headwinds, the poorest countries face the most daunting challenges because of fragility, geographic isolation, and entrenched poverty,” said World Bank Group Vice President for Equitable Growth, Finance and Institutions, Ceyla Pazarbasioglu. “Unless they can get onto a faster growth trajectory, the goal of lowering extreme poverty under 3 percent by 2030 will remain unreachable.”