 The National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj-Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) yesterday disclosed that the Federal Government will soon proscribe the almajiri system in the country.
Almajiri is a system of Islamic education practiced in northern Nigeria. The term Almajiri, according to Wikipedia, derives from an Arabic word, rendered “al-Muhajirun” in English transliteration, meaning a person who leaves his home in search of Islamic knowledge.
Speaking to State House Correspondents after the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting chaired by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, the NSA explained that it was time for Nigeria to stop playing with the matter of almajiri which is fast becoming a security challenge.
He said the Federal Government is working with the 36 states and countries operating similar systems to promote free and compulsory education in order to end the phenomenon.
“The group I spoke about illiteracy is the almajiri. Ultimately, government will have to proscribe this almajiri phenomenon, because we cannot continue to have street urchins, children roaming around, only for them in a couple of years, or decades to become a problem to society.
“Let’s be very, very sincere to ourselves; we have to look at this issue that we have been sweeping under the carpet. So, when I briefed the NEC, I alerted them on the dangers of this phenomenon and the President, in inaugurating NEC, also stressed that we must make education free and compulsory. We are not trying to denigrate any group of people,” Monguno said.
The NSA said that the decision to proscribe the almajiri system will be taken no matter how people feel about it.
According to him, “We have to deal with the issue of these children, almajiri, regardless of how people feel about it. We must work in sync with the rest of international communities, how many countries that operate this kind of system.
“We are not saying that they are going to be contained in a manner that you might think we want to do something that is harmful to them, no. What we want to do is to work with the state governments to enforce the policy of education for every child. It is every child’s right, his entitlement so long as he is a Nigerian.
“If you recall what happened in the Western Region, I think in the 50s and the 60s, when the Premier made education free and compulsory at both primary and secondary levels, this is what we are looking at.
“Let me tell you something; one of the elements of national power is the population of a country. You don’t just rely on your armed forces, the location and so on and so forth. Population is a very critical element of national power. It is from the population that you get a critical mass.
“Imagine the child that was 10 years old on 27th July, 2009, in 37 days’ time, it will be exactly 10 years when Boko Haram erupted. We are not talking of one child, there are millions of them. So, when we look at population, as an element of National Security, don’t be surprised if out of every 100 almajiri, you have two neurologists, four architects, two lawyers, and so on and so forth.”
Monguno added that: “If you don’t start thinking short and long term, to overcome this problem, like I told you earlier on, to overcome this problem, you require collective efforts. You can’t carry this load and drop it on top of the government, even government should not work as a one legged tripod; it has to be three legged.”
Answering questions on what has happened to the $1 billion withdrawn by the Federal Government in 2017 to tackle insecurity, the NSA denied knowledge of the whereabouts of the funds approved by NEC.
The money was approved in December 2017 following increasing spate of insecurity in the country, especially activities of Boko Haram insurgency, the herdsmen menace, kidnapping, banditry and armed robbery.
Monguno, who coordinates the nation’s security architecture, said the money was meant for the military alone, but said he is not aware if it had been so released.
There has been public outcry and apprehension on whether or not the funds had been released.
According to the NSA, “The $1 billion, I believe that you are talking about, was actually earmarked for the military, not for security agencies, like the intelligence community and the paramilitary agencies.
“It was earmarked for the military. As much as I know, whether it was given to them, I really don’t know,” he said.
Council, at its meeting, also reconstituted an ad hoc committee to reconcile the Excess Crude Account (ECA), Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation’s remittance and related issues.