A new dawn emerged on the horizon of Adamawa State as it emulated some others and launched the state Health Insurance Scheme. This landmark event in the history of the state, which occurred recently in the Government House premises in Yola, was attended by government officials, traditional rulers, development partners, media and other stakeholders in the health sector. The journey towards the epoch-making event began over a year ago with the signing of a contract between the state government and PharmAccess organisation in January 2018. PharmAccess was contracted to lead the technical development process for the state Health Insurance Scheme based on their expertise and experience in supporting other states and governments to establish the scheme. The state had also gone further to request for the commissioning of a State Poverty Identification exercise to adequately determine household eligibility for state-sponsored subsidies, which was also provided by the PharmAccess Foundation. The Adamawa State World Health Organisation (WHO) Coordinator, Pharmacist Iyobosa Igbinovia, in his goodwill message conveyed his joy that this was happening during the present administration and promised that the organisation would continue to support the state to achieve all it has set out to achieve in the health sector. Country Director of PharmAccess Foundation, Mrs. Njide Ndili, in her message, stated that the Health Insurance Scheme was one of the surest ways of achieving UHC and reaching the poorest of the poor of the society as studies have shown. She further expressed her appreciation for the support and cooperation that PharmAccess has enjoyed in the state while providing the technical assistance for the establishment of the scheme.  She solicited for more support, stating that “the journey has begun with great strides and there is still some distance to cover to get to the final destination of providing quality and affordable healthcare for all residents of the state.”  Also speaking at the event, Dr. Olamide Okulaja, the Director of Advocacy and Communications of PharmAccess, expressed optimism that the implementation of the scheme would ensure that all residents of the state irrespective of status would receive quality and affordable healthcare when they need it.  The former Commissioner of Health in Adamawa State, Dr. Fatima Atiku Abubakar, in her remarks noted that, though a Health Insurance Scheme was established in 2011, it went into limbo and had to be revived. The new scheme makes it mandatory for all citizens to participate including the very poor whose premium would be paid by the Adamawa State government. In line with this, the state has set aside N600 million as capitalisation of the health insurance fund in the 2019 Budget and also allocated one per cent of its Consolidated Revenue Fund to pay the premiums of those that cannot pay. On his part, the former Governor of Adamawa State, Senator Muhammadu Jibrilla Umaru Bindow, in his keynote speech, stated that the scheme was the first of its kind in the state and was designed to take healthcare system in the state to the next level. He recognised and acknowledged the tremendous effort of the commissioner of health whom he described as “indefatigable and dogged”.