 Felix Nwaneri reports on how the Not Too Young to Run Law that came into effect ahead of the 2019 general elections has helped open the political space for Nigerian youths as some of them, who seized the opportunity offered by the law, to vie for elective offices are presently presiding their respective state legislatures  There is no doubt that the passage of the Not Too Young To Run Bill by the National Assembly and its signing into law by President Muhammadu Buhari in May 2018, gave most Nigerian youths the opportunity to vie for elective positions during the 2019 general elections.  The bill caused an amendment to sections 65, 106, 131 and 177 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) to reduce the eligibility age of for elective offices across board. Consequently, the eligibility age for the Office of President was lowered from 40 to 35 years, while that for governor and Senate from 35 to 30 years. The law also provides for persons at 25 years to contest for the House of Representative and House of Assembly elections. Prior to this time, the youngest age a person needed to run for elective office in Nigeria was 30 years for the House of Representatives or the state House of Assembly.
Advocates of the rights of young people running for elected office had predicated their campaign then on the belief that young people deserve the same rights to run for offices and that age discrimination is a hindrance to youths’ participation in the democratic process. It was further argued that today’s generation of young people is the largest the world has ever known as half of global population is under 30, yet 73 per cent of countries restrict young people from running for offices even though they can vote. Besides these arguments, growing discontent for old politicians, which seems to be driving the wave of youthful energy across the world, and perhaps, explains why some countries recently elected leaders under the age of 40, spurred the feeling among several Nigerian youths that new approaches are needed to solve the country’s problems. The youths, who insisted that less emphasis should be put on age and experience, cited examples of 31-year-old Sebastian Kurz, who was elected to power in Austria after serving as the country’s youngest-ever foreign minister and hosted negotiations on the 2015 Iran nuclear deal. Other examples cited were Ireland’s Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, who before Kurz was Europe’s youngest leader, as well as Emanuel Macron, France’s youngest ever president elected at the age of 39. Besides the influence of this generational power shift, the rise in use of social media, which has changed the dynamics of politics and made it less predictable, equally contributed to the renewed interest in and enthusiasm for politics among Nigerian youths. Added to these was the call by personalities like former President Olusegun Obasanjo and a former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Chief Olisa Agbakoba, ahead of the polls for the opening of the political space for youths’ participation. The legal luminary had in a letter to Obasanjo, entitled: “Nigeria needs a generational shift in political leadership,” raised concern over the quality of leadership in Nigeria. He said that Nigeria’s situation is due to failure of leadership, adding that country has been “held back by crop of leadership that has outlived usefulness and effectiveness as a result of old age.” He went further to say that Obasanjo ruled Nigeria at 39, and that Nnamdi Azikiwe, Obafemi Awolowo and Ahmadu Bello were 40, 43 and 40 respectively, when they began active roles as pioneers of Nigeria’s political history. He also reminded Obasanjo that Odimegwu Ojukwu and Yakubu Gowan were in their 30s, when they took centre stage in Nigerian politics and therefore urged him to intervene in the political situation of Nigeria to see that a younger Nigerian could also be president. Obasanjo in his reply entitled: “Re: Nigeria needs a generational shift in political leadership,” called on the younger generation to organise themselves around positive core values, become ideological in the sense of nationalism and patriotism in their quest for a generational shift in political leadership of the country. His response read in part: “It is sad that the successor generation of Nigerians have in most cases resorted to work avoidance in the quest for leadership. Most members of the younger generation of Nigerians are mostly contended with waiting for dead men’s shoes and are unwilling to beat alternative past leadership. In such a situation, it is to be expected and actually it is human that those with some head start in life will not concede such advantages freely and based on their innate goodness. “The world as I know it, is powered by shrewd hard-headed calculating individuals and the cornucopia of their mercy is decidedly thin and it is unlike God’s rain that falls on the just and the wicked alike. The point to ponder is how has the successor generation positioned themselves to lead?” On what the younger generation needs to do, he advised: “Let the younger people organise themselves around positive core values. Let them become ideological in the sense of nationalism and patriotism in this struggle. “This is democracy. Politics is a game of numbers. At the end of the day, the youth are in the majority. What is the excuse? So, long as the older generation do not have the incentive to step down, for so long will they continue to reinvent and reappoint and resurface.”   Apparently heeding to Obasanjo’s call, a number of youths declared interest in the 2019 presidency.  They were Ahmed Buhari (39), Chris Emejuru (35), Adamu Garba (35), Fela Durotoye (46) and Eniola Ojajuni (39), among others. While none of them was able to make it to the villa as 76-year-old President Muhammadu Buhari was re-elected, majority of the youth who opted for “lesser” positions such as seats in the state Houses of Assembly realised their ambitions and more interestingly, a handful have emerged as speakers of some of the state legislative houses.  Among these youths, who will pilot affairs of their respective states House of Assembly are   Aminu Shagali (39 – Kaduna), Abok Izam (33 – Plateau), Adebo Ogundoyin (32 – Oyo), Nasiru Magarya (31- Zamfara), Chinedu Orji (44 – Abia), Yakubu Danladi (34 – Kwara) and Aniekan Bassey (41 – Akwa Ibom).  Aminu Shagali The 39-year-old Shagali, who represents Sabon Gari State Constituency of Kaduna State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), was re-elected speaker of the state House of Assembly.  Shagali has been a member of the Kaduna Assembly since 2011 and held many key positions including Deputy Minority Leader; chairman, Committee on Science and Technology; Deputy Chairman, Committee on Hajj and Islamic affairs and deputy chairman, Committee on Economic Planning before he was first elected speaker of the fifth state Assembly in 2015.   He enjoys the support of Governor Nasir el-Rufai, who has severally described him as a dedicated, loyal and committed lawmaker that supported his administration in its first term to deliver good governance in the state.  Born on February 13, 1980, Shagali attended Bako Zuntu Nursery and Primary School, Zaria (1986- 1993); Federal Government College, Daura, Katsina State (1993-1999) and Kaduna State Polytechnic, Zaria (now Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic). He later studied Political Science at Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, and completed a master’s degree in public administration at Ahmadu Bello University Zaria in 2008. He also holds a PhD in Rural Development of the University of Bakhtalruda, Sudan.  Abok Izam  The 33-year-old final year Law student of the University of Jos, shocked many political watchers, when he emerged speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly last week. Izam, who represents Jos East State Constituency and was elected on the platform of the APC, in his inaugural speech, thanked his colleagues for their support and promised not to fail them.  He assured them that his leadership would not discriminate against anyone either on the basis of tribe, religion, gender or political difference. “As Speaker of this noble Assembly, I promise to serve with the fear of God, high sense of responsibility and humility,” he said.  Adebo Ogundoyin  To pilot affairs of the 9th Oyo State House of Assembly as speaker for the next four years is 32-year-old Adebo Ogundoyin, who represents Ibarapa East State Constituency on the platform of the ruling PDP in the state. Ogundoyin, who holds a degree in Agronomy from Babcock University, Ilishan Remo, Ogun State, emerged unopposed with the unanimous voice vote of the 32 member- Assembly.  He was first elected to the state Assembly in 2018 after he won the by-election to replace the then speaker, Michael Adeyemo, who died in April of the same year. His father, late Chief Adeseun Ogundoyin, was a foremost philanthropist and industrialist.  Nasiru Magarya  The 31-year-old, who represents Zurmi State Constituency of Zamfara State was given the nod to lead the state Assembly by his colleagues against political calculations prior to the inauguration of the House. All the 23 members of the House elected on the platform of the PDP and their National Rescue Movement colleague, unanimously endorsed Magarya as speaker.  The election witnessed by Governor Bello Mutawalle; his deputy, Mahdi Gusau; chairman of the state chapter of the PDP, Alhaji Ibrahim Mallaha and a former deputy governor of the state, Ibrahim Wakkala, among others.  Chinedum Orji  The first son of a former governor of Abia State and senator representing Abia Central Senatorial District, Theodore Orji, joined the ranks of youths to preside their respective state legislatures, when he emerged as speaker of the 7th Abia State House of Assembly on Monday last week.  The 44-year-old, who is engineer, was the majority leader in the 6th Assembly and he represents Umuahia Central State Constituency. In his acceptance speech, Orji assured his colleagues of providing good leadership. “This 7th Abia State House of Assembly shall be vibrant and result-oriented.  We are the House of the people, by the people and for the people and we shall endeavour to make the people the centre-point of all our actions and decisions. We are therefore committed to the enactment of sound laws and legislation that will help in uplifting the lives and well-being of Ndi Abia.  “This 7th House shall provide very sound and strong oversight functions, signifying that the era of disobeying laws and resolutions passed by the Abia State House of Assembly is over. Similarly, the era of the non-implementation of the directives and visions of the executive, headed by our governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu is now over. Appropriate sanctions will be meted out to any official of the Abia State government found not to be helping our governor to actualize his visions for Abia State.”  Yakubu Danladi  In Kwara State, where most politicians of the old order were swept away in the general elections, 34-year-old Yakubu Danladi, emerged as speaker of the state House of Assembly. Danladi is a first-time member of the House and he represents Ilesha-Gwanara state constituency. He was elected speaker of the 9th Kwara State Assembly through consensus. The new Speaker in his inaugural speech said the new lawmakers would justify the confidence reposed in them by the electorate and have robust cooperation with the executive.  He also promised that the state Assembly will work towards bringing government closer to the citizenry, ensure delivery of dividends of democracy and initiate peopleoriented projects.  Born on 31 May 1985 in Gwanara, Baruten Local Government Area of the state, Danladi attended BLGEA Primary School, Gwanara between 1988 and 1993. He proceeded to St Anthony’s Secondary School Ilorin for his secondary education, where he obtained he sat for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) in 2001. He later attended Kaduna Polytechnic (2003-2008), where he obtained National Diploma and Higher National Diploma in Electrical/ Electrical Engineering.  He later earned a B.Eng in Electrical/ Electronics Engineering from Federal University of Technology Minna in 2016. He served at National Water Resources Institute Kaduna during his one year compulsory National Service. He was a staff of Federal University of Technology Minna from 2010 till he voluntarily withdrew from service in 2018.  Aniekan Bassey MEMBER representing Uruan State constituency, Aniekan Bassey, has emerged Speaker of the 7th Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly.  T he emergence of Bassey, who is a returning member as speaker of the 7th Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly followed the unanimous decision of members of the House as there was no objection to his nomination. Bassey represents Uruan State Constituency of the oil-rich state and is said to enjoy the support of Governor Udom Emmanuel. In his acceptance speech, the new speaker thanked his colleagues for finding him worthy to lead them.  He assured them that he would provide excellent leadership and harmonious relationship throughout his tenure. “Today marks the beginning of a new dawn as both returning and newly elected members reposed confidence in me by choosing me as speaker of this House.  “It is indeed the first time Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly spoke with one voice and I thank you all for finding me worthy to be the leader of the 7th Akwa Ibom Assembly. Let me assure my colleagues and Akwa Ibom people that I will not take the responsibility placed in me for granted.  Let it be known that we all belong together, we all need each other in making sacrifice for the common good of the people.” Bassey, who holds degrees in Chemistry and Sociology/Anthropology from the University of Uyo, has earlier held positions such as Deputy Leader of the House; chairman, House Services Committee; chairman, House Committee on Science and Technology.