 Ex-international, Garba Lawal, has charged the Super Eagles to go for total victory against Burundi in their Africa Cup of Nations opening match on Saturday, June 22.
Speaking with New Telegraph, Lawal said a win in that game would give the team so much confidence going forward at the championship
According to him, Eagles have to take the matches one after the other and go all the way to the final as the expectation of Nigerians back at home is for them to win the trophy.
While lamenting the results of the last two matches played by the team against Zimbabwe and Senegal, the former JC Roda star said they should forget about the games and forge ahead.
“Football is not just mathematics, we are going for the biggest tournament in Africa which all the players want to be part of,” he said.
“It is frustrating as a coach and also as players because I don’t think they will want to go for a game without a win, they really want to win those two games against Zimbabwe and Senegal, however, they have to forget about the result.
“To excel at a major tournament, it’s all about attitude, they have to change their attitude to games. I urge the coach to tell the players to change their attitudes to game and I believe he will do that.
“He saw the two games and personally I feel the results is not good for us especially the confidence of the players going to Egypt. If they want to go far in this tournament, they have to step up their game, which is very important.
“It is not about my expectation alone (his expectation on the first game), but that of all Nigerians, if the Super Eagles is playing Brazil tomorrow, Nigerians will want them to win the game, we always have trust and we have the players and the talent to achieve success in Egypt.
“A win in the first game will give them a lot of confidence and they will look forward to victory in the next game and so on till they get to the final. The first game is very important to their aspiration in Egypt.
“As a Nigerian, I will want them to go as far as the final and win the trophy; all Nigerians want them to win the trophy. It is our wish for them to win the AFCON.”