…says Obasanjo knew about June 12 election annulment  Amb. Baba Gana Kingibe was running mate to the candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Chief MKO Abiola. In this interview with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), speaks on the poll’s annulment and the consequences, the electoral process and why Nigeria should return to Option A4, among other issues. Wale Elegbede brings the excerpts   Were you surprised about a year ago, when suddenly there was some recognition for June 12 and as it was declared Democracy Day? In a way, yes, I was surprised more by the timing of it than that it happened. I was actually on the lesser Hajj in Saudi Arabia, when the announcement was made. I was not surprised that it was made because I knew that President Muhammadu Buhari felt strongly about June 12. In the aftermath of the annulment, one of the architects of the annulment, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, tried to get some elder statesmen (former presidents and so on); I think at the African Leadership Forum to see how the aftermath of the annulment could be addressed or to see how the problems arising from the annulment could be addressed. And I think President Buhari did attend the meeting once, the inaugural meeting. I understood that when he (Buhari) saw the direction of the meeting, he decided not to attend again. Every time the issue of the annulment came up over the years, his position was very clear; it was very firm that the election was free, fair and there was a clear winner. And that the annulment was unjustified. So, having had the opportunity, perhaps, to right the wrong, I won’t be surprised he did so because it is in his character to try and do justice, however, belated and under whatever the circumstances.  There are many versions of what happened and what didn’t happen. Some people claimed to be champions of June 12, others were said not to be champions. Your position as the vice presidential candidate was seen as key to what was termed then as June 12 struggle. It took just a little time before some said you abandoned the struggle. Did you really abandon the cause? You know, June 12 was the creation of all Nigerians. I really think that it will not be fair to history and to millions of Nigerians, who participated in the very unique political process that culminated on June 12. All Nigerians were actors of June 12. Like in all endeavours, there is one who is always the leader and one can never diminish the role of Chief MKO Abiola in the final stages of this long political journey of democracy; in being the leadership, the arrowhead, the symbol of that struggle for democracy. I think we are now going to celebrate the first of the June 12 being a Democracy Day. It is an opportunity to recall all the positive takeaways of the June 12 experience, what it represented and how we can learn lessons for the future. I don’t think it as an occasion for recriminations, who betrayed who, abandoned what. The whole process leading to June 12 was a unique experience in the Nigerian political journey towards democracy. The facts of June 12, the elections that took place on that day, were unique. We have held many elections but the elections of June 12 were unique. The annulment of the elections was unique in the life of all Nigerians and being unique and novel, I think everybody reacted accordingly to their understanding of what reaction was required. I do not think that we have the time to go through who played what role and who did what on this occasion. All I said, let us celebrate the event of June 12 and let’s celebrate as Nigerians, let us imbibe what everybody imbibes and we move on.  Would that be the reason why all these years, you haven’t spoken out, specifically about June 12 and the issues about it? Indeed, I never. This is the first time that I am addressing the issue. Sometimes, I am bemused; I am saddened, perhaps sometimes I am not surprised by the comments that people were making about June 12; the claims on June 12, those who stood on June 12 and so on. I know every detail of what happened and there is no way that one can tell the truth about June 12 without perhaps diminishing some people’s roles; without taking away from the significance and the solemnity of that date. I have actually recorded my recollections of those days and those events. I hope that I will have the opportunity to air my recording one day. It is in video recording, not an audio recording. Suffice it to say that there are many ways of pursuing a goal. To me, the immediate goal was to make sure that the annulment did not stand; that I had a very strong opinion about. Don’t forget, from the annulment and the enthronement of Interim National Government (ING), there were 82 to 84 days or so. During those days, we all worked together to make sure that the ING did not stand. And it did not stand. Thereafter, we all had our reflections collectively and individually as to the way forward, and we moved on,  Let us talk about the positive takeaways you spoke about earlier. Many Nigerians think that it was unique in a way such that for the very first time, had a Muslim-Muslim ticket for the presidency and that didn’t in any way affect the voting pattern? Yes, indeed. And this is one of the regrettable phenomena to observe at this period. In many ways, religion has now taken centre stage as one of our major spotlights in our political actions. Let me go back, June 12, as I said, was a culmination of our political process, the so-called transition process of General Ibrahim Babangida. He created the two-party system, not only did he create them, he gave them their constitutions and manifestos, which was referred to then as a little to the right and a little to the left. I should say that in the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in particular and to the National Republican Convention (NRC) too, we tried to make something out of that contraption. In the SDP, we tried to give ideological content to what is called a little to the left and the NRC also did. We worked on the basis of our vision for the society; what kind of society we wanted to see, what kind of democratic governance we wanted to see as well. This exercise was not restricted to active politicians – the leaders of the parties and so on – all Nigerians had ideas of how we should be governed, how the economy should be organised, how the society should be run. In those debates that went on, there was no question of religion, tribe or region involve at all. In fact, it was the most thoroughly edified process to participate in. It was enjoyable; we were all addressing the issues, not the persons. Those of us who worked in the election worked as a band of brothers. We enjoyed each other’s company and we enjoyed the debate and the challenges. I recall with nostalgia that we will be on the campaigns and we would be on Radio and Television arguing against the idea of the other party. Often, in the evenings, Chief Tom Ikimi, who was my opposite number of the NRC, would get in touch. Sometimes, we would invite each other for dinner; sometimes we will just go out, sit down, have tea together and discuss broad national issues without sentiment. This is something that I missed. The most potent and dangerous is this religious divide. A few people, who had no idea or personal experience of where we were coming from, who now find themselves at the pulpits of the churches or the mosques, are heating up the polity and have brought up this emotive issue of religion, tribe, northerner, southerner, Fulani, Yoruba, and others. These were issues that were of no relevance in the political process that led to June 12 and it’s a pity that we have not learnt that lesson.  So, were you pained when it became obvious during the June 12 actualisation struggle that certain Nigerians, some of them, highly placed, began to introduce ethnic colouration into the struggle? Was it some Nigerians? I think by the time the regime of President Babangida annulled the election and they saw the reactions, obviously, they have to find a kind of counter-response and part of their strategy was to isolate the struggle for June 12 and the outcry against the annulment as a tribal thing. That it is the Yoruba who are the agitators and that the annulment didn’t concern the rest of Nigerians. Of course, that was rubbish. Unfortunately, they were successful in hiring enough spokesmen in the North and the East to perpetuate the myth that June 12 was a Yoruba affair. I guess it was a strategy, which under the circumstances they could use, but it was false and didn’t hold. It wasn’t the Nigerian people who introduced ethnicity, it was the regime of President Babangida in trying to justify their action that introduced the ethnic perspective to the June 12 struggle.   Many years after, the administration of President Buhari decided to make June 12 the country’s Democracy Day, honoured some of the key actors, who were involved    in the struggle. But some said it fell short of saying, indeed MKO Abiola was the president of Nigeria and you were vice president. Some people say the government should have gone the whole hog and say Abiola was president and you were vice president. How would you react to that?  That was one way of looking at it, and then, so what? I think it was very courageous and good of President Buhari to actually recognize June 12 for what is was. The rest is detail. To say Chief MKO Abiola was the winner and then what happens? You can’t bring him back from the dead.  He sacrificed his life for the struggle and it’s so many years after we lost him. We’ve had several elections since then. You know, sometimes you don’t have to articulate issues, it’s clear by that recognition; it’s implied that Chief MKO Abiola won that election. If he didn’t win, what would be the point of recognizing June 12 as Democracy Day?  There is the little technical matter of the results were not officially conclusively announced. It’s a small point, we all had the results. It was Option A4, the result was announced at every polling unit, everybody knew the result.  But if one wants to be technical, nobody had the power to announce the results except the National Electoral Commission of Prof. Humphrey Nwosu and he didn’t conclude the process. It’s an argument, but I think short of actually saying so, President Buhari did acknowledge and he did apologize to the family of Chief MKO Abiola and to Nigerians for the travesty that was done in annulling the elections. I think some things are best said loudly without saying anything at all.   The SDP and NRC were the two parties during that process and you started as the chairman of the SDP before you later became the running mate to Chief MKO Abiola. There are people saying today that perhaps it is better to have a two-party system and that if that system had been allowed to stand, we would have had something close to a two-party system against over 90 political parties at the last general elections. What do you think about that?  I think the two-party system worked well. I wish that the system was allowed to mature. General Sani Abacha should have allowed the parties to survive after the annulment of the election and try to see if they can organise fresh elections or whatever.  If they had kept the party system going, they would have matured as we had in the United States, where there are essentially two parties though there are some mushroom parties. But of course, that couldn’t be done. It wasn’t the intention of Abacha to hold elections or whatever, so the parties had to be sacrificed. But eventually, even now, gradually politics is gravitating towards two major political parties. I hope this process could be consolidated and it is within that framework that we would have greater unity of purpose.  It is within that framework that, perhaps, some of our fog lights can be diminished, whether religion, tribal or regional. I hope that the zoning practice, which both parties do and which is assumed to be the normal thing, but has no legal basis will eventually be jettisoned. We need to get to a point in Nigeria, where we look for who is the best to deliver and not where one comes from. We will get there, but we need to nurture the evolution of what will inevitably end up as two major political parties.  Do you think it makes sense to adopt a system like Option A4 given the state of violence, ballotbox snatching, and other things that we see?  I want to ask a question; what is the purpose of elections? Elections are meant to throw up candidates from who the people will elect those to lead them. We want that to be done freely and transparently. The next question is: What is the best way of ensuring that this comes to fruition in a complicated and complex country like Nigeria? People have been talking about electronic voting and so on. Even countries that invented electronic voting, they don’t use it for the conduct of their elections.  There are many methods used for elections and in some countries, it takes weeks for elections to be concluded. In India, they have just recently concluded their elections; it took weeks before the results came out. There is no particular merit in any particular form of throwing up who the people want as their leaders. It is what we want for any given any society. In Nigeria, I believe the Option A4 is the best option and it has nothing to do with being primitive or not, as I said even those who invented the technology and e-voting are not using it.  But that doesn’t mean that they are not advanced. I hope we would get back to Option A4. One of the beauties of Option A4 is that it takes place in a particular polling unit; everybody knows everybody. It’s a very small unit and they already know what is happening in their unit and they know the proof of the strength of the various contenders and parties in that unit. So, if a particular person polls the highest number of votes, there is no surprise and we won’t have any crisis.  But people in that unit only know what happened in their unit, they won’t know what is happening in hundreds of thousand units across the country. So, they would not be able to conclude that our person lost or won. They will wait, but they have the result of their unit and their party agents will collect the result and send to their headquarters. The Police, Department of State Services (DSS) and other security agencies will have the result. The electoral officials will also have it. There are so many layers of verification in the system that there is no way where some officials of the Independent National Commission (INEC) will sit in Abuja and change the results.  That was the beauty of June 12, 1993. We knew the results, the only way, I supposed, the regime of President Babangida could have done it is the way they did it, annulling the election. But they couldn’t have gone on and announce a different result from that which obtained. Yes, I am for option A4, there is nothing uncivilized about it. What is important is: What is the objective of the election?  Politicians and electoral supervisory bodies are always at loggerheads during elections. When a party wins, the process is free and fair. But when they lose, it will say the electoral body is playing the script of the party in power. What is the way out of this? The electoral umpire is the facilitator of the process in the first place and it has the right to announce the result of the election, nobody else can announce it. The umpire is working within a legal framework, which politicians and voters don’t necessarily understand. All these would be eliminated if they are just there as facilitators; they provide the logistics and so on, add up all the figures everybody has after an option A4 process, there will be no problem of on whose side the electoral umpire is. Option A4 process takes the electoral process back to the people, it gives the control of that process to the people at the polling units and not at the Abuja level.  You’ve served Nigeria in different capacities and you can rightly be described as an elder statesman. Is Nigeria an impossible country to administer? No! I think Nigerians are the easiest people to administer. All Nigerians want from their leaders is first, communication.  They want their leaders to connect with them, identify with them in their struggles, aspirations, and others. Nigerian people are patient and there is no country on earth, I believe, that can survive as we do with the type of challenges that we have been facing over time.  We are patient people and tolerant people. We are fair-minded people; we know what is possible and not possible; what is right and what is wrong. All we want is for our leaders to adopt the attitude of do as I do and not do as I say.  If they see that their leaders themselves are struggling just as they are and that they are facing the same issues and same problems, Nigerians are easy to administer, in fact, very helpful. They can even help the government to better administer the country once they are carried on board. Our people need to be connected with, they need to communicate to. We are very nice people.   Sometimes, you describe yourself as a retired politician. Have you really retired from politics?  Let’s put it ‘No.’ Politics is in everybody’s blood. When I say I’m a retired politician, I mean I’m no longer seeking an elective office. Of course, I have my views and aspiration for Nigeria and Nigerians; I cannot just be aloof from the political process, so to speak. I’m not running for any office, I operate with other people to bring about the kind of society we wish.  What is your greatest satisfaction of June 12?  The conferment of honors and all that is appreciated, but they are just consequential and not very important. I think my satisfaction is that it was something some of us laboured for; we worked to bring about June 12. It required a lot of planning, campaigns, and strategies, which took us to almost all the local governments in this country. We connected and communicated with people and we saw their reactions to us. Orchestrating all these and culminating on election day and coming out victorious; forget about the technicalities of the official announcement, we were victorious.  That was a wonderful journey and experience, and I savour and cherish it all my life. My regret, frankly, is that we were not able to actualise it. Many people didn’t know Chief MKO Abiola well. They had some idea of Chief Abiola as a rich man in politics. They didn’t know the man Abiola and what he stood for.  I knew him well. I knew him before we joined forces in politics and we worked together for the elections and thereafter. You see, it is Nigeria’s loss that we never had a President Abiola in power. Abiola had great passion, idea, aspirations, and visions for Nigeria and Nigerians drawing from his background of so to speak ‘grass to grace.’ I regret this for my country and my people that we will not be where we are if given the chance to change the trajectory of our country. I regret that, but we move on.  