Dr. Kunle Olajide, an elder statesman, is the Secretary of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term in office, battle for 2023 presidency between the North and South, true federalism and insecurity, among other issues  President Muhammadu Buhari was recently sworn-in for a second term in office, what are your expectations from him?
My expectation is derived from his pronouncement, when he received an award about four weeks ago. He publicly declared that at this juncture of our democratic journey, we need true federalism in Nigeria. So, for me, he has set an agenda for himself. Therefore, my expectation is that once he is sworn-in or perhaps on Democracy Day, he must give us the agenda towards achieving true federalism during this four years tenure.
I can assure you that once he rolls out the agenda for the necessary constitutional amendment, the necessary steps to be taken and so on, most of our problems would at least be reduced if not completely eliminated. It is the unitary system of government currently in operation in the guise of a federal system that is the greatest ill of our country. What are the specific areas you think President Buhari should focus more in his second term?
Number one is achieving true federalism; that to me is a major agenda. The second agenda is tacking the insecurity challenges all over the country; no part of the country is exempted now. There is no peace in the North Central, none in the North-East, North-West, South-West, South-South and South-East. So, for me, true federalism and security are the two major issues.
Then the economy; because there is no way you can have a secured country if you have teeming youths, who are unemployed, particularly unemployed graduates and so on. So, these are the problems. He must look at the economy frontally. He must tackle the security challenges and pursue the true federalism agenda with vigour. Among the concerns of many Nigerians is that of those who are going to serve in President Buhari’s new cabinet. What are your expectations in term of who should make the ministerial list?
He has spent his first term of four years and by now I believe sincerely that he knows Nigeria much more than he did four years ago and he has to be able to select competent and knowledgeable Nigerians who are respected by Nigerian people because that is very important. They must be respected by their people; their people must have access to them. They must understand the country, understand the issues and then share the vision of Mr. President.
When you bring people who do not share your vision into your cabinet, you will not achieve results. When you bring next to strangers to Nigeria’s political arena into the cabinet, you hardly will achieve anything. So, this time around, I am sure he must know enough of the country to be able to be able to pick people, who are respected by their constituencies. They must be experts in the various ministries he wants to assign them to. May 29 marked 20 years of unbroken civilian administration in Nigeria. What is your take on that?
We, Nigerians must congratulate ourselves for 20 years of unbroken journey. It is the longest that we have had since independence. We have made some progress, but we ought to have done better than we are doing. When you look at the poverty level and the dysfunctional educational system, then you will begin to appreciate the problems of this country.
When youths are barely educated; you have over 11 million out of school children in the knowledge era and most of those who graduated from universities are unemployable. When you interview them, you will know the problem that we have. The educational system is very dysfunctional and this is why we have not made much progress even in our democratic experiment.
You need the people because people are very central to democracy. When you have unenlightened people, massive ignorance, persuasive poverty and unemployed youths, democracy cannot progress as it ought to. And this is why you have the new phenomenon of vote-buying; people do not appreciate the importance of their votes. So, when you have such, then you know you are in trouble. What do you think is responsible for some of the issues you raised?
It is definitely leadership because the government does not appear to have addressed the basic roots of our problem. It is leadership. For example, by now, I imagine that education should have been made compulsory and free, at least, at Junior Secondary School (JSS) level all over the country; qualitative education, not quantitative education. Then you ought to have technical schools and vocational schools and so on. But we haven’t seen any of this. Universities are deteriorating, they are very poorly funded. So, that is what is responsible for what we are going through now. Some of the issues you raised are not new considering how the issues have been brought to the front burner in the past without any solution. How do you feel about this?
Out of the problems of our political system and system of governance is the fact that you have wrong people in right places. A lot of people are in politics in Nigeria today not because they are service oriented, but they see it as big business and shortest route to money. That is why they are there. So, they don’t have the natural fear for serving their people. Political office holders appear very flamboyant, opulence with so much money. So, people go into political offices not because they want to serve, but because they believe it is an investment. You invest and you get your profit within a short time. Four years to 2023, the battle over who to succeed President Buhari has already started with the North and South scheming to produce the next president. What is your take on this?
My belief is that if Mr. President is very sincere about achieving true federalism, the presidency will become less attractive. If he succeeds in achieving true federalism in his second term, presidency will be less attractive because as it is, too much power is concentrated in the hands of the president; he is virtually the Alpha and Omega of the country, he dictates the pace and everything. But, the moment we devolve power and the federating units get stronger, there would be less attention to the presidency. For me, my priority is true federalism rather than presidency. How do you see the agitation for the 2023 presidency between the North and South four years ahead of the next general elections?
I think it is clear, if Buhari does eight years, the presidency must be back to the South. But, in a democracy, people are free to say whatever they think; it is on the basis of that that we have been operating. But, some northern political leaders are insisting that power should remain in their region after Buhari for them to be at par with the South, which has occupied the presidency for 14 years in the present Fourth Republic…
I don’t think that is tenable. It is not tenable because it was the death of former President Umaru Yar’Adua that caused that. So, for us, it is eight years North, eight years South. That is not debatable any more. Do you actually see the South producing the next president in 2023?
I see the South producing the president in 2023. Absolutely, anybody who believes in the future of Nigeria and wants the country to continue to grow from strength to strength must know that the presidency must come to the South. Even the issue of the South producing the presidency is between the South-West and South-East. How would that be resolved?
They are both in the South, so either of them or even South-South can produce the president not minding the fact that Goodluck Jonathan from the South-South has done six years. So, any part of the South can produce the presidency, but definitely not the North. Don’t you think the South-West should be given another chance in 2023?
South-West must work towards it by wooing the South-South and South-East to support it. It should equally woo the North too. The presidency of the country is not something that you get on a platter of gold. You don’t just say it is your right. If you want it, then you must work positively and assiduously towards getting it. Do you see the South beating the North to the presidency in 2023 considering population and other factors?
When we talk in terms of population, why not? I don’t see any reason why South cannot beat the North. I am sure we have very reasonable people in the North, who will not be party to this idea of disrupting the balance that we have been operating. In a few days’ time, the leadership of the 9th National Assembly will emerge. What is your take on the tussle for the Senate presidency and speakership of the House of Representatives among All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmakers-elect?
The constitution expressly stated that members of the two houses of the National Assembly will chose their leaders. So, I think it is the responsibility of the members of the Senate and the House of Representatives to choose their leaders. To me, there should be less interference in the process. I think the majority party took a wrong decision, when over two months ago, it publicly announced its preferred candidates for leadership positions of the two chambers. I think that was a major error. Why do you think it was major error?
It was a major error because one, it was not its duty. It should have been very quiet about it without bringing it to the public. That was a major mistake. You don’t give the impression that you want a rubber stamp legislature. The moment you give that impression, there would be some legislators who will reject it. And in any case, it will not augur well for the success of the government. Do you think zoning should be put into consideration in the election of leaders of the National Assembly?
I think so. Federal Character is a very important clause in our constitution and it is something that ought to be respected. Zoning must be considered, there is no doubt about that. We don’t want to over concentrate power in a particular part of the country. Let every parts of the country have a sense of belonging both in the executive and in the legislature as well. The House Leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, who is from South-West, has been endorsed by the APC national leadership for the speakership of the House of Representatives. Do you think his aspiration should be supported by the South-West?
I believe it should be the responsibility of members of the House of Representatives. Gbajabiamila is fully qualified to aspire for that office. He has been long in the chambers and he is very experienced and level-headed. But then, the choice of who will be the Speaker rest squarely on the shoulders of the members of the House of Representatives irrespective of what anybody thinks. Three newly elected governors in the South-West were sworn-in on May 29 in Oyo, Lagos and Ogun states to join other three governors in Osun, Ondo and Ekiti to run affairs of their respective states. As the Secretary of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), what is your advice and expectations from them?
Yoruba Council of Elders expects them to continue to promote regional integration. They must continue to fund the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) programme. They must continue to collaborate, particularly on security of the Yoruba nation. That should be there topmost priority. They must also work towards economic integration and even infrastructural development. So, for us, it is regional integration that is very key and pertinent in our mind. So, the new governors must address the security challenges along with their colleagues who are already in office. What is your message to Nigerians as they celebrate 20 years of unbroken civil rule?
My advice would be more for the media. There is a lot of informing, educating and entertaining roles the Nigeria media must have to do. Political consciousness must be raised beyond the level it is now. People must be made to realised the value and importance of their votes, so that they don’t keep selling them for N5,000, N10,000 and so on, selling the future of their children and their own future.
The media also has a lot to do in informing people about the activities of government. The government is there to serve the people. They are not supposed to be masters; they are supposed to be servants of the people. So, the media must keep reminding the government about its roles to the people as well as keep reminding the people about their expectations from the government.
Four years is a short time and in another three and half years now, politicians will come back asking for votes. So, the media should hold the leadership to their campaign promises and ensure that they fulfill their promises. What about your advice to politicians and public office holders?
My advice to politicians is that they must play the game according to the rules and they must appreciate the fact that politics is meant to serve the people. So, they should not see it as a do-or-die affair. I am sure the moment we raise the awareness of the people, the quality of representatives we will have in the legislature and even in government will begin to improve.
Presently, people buy votes and people who are less qualified to go to the National Assembly are going to Senate. You hear the names of some characters going into the Senate and you begin to wonder what they are going to do there. But, they just bought their way through. Once awareness increases, people will collect their money and they won’t vote for them because they know they will have little or nothing to contribute to debate or value to add.