 Following their failure to embrace the Group Life insurance under the Compulsory Insurance law, 35 out of the 36 state governors may have tactically exposed their workers to various risks without adequate compensation in the event of catastrophe.
Findings by New Telegraph revealed that apart from failure of state chief executive officers to fully sign into the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), they have also failed to insure their workers, a situation that would deny them and families members the actual compensation in the case of disability or death while still in employment.
According to provisions in the Pension Reform Act 2014, states are expected to enact laws on CPS, establish pension administrative structure, register employees with the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) of choice in line with the provision of state law, commence remittance of pension contributions as well as purchase group life insurance cover for employees.
In the current dispensation, however, and according to the first quarter report by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), only Kaduna State out of the 36 states has achieved a full compliance with the Act.
The commission revealed that in compliance with the law, the state amended the state’s law on CPS in 2016, established a pension bureau, registered employees with PFAs while remittance of pension contributions is regular and up to date.
Other areas of compliance include actuarial valuation, Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption, Fund Account (RBBRFA) opened with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), funding of accrued pension rights account consistently with five per cent of total monthly wage bill as well as valid Group Life Insurance cover for civil servants.
Recall that this newspaper had revealed that at least 10 newly elected governors would have to battle huge pension liabilities left behind by the predecessors.
Although majority of the states had shown unwavering interest in CPS, findings revealed that only 24 states have actually enacted laws on the scheme, which are substantially in tandem with the provisions of the PRA 2014, while six other states including Kwara, Benue, Plateau, Cross River, Borno and Akwa-Ibom have drafted bills and are currently undergoing the legislative processes towards their passage into laws.
The states are, however, yet to remit a dime to PFAs on behalf of the civil servants, contrary to full scale implementation by only five states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
The 11 new governors that are joining the fray to battle the process as they assumed office in May include that of Borno, Babagana Zulum; Gombe, Inuwa Yahaya; Imo, Emeka Ihedioha; Kwara, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, and Nasarawa, Abdulahi Sule.
Others are Niger, Abubakar Bello; Ogun, Dapo Abiodun; Oyo, Seyi Makinde; Yobe, Mai Mala Buni; Zamfara, Muktar Idris, and Bauchi, Bala Mohammed.
A document obtained from the National Pension Commission (PenCom) by this newspaper revealed that out of the 24 states with pension laws on CPS, only five – Lagos, Kaduna, Ondo, Edo, Ekiti, Anambra local government and the FCT are currently remitting both the employer and employee pension contributions of their employees while four states namely Zamfara, Kebbi, Rivers and Anambra remit only employee portions of pension contributions of either the state or local government employees.
The CPS is pursuant to the enactment of the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014, which mandated the participation of employees of the public service of the FCT, states and local governments as well as the private sector in CPS.
To ensure full participation, PenCom had consistently been engaging various state governments, trade unions, relevant stakeholders and the general public on the full benefits of the CPS with a view to bringing them to full implementation of the scheme.
Following the commission’s drive, as many as 24 states have so far enacted laws on the CPS in tandem with the provisions of the PRA 2014 while six other states viz Kwara, Benue, Plateau, Cross River, Borno and Akwa-Ibom have drafted bills and are currently undergoing the legislative processes towards their passage into laws.
On the other hand, three states, Jigawa, Kano and Adamawa, have embarked on the Contributory Defined Benefits Scheme while Bauchi and Katsina states have also drafted pension reform bills on the CDBS. Yobe State has, however, decided to continue with the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS).
According to PenCom, “on the determination and funding of the past service benefits of the employees (accrued rights) in states that have adopted the CPS, seven states and the FCT have conducted Actuarial Valuation while Kaduna, Osun, Delta, Lagos States, Anambra Local Government and the FCT are funding their Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund Accounts (RBBRFA).
“However, only Delta, Kaduna, Osun states, Anambra Local Government and the FCT have opened RBBRFAs for domiciliation of their employees’ accrued rights. On compliance with the requirement for the procurement of a Group Life Insurance Policy for workers under the CPS, only Kaduna State and the FCT currently have valid Group Life Insurance policies for their employees. Similarly, Lagos, Kaduna, Delta, Osun States and the FCT have commenced a hitch-free and timeously payment of pension contributions under the CPS.”
Meanwhile, the Federal Government budgets a minimum of N15 billion annually to meet its group life insurance obligation to civil servants