An Ikeja Sexual Offences Court, Lagos, heard how an armed robber raped a teacher in her home while wearing a polythene bag (polybag), in lieu of a condom, as protection. A teacher (name withheld) of a Catholic Secondary School in Lagos, has narrated before an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court how an armed robber raped her in her home using a polythene bag (polybag) as protection. The teacher (name withheld) of a Catholic Secondary School in Lagos
 made the revelation yesterday while testifying against the alleged armed robbers identified as- Babatunde Oluwaleke and Daniel Ojo. Oluwaleke and Ojo were docked over allegations bothering on rape and armed robbery. While being led in evidence by the State Counsel, Mr Akin George, the teacher gave a graphic account of how she was raped in her home by one of the armed robbers, Oluwaleke on March 6, 2018. She told the court that between the hours of 2am and 3am, while asleep in her bedroom, she was awoken by some noise and she saw two males. A tall one (Ojo) and a short one (Oluwaleke)  both dark in complexion, ordering her to get up. She narrated: “I told them I had no money and the first defendant (Oluwaleke) said I must produce money or he will kill me. I was pleading and the second defendant (Ojo) told him that they should go because that is not what they came for. “I was tying a wrapper and the first defendant asked me to lie on the bed, I was pleading and he pushed me back on the bed, I begged that he should not rape me. I told him that don’t have money but he should take my Automated Teller Machine (ATM) card, mobile phones and all that I have. “He brought out a knife, placed the tip on my stomach and threatened to stab me if i don’t cooperate. When he opened my wrapper, he saw I was menstruating and I didn’t know from where he produced a polybag. “He tied the polybag on his penis and inserted his penis into my vagina. I was pleading that I could be his sister but he ignored me, asking me to shut up. Much later, he removed the polybag and raped me using nothing. “When the first defendant was done, the second defendant was telling him kept complaining that what he just did was not the reason they came to my house. “My mother and her friend were still sleeping in the sitting room. Things were scattered and the contents of their handbags were emptied on the floor. I woke them up and told them what happened. “We stay in a one-storey building. We went downstairs where my younger brother stays and we noticed the armed robbers used a rope to tie the door of the mosquito net which is attached to a spring so that it does not make noise. “My younger brother was also still asleep with his friend, we woke them up and I told them what happened and we took an inventory of all the property that was stolen,” she said. The teacher said members of her family immediately reported the crime to the authorities and she was taken to the hospital that morning for medical examination and counselling. She told the court that she was also taken to the Afonka Police Station, Alimosho, Lagos where four recently apprehended armed robbery suspects were shown to her to identify. She said: “Immediately I saw the first defendant, I recognised him, even with my eyes closed, I can identify him. “I identified him to the police, wrote a statement and went home and the case was transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). “My lord, I want fair justice to be served in this case,” she said. Justice Abiola Soladoye adjourned the case until September 30 for cross-examination of the witness.