The Niger state Gubernatorial election petition Tribunal challenging the election of Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has on Thursday admitted eleven documents tendered by the witness to 1st and 2nd petitioner, Umar Nasko and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Counsel to the petitioners, Barrister Mohammed Ndayako informed the tribunal that he was dispensing with the supeoned witnesses since they were not present and that they would proceed to call their witnesses. However, Lead Counsel to the Governor, Samuel Okutepa SAN said Governor Abubakar Sani Bello will appear before the tribunal on Friday in defence of alleged certificate forgery brought against him. Mr Beji Tanko who took the witness stand identified forms CF001 filled by Abubakar Sani Bello and Ahmed Mohamed Ketso, University of Maiduguri Degree certificate in the name of Abubakar Sani Bello and dated 2nd November, 1993, National Youth Service Corp certificate dated 1st May 1993, APC membership card, Primary school certificate dated 2006 in the name of Ahmed Mohammed Ketso and two copies of original National Examination Council (NECO) certificate  of June and November 2008. Others are Copies of declaration of age, one deposed to, in a Minna High Court and signed by Abubakar Sani Bello and the other deposed to, in a Kaduna High Court and signed by Col. Sani Bello, father to the state Governor. All evidence identified by Mr. Beji were tendered and admitted by the court. After about 30 Minutes of break, the counsel to 1st and 2nd petitioners Umar Nasko and Peoples Democratic Party, Mohammed Ndayako notified the Court that he has closed his case. While tendering his request during the tribunal, Samuel Okutepa SAN, explained that after petitioners Umar Nasko and the PDP presented only one witness and closed their case, he will bring his clients Governor Abubakar Sani Bello tomorrow (Friday). According to him “my client has nothing to hide as such he will appear to testify during the sitting”. Chairman of the tribunal, Justice John Igboji then ruled to adjourn for tomorrow (Friday) 28th, June, 2019 for the respondent to open their defense.