Ikeja Electric Plc. (IE) has begun the mass roll-out of prepaid meters, which target about 200, 000 customers within its network areas.
The scheme, under the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) was kicked off for customers in the Ikorodu Business Unit, covering Ikorodu and Epe, areas of Lagos, according to a statement from the Disco.
According to the Disco, the deployment and installation of prepaid meters to customers in Ikorodu, which will be carried out by one of its MAPs, New Hampshire Capital limited, had commenced.
This follows the successful registration and subscription for meters by thousands of customers spread across Ikorodu and Epe.
Fielding questions from newsmen at the roll-out ceremony in Ikorodu, Chief Executive Officer, Ikeja Electric, Dr. Anthony Youdeowei, said; “In line with NERC regulations, customers are expected to pay for meters. Through the online process, customers are to abide the rules and regulation guiding the metering process and they should not to pay cash to anyone or fall prey to unscrupulous element who may want to take advantage of the scheme to fleece customers.
The CEO, who was represented by Ag. Chief Commercial Officer, Ugochukwu Obi-chukwu, also advised customers who dispute their outstanding bills to take advantage of the various repayment options available during the KYC process.
“Outstanding balance can also be rolled over into the customer’s prepaid account and paid in installments,” he said.
According to him, the stipulated cost of a single-phase meter is N38, 850 while a three-phase meter is N70, 350. These are all inclusive of Value Added Tax (VAT).
At a stakeholders meeting, which was attended by customers, stakeholders under Ikorodu Business Unit of Ikeja Electric, the company noted: “This is part of the first phase, which will further extend to Abule Egba and Shomolu Business Units next week.”
The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC empowers third party companies identified as Meter Asset Providers (MAP) to procure and install meters for electricity consumers under this scheme.
“The customers will be advised on the designated channels for payment,” the IE CEO declared.
While explaining the process, he noted that every customer is expected to go through the Know Your Customer (KYC) process and also agree on settlement of the outstanding debt.
“After this, account survey will then be carried out before payment for prepaid meter is made,” he added. “The meters will be provided and installed within 10 working days of payment.”