A member of Buhari Youth Organisation (BYO) and former Publicity Secretary of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Godwin Erhahon, yesterday warned leaders of the party in the state against escalating the crisis in the party.  He urged them to steer clear of pitching the former National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun against the incumbent National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole.  Erhahon in a statement issued in Benin titled; “Internal crises: How not to fight family battle,” Erhahon said leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC); that had attempted feebly, to blame the raging crisis in the National Executive Committee (NEC) on the former National Chairman, Chief John Oyegun, should beware, lest they complicate matters for the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who they were trying to defend.  He said this was so because the attempt to drag Odigie-Oyegun out of his post-service quietude into strange controversy had provoked hatred and anger against the NEC and its leadership. “Coming at a time that Oshiomole from Edo North and Governor Godwin Obaseki, his estranged godson from Edo South, are at daggers-drawn, pitching the former labour leader against Odigie-Oyegun, who is foremost leader from Edo South, is counterproductive and therefore unwise.”  “Similarly, recent call by supporters of Governor Obaseki on Oshiomhole to resign as National Chairman has only succeeded in de-marketing the governor, who has continued to assert that there is no quarrel between him and Oshiomhole. “The co-incidence of this call for Oshiomhole’s resignation with that by the Deputy National Chairman of APC, Senator Lawan Shuaibu, an otherwise easy-going gentleman from Karaunamoda, Zamfara State, tends to lend credence to speculations that Governor Obaseki may have hired Senator Shuaibu against Oshiomhole.  “Supporters of both parties should therefore control their temper and utterances lest they harm the leader they are desperate to help. Whether there are responsible and competent leaders in Edo APC will be ascertained by the end of this crisis,” Erhahon said.
He called on the leaders to ‘bear in mind that however the raging battle is fought, APC will outlive the tension and acrimony of the moment.’