At least five persons were confirmed dead while over 55 houses were burnt in Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State on Monday by gunmen, who stormed Kangboro village in a commando style. It was learnt that the gunmen, suspected to be herdsmen, invaded the village about 11a.m., shooting sporadically into the air. They killed five people and set houses and farmlands on fire before disappearing through hills in the village.
President of Irigwe Youth Movement, Mr. Chinge Dodo, confirmed the attack.
Dodo said the community discovered five bodies during rescue and search operations. At least 55 burnt houses were counted. He said: “Suspected herdsmen, on June 17, attacked Kangboro, a community inhabited by Irigwe people in Riyom Local Government Area and burnt down the entire village, including 55 houses. At the moment, we have discovered five corpses as search and rescue operations are ongoing.”
A source said that the attack took place between 11a.m. and noon. The herdsmen stormed the village of Tamgborong, shooting sporadically, destroying crops and burning houses. It was learnt that the natives initially put up resistance, but could not withstand the fire power of the gunmen, who were armed with sophisticated weapons.
The herdsmen started running into nearby hills on sighting men of ‘Operation Safe Haven’ who engaged then in a gun duel that lasted hours, before they were repelled.
The state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Isaac Akinmoyede, who confirmed the attack, said three bodies were recovered from the scene of the incident. He added that security agencies, comprising ‘Operation Safe Haven’ and other security agencies arrived the village and repelled the attackers, who fled through nearby hills.
He said: “After engaging them, they fled and climbed the nearby hills, but in the process of engaging them, one of the men of OPSH was killed. Later, three bodies of the villagers were also discovered close to the hill. We have commenced full investigation. We are also on the trail of those that carried out the attack.”