Annjay Chioma is a musician and entrepreneur working on making a name for herself in the Nigerian music terrain. Annjay, a former journalist, who took to business, recently launched her latest product, Cura Sunglasses, spoke to ADEDAYO ODULAJA in this interview.   What has Annjay Chioma been up to?
Annjay has been extremely busy working for the past few years now. I’m into full time entrepreneurship as well as I am into music.
I’m into beauty and fashion business such as Brazilian virgin human hair, eyelashes, sunglasses and many more. I have been doing this business for years now and I’m happy doing it although it’s quite challenging in terms of the dollar exchange rates, custom duties, we keep going on in the business, with God on our side. It seems you took a break from music at a point, when next will your fans hear from you?
I have produced a number of songs and still working on more. I’m not going to quit music, I’ll keep it flowing because of the passion I have for it. My fans will hear from me soon. How has it been since you ventured into fashion and beauty business? It’s been good and challenging but thank God for everything. The business of fashion and beauty is a part of me and I’m happy whenever I see our clients wearing Annjay brands. This gives me more courage to keep pushing, it has not been easy but it’s worth it after all. Why did you chose beauty and fashion products?
I went into the business because I like it and it’s part of my profession as a singer and a model. I have been doing this business before I went into journalism but not as big as its now. Annjay Products as a brand has gone international now. We have our clients all over the world. The latest line from Annjay Product is Cura Sunglasses. It is the best of its kind. Cura launched into the Nigerian market few weeks ago. Was journalism not paying your bills anymore or what caused you to change career?
Journalism prepared me for everything I’m today. It still pays but the truth is that I have always had other businesses that I do. Even when I was a journalist, I was into business by the side. Journalism had been helping my music and paying my bills but I could no longer combine both at a point.
So I stopped working as a journalist but many people still recognise me as a journalist nonetheless and my passion for journalism is still intact. What should your fans expect from you musically?
They should expect more cool sounds and good music from me. I’m not done yet but just taking my time to do things right on the musical front. I’m not in a rush at all to release just any songs. How do you combine the many businesses you do with music?
I have members of staff working for me because I can’t do it alone. By the grace of God, I have been able to combine them and it is all working out well. How affordable are your products?
All our products are affordable. From our Brazilian virgin human hair, Annjay 3D Mink Lashes, Hair shampoo, conditioner, Cura Sun glasses and more, they are affordable. Anybody can afford them. I want to also use this opportunity to say that we sell top quality products. Quality assurance is our guarantee. What inspires you?
God and myself, I say myself because my manner of working hard inspires me a lot. Looking back at where I am coming from also inspires me to forge ahead and never be a failure. I like beauty products too and I can spend my last kobo on them. As a teenager back then, if I wanted to buy any beauty product and my money was not complete, I would go into instalmental agreement with them and after payment, they would hand over what I paid for to me. I use quality and expensive beauty products myself and that’s how I came by selling good things. Do you have a particular beauty routine?
Yes. I drink water every morning, eat lots of fruits to keep my skin radiant and beautiful. I also exercise regularly to keep fit. Who are your best Nigerian designers?
I haven’t worked with many of them before but that doesn’t mean we are not going to work together in the future. However, I like Lanre Da Silva, Zizi Cardow and Mai Atafo. What is your best style?
I like skinny dresses; skinny jeans pants and sneakers, shorts and shirt. I always want to look very smart and simple despite being on the slim side. Short hair or long?
Wow! I like long and full hair because it makes me look bold. I’m comfortable with it. Short hair is a no-no for me but that doesn’t mean I won’t wear it once in a while. Heels or flat?
Give me heels any time any day, please. It makes me stand so comfortably. I can’t do without heels. Best fashion item?
My wristwatches. They go with me where ever I go.