•You have endorsement, I have the votes –Ndume   Former contender, Senator Danjuma Goje (APC, Gombe Central), 60 senators-elected in the last National Assembly elections, yesterday, endorsed Senator Ahmad Lawan for the 9th Senate Presidency. Lawan and his campaign organisation disclosed this endorsement yesterday while briefing journalists in Abuja on the progress made so far in the ambition of the Yobe North Senator to become the next President of the Senate. The campaign organisation earlier explained that out of the 62 APC senators-elect, 60 of them had endorsed Lawan by appending their signatures against their names in a list which was presented to the press at the briefing. Senator Ifeanyi Ubah of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), have also declared his support for Lawan, making the number of senators supporting him 61. Lawan also said that about 35 to 38 senators-elect on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) endorsed him, noting that for obvious reasons, they did not sign the endorsement document signed by the 61 senators. However, in a swift reaction, Lawan’s rival in the Senate Presidency race, Senator Ali Ndume, said that he was not moved by the news of senators endorsing his opponent, expressing confidence that, the purported endorsement notwithstanding, he would emerge the winner on Tuesday. “Well, I’ve said before that I am not looking for endorsement but looking for votes on election day. You know clearly that there is the difference between endorsement and election. You would recall too that in 2015 that story of endorsement was canvassed. “He has the endorsement but what happened on the floor of the Senate was different. This kind of thing has been there all along; we have seen endorsements against several elections. We are there already and shall become past in question of hours from now”, Ndume stated. It was learnt that the two senators that didn’t endorse Lawan are Ndume and surprisingly, a supposed Lawan’s kinsman, Senator Ibrahim Mohammed Bomai (Yobe South). Lawan, who said that there was no imposition of candidate by the leadership of the APC, said: “the highest moment of this occasion is when the list was read out. I want to pay tribute to the PDP senators, who are working for us.
“It was a conscious effort not to disclose the PDP senators,that is why we didn’t call for their signature. We have nothing less than 38 PDP senators working for us. “This is the first time senators will come together to endorse a member. Out of the 62 APC lawmakers, 60 have signed, we would have loved to have the 62 signed. We will not stop talking to people, we will keep talking, we are family, we would love to have everybody on board. There is no imposition, everybody signed and I have related with the senators that signed. “We must have a Senate that works for Nigeria; we can’t afford to have mounting insecurity. We must take off these children roaming the streets especially in the North.” He, however, said that if Rochas Okorocha is eventually given certificate of return by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), according to the court directive, it would increase the number of APC senators to 62. The Chairman of Lawan Campaign Organization, Yahaya Abdullahi, while narrating the journey so far pointed out that the Senate presidency of Lawan was not imposition but coincidence. “For people to say that there is imposition is not true because we started early enough before the party supported us,” he said.
The APC senators contained in the endorsement list are: Adamu Aliero (Kebbi Central), Barau Jibrin (Kano North), Francis Alimikhena (Edo North), Solomon Adeola (Lagos West), Aliyu Abdullahi (Niger North), Olubunmi Adetumbi (Ekiti North), Ibrahim Gobir (Sokoto East). Others include: Robert Borrofice (Ondo North), Sadiq Umar (Kwara North), Yakubu Seni (Kogi Central), Adelere Orilowo (Osun West), Biobarakuma Degi-Eremenyo (Bayelsa East), Bulus Amos (Gombe South), Hezekiah Dimka (Plateau Central), Ignatius Longstan (Plateau South). Also in the list are: Halliru Jika (Bauchi Central), Kabiru Gaya (Kano South), Ajibola Basiru (Osun Central), Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa West), Umaru Al-Makura (Nasarawa South), Danladi Sankara (Jigawa NorthWest), Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia (Jigawa North East), Kashim Shettima (Borno Central), Sabo Mohammed (Jigawa South-West), Godiya Akwashuki (Nasarawa North), Ovie Omo-Agege (Delta Central). Furthermore, those who endorsed Lawan are: Buhari Abdulfatai (Oyo North), Adedayo Adeyeye (Ekiti South), Bello Mandiya (Katsina South), Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North), Bala Ibn Na’Allah (Kebbi South), Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf (Taraba Central), Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos Central), David Umaru (Niger East, Isah Jibrin (Kogi East), Suleiman Abdu Kwari (Kaduna North), Ashiru Yisa (Kwara South), Ibrahim Geidam (Yobe East), Ahmad Babba Kaita (Katsina North). Others include: Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto North), Lawal Yahaya (Bauchi South), A.M. Bulkachuwa (Bauchi North), Ashiru Ahmed (Adamawa Central), Michael Bamidele (Ekiti Central), Olalekan Mustapha (Ogun East), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central), Abubakar Kyari (Borno North)Teslim Folarin (Oyo Central) Uba Sani (Kaduna Central) Abubakar Shehu (Sokoto South). Others are: Tolu Odebiyi (Ogun West) , Orji Uzor-Kalu (Abia North), Kabir Barkiya (Katsina Central), Bima Muhammad Enagi (Niger South), Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano Central), Ibrahim Oloriegbe (Lagos East), Osinowo Adebayo (Lagos East), Danjuma Goje (Gombe Central), Saidu Alkali (Gombe North) and Ahmad Lawan (Yobe North), the candidate for Senate presidency. Meanwhile, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has expressed confidence that he would emerge as the Deputy President of the 9th Senate, claiming that he has the backing of the APC leadership and President Muhammadu Buhari.