Food and Beverage (FAB) West Africa is set to showcase latest international innovations at an exhibition that will host over 5,000 attendees from the industry over three days.
Similarly, new trade show will be launched this month with 150 local and international exhibitors
FAB West Africa is free to attend and is taking place at the Landmark Centre, Victoria Island, from June 18th to 20th. Visitors will be able to discuss business opportunities and see the latest in F&B developments from over 150 exhibitors, both local and international.
Thousands of products, many of which will be showcased for the first time in the region, will be on display.
Besides finding new products, attendees will also be able to source new and additional suppliers as well as keep up to date with new industry trends from around the world.
FAB is organised by BtoB Events. BtoB Events Managing Director Jamie Hill explains: “Food and Beverage West Africa is the premier exhibition dedicated to West Africa’s food and beverage industry. The exhibition will bring a host of guests and exhibitors from around the world together under one roof, to celebrate and explore future opportunities within the Food & Beverage industry.
“Guests can discuss opportunities face-to-face and start to build those all-important business relationships for future success. Essentially anybody who is involved in the procurement of foodstuffs will be in attendance from fast food chains to supermarkets, retail stores to catering companies.”
As a business-to-business platform, the organisers of FAB have seen a particular interest from companies wanting to meet distributors from across the ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States).
Overseas exhibitors are also hoping to meet with a full representation of the Nigerian F&B industry, says Mr. Hill. “International companies are typically looking for importers of food and beverage products. The exhibition will give exhibitors the opportunity to demonstrate and give examples of their new and innovative products. Visitors will have the chance to see first-hand what to expect within the food and drinks sectors over the next few months.”
Nigerian businesses make up a third of the confirmed exhibitors. The exhibition evenhas a special zone for local small and medium enterprises (SMEs). “The ‘Made in Nigeria SME Zone’ will enable local SMEs to benefit from this annual platform and showcase what they have to offer alongside the local and international power houses across the sector,” says Mr Hill.
“By offering local SME’s the opportunity to participate we hope to facilitate their growth in the market and work towards the long-term goal of increasing local production and exports from Nigeria across the region.” One of the show’s partners welcoming the focus within the SME sector is AgroNigeria. It’s Executive Director Mrs Idongesit Mbaram comments: “As a matter of fact, businesses under the F&B value chain should see the FAB West Africa as a rare opportunity to connect with suppliers, distributors, manufacturers and to build strong business relationships with clients from across Nigeria, neighbouring West African countries and around the world. “Due to the almost steep nature of the agricultural sector, it is expected that an event like this will create an avenue where local small and medium scale agricultural value chain establishments will come into contact with bigger corporations and do business.” With exhibitors from over 20 different countries being represented over the three-day event, there will also be country pavilions and individual exhibition stands. Just Food, the region’s leading provider of quality, global food equipment brands, is a Gold Sponsor of FAB. JustFood’s Chief Executive Officer Tunde Ogunrinde expects that visitors will want to engage in practical discussions, see live demonstration of products, plus benefit from discounted offers on products. Attendees should make the most of good networking opportunities, with the “synergy between businesses,” he recommends. “FAB is a great place to meet various key stakeholders and decision makers in the food & beverage industry.” Visitors will also be able to find out about the benefits of joining a trade association as a number are partnering the event. One of FAB’s partners is REFSPAN, the Restaurant and Food Services Proprietors Association of Nigeria.