Hon. Samson Osagie is a former Minority Whip of the House of Representatives and a two-time member of the Edo State House of Assembly. In this interview with some journalists on the crisis in the state Assembly, Osagie, who is one of the leaders of the Edo People’s Movement accuses Governor Godwin Obaseki of trying to close democratic space in the state. JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM reports  What is your take on the crisis in the Edo State House of Assembly? What happened in Edo State in the wee hours of June 17, 2019 is unknown to any democracy anywhere in the world. That a sitting governor will cause his own state parliament to be illegally and irregularly constituted or composed at an odd hour is unheard of. It is antithetical to all parliamentary practices. Indeed Section 105 (3) of the 1999 Constitution as amended made it clear that the person elected as governor shall have the responsibility to issue a proclamation for the holding of the first session of the National Assembly after the expiration of the previous Assembly. What happened is that the governor and his advisers did not only breach the provisions of the constitution regarding to the Edo State House of Assembly by creating a gap in the conduct of legislative business in Edo State because the tenure of last Assembly ended on the June 6. Assuming but not conceding that the inauguration at night on the 17th was regular, he delayed unnecessarily and created a vacuum in legislative business. The actions of government within that period can be questioned as not having legitimacy. Having said that I want to say that the interesting aspect of this whole story is that the Edo State House of Assembly at this moment is made up of 24 members of all elected on the same platform of the party – the APC – to which the government belongs. I would have expected that at this point in time Edo State should have been a model on how one party state can run. Unfortunately it has become a very bad example of one party parliament.  It is unacceptable; it is wrong and what is more important is the fact that the officials and leadership of the APC in Edo State is the most grossly incompetent that we have had in terms of party leadership. They try to compare themselves with the party leadership at the national level when they cannot even manage a homogeneous political family in Edo State. They chose to inaugurate nine and the nine is not even nine. Four out of the nine have denied and said they were conscripted, intimidated and harassed; that their fundamental human rights of association and movement were breached to go and inaugurate the House and you hear the state party chairman endorsing that illegality, endorsing that immorality and endorsing that infraction! The constraint for me about this is that the beneficiary of that act is my very good friend and I am sure he is having a very huge burden right now to be a product of that system. He would have wished that this thing was better done because I can imagine the kind of burden he goes through to be the first Speaker to have been ever elected at night where many members whom he is to superintend were excluded. And I need to say that if their argument is anything to go by then they have passed judgment on themselves. They said there was a quorum. Where did they get the quorum from? You can only get a quorum when the House is fully constituted. On the first day of inauguration, you don’t use a quorum to carry out inauguration. A quorum becomes a matter of concern once legislative business kicks-off.  On the day the House is inaugurated, it is a ceremonial event to put together a parliament to make law. After the procedure of putting together of the parliament is completed then you can now begin to talk of a quorum in order to carry out the business of parliament. So, what they have done is a constitutional violation, which requires that the House of Assembly shall be made up of certain members not less than 24. They have breached the constitutional provisions by inaugurating nine. So, we do not have Edo State House of Assembly legally and truthfully speaking because assuming but not conceding that the nine members have been duly inaugurated and sworn in, it is unknown to the Constitution of Nigeria that a House of Assembly shall have nine members. Do you get the argument? So, if their argument is anything to go by those people are the only people that have been inaugurated, is that not. At the moment about 16 or 15 House of Assembly members have not taken their oath of office. So, legally speaking there is no House of Assembly In Edo State legally, properly and constitutionally constituted. Is there any correlation between what happened in Edo State House of Assembly and what happened in the Senate in 2015? There is none. They are two different scenarios. One, the Senate as at that time was a multi-party system. It is not to say you cannot inaugurate a House if a member or two or three are absent. Are you getting the point? But in the case of the Senate over 2/3 of the members were present and then the House was inaugurated under the circumstances that are justifiably so. One, every member of the Senate as at that time was aware but in the case of Edo State about 15 members were not aware. That is one. The time of the inauguration was conveyed to every senator as everybody knew that was the day of inauguration but in the case of Edo State the time was not conveyed to everybody. Indeed there was no notice to all the members and as we can see in the case of Edo State a member violated the rules of the House by dressing indecently to take the oath of office. How do you deal with that? So, they are two different scenarios. Why in the case of the Senate, the party that has majority in Senate mismanaged the process, when in fact a notice of inauguration has been given to the whole world and all Senators were aware, the party in majority decided to call a meeting about the same time that the inauguration was to take place. So, those who were at the International Conference Centre had the knowledge an that inauguration was going to take place unlike the case in Edo State. In your own view what can you say that the governor and his team were afraid of? The governor and his team merely displayed lack of capacity to manage those that were elected and if you push that further it is an evidence of their gross incapacity and incompetence to manage people. Governance is about the people. Their inability to manage people led the undesired circumstance that you find. One, they were probably afraid that they would not have the members to elect the Speaker that they prefered. Now, it also shows that they didn’t have the capacity to do the needful ever before then. Like l told you, the tenure of the Sixth House of Assembly expired on June 7. These members were elected in March, a governor that knows his onions would have been able since the time of their election to cultivate the friendship, to be able to give them a sense of belonging in the government that they are coming to serve, so that he would have their buy in, in the kind of choices he wants to make. That is one.  Two, it also shows lack of understanding of how to run a democratic society because for him, he is governor and no other person matters. So, his words must be law. No. Even if he has the best candidate in mind, he must deploy the instrumentality of emotional intelligence, interpersonal skills to get people to do what he wants. After all what is the definition of leadership in the first place? Leadership is your ability to get people to do what you want. So, it shows clear lack of leadership and in the frenzy of ‘oh, these people would come in now and then I wouldn’t be able to control them. Let me do whatever I like after all I am the governor, I am the Chief Security Officer.’ And the reason that it is so is that we have a party leadership in Edo State that is inept, incompetent, compromised and unfit to run a political party. I say so without apology and don’t be surprised that you will soon receive my suspension letter from that party leadership because that is their stock in trade. They don’t know how to engage party members, appeal to their conscience and win people to your side. After all politics is about people and numbers. It is not about bullying down people because becoming a member of a political party is a voluntary action.  So, if you have a party that does not know its onions, if you have a party leadership in the state who is afraid to tell the governor the truth because of what they would get, then you run into crisis. If you have a party that does not bring parties together if there is disagreement, a leadership of a party that would belong to a faction, how does that leadership lead a party? So, the fear is that if he did not do it this way he would not have the members on his side and if possible there might be an untoward consequences. But the question is, what effort did he make since these people were elected or since the time they became candidate of the party in 2018? So, since the governor could not cultivate them where is the leadership? The National Chairman of APC is from Edo State, what is his position in all these crises? Well, the APC National Chairman was governor of Edo State. He became governor of Edo State and met a House that consisted of majority of opposition members. He deployed his leadership with time to get a number of them on his side and then in the election that took place in 2012 he was able to get more members of his party to be in the parliament to give him comfort. During the period of that transition, there were some crises in the House that was managed but not in the manner in which this one is being done now. Not at the point of inauguration, it was in the cause of the life of the parliament that disagreement between the executive and legislature led to the impeach   ment of the PDP Speaker in circumstances that a lot of people have criticised, which was not exactly like this and even if it was exactly like this, it cannot be good precedent to be copied after eight years.  However, the National Chairman has a lot in his hands right now, he can no longer be thinking as an Edo governor and so you do not expect him to condescend to the level of interfering in who becomes Speaker or anything in Edo State. No, because there is a new leader or there is supposed to be a new leader who should manage things and if they need his advice he gives them. So, the position of the National Chairman on this matter, though I am not his spokesperson, I feel that he must be feeling embarrassed at the kind of things that have happened and even the National Working Committee as you can see they have issued a statement on this matter.  The Bauchi example is even a better case because that was done in the afternoon and may be the members got different times and eventually they have two Speakers – the APC Speaker and the PDP Speaker – using one APC member but it was done in the day time. Everybody was told that there was an inauguration and may be they arrived at different times.  In our own case notice was not given to the public or the members; they just selected people at night to go to the House. Why did we have to inaugurate an Assembly at night? In any case, the rules of Parliament suggest that there are times you will have to hold sittings and you cannot hold sittings under certain circumstances and unless by special resolution like the House of Reps did and head such one on Sunday. it was as a result of urgent national importance.  Edo State House of Assembly crisis has always come with shame and embarrassment. There was a time when the roof of the assembly was removed to stop the members from meeting and this time around nine members were inaugurated and elected Speaker at an odd time, as somebody who had been in the Chambers of both state and federal level, how do you feel about this?  I am very, very embarrassed. In my time in the Edo State Assembly we had disagreements with the executive – very hot disagreements – but we never had such incidences that we are having now. I am very, very embarrassed that this kind of thing is happening in my state. I am ashamed and sometimes people ask us, ‘what are you doing as former members? But do we have any legal platform to actually intervene because this should not be.  We should have moved further on the ladder of probity, on the ladder of public confidence as government and as a party. I feel very embarrassed to be honest with you and a lot of people are very embarrassed. And coming at a time when we have a governor who was thought to be a technocrat and would play by the rules, would do things in accordance with the law but it is even much more disgraceful. It shows lack of capacity; it shows lack of leadership and it tells a lot about the head of government.