Reconciliation, Peace, Strengthening and Repositioning Committee set up by the All Progressive Congress (APC), South-East zone, sat in Enugu yesterday to draw up strategies towards actualising its task of reconciling aggrieved members in each state in the zone in order to strengthen and reposition the party.
The Chairman of the committee, who was Minister of Labour and Productivity in the former President Godluck Jonathan’s administration, Emeka Wogu, told journalists during the inaugural sitting of the 13-man committee that they were ready to begin their assignment in earnest.
He said: “The APC South-East zone gave us the mandate to reconcile and make peace with a view to strengthening and repositioning the party in the whole of South-East, taking into consideration that certain members of our party felt so dissatisfied with the process of congresses, primaries and the main elections.
“And they feel aggrieved and that is the reason why this committee was set-up.”
According to him, the committee will speak to authority and speak truth to leaders of the party on the need to reconcile and endure that APC remains “one-big-family” just as its logo, the broom, depicts.
He added: “We have agreed that every state should come with its peculiarities or what led to the disorganisation and lack of peace in their states.”
“And at the end of the day, we will distil issues and visit all the states.” “We will also visit our leaders in the states and speak truth to them and find a way of repositioning the party in the South-East to face the evolving realities of political dialectics of our party and of our country. So that by 2023, we will be in a position to win the elections that we couldn’t win because of internal wrangling which led to certain sabotage against our party.
“So in 2023, we will do well and then, we will look at all positions available in this country, not limited to only National Assembly and governorship but including the big one (presidency), we need to go for it. Negotiate for it and become relevant.”
Wogu noted that the assignment of the committee was enormous but with the calibre of its members, it would work hard and deliver on its mandate unbiased and without fear or favour.
The chairman said that the committee was congratulating President Muhammadu Buhari and his Deputy, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on their successful swearing-in, adding that the committee would continue to give full support to their people-oriented administration.
According to him, the party must be united and strong in the South-East to support the tireless efforts of President Buhari meant to reposition the party as well as continue to deliver on his monumental developmental strides.
He said: “We are resolute in supporting President Buhari and assisting him to achieve his positive desires by ensuring that South-East APC is peaceful to take over the whole political positions in the zone.”
Wogu also noted that the committee was giving tacit support to the leadership of the party hierarchy in the country, especially the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and the South-East Vice National Chairman, Mr. Emma Enukwu.