…unveils plans for 14th int’l confab  The body of Information Technology (IT) professionals under the aegis of Computer Society (NCS) of Nigeria has urged the Federal Government to prevail on the Bank of Industry (BoI) to reopen indigenous computer assembling company, Omatek Plc, which it shut.
Omatek, a quoted company on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) was shut down by the bank over its inability to service N5.81 billion loans it secured from it.
The company was one of the three indigenous companies participating in the hardware segment of the country’s ICT sector, which is dominated by foreign players. With the shutting down of the company for two years now, products such as computer cases, speakers, keyboards and mouse, computer systems and notebooks worth billions of naira are said to be rotting away in the company’s factory.
President of NCS, Prof. Adesola Aderounmu, while speaking on behalf of other members of the Society, said Omatek employed over 600 Nigerians directly and indirectly when it was active, noting that the jobs would be lost if the company is not re-opened for business. According to him, the firm was accused of defaulting on its credit facility agreement with the BoI and has refused to service the N5.81 billion, which it obtained in 2012.
According to BOI, several measures had been employed to ensure Omatek keep to the loan agreement, but all to no avail. The bank noted that after his appointment as Managing Director in 2017, the new Managing Director of the company, Yemi Ogundipe, promised to make amends but the commitment has not been fulfilled to date, which prompted it to put the company under lock and key through a court pronouncement.
However, Aderounmu noted that the company’s inability to pay might be connected to the demise of its founder and former CEO, Mrs Florence Seriki, who died early 2017. “While we do not encourage debt, if you don’t allow a company to operate, how would the company pay its debt? We appeal to FG to intervene in the matter and prevail on BOI to vacate the court order. Locking of the factory for over 24 months with goods worth billions of Naira is not in the best interest of any of the stakeholders. Allow the company to reopen for business. Some of the goods and materials for which the loans were sought would have been obsolete and rusted away,” he said.
“Computer spares and consumables have expiry date as we know and if we are not careful; all the stock will rate zero value in no distant time. It is only while in business that repayment can commence,” Aderounmu explained.
He urged BOI to allow an out-of-court settlement, noting that the company had indicated that it is open to settlement out of court. “The company made this known in a letter to shareholders some time ago. The management of Omatek Ventures said it was exploring out-of-court settlement with BoI in order to reach an amicable agreement on the loan default,” he said.
Meanwhile, the Society said preparations are in top gear for its 14th International Conference scheduled to hold next month in Gombe State. This year’s conference, according to NCS’ President is with the theme “Smart Nations, Digital Economies and Meaningful Lives”.
Aderounmu said the conference would focus on important issues related to the theme and sub themes such as: Innovative and Disruptive Technologies in the New Economy; Smart Broadband, Digital infrastructure and Sharing Frameworks; Coding the Future of Agriculture, Health, Education and Services. It will also dwell on Smart Culture, Communities and Inclusion; Youth Innovation and Entrepreneurship for the Future; Open Data, Open Government and Digital leadership; Women, Gender Balance and Innovation in Technology and Digital Law, Intellectual Property and Data Protection, among others.