There was mild drama yesterday at the Abuja residence of a lawmaker representing Ehimembano/Ihiteuboma/Obowo Federal constituency of Imo State at the House of Representatives, Emeka Nwajuba as he refused to receive court processes challenging his certificate of return from the bailiff of the Court of Appeal.
The federal lawmaker, who was at his residence dramatically holed up in his house for hours after becoming aware of the presence of a bailiff of the court, Usman Mohammed at his residence to effect personal service of the appeal processes on him.
Attempts by the bailiff who had laid siege to his residence located at Bamanga Tukur Street, Plot 1268, Gudu District, F. C. T, Abuja to serve Nwajuba with the court processes were frustrated by the activities of his domestic staff and supporters who threatened to assault the bailiff if he did not leave the premises.
He was instead directed to proceed to the office address of Nwajuba at TETFUND to effect the service there.
In his affidavit deposed to before the FCT High Court on 27th June, 2019, the bailiff, Usman Maikudi gave a graphic account of what transpired at the Abuja residence of the lawmaker.
He said: “I am the deponent to this affidavit herein. That on the 26th day of June, 2019, I went to serve notice of appeal on Hon. Emeka Nwajuba who is the 2nd responded in the matter, at his residence at plot 1268, Bamanga Tukur Street, Plot Gudu District, at about 6a.m.
“I asked the security if he was around and he told me and he told me yes, but I should wait for him to come out. I waited for him to come out so as to serve the notice of appeal in the case of APC V Uzoma Mary and two others on him.
“But I could not serve him due to the threat on me by some youthful men at the security post telling me that I have over stayed my welcome and ordered me to leave and I had to leave the premises to avoid been harm, the bailiff had deposed.”
However, counsel who represented him at the High Court of the F.C.T in Kubwa which gave the judgment now on appeal, had equally rejected the same court processes, claiming that they did not have instruction to act for him at the Court of Appeal.
Emeka Nwajuba, who lost the primaries of the All Progressives Congress and decamped to Accord Party had also lost the general election to the APC candidate, Chike Okafor.
He, however, obtained an order from Justice Bello Kawau of the FCT High Court Kubwa that forced the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to issue him with a certificate of return that is now subject of an appeal at the Abuja division of the Court of Appeal.
Specifically, the APC and its candidate, Chike Okafor have approached the Abuja division of the Court of Appeal to nullify the judgment of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) that produced Emeka Nwajuba of the Accord Party as a member of the House of Representatives for Ehimembano/Ihiteuboma/Obowo Federal constituency of Imo State.
The action was contained in their separate notices of appeals filed before the appellate court against rulings of the FCT High Court which gave rise to the issuance of certificate of return to Nwajuba by the Independent National Electoral Commission.
In its seven grounds of appeal filed by his counsel, Roland Otaru SAN, Okafor urged the Court of Appeal to hold that the lower court erred in in law in holding that he was functus officio to set aside his order of April 29, 2019 and the entire proceedings in suit No. FCT/HC/CV/423/2018.
Okafor argued that the decision of April 29, 2019and the entire proceedings in the suit was nulity as it was made without jurisdiction adding that a court can never be functus officio to set aside or revisit its nulled orders.