 The disclosure by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) that projected that Africa’s passenger traffic would double by 2035 has sent jitters down the spines of the continent’s aviation amid appalling infrastructure in many parts of the region.
In 2017, Africa recorded 88.5 million passenger traffic, 2.2 per cent market share, +6.6 per cent over 2016. The implication is that by 2025, 177 million passengers would take to travel in the continent.
In Africa, Nigeria is expected to have the highest number of passenger traffic in the continent in recognition of its huge population and the mobility of its citizens.
Director-General of IATA, Alexandre de Juniac, in a chat with New Telegraph, recently called on governments to manage infrastructure, stressing that they could do it in a way that should not add additional burden to airlines.
Globally, IATA expects 7.8 billion passengers to travel in 2035, a near doubling of the 4billion air travellers expected to fly this year. The prediction is based on a 3.6 per cent average. While the projected growth in the global aviation industry is obviously good for economies worldwide, the fact remains that a crisis may occur if adequate infrastructure investments are not made urgently.
All the optimism supporting strong aircraft orders according to him, will mean nothing if they do not have the capability to manage traffic in the air and at airports.
Air traffic management is certainly struggling to cope with growth, while high costs at many privatised airports are burdening the industry.
Indeed, finding sufficient capacity to meet the air travel growth is a pressing issue. In order to achieve better capacity index in terms of overall capacity crisis, airport infrastructure needs a more complex approach.
Airport privatisation, which was previously considered a possible solution, has its pitfalls, already visible by airlines and passengers. Instead of the more expensive infrastructure model offered by privatised airports, there is a challenge to find more efficient and competitive models.
An airport infrastructure expert, who pleaded anonymity, told our reporters that in developing and emerging markets, airport expansion appears easier – and is often supported strongly by the regulating authorities as a means of providing strategic support to economic growth in a region or nation.
“But that carries a different risk – of over-ambitious expansion – akin to the problems that the airline industry has experienced by over-investing in capacity in the past,” he said. “Airlines and their passengers and cargo need safe, functional and affordable airport infrastructure for their operations to thrive”.
Besides, he said efficient and economical air transport contributes directly to a community’s prosperity. “Poorly thought-out airport privatisations put this at risk. Therefore, the balancing role of effective and strong economic regulation is essential,” he added.
Investments, the expert said, must focus on the improvement of passenger and freight capacity, generating gains such as reduction in travel time and improvement of service predictability, reliability, and maintaining public confidence that aviation is safe, secure, and environmentally responsible. He added that alongside airports, airspace capacity needs to be developed.
Former Minister of State, Aviation Hadi Sirika recently tasked aviation stakeholders to take advantage of gaps existing in aviation infrastructure especially in Africa and Nigeria in particular as investment opportunities.
“This deficit on the one hand is bad but on the other, it provides opportunity for investment” the minister said. “It is imperative that in this address l appraise you with the excellent business opportunities in the Aviation Sector at this wonderful country.
“Nigerian market serves the West and Central African region, with population of 600 million people and its potential, it is sad to admit that there is total absence of a strong air carrier, major Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) centre, an efficient world class airport or even a significant catering company. Nigeria is positioned to take advantage of this opportunity. I strongly believe that Nigeria is the place to put your money. This is not only because we moved up 24 places in ease of doing business recently but more so because the Rate of Return on investment is 34 per cent; one of the highest in the world.”