Following the various policy initiatives being played by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to get the economy back on track, organised labour has called on other government agencies to emulate the apex bank while discharging their duties.
An executive member of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Issa Aremu, made this call during an interactive session with management of the bank in Abuja.
He described the apex bank’s creative intervention in the Nigerian economy as highly commendable.
Describing the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, as a man of vision, patriotic and also passionate about Nigeria, Aremu said there was need to replicate same efforts in other public officers, adding that apex bank is working today because there is a competent hand.
“CBN is doing its own side of the bargain, but the other fiscal authorities must also complement the effort of the CBN,” he said. “CBN can’t do much to stop smuggling; so you have improvement in rice production, but by the time the farmers reach the market, it has been overwhelmed by smuggled rice.
“The same thing with textiles, so Customs must also sit up. Energy is also important. We need uninterrupted power supply. So we need the same activism that we are witnessing at the apex bank at Customs, at the Ministry of Power. The Ministry of Trade and investment must sit up also; Ministry of Labour must sit up as well, because they are the ones to find out whether the funds are made available to investors in this sector are actually used for production and employment is being created.”
“Also, in terms of engagement, I haven’t seen the CBN governor engaging in any sort of controversy; he doesn’t go outside his mandate. What happens is robust engagement, such that both the executive and legislature agreed that he should go for another term. And the facts are all verifiable.
“They all talk about jobs that have been created; so you need similar kinds of personnel in the next cabinet of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”
Aremu, however, noted generally that for the Nigerian economy to improve on its current growth levels all hands must be on the deck.
He added, “organised labour is committed to partnering with CBN to make sure that all these creative initiatives, in terms of development financing, are sustainable.”
The CBN Governor recently said the policies of the apex bank in the past five years had been focused on protecting the purchasing power of the poor and vulnerable persons in the country. According to Emefiele, the apex bank is very comfortable staying on the side of the weak, vulnerable, and poor masses and protecting their purchasing power.