  T he proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has denied the reports that emerged from Nnewi, the industrial hub of Anambra State on Thursday that some of its members attacked a Catholic priest during the sit-at-home order held across the South-East. IPOB said the story was a huge lie fabricated by those who felt ashamed and disgraced that the sit – at – home order was perfectly observed in Nnewi against their initial expectations. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB said it remains the most peaceful movement as there had never been any evidence of them wielding any gun or any weapon to attack people not to talk of Christians. The Pro-Biafra group went on to thank the Nnewi business community and other cities for standing in solidarity with the group and showing respect to the fallen heroes and heroines of Biafra against every manipulations from the powers that be. The statement reads: “It is crystal clear to the general public that since the inception of IPOB, we don’t carry or move about with machete, AK47 rifle or any kind of weapon. “We wonder why Nigeria Government and her security agencies would come up with such rubbish instead of saying really what happened in Nnewi and how they failed to deceive Biafrans to obey the sit-at-home order issued by IPOB authority. “It’s very pathetic that National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) clashed with some Nnewi youths and drug peddlers in Nnewi yesterday and tagged it to a peaceful movement like IPOB. “Since the formation and commencement of this great movement championing for the liberation of Biafran people, we never attacked or killed anybody in Biafraland or in Nigeria state. IPOB does not indulge on such evil acts no matter the level of attack, killing, humiliation, intimidation, torture against us. “We are aware that they can only use sponsored media attack and misinformation to deceive and confuse the general public about the successful outcome of this sit at home order held on Thursday, May 30.