The world bounds with opportunities. The wealth of the world and its riches belong to God and he has made them available unto His children. To this end, the word of God declares “The Lord shall open unto thee his good treasures, the heaven to give the rain unto thy land in seasons, and to bless all the works of thy hands, thou shall lend unto many nations and thou shall not borrow” –Deuteronomy 28:12. In addition to this scripture, the word of God also says: “And I will give thee the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that thou mayest know that I the Lord, which call thee by thy name, am the God of Israel –Isaiah 43:5. When God called Moses, he asked him, “What do you have in your hands? Moses replied ‘Rod’. He could have said nothing, because there was special about the rod until the power of God came upon it and it became the rod of God with which he performed miracles. It is not just enough to sit down and dream a dream about your success and prosperity. Every dream must be backed with immediate action if it must materialize. Your dream talks about your future plans for tomorrow. ““Every dream for tomorrow must have a connection with today. The connection between tomorrow and today is faith. The Bible defines faith “As the substance of thing hoped for, the evidence of things not seen –Hebrew 11:1. The word of God also made it clear to us that every faith must be backed with action or work. To this end, the word of God says: “Even so faith, if it hath no works, is dead being alone.” Make the right steps and decisions now for your prosperity to come. Do whatever you can do. Make a move starting from now, no matter how insignificant that move may be. What skill do you have that God can bless? You start with something everybody calls nothing. You may start in a little and insignificant way, but when the power of God comes upon your effort, it will prosper beyond your imagination. It is what you are doing that will attract divine assistance not your idleness. In the book of 2 Kings chapter seven, the Bible records the gallantry decisions and actions of four rejected and inconsequential lepers, and stated thus, “If we say that we will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there, and if we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore come and let us save us fall unto the host of the Syrians, if they save us alive, we shall live, and if they kill us, we shall bit die “ -2 Kingas7:4. They took a radical decision and made the right move. Consequently, God honoured and prospered their efforts, and changed their status from rejected lepers to national heroes. Life is made up of risks. A risk is a degree of probability of loss of something as a result of decision that are taken.