Nigeria, currently regarded as a hotspot for piracy, has spent a lot of money to curb theft and robbery on the country’s waters, but the expenses have sparked more crimes in the country’s maritime domain, reports BAYO AKOMOLAFE    Despite the acquisition of 179 high-speed boats by the Federal Government and the signing of $198 million (N72.27 billion) security contract with an Israeli firm by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigeria is losing $1.98 billion monthly to piracy.
The reason is that the country’s maritime domain is under constant attacks by criminals.
Apart from the acquisition of patrol boats, NIMASA had invested huge amount of money on the satellite surveillance system, which has the capacity to view all vessels on the country’s waterways.
The system, it was learnt, could detect vessels even if the Automatic Identification System (AIS) transponders were switched off.
Besides, the agency has supported other security agencies to acquire assets which would enable them to fight piracy and other maritime crimes.
Also, the agency’s Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Bashir Jamoh, said that NIMASA had just got approval for the importation of special gadgets which, according to him, are security specialised.
He said: “Those are the things we have to deploy to the communities that can easily have access to us such as walkie-talkie, cellular system that can be used under water.”
The executive director noted that the agency, in collaboration with HLSI Security Systems and Technology, an Israeli firm, had commenced the training of Nigerian security personnel.
Jamoh said that NIMASA had six fast intervention vessels approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) as well as other technology to patrol the waterways on a daily basis.
Worried by the huge amount of money spent to halt incessant sea robbery in the country, the former Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, who traced revenue leakages in the country to insecurity and unabated maritime crimes, noted that several attacks had been reported off Nigeria’s coast which involved pirates stealing cargoes of crude oil and petroleum products.
He said: “It is even more worrisome to note that Nigeria is said to be losing about N7 trillion annually in the maritime sector due to leakages in revenue generation and insecurity in the waterways. Between January and March 2016, several attacks were reported off Nigeria’s coast. This was said to involve pirates stealing cargoes of crude oil and petroleum products.
“The increasing attacks and violence in the Gulf of Guinea have given Nigeria and other countries in the sub-region very damaging and negative image in addition to an estimated monthly loss of $1.5 billion. The onus is on the Nigerian Navy and NIMASA to stem the tide and secure the nation’s territorial waters, in cooperation with other agencies of government.”
Regardless of the spending, the International Maritime Bureau (IMB) disclosed that Nigeria has paid $2.74 billion as insurance surcharge or war risk surcharge on vessels and cargoes to shipping line because of pirate attacks.
A war risk surcharge is a supplementary carrier charge that is only applied when insurance underwriters designate specific zones as war risks.
Furthermore, the surcharge is levied to recover potential extra-costs, such as re-routing or additional security where hijacking (piracy) is prevalent.
However, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) has criticised Nigeria’s categorisation as a war risk nation; a development it said had led to a spike in insurance premiums slammed on vessels and cargoes destined for Nigeria by offshore insurers.
The NSC Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr. Hassan Bello, explained that the few attacks recorded on Nigerian waters were not sufficient to warrant tagging the country a war-risk nation.
He said: “We do not deserve the war-risk clause tagged on us. Our waters are safe. Again, this is where I have to commend the Marine Police for greatly streamlining procedures for cargo clearance at the ports. We’re also ensuring lesser vessel dwell time at ports. The responsiveness of the new IGP has been remarkable in this direction.”
With the huge resources committed to curb sea robbery and piracy on the nation’s waters, the President of the Association of Chandlers and Ship Suppliers of Nigeria (ACSSN), Mr. Aghanenu Ossai Vickson, said that the collusion among seamen, locals, sea robbers and security agencies as well as international organised criminal networks had made it difficult to tackle illegal activities on the nation’s waters effectively as conceived by government.
Vickson said that the unlawful activities had continued to thrive daily on Nigerian waters despite the surveillance.
He explained that Nigerian waterways ranked as one of the most dangerous in the world.
The president told New Telegraph that all waters in and off Nigeria remained risky as stated by the IMB.
He explained that this was the reason the bureau had advised all vessels calling at the nation’s seaports to be vigilant and take extra anti-piracy precautions due to various attacks and incidents that had occurred.
According to him, the heavily armed robbers with sophisticated weapons and the mere robbers with limited arms and ammunition had oftentimes encountered by ship chandlers while on course to supply goods to vessels offshore.
He said: “As result of the unsafe waterways, ship owners and managers have become apprehensive and extremely found it risky to purchase ship needs while on Nigerian waters. In some cases, some robbers pose as ship chandlers to gain access on board a vessel before attacking the crew members.
“We have had occasions where our members are attacked, ransacked and completely cart away their goods. In likewise, situations steal their supply boats. The economic implications of sea robbery activities on ship chandelling function on our waterways are enormous; it kills business and hampers the growth of our legitimate trade function, leading to huge loss of revenue, lives and property.”
Vickson said that his association had called for regulation of chandlers in the country to curb illegal chandlers operating on Nigerian waters, saying that no action had been taken by the appropriate authority.
Also, the Chairman, Ship Owners Forum, Mrs. Margaret Orakwusi, explained that the maritime industry was facing the problem of poor enforcement of Nigerian and global regulations.
Orakwusi, also a former president of the Nigerian Trawler Owners Association (NITOA), said in Lagos that the trawler operators had been battling with sea robbery on Nigerian waters.
She said: “We are still battling with sea piracy. It is still the way it has always been. Of course, you know that most operators have relocated to neighbouring countries, because of the sea piracy and operational cost.”
She said Nigeria’s loss was gain for other African countries.
Owing to the relocation of some firms to neighbouring countries,Orakwusi explained that the “fisheries sector in Ghana generates $1 billion in revenue annually”.
A maritime expert, Mr. Emmanuel Ilori (an engineer), said that maritime security contract to curb sea robbery was an exercise in futility.
He said: “There is armed robbery and sea robbery within our territorial waters but piracy did not take place within Nigerian territorial water, piracy only takes place within the international water.
“There might be sea robbery within the Nigerian territorial waters; it is Nigeria’s responsibility to respond to armed robbery and sea robbery within Nigeria territorial waters.”
Ilori explained that it was the responsibility of NIMASA and Nigerian Navy to secure the nation’s territorial waters.
The Managing Director of Sceptre Consult, Mr. Jayeola Olatunde, also said that government would continue to spend more on sea robbery, if anti-piracy bill at the National Assembly, which was gathering dust, was not enacted.
According to him, Nigeria had no effective laws to fight sea robbery and piracy, saying this was why impunity was so much everywhere on the sea.
Olatunde said that when robbers were caught in Nigerian waters they were confronted with laws that were not piracy related.
He said: “Piracy is an international crime. When the law against it is not there, then, you are not ready to fight them. This is why it is difficult for government to punish offenders in the maritime related crimes in the country.’’
The managing director noted that in Bonny, Rivers State, this year, the country had witnessed some attacks, while arrests had been made.
However, Olatunde said that the major challenge was lack of prosecution.
The former President of Ship Owners Association of Nigeria (SOAN), Mr. Greg Ogbeifun (an engineer), also called on government to urgently look into the issues of piracy.
Ogbeifun noted that kidnapping and armed robbery at sea had led to the situations where Nigerian waters were listed as first-rate zones harmful to maritime trade by the IMB.
He said: “Something is fundamentally wrong. If you are funding the fight against insurgency in the North, so aggressively, using the military forces; government should also fight piracy aggressively by equipping the Navy, and the water-borne amphibious units.
“Equip them effectively; equip them in the area of intelligence, equip them in hardware, have their personnel well trained, and setup operational basis in all places, multiplicity of them; and that is when pirates will run away.”
A breakdown of crimes in the country in the recent time shows that sea robbery first gained prominence in Nigeria when smaller ships shuttling employees and materials belonging to the oil companies in oil exploration were attacked through organised crimes.
Later, they became more aggressive and extended the nefarious activities to territorial waters, terminals and harbours rather than in the high seas.
Although the IMB in April 2019 gave a pass mark to Nigeria for low piracy in the first three months of the year, the bureau said that no vessel was reported hijacked in the period, marking the first time Nigeria had such record since the first quarter of 1994.
For instance, the report explained that in the first quarter of 2019, Nigeria experienced a decrease in reported piracy incidents, compared to the same period in 2018.
It further stated that there was a great improvement in the efforts to actively respond to incidents in the Nigerian maritime domain.
But despite the rating, within the last one and half months, the country’s water channels and anchorage have become the hotbed for foreign criminals and their local counterparts.
It was learnt that crude oil theft within the nation maritime domain was on the increase with impunity.
Already, the Nigerian Navy said that despite a series of arrests, the activities of the criminals had continued unabated.
In April 2019, the Navy handed over four foreigners and five Nigerians to the Nigeria Police for alleged possession of firearms and suspected crude oil theft within the maritime domain.
The Officer in Tactical Command (OTC), Commodore Dickson Olisemenogor, said that the nine suspects were arrested aboard Sea Angels 3, during operation “Junction Rain.’’
Olisemenogor explained that the nine suspects comprised three Greeks, an American and five Nigerians.
He said: “Before now, we go out there to make arrest and we hand over to relevant agencies, but the activities of the criminals have continued unabated. This time around, we made a detailed search and interrogation of ships at sea.
“Within the period of the operation, we interrogated over 100 ships, we boarded over 40 of them and in the process of boarding these vessels, one was suspected to be carrying illegal activities on our waters.”
During the operation, Olisemenogor stressed that the criminals were not shining their electronic gadget at sea, which would have indicated their position as stipulated by the International Maritime Organisation IMO).
He said: “Further search on the boat reviewed that they had four MI rifles that can do anything at sea and over 1,000 rounds of ammunition with them and various military kits. What they are doing on our waters, we do not know. We are handing over the suspects, exhibits and the boats to the Nigeria Police.”
Also, IMB explained that a product tanker, San Padre Pio, was attacked by four armed pirates in speedboat at Bonny River Inner Anchorage in off Nigeria within the last one month.
According to the bureau, two pirates managed to board the tanker and opened fire, aimed at superstructure.
This is even as a Spanish warship came to the rescue of the crew members of another merchant ship, which had been held hostage by Nigerian pirates for four days.
The bureau said that four persons armed with automatic weapons in a speedboat approached an unnamed vessel at Bonny River Inner Anchorage with two of the perpetrators managing to board the tanker and opening fire towards the accommodation.
“One guard was injured during the shooting and was given first aid by the crew. Two security boats responded and approached the tanker. The injured person was transferred to a security boat and taken ashore for medical assistance,” the IMB Piracy Reporting Centre said.
Similarly, unnamed vessel was said to have displayed unusual behaviour and did not respond to radio contacts, prompting the Spanish Navy ship Serviola to carry out an inspection.
Last year’s first quarter report, IMB disclosed that its piracy reporting centre] recorded 66 incidents, up from the 43 recorded in the corresponding period in 2017, and 37 incidents in the first quarter of 2016.
The reports further explained that Nigeria alone recorded 22 incidents between January and March 2018. Of the 11 vessels fired upon worldwide, eight were off Nigeria
The United States Department of State Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs blamed the increase in sea robbery on the failure of the law enforcement agencies to address the maritime crimes in the Nigerian waters.
It was learnt that the waters off the Nigerian coast experienced the highest number of piracy attacks and crew kidnap for ransom globally in 2018.
The bureau noted that most piracy occurred in two locations on Nigeria’s coastline, one is just off the coast of Lagos, the other near the Delta of the Niger River and the maritime safety agency has always been caught napping during every attack.
Worldwide, the bureau said that in the first three months of 2018, 100 crew were taken hostage and 14 kidnapped from their vessels. A total of 39 vessels were boarded, 11 fired upon and four vessels hijacked. IMB received a further 12 reports of attempted attacks.
Towards the end of March, it noted that two fishing vessels were hijacked 30 nautical miles off Nigeria and 27nm off Ghana in 2018.
Also, it stressed that Nigeria alone recorded 22 incidents. Of the 11 vessels fired upon worldwide, eight were off Nigeria – including 300,000 tons deadweight Very Large Crude Carrier (VLCC) tanker more than 40nm off Brass.