Determined to control the finances of the state, Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, has directed the 21 local government councils to sack any staff employed after April 2016.
The governor gave the directive during an interactive session with the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, alongside Directors of Personnel and Directors of Finance from the 21 local government areas of the state.
Fintiri, who said the measure was not aimed at witch-hunting or punishing anybody, said he was constraint to adopt the measure because the staff were illegally employed.
He noted that in his move to entrench sanity and zero tolerance for corruption, he would ensure that the old order which has no respect for laws and procedures gave way in the overall interest of the state.
The governor urged the Local Government Administrators to follow the laid down procedures religiously noting that circumventing the rules would be met with dire consequences.
Fintiri noted that the warning became imperative as the administration commenced the process of giving local governments’ full autonomy, which must come with responsibilities so that officials would not get a window to mismanage resources at their disposal.
“We have started transferring power to the third tier and it is not going to be business as usual.
“We will not allow you to do what you want with the money meant to develop your local governments,” he said.
He noted that he had sent a bill that would ensure the regularisation of local government operations, especially in the area of statutory deductions, noting that if the extant laws were implemented to the core, local government autonomy would be dead on arrival as local governments have to borrow at least nine per cent to augment the 109 per cent deduction as provided by law.
Fintiri added that the new law would make payment of salaries to local government staff a first line charge and also pledge to start implementing e-payment to local government workers this month. The governor said he had sent a bill to the state assembly that would enable the creation of transition committees in the 21 local governments to ensure the conduct of elections across the 21 local governments, urging the directors to support the committees in the discharge of their duties.