Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibadan zonal office, yesterday swooped on hideouts of suspected internet fraudsters in Osogbo, Osun State and smoked out 27 suspects.
Among those arrested were four ladies believed to be the suspects’ girlfriends.
Officials of the commission embarked on weeks of surveillance, working on a series of intelligence gathered on the activities of suspected ‘Yahoo Boys’ in locations across the city.
The intelligence was found to be substantially credible, leading to the sting operation yesterday.
Among the arrested suspects are Adeleke Peter, Babalola Abiodun, Aduroja Temitope, Abdulazeez Razak, Adesina Adewale, Osayintoba Dare, Adebowale Fadairo, Abdulazeez Abdullahi, Akinseye Samuel and Osanyintoba Femi. Others include: Austin Onyekachukwu, Oluwaseun Adesina, Ibosiola Olamilekan, Ayoola Lekan, Abdullahi Owopade, Olatunbosun Kolawole, Saheed Adebola, Osanyintoba Pelumi, Ayo Bello, Samuel Emmanuel, Olalekan Oladele, Solomon Mattew, Oyelude Opeyemi, Quadri Olatunji, Ibrahim Alao, Tunde Bello and Fatolu Temitope.
The EFCC spokesman, Tony Orilade, said: “Eight exotic cars, including two Lexus and six Toyota brands, as well as many expensive phones and laptops, were among items recovered in the course of the operation.
“The suspects, who claimed to be graduates, students, computer engineers and businessmen, are currently undergoing interrogation to ascertain their level of involvement in the alleged act. They will be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded.” Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibadan zonal office, on Thursday, June 20, 2019 swept on hideouts of suspected internet fraudsters in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, and smoked out 27 suspects among whom were four ladies suspected to be their girlfriends. Officials of the Commission have… In "National news" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday arrested a politician in Zamfara State for possessing N60 million cash. The politician, Mr. Murtala Muhammad, whom the EFCC suspects to be a blood relation of the Secretary to the Zamfara State Government (SSG), Prof. Abdullahi Shinkafi, was said to have stashed… In "News" Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday said its operatives had arrested nine suspects in connection with alleged internet fraud in Abuja. The Acting Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Tony Orilade, said in a statement that the alleged fraudsters, otherwise known as “Yahoo Yahoo boys,” were… In "Metro and Crime"