With more than 1 billion people in over 180 countries using WhatsApp to stay in touch with friends and family, anytime and anywhere, African Tech firm, Wari has integrated with the WhatsApp Business solution to enable customers – through strategic partnerships – to request its financial services around the world on WhatsApp. In a press release, Wari stated that on WhatsApp, its customers will be able to easily request access to frequently used services and request to initiate financial operations that include: Opening an account; topping-up balances; sending and receiving money; purchasing of airtime as well as payment of bills. According to the release: “The introduction of MyWari on WhatsApp provides customers the convenience to transact and communicate directly as well as easily carry out all their operations. This Wari service on WhatsApp is currently available in the following languages: (French, English, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese) with Russian and Arabic coming soon. This will allow Wari to cater to a broader customer base with the aim of enhancing the user experience across different continents and languages. “In addition, Wari’s financial services availability on WhatsApp will enable millions of consumers to request to initiate financial transactions, regardless of where they may be located in the world.” Commenting on the new solution, Wari President and CEO, Kabirou Mbodje, said: “We have been working for several months to globalise our platform through strategic acquisitions and part-nerships on all continents. We continue our development of services and distribution channels, always aiming at creating a standard to interconnect people in all countries and to make financial inclusion a reality, thus building tomorrow’s world.” He pointed out that Wari WhatsApp business solution is appropriately aligned with the firm’s ambitions to offer its customers innovative experiences through intuitive interfaces. Mbodje also stated that plans to expand the digital offering had always been on the cards. “We have been working for several months to globalise our platform through strategic acquisitions and partnerships on all continents,” he stated, adding: “We pursue our development of wide-ranging services and distribution channels, always aiming at creating a standard, directly interconnecting people in all countries and working to make financial inclusion a reality – for this is the world of tomorrow.” This offering on WhatsApp is in line with Wari’s ambitions to offer its customers innovative services through intuitive interfaces and to position itself as a pioneering platform in the digital world while pursuing its global development, the firm explained.”