 Controversies have continued to trail the various versions of executive order on traffic enforcement by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State.
Worried by the flagrant abuse of traffic law and poor attitude towards the environment, Sanwo-Olu had signed an executive order to intensify enforcement of the law. The order also states that LASTMA should commence shifting and extend their operations till 11p.m. among others.
But Lagosians and motorists are lamenting that the fines of N200,000 and other stiff penalties said to be in the executive order contradicted the dictates of the Traffic Law 2012 and other reviewed versions of the law.
According to residents, LASTMA officials will be emboldened to extort motorists instead of helping them to comply with the law.
They also expressed worries that content of the executive order must be made publicly for better understanding of the populace.
But LASTMA has allayed the fear of motorists over the enforcement of traffic law. The agency urged members of the public, especially motorists, not to be apprehensive over the fines being circulated on social media as it was not a punitive measure but part of the law and measures put in place to restore sanity on roads in the state.
The agency, in a statement signed by its General Manager (GM), Mr. Olawale Musa, said the 2018 traffic law was an improvement of the 2012 law with objectives of addressing the void and inadequacies noticed with a view to improving traffic control and management, safeguarding motorists’ rights, improving road safety, eliminate impunity and disorderliness on roads, and end traffic officers’ overzealousness and arbitrariness on duty.
Musa added that the process of implementing traffic law had been democratised to ensure that cases of traffic infractions were proven, determined and punished accordingly by law court.
According to him, this will allow for fair hearing and transparency in the implementation of the law.
He said: “The process has also put burden of proof on traffic officials and are therefore to be more professional, civil and polite to motorists and members of the public, but firm against violators of the law so as to check cases of impunity on the road.”
Musa added that the existing law was not new to the public, but only being more emphasised. He frowned at a situation where motorists embark on flagrant disobedience of traffic law, driving against on coming vehicles, parking of vehicles and picking of passengers at undesignated places.
On the issue of forfeiture of vehicles for driving against the flow of traffic, Musa said that this should not be misconstrued with the One-Way offense as LASTMA had not apprehended any vehicle for one-way this year. He noted that while the agency had adopted the approach of being civil and humane in its dealings with the public, this was being played upon with observable civil disobedience on the roads prompting the need for sterner measures.
“Regardless of any circumstances, officials of LASTMA will remain civil but firm on the side of the law in the discharge of their duties,” the GM said.
Musa said the surest route to eliminate road disorderliness, chaos and impunity on roads was through obedience of law. He advised law-abiding citizens to drive without fear of harassment by LASTMA officials.
Musa, however, enjoined members of the public to report cases of harassment and extortion to the agency for investigation and appropriate action, cooperate with traffic officials and obey traffic law. According to him, motorists are advised to avail themselves of the 2018 traffic law on the agency`s media platforms listed below.