Women who get up early from bed have been found to lower the risk of breast cancer. According to a new study published in the ‘British Medical Journal (BMJ),’ women who said they preferred to get out of bed early were found to have a lower risk of breast cancer than those who stay up late. The current study was first presented in November 2018 at the National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI) Conference in Glasgow. However, experts cautioned that other breast cancer risk factors such as alcohol consumption and being overweight have a greater impact than sleep, saying there was no reason to change sleep patterns. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. Symptoms include a lump or thickening of the breast, and changes to the skin or the nipple. In Nigeria breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. Nigeria records over 100,000 new cancer cases yearly. The researchers analysed information from more than 400,000 women in two large data banks — around 180,000 women from United Kingdom (UK) Biobank study and more than 220,000 women from the Breast Cancer Association Consortium study and found that one out of 100 women who rise from bed early developed breast cancer, compared with two in 100 women who stay up late. Similarly, the study found that sleeping more than the average seven to eight hours per night was found to have a slightly increased risk of breast cancer. Furthermore, the result of the study found there was a little link with insomnia and risk of breast cancer. Senior Research Fellow in the Department of Surgery & Cancer at Imperial College London Luca Magnani said. “It is important to note that these data do not suggest in any way that modifying sleep habits could eventually lead to a decrease in the risk of breast cancer. “What they suggest is that it appears that the risk of breast cancer is associated with a genetic (thus not modifiable) trait that is in itself associated with a ‘morning’ or ‘night’ preference. Lead author, Dr. Rebecca Richmond, a research fellow at the MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit at the University of Bristol, “Sleep is likely to be an important risk factor for breast cancer, but it isn’t as large as other well-established risk factors like BMI or alcohol.” Our genes are now known to influence whether we’re early risers or not and our “chronotype” — or time of day preference — affects not only your sleep patterns but your hormone levels and core body temperature.”