Following developments in technology and changes in market models, Nigerian insurance operators have been advised to create platforms to enable them adapt with the dynamics.
Giving the advice in a statement, the Chairman of the National Insurance Conference Planning Committee, Sir Muftau Oyegunle, said the business world was witnessing an age of dramatic change characterised by evolving business models and propelled by technological innovation and disruption that is shaping business operations. He said this against the backdrop of the National Insurance Conference where the impact of digital disruption and innovation on the insurance industry and business will be the central focus.
The conference will be coming up from June 30 to July 2, 2019 in Abuja. With the theme paper, “Disruption, Innovation and Business Growth,” the event will have President Muhammadu Buhari as Special Guest, and it is to be hosted by the President, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) Eddie Efekoha, who also doubles as the Chairman, Insurance Industry Consultative Committee (IICC)  The theme paper will be delivered by the Managing Director of Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe.
Oyegunle noted that in a bid to make the conference which is the fifth in the series robust, sub-themes are to focus on “Digital disruption; threat and Opportunity” to be delivered by Mr Siegfried Jegels; “Transforming Insurance Business through Inclusive Insurance,” by Mrs. Eme Essien Lore, while “Regulations, Innovation and Business Growth would be delivered by Dr Doyin Salami.
Also, issues relating to regulations and business growth would be handled by the Commissioner for Insurance, Alhaji Mohammed Kari.
Highly resourceful professionals such as Professor Fabian Ajogu; Chief Anthony Idigbe, and M.K Ahmad would be chairmen of sessions. The conference, which is held yearly under the auspices of the Insurance Industry Consultative Committee, has become a veritable platform for the exchange of ideas and facilitation of professional knowledge for critical stakeholders in the economy, both within and outside Nigeria.
Attendance is being expected from the insurance industry, banking, oil and gas, shipping, government, the academia, the organised private sector, and the international business community.