…as Akwa snatched point at the death  Four-time Nigeria Professional Football League champions, Kano Pillars, are targeting the ultimate prize at the ongoing Super Six championships in Lagos. The team currently top of the table with seven points from three matches will be up against Rangers in their next game on Monday and a win in that game will put them a step closer to their ambition. Kano Pillars defeated FC IfeanyiUbah 3-1 in one of the matches played on Saturday and according to the coach of the team, Musa Ibrahim, they are looking forward to another win against Rangers.  Speaking with League Rendezvous, Ibrahim said they came to Lagos for a continental ticket, but they are now looking forward to the title. “With the way we are playing, I see my boys lifting the trophy,” he said. “Coming for this competition, our target was to qualify to play on the continent but we have done well for ourselves and a win against Rangers on Monday will take us closer to the title.” Speaking in the same way, Kano Pillars midfielder, Nzube Anaezeba, said they have what it takes to  win the title. He added that they now have a new ambition and that’s to lift the title and win their fifth title.  The former Enyimba star, who has been coming in as a substitute in Kano Pillars game said he was happy to contribute his quotas to the ambition of the team. In another match played on Saturday, Enyimba also defeated Lobi Stars to stay closer to Kano Pillars at the top of the log with six points.  The seven-time winner and twotime CAF Champions League champions are currently on six points from two victories and a loss at the competition. Enyimba defeated Rangers 1-0 in their opening game before losing 2-0 to Kano Pillars and will be in action also on Monday. Meanwhile, it was a fantastic finale to the Matchday three of the Super Six as Akwa United came back from 3-1 loss against Rangers to secure a 3-3 draw. With first half ending goalless, the second half became an harvest of goals with six goals scored in the game. Akwa had taken the lead from the penalty spot in the second half while Rangers replied with the goal of their own. Rangers however were down to 10-men when Isiaka Oladunjoye was given his marching order after his second yellow card of the game. Rangers however took the lead despite going one man down and were 3-1 up before Akwa United responded with two goals with the third goal coming in the last minute of the game