Ahead of the November 16 Bayelsa State governorship election, Ijaw Elders’ Forum (IEF), in collaboration with Ijaw Professionals Association (IPA), Ijaw Nation Forum, G24 Embasara Foundation and Ijaw Women Connect Worldwide, recently held a workshop in Yenagoa to brainstorm on the way to achieving a violence-free poll. In this interview, the secretary of the coalition groups, Mr. Efiye Bribena, speaks on the significance of the forthcoming governorship election. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports  Your association, Ijaw professionals Association (IPA), in collaboration with other stakeholders recently organised a workshop on credible governorship election and good governance in Bayelsa State to sensitise the people about the need for a violence-free poll. How are you going to get politicians to key into your peace initiative? One important thing is that we have established the objectives and we strongly believe that the politicians will have no choice than to key into it. Whether you like it or not, the voice of the people, they say, is the voice of God. If the people demand peaceful, credible and violence-free election, politicians will be forced to imbibe the message of peace we are trying to preach. Our desire is to make this election a model for leadership selection process. The youths are the willing tools in the hands of politicians. How are you going to get this across to as many of them as possible, so that they would not fall into the hands of desperate politicians who would be looking for thugs to recruit? We intend to also include the youths as part of collaborative organisations. They are part and parcel of the electorate. Good enough, they have also indicated their interest. In our next line of action, they will effectively be part of collaborating organisations that will engage with the stakeholders. They are part of us and we expect them to continue to be more active in the process that we have initiated. They should be able to speak to their fellow youths and make them key into the peace process because they understand their language than we do. What are the issues you expect the governorship aspirants to put in the front burner as they go about with their campaigns in the months ahead? For us, we are more concerned about leadership selection process. We are more concerned about the internal democracy within the political parties. We are more concerned about everyone imbibing the ideals and objectives of the Ijaw charter and code of ethics for good governance and credible leadership. We are more concerned about the code because there are certain principles that have been enunciated there. If the politicians are able to meet the standard we set for ourselves, then we expect that the leadership selection process will become more credible in the sense that we will have people emerging in the political parties that will meet certain minimum standards. That way, we will not be talking about violence during elections. The code is all about good behavior, good examples of leadership. If they buy into those ideals, then we will not have candidates that will promote violence. We don’t expect to have candidate that will focus on rigging and election violence. Beyond the youth, the message also needs to go down to the grassroots level, where the people, who are directly affected by the policies of government reside. How would you engender the necessary confidence between the government and the people in such a way that they would see the policies of government as their own? The code of conduct and ethics governance enunciated in the charter applies to every Ijaw person. So, it is not just about the leadership. It applies to both the leadership and the followership. To what extent can this initiative help to address the restiveness of youths, who are threatening self-determination? This is where the issue of restructuring comes in. What we are trying to do will be difficult to work, if the issue of restructuring is not addressed because a system that perpetuates injustice cannot build an equitable and just society. Nigeria as it is being run currently cannot allow a just society that we are trying to build in the Niger Delta except certain steps are taken to change certain things. And that is why restructuring is very necessary. A system that is built on injustice, a system is based on exploitation and punishment of a group of people with their God-given resources cannot breed a society where you will have the kind of politicians and followership that we are talking about. A system that deliberately throws up bad leaders, a system that perpetuates injustice, a system that perpetuates a certain ruling class will not allow a fair and equitable society. If this country is not restructured, people will be pushed to the wall and so agitation for self-determination will continue to undermine the stability of the country. The way former President Goodluck Jonathan was treated and hounded out of office shows that some people regard the leadership of this country as their birthright. We want a situation where there is equity and justice; otherwise, the struggle for self-determination and agitation for restructuring will continue.