Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi was the Lagos State governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in last general elections. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he spoke on the 20 years of civilian administration in Lagos State and the 2019 general elections, among other issues.  As the Lagos State governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in the last election, what is your assessment of the 2019 polls?
The first problem I have with the election was that it was not constitutional. It did not comply with Section 76, sub-section 1 and 2; Section 132, sub-sections 1 and 2 and Section 178, sub-section 1 and 2 of the 1999 Constitution as amended by the First Alteration Act 2010 in sections 5, 11 and 17, sub-sections 1 and 2 of each of these sections.
This provision has effect initially of given a window within which the election must hold; a one-month window. The 1999 Constitution has an effect of basically restricting the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to a window of between December 29, 2018 and January 29, 2019, so that the INEC chairman could pick a date within that frame for elections. And of course the Electoral Act also grant the INEC chairman the power to postpone election under certain conditions. Of course, he must have complied substantially with the aforementioned sections of the Constitution and the amendments.
The amendments simply have the effect of extending the time between the conclusion of elections and end of the term of incumbents in office, instead of a period of 30 days will now become a period of about 120 days. That is what the amendment was able to achieve. However, you will find out that this last election complied neither with the original provision of the Constitution, which could have demanded that the election be held on dates between March 29, 2019 and April 29, 2019 or of the amended constitution, which could have demanded that the election held between December 29, 2018 and January 29, 2019. The elections as we all know were scheduled to hold starting from February 16 and the postponement brought the election to March 16, which means the entire N240 billion exercise that was conducted by INEC was a false and absolute sham and it will not stand the test of the law. Based on all the issues you have raised, why didn’t you challenge the election results at the tribunal?
I don’t have the means. I just want Nigerians to be aware that they are being ruled by an unconstitutional government. From May 29, 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari and other people have become illegitimate rulers. The elections that brought them into office did not comply with the constitution. That is a fact. They may be declared winners. That INEC declared them winners does not make the elections constitutional. How do you think some of the issues you raised could be corrected?
Nigerians now know and I feel people will be taking steps to ensure that a remedy is brought to the situation. Before the last general elections, your party, the ADP was very formidable and has structure across the country but the party seems to be in disarray after the general elections. What went wrong?
As it is in all politics, there is a lot of intrigues, conversations and negotiations going on. It is a new party and I want to point to the fact that other political parties have had their own growing days. What we are facing in ADP is essentially a growing stage, so we will survive and we will move on from that. It is all about politics. There are speculations that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is reaching out for you to return to the party. How true is that?
I cannot comment on that at this stage. Lagos State deserves the best, 24 million people deserve to live better than we are living now. However, due to perhaps miscalculations, connivance and collusion, certain elements of the ruling party in Lagos and some different elements from the opposition, we found ourselves where we are now. I do hope that at some point, opposition parties in Lagos would come together and form a common front to fight the clearly inept ruling party that has run Lagos aground for the past 20 years. Is there possibility of you returning to the PDP?
I will tell you what my position is. Right now, I am a member of ADP and I remain a loyal member of ADP. But the truth is nobody can predict the future. We don’t know what will happen in the next minute; we have no idea whether there is going to be an earthquake in the next 10 minutes. So, as to what the future holds, what we can do is pray that God guides us correctly and that we do not make mistakes that will continue to cost lives, just like that of the young lady, Adediwura Latifat Belo, who died due to a manhole that was left opened by the government. How would you assess the democratic process in Lagos in the last 20 years?
There is no democracy in Lagos State. Democracy in Lagos is an illusion and it has always been like that, especially since 2003. The last democratic election that we had in Lagos State was 1999, and after that election, all we have had are caricatures of democracy. We have not had any proper election since 1999. This period coincides with the ascendant of the Tinubu School of politics in Lagos. You can interpret that how you wish. Are you saying this because there has not been room for opposition to take over leadership of Lagos State in the last 20 years?
Absolutely not. I am saying this because even where there was opposition and they won election quite clearly, the ruling party had openly and unabashedly fought tooth and nail. I will take you back to the local government election that was held in 2012, where PDP won in several local governments across the state. I remember the one of Badagry Local Government Area where the Returning Officer of the so-called Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) actually announced the PDP candidate as winner. But by the time the thing got to the state, they changed it that PDP is no longer the winner. The announcement by the Returning Officer was captured on video and it is on YouTube. There was a lot of threat and intimidation at the point of announcement but the woman bravely went on and made the announcement. So, when you think about that and all the other incidences, I will call it martial election. What they do is to simply use announcement by the umpire to legitimise fraud. That is what they have been doing in the last 16 years since 2003 and it is something that should stop because it engenders so much suffering; needless suffering for the people of Lagos. How can it be stopped?
The opposition first of all needs to come together. Lagosians need to understand that the problems they are facing; the lack of electricity, water, good roads, affordable housing, medical care, good schools; all of these aspects of their lives are directly affected by decisions made or omissions made mostly deliberately by politicians in power. I want Lagosians to understand that we can be a little more militant, vociferous, deliberate about their rights to vote and their need to vote, and secondly, the protection of those votes come what may. Examples abound throughout the country, of voters fighting to make sure their votes count. Rivers State comes to mind, despite the unfortunate incidence, by and large the will of the people prevailed in Rivers. Bayelsa State also comes to mind. There were vigorous attempts by the APC to upturn the will of the people in those states but the people resisted. There was popular resistance among the people; they were not intimidated. They refused to be cowed, they refused to bend and it is that courage of conviction that is lacking in Lagos and most of Western Nigeria.
Courage that our fathers used to have in the 1950s and 1960s had been taken away by the onslaught of engineered poverty. Some would say it is as a result of over education but I want to discountenance that. I don’t believe that education erodes people’s natural courage. I want to take that away from the argument. I think the focus should be perhaps over-religiosity, which is one issue and perhaps doctrinal problems with some religious doctrines, interpretation of religious books by religious leaders. Some will interpret the Bible and Qur’an deliberately. There are many instances of how literal statements in religious books were twisted, re-interpreted and given all sorts of non-existence spiritual interpretation by some of these spiritual leaders. And I think that has led to a degree of docility among the people. In the last election, there was a major campaign called O to ge in Kwara State and some also tried that in Lagos State but failed. Why was it difficult to achieve such in Lagos?
People that drove it in Lagos used it as makeup. It was simply a facade to persuade the people that they were genuine people when in fact they were just a very bad imitation of general opposition and of course it was going to fail and when it did, I was not surprised. Originally, I didn’t know the source of the O to ge movement and when I found out where it came from, it made my reservations came to the fore, not knowing after all that I was correct. There was insincerity among certain politicians…. in their approach to politics. For them, it’s all about making money from contesting election. But for some of us, it is about doing what we can to enlighten our people and secondly, hopefully, getting an opportunity to right the wrongs.
I am not talking about any high-minded political doctrinal issues, I am talking about the physical aspect of our people. I am talking about access to education, medicare, and good roads. Political doctrine is not really my thing, I don’t know about political dogma like they were. But I do know that lack of good roads is making transport unnecessarily expensive in Lagos. I do know that lack of electricity is making the quality of life terrible on so many fronts. Is it the pollution from generators one wants to talk about? Is it the cost of doing business one wants to talk about? Is it sheer comfort or discomfort that people have to face from inhaling generator fumes? Is it the noise from the generators that keeps people on edge and deprive some of sleep? These are tactical issues. I know people like to situate these things in high-sounding political doctrines but I am not interested in those things. What are your expectations of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term?
I expect that during President Buhari’s second term, there would be more open Fulanisation and Islamisation of Nigeria. In the first term, he tried to refrain himself from open Fulanisation and Islamisation and it is obvious from the appointment, allocation of resources, even from international donors. It is obvious from the conduct and the body language of the president and the people surrounding him even the fact that I am a Muslim. This is a government of Northern Nigeria not of Nigeria as a whole. When I say Northern Nigeria, it is even Fulani Nigeria specifically, but they are not at the core of the power house of this administration and they never had been. What is your expectation in Lagos under Babajide Sanwo-Olu?
There is no Lagos State Government. The state government as you know is situated at Bourdillon, and Bourdillon has shifted the responsibility to a failed governor from another state. So, we now have a situation where a constitutionally elected governor is being dictated to by a failed ex-governor from out of state; a governor who could not pay salary in a state for 36 months despite being given allocation, a governor who plunged the state into a big debt, is now the supervisor of the newly-elected governor of Lagos State. Yes, people will argue and say you have no evidence, you have no proof but we are talking about politics here, Lagos politics, there is no smoke where there is no fire and some members of APC themselves have stated publicly these things that I am saying now and we can quote some of them. We find ourselves in a situation in Lagos where we are more or less in bondage.
So, I don’t expect too much from this Sanwo-Olu administration. I expect a lot of talking that has been the hallmark of the APC for last 16 years; plenty of talk but very little action. Just as a reminder, to remind of what is possible in government, what government can do, if they put their minds to it. The Lekki-Epe Expressway substantial portion of it was built in three years by the Lateef Jakande administration from 1979 to 1983. It built it from Maroko all the way to Ibeju-Lekki. In that same period, the Lagos State Secretariat at Alausa was built in that same period from the scratch, it didn’t exist before. Several general hospitals were built by the same administration, over a thousand new schools that were not existing before were also built. 20,000 housing units were also built all over Lagos State. I am talking about an administration that existed 35 years ago, in addition to that, hundreds of roads came to be. What I am trying to highlight is that these things are possible when we have a government that has the people as the core of its ideology. Why is it difficult for Lagos State to have a repeat of the Lateef Jakande administration?
Dishonesty. We have a lot of characters in politics who are fundamentally dishonest. They are fundamentally corrupt. They seek public office because they want to enrich themselves personally. They are not interested in enriching themselves mentally and becoming richer in experience. They are interested in financial riches, money; that is the reason they go into government and when you have that kind of situation and such people are filled with the idea of progress. Any progress that must be made must come with some personal financial reward for them and that is where the problem is.