A prominent traditional ruler in Osun State, the Ogiyan of Ejigbo land, Oba Omowonuola Oyeyode Oyesoosin (II), has conferred the immediate past Speaker of the state’s House of Assembly, Dr. Najeem Folasayo Salam, with the title of Olu-Omo of Ejigbo land during a colourful ceremony.  The conferment ceremony attracted the presence of important personalities like the Deputy Governor of the state, Mr. Benedict Gboyega Alabi; former Deputy Governor of the state, Mrs. Titi Laoye-Tomori; House of Representatives member, Ede Federal Constituency, Bamidele Salam; the APC Chairman of the state, Prince Gboyega Famodun; and former Speaker of the House of Assembly, Adejare Bello. Oba Oyesosin II said the decision to bestow on Salaam such a prestigious title came “on the basis of his contributions to the growth and development of the ancient community.”  The royal father described the new Olu-Omo as a patriotic son, who has been able to maintain dignified humility and humanitarian principle he has chosen as a way of life. He said: “Salaam is known for his unparalleled humility, sprawling native wisdom and rare generosity/ and he has contributed immensely to the growth of the town.”  He, however, charged those present at the occasion especially those from the town to emulate the good deeds of Olu-Omo which he described as outstanding. Ogiyan affirmed that they should always put it at the back of their minds that whatever they are doing today, whether in a positive or negative manner, people are watching and appealed to the people to be productive in their immediate environments. While appreciating the monarch, Salam expressed his happiness for honouring him with the prestigious title and promised to continue working towards the development of the town.  The immediate past speaker, who was highly delighted said such honour will spur him and other people, both in public office and private engagement, to show commitment to the growth of their places of origins. He said: “I am highly delighted for our Kabiesi and Ogiyan in Council to honour me with this prestigious chieftaincy title, Olu- Omo of Ejigboland. “Out of thousands of the people they count me worthy and bestowed on me the Olu-Omo of Ejigboland. I want to use this opportunity to appeal to all the political office holders to always do good to their people because whatever we are doing people are watching us.