Following the successful conduct of the Nigeria Guild of Editors (NGE) election, the management of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and leadership of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) have extended warm congratulations to the Guild’s president, Mrs. Funke Egbemode over her re-election.
Group Managing Director of the corporation, Dr. Maikanti Kacalla Baru, in a statement, expressed delight over the re-election, saying that the renewed mandate was a testament to the confidence reposed in her.
Calling for rededication in the service of the association, the NNPC boss said the media industry was currently going through trying times, stressing that fake news syndrome was fast impinging the integrity of the Fourth Estate of the Realm, thereby eroding confidence in the media.
He said: “At tempestuous times like this, the Guild needs an individual with strong heart, calculated, savvy and a team player is whom the cap fits. I am of the high opinion that the Guild notes your humble self as embodying this excellence, and more, necessitating your well-deserved re-election.
“I urge that you continue to live up to the expectations of the group to maintain the lofty height it has cultivated over the years. As you settle down for another term, we pray that God in His infinite mercies, imbue you with the required strength and wisdom to steer the ship of the association successfully.
“The NNPC has, over the years, enjoyed tremendous support of and synergy with the Guild. I look forward to sustained consolidation of the symbiotic relationship that has been the hallmark of our collaboration.
“I wish you a successful tenure, while inviting you to kindly accept the assurances of my highest esteem.”
On his part, the President of NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, also in a statement, said it was no secret that in the past two years, Egbemode brought to bear on the affairs of the NGE a leadership style that is not only transparent and resourceful, but project-based.
According to him, “Your unanimous re-election, therefore, was not unexpected. Indeed, if anything, it was a roaring vote of confidence in your leadership style by a constituency that is known for its critical views.
“Your second tenure avails you a rare opportunity of consolidating on the gains of your first tenure as well as exploring new opportunities, including dealing with emerging challenges in the industry.
“Among these challenges are the incidence of fake news, non-payment of salaries by media houses, and increasing exposure to risk by members.”
He pointed out that as part of the process of growth or self-renewal, the Guild must devise for itself a governance culture that places premium on reward for performance and sanction for observance of the rules in the breach.
“The views of editors are taken seriously in all climes. Nigeria is not an exception. In view of this, and as the foremost organisation or the most elite in the industry, the Guild owes the nation the duty of speaking dispassionately to power (irrespective of ownership structure), defending the weak and vulnerable, and of preserving, promoting and defending our national values. In this, I have no doubt we have a vast area for collaboration which should not be left untapped.
“The people look unto editors for direction and inspiration. Accordingly, the members of the Guild should resist the temptation of turning themselves into foot soldiers in the wars of their proprietors in causes that are less than noble in the erroneous belief that by so doing they would be securing their jobs,” he noted.