Officers of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) are fast becoming endangered species in the “Centre of Excellence”. This is because of the spate of attacks on the traffic managers in the last few weeks which increasingly have become worrisome. LASTMA officers have been at the receiving end of various forms of maltreatments from some unruly and violent motorists, and other traffic violators.  Some of these motorists who before now only vent their anger on the traffic officers by throwing various abusive words at them seem to have graduated to outright physical attacks.  On Wednesday, one of those ugly incidents played out yet again at the popular junction of a multinational bottling company, Seven Up. Incidentally, it was the workers of the Lebanese company that did the damage as they allegedly almost sent four LASTMA officials to their early grave.  Three of the officials are still licking their wounds from the attack which occurred about 2.3pm on the fateful day. The attacked officers are Kassim Abayomi, Anozie Peter, Demeji Tonade and the operational head, Alausa, Ikeja, who led the team to the spot of the incident, Oduntan Abiodun.  It was gathered that the workers were bent on killing the Lagos State transport officials but for the timely intervention of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) and the taskforce personnel. Abiodun said: “My officers saw hell; it was a day we all will never forget in a hurry. The workers smashed empty bottles on our heads, twisted the neck of one of us even as they vowed to kill us for what they termed as disturbance within their vicinity. We are lucky to be telling the story today. The way and manner of the attack, nobody expected us to survive it; it was just the grace of God that we are alive till this moment.  “We rushed to the area after we hard on traffic radio that Seven Up trucks had blocked the road leading to the Expressway and that motorists were complaining. I called the officer on ground and he confirmed it to me. Immediately we drove down to the place and had to clear the road for the free flow of traffic and asked the drivers to leave the place because it is the main road for all motorists using the Thruway to Ikeja, linking the motorway to Alausa and it just two carriage way. They had blocked one and the second was choked for vehicular movement.  “So, I called their security officers out to plead with them not to allow their trucks to pack there again as that is causing problem for other road users. After that we left the scene but to our surprise they returned to the spot 10 minutes after. That was when we attempted to arrest them. I had to instruct one of my men to enter one of the trucks. They were two trucks packed there. Instantly they rushed to remove the key   to one of the trucks and prevented my officers’ entry.  “At that point they were boasting and challenging us to a fight. Seeing their reaction, I had to call for our towing vehicle and immediately one of the security personnel rushed to the factory to call out their workers. Suddenly we saw them trooping out and some of them opened the same trucks we had apprehended and emptied bottles started flying around from every direction. With the tense situation we had to call for reinforcement from both the RRS and the Taskforce.  Even with that they still believed it wasn’t possible to move the trucks out from the scene. “It was at that point that hell was let loose. Before we knew what was happening, the workers had started beating us blue and black.  One of my officers’ mouth was ripped open and he became unconscious afterwards. We thought he had passed on. So, the RRS and Taskforce officials helped to rush the three badly wounded officers to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of LASUTH for treatment.”  Abayomi told Saturday Telegraph that drivers and workers of Seven Up Company had always engaged them physically with different weapons whenever they tried to enforce traffic laws. He noted that it was an  eye-sore seeing some of these drivers parking illegally on one side of the road thereby causing serious traffic obstructions to other motorists along toll gate area of the state. Meanwhile, 13 of the seven up workers, who were overpowered, have been arraigned by the operatives of the Lagos State Task Force for unruly behaviour and assault on officers of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority.  Chairman of the Task Force, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, confirmed in a press statement signed by Adebayo Taofiq, Head, Public Affairs Unit, that the enforcement team of the agency arrested the 13 workers after they assaulted LASTMA officers and injured three of them. Egbeyemi disclosed further that investigations revealed that the officers were attacked while trying to tow a truck belonging to the company, which was causing serious traffic gridlock.  He said: “The prosecution of these 13 arrested workers became imperative to serve as a deterrent to others who might want to attack law enforcement officers in the course of enforcement of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s Executive Order on traffic offenders across the State.  It was disheartening that officers employed to safeguard members of the public were  always being attacked by same people whose interest were being protected.” Meanwhile, Magistrate Olajuwon Amos of the Lagos State Mobile Court, who presided over the case adjourned the commencement of trial to August 8, after the workers pleaded not guilty.  They were all charged for assault and conduct likely to cause breach of peace under Part 3, item 26 of the Lagos State Traffic Sector Law and reminded at the Badagry Prison. The recent attack has once again brought to the front burner the risks and hazards that traffic managers are exposed to while on duty. In defence of these unarmed traffic controllers in Lagos and in view of the tragic occurrences that have befallen the agency in time past, many concerned Nigerians have called for more protective measures to be put in place for these officers against any form of physical attack or assault.  It will be recalled that last year, LASTMA suffered terrible losses of its officers to violent breaches of criminally-minded attackers. Many of them died in the course of maintaining traffic laws. Official statistics for instance, in 2018, showed that 18 LASTMA officers were carelessly killed and 24 others permanently rendered incapacitated and hence, disabled. Lately, the narrative is yet to change. LASTMA Public Relations Officer, Hassan Mamud, while reacting to the incident said: “Attack on our personnel by Seven Up workers will show it’s no longer business as usual. It is our belief that the law of the land will take its course.”