Chief Willy Ezugwu is the National Secretary of the Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP). In this interview with Felix Nwaneri, he speaks on the new leadership of the National Assembly and ways to deepen the nation’s electoral process  What are your expectations from the leadership of both houses of the National Assembly – Senate and House of Representatives – that emerged last week, following the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly? While congratulating the new legislative leaders for their victory, I urged them to uphold the independence of the hallowed chambers in the discharge of their duties as lawmakers. They should realize that now that elections are over, it is time to ensure that Nigerians get the dividend of democracy that have consistently eluded them over the years. I also advise every member of the Senate and the House of Representatives to represent the interest of their constituents, who voted for them. The time to pursue political party interest to the detriment of the wellbeing of the electorate is over as the people are getting more and more frustrated but holding on in hope that politicians can keep to their campaign promises. Some people believe that 9th National Assembly may turn out the executive’s rubber-stamp given the way the leadership of both houses emerged in line with the ruling party wanted. What is your take on that? In exercising their legislative duties, including oversight functions, our representatives in both chambers of the National Assembly must not be the executive’s rubber-stamp lawmakers or political party stooges, but our true representatives. The interests of constituents and the general good of all Nigerians must be the centre of the activities of the 9th National Assembly. Nigerians demand uttermost openness and accountability to the people in the running of the current national legislative houses for guaranteed national unity and even development of the country. Besides the National Assembly, what are your expectations from the executive headed by President Muhammadu Buhari? There is no doubt that Nigeria is in dismay and gradually turning to a banana republic. The security situation is deteriorating and any government that fails to guarantee the security and welfare of its people is a failure. The Buhari-led APC government came on the Change mantra, which according it encompasses security, fight against corruption and economy, but nothing has changed. Where are we today; corruption seems to have come to stay and the education, health and other sectors is at zero level. So, I expect President Buhari assemble people, who have something to offer from across the different parts of Nigeria to form his next cabinet, so that Nigeria can move forward. The European Union Election Observation Mission (EU EOM) in Nigeria has said the presidential, governorship, federal and state parliamentary elections were characterized by systemic failures. Do you share such view? It was very clear that the exercise was a disappointing decimation of principles of democratic elections. Every election year in Nigeria, we have always returned to the same thing, violation of essential elements of democratic elections. Even though the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), manages to make available a relatively accurate voters register and delineates the polling units, when it comes to ensuring that the ballots counted reflect the votes cast as the sovereign will of the people, we fail. From the assurances by the electoral umpire ahead of the elections, we were hopeful that the country has overcome the crude way vote counting was done and validated in the time past, but it was not to be. Equal accessibility to voting processes by political parties, candidates, and the public, either as witnesses or observers, met arbitrary barriers by security institutions and political thugs as they became the main impediments to a credible electoral process in the country. The security agencies, particularly the military, were accused of obstructing access to collation centres by both national and international observers. There were also reports of individuals leading police and military personnel to disrupt elections and cause mayhem in parts of the country. Observable interference by security agencies as attested to by INEC’s fact-finding committee’s report, which indicted the military for its unauthorised involvement in election-day duties must be condemned by all well-meaning Nigerians. What is the way out of these challenges, so that the electoral process could be deepened? I call on the judiciary to live up to its responsibility of ensuring stability at a time of electoral chaos deliberately orchestrated politicians in their greed for power for the purpose of selfish allocation of the people’s commonwealth. INEC should therefore partner with the Judiciary to frustrate efforts of desperate politicians and ensure that the will of the people prevails. Nigeria cannot continue on the path of fraudulent elections. It is the duty of the judiciary, where the electoral umpire has failed, to punish beneficiaries of manipulated electoral outcomes to serve as deterrence to dishonest politicians and eliminate electoral violence and end this circle of dishonesty by the political elite to enable the country to develop. I strongly believe that flawed elections promote corruption and underdevelopment, which Nigeria is a typical example.