As Nigerians await the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly today, some of the top contenders to the presiding officers positions in the Senate decided to arrive the hallowed chambers as early as possible. For instance, Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume, who is contesting for the office of the Senate President, and representing Borno South on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), arrived the apex legislative complex about 7 am. Senator Kabiru Gaya, representing Kano South Senatorial District, and contesting for Deputy Presidency got into the Senate Chambers at 7.20 am. Both senators sat in the Senate chamber while other senators-elect also walked in to join them. Senator Ahmad Lawan, who is the APC preferred candidate for Senate Presidency, arrived the chamber at 8.52 am, flanked with his many supporters from the APC fold. The PDP had in the early hours of today, endorsed Ali Ndume as its preferred candidate in the election that will take place in the nearest time possible today. Just like yesterday, there is heavy presence of security within and roundabout the National Assembly complex, to maintain law and order. The situation however, made entry difficult for both journalists and workers on duty. Meanwhile, Senator Kabiru Gaya (APC, Kano South ), who is contesting for the Seat of Deputy Senate President against Senator Ovie  Omo- Agege (APC, Delta Central), adopted by the party, insisted to run the race to its logical conclusion. “Since I’m already in the race for the position of Deputy President of the 9th Senate, slated for inauguration in less than two hours now, I will run it to the end and confident of emerging victorious”, he said. Some of the many senators – elect already seated in the Senate Chamber for the inauguration/election, are Senators Jibrin Barau ( APC Kano North), Orji Uzor Kalu (APC Abia North), Francis Alimikhena ( APC Edo North), Emmanuel Bwacha ( PDP Taraba South), Theodore Orji ( PDP Abia Central) and Stella Oduah ( PDP Anambra North ). Others are Senators Dayo Adeyeye ( APC Ekiti South), Ovie  Omo  – Agege ( APC Delta Central), Chukwuka Utazi ( PDP Enugu North ) etc . There is no tension within the complex as witnessed in 2015.