The Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON) and the Nigerian reggae music community recently paid glowing tributes to Reggae music icon, Ras Kimono, at a memorial lecture to mark the first anniversary of his passing.
Organised by COSON, the memorial lecture, delivered by Prof. Duro Oni, former Deputy-Vice Chancellor (Management Services) University of Lagos, a professor, was held at the COSON House in Ikeja, Lagos.
Ras Kimono, whose birth name was Oseloke Augustine Onwubuya, died on June 10, 2018, after falling ill at the Lagos airport, on his way to the USA. He was 60.
In his lecture titled ‘Revolutionary Music for Equality and Justice’, Prof. Oni, described the reggae icon as a visionary musician who made an impact with socially conscious music.
“He lived among people, so he could see their tribulation and sufferings. To Ras Kimono, music transcended singing and dancing and just dancehall. He believed music was a weapon to fight injustice and ills in society. He was not like other dance hall artistes, he dealt with truth and faced the government squarely. He was also totally dedicated to COSON’s cause.”
The singer’s daughter, Oge Kimono, also announced that she was set to host a memorial concert and also launch her debut album titled ‘Good Ole Days’, dedicated to her late father’s memory.
She said: “The event is to commemorate the one year anniversary of Ras Kimono’s death and formally launch my taking over of Ras Kimono’s Massive dread band.
The album will tell the story of the good old days where everything was nice and smooth, good nightlife, and good music. Billed to perform at the memorial event are star acts like Sound Sultan, Ego, Righteous Man, Joel, Buchi, and Oritz Williki.”
Meanwhile, a Ras Kimono Development Foundation will be launched in Asaba, Delta State on June 15, his associates have announced.
A statement signed by Godfrey Osakwe on behalf of the singers’ associates said the proprietor of Giddy’s Place, a hospitality and entertainment resort in Asaba, Gideon Nwaomu, is spearheading the launch of the foundation, with the support of Kimono’s family. An advocate of social change, Kimono was known for his patois styled music. In 1989, his group, Massive Dread Reggae Band, released an album titled, Under Pressure. He once revealed that he is a vegetarian and has never indulged in any affair that went against his upbringing, including smoking and drinking. Ras Kimono rose to stardom after the release of his debut album ‘Under Pressure’ in the late ‘80s. His style of music was significantly influenced by the hardship he reportedly experienced in his early life. The late reggae music icon won several awards including the Nigeria Music Awards and Fame Music Awards among others.