Oil companies in Nigeria burn N875 billon worth of gas in one year. Is there an end to this monumental loss to gas flaring? Adeola Yusuf, who looks at the air pollution suffered by the country for over 50 years, asks  Oil producers in Nigeria; International Oil companies (IOCs), independents producers and the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), burnt N875 billion worth of gas in the last one year.
This, data from the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) sighted by New Telegraph showed, came as the volume of gas that was not commercialized (flared or re-injected) in the March 2019 alone rises to 42 per cent.
Reiterating the DPR data, AfriPERA, an Energy and Infrastructure Policy research organisation, said that Nigeria lost an average of N875 billion ($2.5 billion) between March 2018 and March 2019 from gas flaring in the country.
While the country loses billions of dollars, its air and environment suffer toxic pollution. A loss since 1950s
This huge loss, Chief Executive Officer of the AfriPERA, Mr. Chinedu Onyeizu, said, was asides the unattended impact of negative externalities associated with gas flaring.
“Since the 1950s, Nigeria has been burning off its natural gas at flare points and despite efforts by successive administrations to curtail the wastage, the country loses an estimated 2.5 billion dollars each year to gas flaring as well as the unattended impact of negative externalities associated to gas flaring,’’ he said.
Chairman, Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS), Paul McGrath, explained in a reaction to gas production, that gas provides a unique opportunity to provide steady, widely available, cost-effective and generally affordable power to Nigerians.
He added that a shift to gas-fuelled power generation would represent significant savings opportunities over sources such as diesel, which is multiple times more expensive than gas at the current price of $2.5 /mmbtu. The statistics of waste
Gas production, according to the DPR report, increased by 15.4per cent at 263.48billion cubic feet compared to the output in proceeding period of February 2019.
This translated to an average daily production of 8,499.58million standard cubic feet of gas per day (mmscfd).
Out of the volume of gas supplied in March 2019, 155.01bcf of gas was commercialized, consisting of 40.35bcf, and 111.66bcf for the domestic and export markets, respectively.
The report indicated that 58.81 percent of the average daily gas produced was commercialized, while the balance of 41.19 was re-injected, used as upstream fuel gas or flared recorded gas flaring.
The Senate had on April 18, passed a new bill, which provided for a penalty against gas flaring and other malpractices in the oil and gas sector.
The last legislation on the gas flare, the Associated Gas Re-injection Act of 1979, came into force 40 years ago, and since then there has been no review or amendment of the Act despite its devastating effect on the host communities. ABC of the new bill
One of the highlights of the new Bill is that any licensee who supplies inaccurate data to the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) or to any other lawful authority will be liable, upon conviction to a fine of N10 million or be committed to prison for a term of six months or both.
Other objectives of the Bill include ensuring that natural gas is not flared or vented in any oil and gas production operation, block or field, onshore or offshore, or any gas facility, which shall commence operations after the commencement of the Act.
The Bill also seeks to ensure that no operator establishes an Oil and Gas facility in the country without first obtaining authorisation from the Minister for the design, commissioning and production phases.
The Bill comprises 22 sections including sections one punishment for the supply of inaccurate data, the gas flaring penalty fee, powers of the minister to make regulations, as well as a repeal of the Associated Gas Re-injection Act 1979.
Sponsor of the Bill, Senator Bassey Albert said: “The approval of the long-awaited legislation on gas flaring after 40 years is one of the best parting gifts, the 8th Senate could possibly offer Nigerians at this time.” Gas Flaring in Nigeria
Nigeria flares, according to alternative data, 17.2 billion m3 of natural gas per year in conjunction with the exploration of crude oil in the Niger Delta.
This high level of gas flaring is equal to approximately one quarter of the current power consumption of the African continent.
Even though we have grown to be fairly dependent on oil and it has become the center of current industrial development and economic activities, we rarely consider how oil exploration and exploitation processes create environmental, health, and social problems in local communities near oil producing fields.
The Nigerian government has not enforced environmental regulations effectively because of the overlapping and conflicting jurisdiction of separate governmental agencies governing petroleum and the environment. This is also because of non-transparent governance mechanisms. Neither the Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) nor the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has implemented anti-flaring policies for natural gas waste from oil production, nor have they monitored the emissions to ensure compliance.
The Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) has had the authority to issue standards for water, air and land pollution and has had the authority to make regulations for oil industry. However, in some cases their regulations conflict with the DPR’s regulations started in 1991 for oil exploration.
From an economic perspective, the Nigerian government’s main interest in the oil industry is to maximize its monetary profits from oil production.
Oil companies find it more economically expedient to flare the natural gas and pay the insignificant fine than to re-inject the gas back into the oil wells.
Additionally, because there is an insufficient energy market especially in rural areas, oil companies do not see an economic incentive to collect the gas. From a social perspective, the oil-producing communities have experienced severe marginalization and neglect.
The environment and human health have frequently been a secondary consideration for oil companies and the Nigerian government.
However, although there may be reasons for the continuous gas flaring, there are many strong arguments suggesting that it should be stopped. Corporations’ accountability to the people and environment surrounding them imply that oil companies should be required to re-inject the gas, to recover it, or to shut down any extraction facilities in which the gas flaring is occurring. Because of this massive oil exploration in the Niger Delta, the ramifications for human health, local culture, indigenous self-determination, and the environment are severe. As is the case in most oil producing regions of less developed countries, the economic and political benefits are given significantly more weight by the government than the resulting damage to the environment and human health. Last line
The bill passed by the eighth National Assembly should be studied and assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari.
The gas flare commercialisation and other efforts to reduce and commercialise gas flaring should be accelerated and encouraged by all and sundry.