…as Ofeimun speaks on arts in quest for social justice  It was a gathering of poets, writers, environmentalists, culture aficionados, artistes, among others at the serene VIP Restaurant, King Size, Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun Road, Ikeja, Lagos, venue of the Colloquium organised in honour of renowned environmental activist, poet, architect and humanist, Mr. Nnimmo Bassey as he marked his 61st birthday. Undoubtedly, one of Africa’s leading advocates and campaigners for the environment and human rights, Bassey has stood up against the practices of multinational corporations in Nigeria and the environmental devastation they leave behind destroying the lives and ignoring the rights of the local population. The Colloquium tagged “Arts Meets Environment, An Evening with Nnimmo Bassey”, was on the theme Arts & Humanity Search For Social Justice. Renowned poet, polemicist and literary critic, Odia Ofeimun, who keynote speaker at the event, noted the importance of art in the quest for social justice. Ofeimun gave an overview of the importance of art in the quest for social justice, adding that the security of human lives is dependent on the level of order in the society, and that art could be used as a tool to maintain order. According to him, “the lives we can live begin with the creation of order in the society. The security of human lives is dependent on the level of order in the society. In human societies, we tend always to hurt one another. It is necessary to have groups of people who consistently defend those who are being hurt by society. There is always the necessity to fight for social justice. “One way to ensure commonality between human beings is to follow ideals such as ‘Do to unto others as you will have them do to you.’ And Bernard Shaw’s version that states that ‘Don’t do unto others the evil you do to yourself’.” Art, he further stated, creates a society in which people learn to relate in order to solve problems. “This is important in the quest for social justice.” He also the celebrant, Nnimmo Bassey for his contribution as one of the leading advocates and campaigners for the environment and human rights, and standing up against environmental devastation, stressing that if you don’t take care of your environment, your environment will damage you. “If we do not defend our environment, the environment will cripple us as much as whatever we are crippling in the environment. “What Nnimmo Bassey is telling us about the environment is that if you do not care of your environment of your environment, your environment will not take care of you.” The celebrant, Mr Bassey, said the colloquium is a challenge and understanding that he has a lot more to do. “We are living in a poison environment. I believe it is our duty to wake up. The time now that we live in is so complex and so vicious that a lot needs to be done. “This is not the time to get old, it is a call to action and a notice that it is not a time to rest,” he said. It was not all about speeches, as award-winning poet and spoken word artist, Akeem Lasisi and celebrated poet and journalist, Evelyn Osagie thrilled the audience with spoken word performance. Also, veteran journalist, editor and author, Mr. Kunle Ajibade read a poem from a collection of poems titled ‘A Poets on the Run’.