Former Governor of Abia State and senator-elect, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, yesterday warned against the apparent plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to exclude the South-East geo-political zone from the key leadership positions in the 9th National Assembly.
This is even as the former governor revealed that plans were underway to bring feuding leaders of the APC together to find a lasting solution to the crisis rocking the party.
Kalu, who was a guest on Sunrise Daily, a current affairs programme on Channels Television, observed that the zoning formula proposed by the leadership of the ruling party, which gave the Senate Presidency to the North-East and Speaker to the South-West, had remained silent on what would go to other regions, a situation, he said, had given rise to a lot of claims and speculations.
He said that it would be unfair and unacceptable if the process of election of presiding officers in the two chambers of the parliament were deliberately skewed against the South-East region.
Kalu urged the APC to zone the Deputy Senate Presidency to the South-East or throw it open for a free contest in the spirit of justice, equity and fair play.
According to him, he would throw his hat in the ring to contest the position of the Deputy Senate President if the party failed to heed his request.
When prodded by the panelists to declare his real motives for wanting to dare his party to contest a position not zoned to his region, Kalu said: “I am not running because I need an office. The position of Deputy Senate President will not change my life as a person. But I am running for fairness and equity. The South-East ought to have somebody in the hierarchy of leadership in the country.
“Let me be honest with you; there are seven key positions in the hierarchy of the government and our party – President, Vice President, President of the Senate, Speaker of the House, Deputy Senate President and Deputy Speaker and National Chairman of the ruling party.
“So how do you want to do it that out of these seven positions, nothing will come to the South-East? Let me be honest with you, even if the party does not zone it to the South-East, it is one position I have to fight for because you cannot exclude the South-East from leadership. Let us be fair to all regions. This is just what I am asking for,” he said.
Kalu dismissed speculations that the position of the Deputy Senate President had been zoned to the South-South zone and argued that it would be unfair to give the position to the same region that currently has the National Chairman of the party.
In the alternative, Kalu said the APC should re-adjust its zoning formula by giving the Speakership of the House of Representatives to the South-East as they were capable persons from the region to hold the position.
“However, if they give the Speakership of the House to the South-East, I will drop from the race. I will not run again because the position of Speaker is superior to Deputy Senate President. Although I have endorsed Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, if the party gives the position to the South-East, I will drop my ambition to run for the Deputy Senate President position. What we are asking for is a free and fair democratic process.
“If there is no South Eastern lawmaker in these top leadership positions, it means that we will be shut out of high level caucus meetings where important decisions are taken,” he said.
Kalu debunked the insinuations that he was launching the agitation to feather his own nest rather than fighting for the interest of his constituents.
According to him, the struggle of the moment was not for self-aggrandizement, but in furtherance of giving every region a sense of belonging and consolidating the gains the APC had made in the South East.
“It is not a personal thing. What I am looking for is really not for my personal benefit. I am trying to make sure we contribute our quota in helping Mr. President to build the country the way it should be.
“So I have no personal interest, but if you call it personal interest, why not? What is wrong? Am I not a human being? Those who are occupying the positions, are they better than me? Is it because I am an Igbo man? I won’t take that from anybody. We have six regions and we have seven key positions to share. You want every region to take without the South-East having any of the positions? No, I don’t agree with you,” he said.
Kalu argued that the South-East needed to be in the power block of the country so that the views, opinions and interests of the region would be captured whenever important decisions are being taken in the country.
“In 2015, you said we had no senators elected on the platform of the APC. Now we have senators and we have members of the House of Representatives and somebody is still telling me that South-East did not vote for APC. Such a person cannot be thinking right.
“In my state in 2015, the APC got three per cent of the votes cast at the national election, but in 2019 the APC has about 29 per cent of the votes. That is an improvement. In Ebonyi State, the APC also did well. So from this 29 per cent, there will be improvement by the time we do another election in the next four years,” he said.
He argued that given his cognate experience in the legislature and the executive, he was the most qualified person to occupy the position of the Deputy President of the Senate.
“I was in the National Assembly in 1991. There is nobody in the Senate who was in the National Assembly then. I am a former governor and these things should matter. So, in terms of competence, I have all. I am not running for this office because of myself. To be very frank, I don’t need this position. But the position needs me.
“People have asked me what the position will do for my people. I can assure you that once I am elected as Deputy President of the Senate, I will lead the drive to ensure that APC makes more inroads into the region.
“The first casualty will be Anambra State. We will take over the state during the next governorship election. I will personally lead that campaign as Deputy President of the Senate,” he said.
On the need for the South East to thread cautiously in view of the promise that the Presidency would go to the South-East in 2023, Kalu said it would be better for the South-East to be treated fairly like others while working towards the future.
“Let’s leave the promise of the Presidency going to the South-East in 2023. Today, the National Chairman of the ruling party is from the South-South where some persons claimed have been given the Deputy Senate Presidency.
“Who told you I will be alive by 2023? Who told you that those who are talking about 2023 will be alive then? Let us talk about today. There is no time better than now. Now is the time.
“Let us do what is needful now. We are talking about now. Let me tell you,there is no time that is better than now. Let us start doing something today before we talk about tomorrow,” he said.
The former governor reminded the leadership of the APC that given the internal wrangling plaguing the party in recent weeks, it would not be wise to take actions that could create further rancour and disharmony.
He said that APC had already lost seven states to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and must, therefore, put its house in order to avoid any further depletion of its rank and file.
As part of plans to find a solution to the crisis, Kalu said he will meet with critical stakeholders of the party, including President Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, John Odigie-Oyegun and Adams Oshiomhole.
“We have already lost seven states to the opposition. PDP won those states because of the crises. We need to resolve these issues and save the party from further crisis.
“As soon as I return to Abuja, I will meet with Oshiomhole and Oyegun. They are my leaders. I will bring in Tinubu and talk to the president to intervene in the crisis. This is what I plan to do.
“In the next two weeks, we should come up with a solution and these things will be history. There is no doubt about that. The crisis will be over soon. I can assure you that as a person,” Kalu said.