Director of Service Delivery, Performance Management and Results at the African Development Bank (AfDB), Simon Mizrahi, has said that while Africa’s debt has increased in recent years it had not yet reached, “unsustainable levels.”
He, however, pleaded for caution, stating that: “We need to continue to generate financing and spur growth without increasing debt.”
He stated this during the Bank’s Financial presentation yesterday, a highlight of the 2019 Annual Meetings of the AfDB currently underway in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea.
Sharing insights on Africa’s path forward, Mizrahi underscored the need to harness the continent’s incredible potential in renewable energy.
Africa is the most vulnerable continent and suffers the most from climate change but “with the right vision, investments and political commitments, Africa can lead a global energy revolution and leapfrog to renewable technologies. This is why the Bank is putting its money where its mouth is and investing more than any other development Bank in helping the continent transition towards more resilient and sustainable economies,” he concluded.
Also speaking during the presentation, the Bank Group’s Treasurer, Hassatou Diop N’sele, disclosed that lender remains strong with growing operating revenues and allocable income generated since 2010 reaching $2.5 billion.
In 2018, the Bank earned $214 million in allocable income, 48% of which has been reinvested in the institution to reinforce reserves and its business growth capacity.
N’Sele noted that the Bank could chart a new path on account of its ability to raise funds on the capital markets. “The amount of infrastructure financing covered by private sector could double if African countries harness the full potential of their capital markets.”
According to N’sele, a number of African countries could save as much $1 billion on a 20-year loan, if they borrow from the African Development Bank, instead of from the Eurobond market, due to preferable lending rates.
Delegates were informed of the Bank’s successful issuance of the first-ever NOK social bond sold in Norway and sealed in 2018.