Former Nigerian Ambassador to the Netherland, Dr. Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosumu , the youngest daughter of late Chief Obafemi Awolowo bares her mind on the need for the present government to pay more attention to restructuring and security challenges affecting the country. She tells FLORA ONWUDIWE why the nation needs a competent woman to be president of Nigeria and sundry issues  It has been argued that Nigerian women have not been given the opportunity in nation building. Do you agree? Yes, I do. I don’t have the specific numbers with me now, but the numbers of elected female politicians have been dwindling with each election cycle, certainly since 2011 or so. That is not a good trend. In fact, Nigeria is said to have the lowest number of female parliamentarians in sub-Saharan Africa. So, my answer is, women are not doing well at all.  What are the challenges you think are confronting women politicians? The obvious one is finance because politics has become so horribly monetised now. It is like a transaction, a trade or investment. Unless you are loaded and have enough disposable funds to spend without batting an eyelid, and there are not many people in that position, certainly very few women, you should not venture into the Nigerian brand of politics as it is currently being played. So that, for sure, is the first constraint for women. Secondly, politics in Nigeria has become more like war. It is extremely adversarial. It is no longer a contention of ideas. It is just too terrible for women to get involved in. I think those are the two issues, money and the violent nature of politics these days. It is not the kind of environment women can thrive in, unfortunately.  If a woman was given the chance to become the president of Nigeria, would you support her wholeheartedly? Not just any woman, but competent woman. Yes, if a competent woman, as competent as the best that is on offer, male or female, is presented, of course I would wholeheartedly support her. If two people with equal abilities were presented and all that differentiated them was their gender, most certainly, I will support the woman.  Why do you suppress the political genes that run in the family? (Laughter) How much time do you have? If you have two days, minimum, then I can explain to you fully. The truth is that it just doesn’t work for me. It has not worked for me for many years. I came to the conclusion that since my greatest reason for going into politics would be to advance Papa’s legacy, then if the partisan political route was not available and if it is not conducive, then it is better simply to find another route by which to preserve that legacy and to try and move it forward. Fortunately, Papa was as much, if not more, of a philosopher and thinker as he was a politician and he committed most of his thoughts into writing. I actually believe that this intellectual side of him represents the very essence of his legacy.  What advice would you give to a woman you find competent to be on top or ahead of others? First of all, I am sure that there are more than enough women in Nigeria that are competent enough to run this country. The first advice I would give is to, first of all, realise that politics anywhere, and mostly in Nigeria, is not a tea party. So she really needs to be convinced beyond any doubt that this is what she wants. She needs some years of rigorous preparation, reading, studying, learning and setting her personal and home life in order so that it can be her safe haven at all times. Because there is no point in going into politics if it is going to cost more money than she can conveniently afford or raise, the word conveniently is very important here, she needs to have a Plan B to fall back on if things don’t work out in politics. More than that, be sure it won’t cost you things that money cannot buy, like integrity and a good reputation. My next question will be, are you willing to take the risk because it is a very risky business in Nigeria, on many levels. Then, be very clear in your mind what you want to achieve, what you want to do for the people. Politics right now, is too much about power for its sake alone. It is too much about selfish acquisition, so you have to be different. I would ask her to focus on the development of this country. Whatever she does, everything must revolve around the development of Nigeria and the development of its citizens and improving the life of everybody across the board from the lowest to the highest. She must not focus on one segment of the society to the detriment of the others. She must be determined about her mission and must not allow herself to be carried away by the perks of office. Having said that, what are the chances of such a person succeeding within the current political milieu? Very slim I would imagine, because apart from everything else you have to satisfy so many contending interests. It’s a minefield out there.  The present government has declared the 26 years of June 12 struggle Democracy Day. What is your comment? I think it is the proper thing to do. It is a step in the right direction and I hope it is sustained.  Do you think today, the Yoruba politicians have totally abandoned the ideals of your father? If I look around me, education is not doing very well, health services are not what they should be, human capital development generally is not what Chief Awolowo envisioned. The best I can say under the circumstances is that there is plenty of room for improvement.  Your father was said to be the leader of the Yoruba race, but since his demise, no one has stepped in that shoe to lead the Yorubas. What is your opinion? You just made a statement. It is very difficult to add to it but let me just say this. It would be good to have a rallying point again. Because that was what Papa was. He was a rallying point that everybody related to and trusted. But his thoughts and ideals are still with us. And some of the people who rallied round those ideals with him are still with us doing their best to remind people that a better future is achievable. Papa was larger than life, he was unique. It would be naïve to expect to have an Awolowo every ten years or whenever, and it is not likely to happen. So the best thing we can do is to rally round those enduring ideals that he lived and worked for. I wish we could do that.  At what year did you become politically conscious of what your father was doing? Can you recall any political scenario? No I can’t recall any single incident. I grew up knowing him to be in politics and that was just part of my reality. It was just part of my life growing up. He was Premier and that was just a fact of life as far as we were concerned. We were brought up not to consider it a big deal. We were just children growing up and our father just happened to be in government. It didn’t really impact our lives, or so we thought. We went to the same schools as our neighbours, we did the same thing that our neigbours did. Ok, we occasionally went to have afternoon tea with the colonial Governor’s wife, play games at the Governor’s Lodge, and so on. But at the same time our lives were really very ordinary. There was nothing in our daily routine that particularly signified that Papa was any different from any other father in the neighbourhood. We had no security detail. Nothing. Sometimes, we walked to and from school if there was no car available. That was part of life. So there wasn’t any particular incident. I think the time when I really understood, in a mature way, what it was all about and I think empathised is the word, when I understood really what he was trying to achieve was during the second Republic. I was a medical doctor and I was doing my own work, but I had the opportunity then to watch him at close quarters. During the First Republic, I was too young to make much sense of what was going on. In the second Republic I lived close enough to Papa and Mama, my house was not too far, to make sense of it all. I understood better. Perhaps that sowed the seed, without my necessarily being aware of it at the time, for what I am doing now, the Obafemi Awolowo Foundation and more recently the HID Awolowo Foundation. Maybe.  Were you able to recognise your father’s political enemies? Yes I could understand. During the crisis from 1962-1966 unless you are complete moron, you would understood who was on the other side, who was really after your father. He was not my political mentor. He was my father. We went through the restrictions and detentions with him. We spent our holidays in Lekki, that was where he was restricted to. When he was in detention, we went to Lagos and when he was jailed we went to visit him in prison, in Lagos and then in Calabar. And when he and his colleagues were restricted in various parts of the then Western Region, which included Delta and Edo states, Papa suggested to Mama that she should go and visit all his friends, as a mark of goodwill. And that was what we ended up spending our holidays doing, when other children were having fun and enjoying themselves. So, I could not help but feel that this was not right. It was so disruptive of our lives, and yes, it left a permanent impression in my mind.  Was that why you were emphasising on the word empathy? Yes. Ordinarily, after his travails, he should have just said enough, particularly, since he had a profession to go back to. As a matter of fact, a lot of people don’t know that his taxable income as a lawyer was about three times his salary as Leader of Government Business. He was doing very well as a lawyer. His income took a hit by his going into government. So he could have gone back to his legal profession. But his mission was what his entire life was all about. He was extraordinary. Yes I came to understand that he felt obliged to do what he was doing. To ask him to do otherwise would be like asking him not to continue to live so I understood that very, very clearly.  You were one of the Yoruba leaders that were provoked when the armed herdsmen were encroaching to some villages in the South-West to pitch their tents, intimating Mr. President to curb the movement of the herders. What is the stance of the Yoruba now? There was a communiqué after that meeting and that represents the Yoruba position. Nobody likes what is going on, all the kidnapping, all the horrors that are going on. All we are saying is that government has all it takes to effectively control the situation. Let them deploy everything in their arsenal on behalf of the Nigerian people, so that people can go about their lawful businesses in peace and confident of their security. That is all we are asking for.  You are among the people who advocate for restructuring and why? Is that the best that could ever happen to Nigeria? As a diverse entity that is the best thing that can happen to Nigeria. And it is nothing new. It is what obtained, pre-independence, and it worked brilliantly. In the era of regions, we had a truly federal structure where federating units were actually empowered, financially and constitutionally to take care of their territories competently and efficiently. Since we changed that system to a unitary system it’s been downhill all the way. In any case, a country as huge as Nigeria surely, it makes better sense to administer it in less unwieldy, federating units. All we have now are states, federating units in name only. Every one of those units is left panting for financial handouts from the centre every month. That doesn’t make any sense. They need to have control over their resources in order to administer their territories, including real control over the security of their territories. That is where the demand for state policing comes in. Don’t you see how much better it could be if the people who are in charge of security are those who have a comprehensive knowledge of their territory? They would be equipped to respond better and quicker to any potentially threatening situations. So, yes I am a firm believer in restructuring. In fact it is the best route to unity, real lasting unity of this country.  What would you take away from your father politically? It is total commitment and dedicated, selfless service to Nigeria and the best interests of every single Nigerian. 