An Ekiti Customary Court sitting in ‎Ikole-Ekiti on Thursday dissolved a 28-year-old marriage between  Mrs Bisi Laidi and her husband, Ogundele. President of the court, Mrs Yemisi Ojo, dissolved the union, saying that the disputes between the parties were irreconcilable. Ojo, however, awarded custody of all the children of the union to the respondent. The president of the court ruled that the respondent ‎shall be responsible for the upkeep and education of the children. Ojo permitted the children to visit or spend holidays with their mother if they so wish. Earlier, the ‎petitioner, Bisi, 40, a trader told the court that the respondent was the father of all her eight children and no dowry was paid on her by the respondent. Bisi prayed the court to dissolve the marriage on the ground of lack of love. “I am tired of being referred to as Ogundele’s wife. “My husband changed his attitude toward me in 2011 when we lost one of our children,’’ Bisi said. The petitioner said the respondent accused her of being a witchcraft and responsible for the death of their child. “Ogundele always gives me lack of mind and as a result ‎of that, he turned our children against me. I can no longer move freely in the neighbourhood,’’ she said. Bisi said that she could no longer reconcile with Ogundele as their disputes had been on for years. The petitioner prayed to the court to award the custody of the youngest child to her if the respondent permit it. The respondent, a farmer, denied calling the petitioner a witch. “Even though I once suspected her to be possessed. “Bisi kept complaining of being spiritually tormented shortly after the death of our son. “I am not responsible for her unrest mind. My parent paid the dowry of Bisi in 1989, but I don’t know how much that was paid,’’ he said. The respondent told the court that the petitioner neglected their children’s welfare and was living an adulterous life. Ogundele, however, agreed to the dissolution of the marriage and sought custody of his children. (NAN)