 Two young folks, a male and female, have committed suicide in Ibadan, Oyo State and Benin, Edo State. Both victims were alleged to have taken Sniper.
The first victim was a 300 Level Medical Laboratory Science student of the University of Benin, Edo State, while the second victim was a serving member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). The deceased was serving in Ibadan, Oyo State, where the incident occurred.
The lady, Miss Christabell Omoremime Buoro (21), on Tuesday evening was found to have committed suicide in her hostel at Plot 4, Uwaifo Lane, Newton Street, Ekosodin area, behind the fence of the university.
According to sources, the body of Christabell was discovered after she allegedly took some deadly substance suspected to be Sniper.
It was learnt that the deceased, in a suicide note, attributed her action to her breakup with her boyfriend. Policemen went to the scene and evacuated the remains of the lady to mortuary.
The source said: “The policemen, who came to evacuate the body, were very angry after reading the suicide note she left. Thank God that she even dropped a note; if not, her roommates would have been in trouble because investigation would have begun from them.”
Police from the Ugbowo Police Station have invited two persons for questioning over the content of the letter. It was further learnt that Christabell mixed the deadly insecticide, popularly called Sniper with Sprite drink.
In the note, she stated that she was taking her life because the man she loved so much, didn’t love her in return and had broken up with her.
The Public Relations Officer of the university, Mr. Michael Osasuyi, said the institution was waiting for a detailed briefing on what really happened, since it didn’t happen on the school premises.
The victim that took his life in Ibadan was identified as Mr. Johnson Onyilo. He committed suicide at the weekend by also drinking a bottle of Sniper.
Onyilo, a 2018 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 corps member, was serving in Ibadan North West Local Government Area, where he killed himself.
The deceased graduated from the Department of Accounting, University of Jos, Plateau State.
The state NYSC Public Relations’ Officer, Mrs. Christy Olatoye, said: “The sad incident happened in Ibadan, where he lived with his sister. He was serving in Ibadan North West Local Government Area. But, he has not been buried; he will be buried in Benue State next week.”
The NYSC spokesperson disclosed further that the remains of Onyilo would to be taken to Benue State later this week for burial. Record showed that the deceased was posted to Oyo State with the number OY/18B/2337 JOS/2018/055264.
When the Oyo State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), a Superintendent of Police (SP), Gbenga Fadeyi, was contacted on the incident, he said that he was yet to be updated on the matter as at the time of filing the story.