Industry players are concerned that appointment into some strategic ministries, especially that of ICT, are based on political considerations rather than expertise. They are, therefore, seeking a change in the new cabinet, which is being anticipated. SAMSON AKINTARO reports.   By now, President Muhammadu Buhari must have been compiling his list of cabinet members that will drive the affairs of various ministries in the next four years. Stakeholders in the Information and Communications Techno logy (ICT) industry are, however, expecting a change from the norm to move the industry forward.
They insist that appointment of a career politician, rather than a technocrat on the field to man the Communications Ministry would set the industry backward again.
Specifically, the Nigeria Computer Society (NCS), umbrella body of all IT professionals in Nigeria, said it made some moves as an advocacy group in 2015 to ensure that a technical person was put in the Ministry but was rebuffed. According to NCS, having an industry person who understands the dynamics, the challenges and prospects of the industry will engender formulation of right policies that will propel growth.
Looking at the last four years, industry analysts are of the view that immediate past Minister of Communications, Barr. Adebayo Shittu, who is a lawyer by profession failed to address the yearnings of the industry. It is against this backdrop they are calling for appointment of a technical persons who really understands the industry as a Minister. Shittu’s alibi
Many had vilified the immediate past Minister of Communications for the Ministry’s performance under his watch, which they believed fell below expectations in the last four years. But judging from where he was coming from, Shittu may not really deserve the blame. From the outset, the former Minister admitted that he indeed had no idea of ICT beyond operating a mobile phone. During his first meeting with technology reporter in Lagos in 2016, Shittu said he never expected to be drafted to the Ministry because it was not in line with his area of interest, but promised to ‘learn fast’. In his words: “I didn’t expect to be Minister of Communications; I expected to be the Attorney General because out of the 11 lawyers in the cabinet of President Buhari, I am senior most by date of call. Other than being the Attorney General, I expected that I would be either Minister of works or Transport; the least I expected was being made Minister of Communications. So, when it came, it was like a thunderbolt because I didn’t know anything about the ICT industry. The only thing I knew was that I have a handset, which operates wirelessly. I also knew that there was Internet, laptop and all of that. But once I came, I have to face the challenge of learning as fast as I can”. Political consideration
According to the President of NCS, Prof Sola Aderounmu, political consideration for ministerial position has always been the bane of the ICT industry. Adrounmu said from observations, the situation may not change, as the politicians are not willing to disappoint those who work for their election. “We fought this case in 2015 when President Buhari was sworn in, to ensure that we have a technical person as minister of Communications. Unfortunately, we were told clearly that we should forget about it because is political appointment. In fact, the first question I was asked was that how many of your members contributed to the success of the election? And that is why you see former governor of Lagos state, Babatunde Fashola as a lawyer, being the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, where we have qualified registered engineers,” he said.
Aderounmu noted that for technical ministry such as Ministry of Communications, a core technical person is needed as a minister, as he already knows exactly what to do when he gets to the office. “Once you are not there as core technical person, it may be difficult for you to listen to the technical people working under you. But we are trying our best to ensure that we still lobby again to ensure that they put the right person there this time around,” the NCS President said. Technocrats in politics
While emphasising the need to have a competent person in the ICT ministry, Aderounmu said one of the strategies to be used by the Society now is to encourage its members to also join politics. According to him, when technocrats participate in politics they can easily be nominated as minister.
“We are now talking to our members to join politics, so that they can be nominated as one of the Ministers,” he said. “As it stands, we can only advocate, we can only tell them to put the right people but if they refused, there is nothing we can do. But if we have some of our members very close to politics, they will have chances of becoming minister.”
While noting that the Society would continue to fight for the inclusion of experts in governance, he said with the current situation where only politicians can become minister, the ideal thing is to have all the agencies under the ministries manned by professionals. “This is why I want to say that we are lucky that we have a core professional at the helm of affairs of the National Information Technology development Agency (NITDA). The DG of NITDA is an IT person, a PHD holder in Computer Science”. Importance of ICT
Nigeria, like most developing nations, has come to recognise the importance of ICT as a catalyst for sustainable socio-economic development. This recognition is well captured in the National Development Plan-Nigeria’s Vision 2020. The increasing globalization driven by ICT makes it imperative for Nigeria as an emerging market to irreversibly consider the application and promotion of ICT strategy to facilitate its rapid growth and development.
ICT has now been accepted as one of the main driving force behind organisational competitiveness in the present day business environment. Presently, ICT is having dramatic influence on almost all areas of human activities and one of the areas of economic activities in which this influence is most manifest is the banking sector. The banking industry is one of the critical sectors of the economy, which makes invaluable contributions to the pace of economic growth and development of nations.
Nigeria’s ICT sector has become one of the most important segments of the economy given the need to drive the new digital economy. Industry experts have also called for public servants that understand the potential and have the vision to create an enabling environment for innovators to flourish in order to attract the necessary investment in the sector.
According to industry analysts, African countries such as Rwanda, Kenya, Ghana and South Africa are taking the question of leadership of the sector more seriously than they would have many years ago. This, they attributed to the realisation that without ICT, the efficiency and productivity of other sectors largely depend on in the new digital era will not be possible. Last line
Notwithstanding the progress made with telecommunications in the growing mobile and Internet subscriptions, Nigeria still lags behind in the wider ICT spectrum. As a matter of fact, the country’s ranking in terms of ICT for development over the years has been nothing to write home about. For a nation touting ICT as the next frontier after oil, its actions and decisions must reflect that goal. ICT is too important to the Nigerian economy to be left in the hands of those who are not in tune with its dynamics, all in the name of political rewards.