The crisis in the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) gets messier by the day, no thanks to the “supremacy” contest between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.
The fallout spilled into the House of Assembly on Monday, June 17, 2019, when nine of the 24 members-elect “chose” the presiding officers at 10p.m. – an ungodly hour for legislative matters.
The next day, political thugs of the same camp attacked the outsmarted 15 members-elect, including Mr. Oshiomhole’s younger brother, Seidu, as they were strategizing on how to respond to the “parliamentary coup” against them.
But the watching public is baffled that spokespersons for the state government, and the APC chapter have justified the “inauguration” as meeting the quorum of one-third of the 24-member legislature. Some posers: Do the “minority” lawmakers belong to Governor Obaseki’s faction of the APC in Edo, and as such needed the executive backing to legitimize the “election” of principal officers of the assembly? Why would the governor’s “camp” endorse the action taken by a few legislators, when the majority had left after waiting, in vain, for the governor to transmit the proclamation letter during the legislative business hours of the day?
Why did Obaseki “postpone” the proclamation of the House of Assembly from June 7, and set about the process in the “night” on June 17 – a clear 10-day interval? Is there a nexus between the opposition to a second term bid by the governor and the calls for resignation of Mr. Oshiomhole as chair of the APC? Or is it mere happenstance or coincidence that one cacophony appears to orchestrate a counter agitation?
In political parlance, Obaseki is the godson of Oshiomhole who, in his eight-year tenure as governor, preached the mantra of “One man, one vote,” “One woman, one vote” in his attempts to stamp out “godfatherism” in Edo politics.
Oshiomhole had targeted the “Leader” of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the late Chief Anthony Anenih, whose assumed “caging” as “Mr. Fix It” he ascribed to the “death” of the PDP, and the era of “imposition” of candidates in the state.
And yet, against a strident opposition in the chapter of the APC, Oshiomhole side-stepped his dogma in 2016, and “installed” Obaseki as his successor in office.
So, what has prompted the “quarrel” between him and Obaseki? Is it a case of a godfather trying to control his godson, and the latter resisting, and wanting to carve a niche for himself?
Nigeria’s political landscape is replete with stories of godsons, who groveled and genuflected to get “anointed” as successors, only to grow the balls, and turn against their godfathers. In some instances, they hounded their benefactors out of town.
Ask former Governors Peter Odili (Rivers), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia), Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu), Martin Elechi (Ebonyi), Musa Kwankwaso (Kano), Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom) and George Akume (Benue) about their unsavouring experiences from those they “made” politically!
That said, the “no love lust” between Oshiomhole and Obaseki exacerbated after the 2019 general election, in which the former and sitting governors got their noses blooded by the “dead” PDP. Recall that the APC lost the February 23, 2019, Presidential and National Assembly contest in the state, but somehow recovered, two weeks later, in the House of Assembly poll of March 9.
Could the tirade result from the elections, with one camp blaming the other for not holding the fort in the state? Or has it to do with the 2020 governorship contest in which Obaseki seeks re-election?
Perhaps! But long before the 2019 polls, fissures had developed in the Edo APC based on Governor Obaseki’s alleged “refusal” to “share” the state resources to party chieftains.
The stalwarts were not interested in the developmental strides of his administration, epitomized in the “Wake-and-see” projects across the state “without prior fanfare or needless rhetoric.”
Theirs was “stomach infrastructure,” and the failure of the governor to deliver led to a stream of defections to the PDP, and the subsequent campaign to thwart his second term aspiration.
Many APC big shots and groups have enlisted in the project to stop Obaseki by whatever means, including to “Ambode” him – a reference to the failure of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State to secure a re-election ticket in the 2019 polls.
Ironically, Ambode, not the typical politician, but a technocrat and business man, didn’t lose in his bid for lack of performance. His undoing was his “rebuff” to “gratiate” the party’s power brokers, who, amidst protests from loyal, steadfast and capable members, had backed his “choice” for the post of governor in 2015.
A similar plot played out in Edo in 2016, when Oshiomhole overlooked several foundation and loyal members of the APC, including his two-term Deputy Governor, Dr. Pius Odubu, and “anointed” Mr. Obaseki, an investment banker and stockbroker of international repute.
Could these “dissatisfied” APC members be taking “instructions” from Obaseki’s “godfather,” Oshiomhole, and the reason the governor’s camp “instigated” the calls for the APC chair to resign his position for “leading the party into defeat” in the 2019 polls?
Overall, it would amount to shirking his responsibility if Oshiomhole, as the superintendent of the APC, were to blame Governor Obaseki, or any chieftain for the party’s “loss” in the 2019 elections.
It’s his job, and that of members of the National Working Committee (NWC) to deliver all elections for the party and its candidates. State governors and other layers of authority have only complementary roles to play in that regard.
That said, Mr. Obaseki shouldn’t forget so soon how he got to the position of governor, which is through the political benevolence, and instrumentality of Oshiomhole. And in defence of Obaseki in 2016, he offered his head as coconut to be broken by opponents of the governor.
Hence, Oshiomhole deserves, not spite and derision, but all the “thank you” and appreciation from the governor, who, for the sake of his second term ambition, shouldn’t trifle with Oshiomhole’s political capital even in the face of his current “adversities.”
Still, whatever the motivation for the dirty political fight, it’s a wrongheaded approach to solving the problems in the APC, at the state or national level, but worsening the crises.
Make no mistake! Without closing ranks, and working as a team, the APC in Edo would open its flank for the opposition PDP to sneak in, as it did on February 23, and Obaseki would blow his ambition bye!