By: Musa Pam, Jos The Plateau State Police Command has arrested a woman, Leritshimwa Diyal, who claimed to have given birth at kidnappers camp the same day a three days baby girl was stolen at Plateau Specialists Hospital, Jos. New Telegraph had earlier reported how a woman whom disguised as a medical Doctor stole a three-day old baby girl at the hospital. The Police Public Relations Officer, Plateau State Command, DSP Tyopev Matthias Terna, in a statement signed and issued to Journalists in Jos said the Police has written to Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) where Leritshimwa claimed she attended ante-natal care so as to confirm her claim or otherwise. “The case of Child Stealing was reported at ‘A’ Divisional Police Headquarters, Jos on 31/05/19 by one Nanpan S. D Gumut ‘m’, the Chief Security Officer of Plateau State Specialist Hospital, Jos. “The Police after receiving the complaint immediately mobilised to the scene of crime. On arrival, Mrs. Mary Chukwuebuka ‘f’ of Zarmaganda in Jos South, the woman whose child was allegedly stolen volunteered her statement that she gave birth at the Plateau Specialist Hospital on 28/05/2019 at about 1815hrs. She further narrated that on the 31/05/2019 a woman disguised as a medical personnel and approached her to hand over her baby for medical examination and she innocently obliged without questioning and follow up. She went further that she waited for the impostor for about an hour before she raised alarm to alert the nurses on duty. “She stated the sex of her child as female. “The detectives also asked the husband for his view and he narrated the same story as the wife did. “The nurses who were on duty were also questioned. “While investigation was ongoing, the police got an intelligence that a woman by name Leritshimwa Diyal ‘f’ of Zawan in Jos South LGA who claimed to have given birth on the same 31/05/19 while in the kidnappers camp brought a female child to Bingham University Teaching Hospital, Jos for medical examination. “The Police immediately wrote to the hospital on 03/05/19 for the hospital to examine her as to whether she gave birth naturally within the period she so claimed. “The Police also wrote to Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) on 03/06/19 where she claimed she attended ante-natal care so as to confirm her claim or otherwise. According to the Police they are still waiting for the reply from the above named hospital to further their investigations.