European stocks surged to six-week highs on Thursday, as dovish signals from the Bank of England and Federal Reserve, allied to optimism around the resumption U.S.-China trade talks, saw investors piling into riskier assets.
The pan-European STOXX 600 index finished 0.4 per cent higher, with most country indices in the black, as investors globally priced in the prospect of an easing of U.S. interest rates next month and more to follow.
According to Reuters News, the Bank of England, in contrast to the Fed, continues to threaten to raise and not lower rates, but its June meeting saw the Monetary Policy Committee slash second quarter growth forecasts to zero, heading off any market fears that it would actually deliver a hike anytime soon.
“The Bank of England was never going to rock the boat with an interest rate rise, given static economic conditions and a continued lack of direction on Brexit,” Laith Khalaf, a senior analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown wrote in a note.
“With the Fed now striking a more dovish pose as it also sees rising downside risks in the global economy, we shouldn’t entirely rule out the possibility the next interest rate move may be downwards.”
London’s FTSE 100 saw a sharp rise after the BoE statement, and hit session highs increasing as much as 0.7 per cent, before closing up 0.3 per cent.
Italy’s FTSE MIB index was the outstanding performer of the big European markets, rallying 0.7 per cent, with analysts pointing to signs the European Commission could hold off on moves to discipline the country over rising debt.
Expectations of policy easing have helped drive a near 5 per cent gain for the STOXX 600 this month, helping the main index recoup almost all of a steep sell-off that made May the worst month in more than two years.
Tumbling euro zone bond yields pointed to more respite for European public and private sector borrowers, while pressuring interest-rate-sensitive banking stocks, which lost 1.3 per cent as the worst-performing European sector.
Signs the United States and China will return to the negotiating table over trade also bolstered sentiment, with tariff-sensitive auto and technology stocks gaining 0.8% and 1.6 per cent respectively.