Police in Plateau State have arrested a 33-yearold construction worker and graduate of Geology and Mining from the University of Jos (UNIJOS), Oladipo Oyefemi, for allegedly killing a 24-year-old woman, Patience Musa. Oyefemi, a resident of Millionaires Quarters, Jos, was said to have picked Patience at the West of Mines area of Jos, around midnight on May 31, allegedly for a night of fun. Investigation revealed that Oyefemi and Patience agreed on a fee of N3,000 for the night. Oyefemi, however, allegedly killed the woman while she was in his apartment and tried to dump her body. He was, however, sighted by local vigilantes and arrested. Patience’s father, Musa, said that he received a call from someone. The caller used his daughter’s phone to call him. The caller asked him to go to Nasarawa Gwom Police Station. He said: “I was at home in the morning of June 1, when I received a call from my daughter’s phone; the caller was a guy. He asked me to proceed to the Nasarawa Gwom Police Station. I thought she was involved in a fight or some kind of trouble. When I arrived at the station, the policemen told me that my daughter was killed and her body dumped somewhere. They asked me to follow them to the hospital to identify her.” Musa followed the policemen to the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) mortuary, where he identified Patience’s body. He noticed that she has stabbed wounds all her body and her tongue was sticking out. He said: “I want the authorities to investigate this matter to its logical conclusion. They should find my daughter’s killer. This is too painful for us to bear. She was killed in cold blood.” The family lawyer of the deceased, Mr. Ralph Monye, disclosed that the body showed Patience was stabbed on her breasts, heart and neck regions and other parts. He opined that the marks on her neck suggested she was strangled. “The police informed the family that after Oyefemi committed the crime, he called his security guard, Nasir, to help him dispose of the body. But the two men were arrested by a vigilance group. While inspecting her body at the mortuary, we found that she was killed in a very brutal manner. She was stabbed several times and then strangled,” the lawyer said. Monye added that the police informed the family that Oyefemi and his security guard went to dump Patience’s body in a nearby bush, but were sighted and arrested. He said: “The police also informed us that after Oyefemi killed Patience, he cleaned his room thoroughly and dressed his bed so perfectly that no one could ever imagine that a gruesome murder took place there.” The lawyer said that it took the police hours before they could retrieve the deceased’s phone and handbag from Oyefemi as he had hidden them, and refused to hand the items over. Oyefemi, who spoke at the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID), where he is being held, said that he was arrested alongside his security guard, Nasir, but declined to comment further. Findings revealed that the suspect works with Moulds Nigeria Limited, a Jos-based construction company. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Tyopev Terna, confirmed the incident. He said: “The case of culpable homicide involving Patience Musa was on June 3, transferred from Nasarawa Gwom Police Station, to the SCIID for discreet investigation. That is all I can tell you for now.”