At least, 15 people in Ebonyi State have been jailed for drug abuse/trafficking between January and June this year.
They were convicted in various courts across the state, according to the state Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA).
The 15 convicts were among the 141 suspects arrested for drug abuse/trafficking in the state in the last six months.
The state NDLEA Commander, Umar Issa Adoro, disclosed this at the Federal Government Girls’ College, Ezzamgbo, Ohaukwu Local Government Area while declaring open the 2019 International Day Against Drug Abuse/Trafficking.
According to him, 124 of the suspects were males while 17 of them were females.
He explained that 93.0971 kilograms of drugs were seized comprising cannabis sativa (90.552kg), cocaine (0.0103kg), psychotropic substance (1.2674kg).
Adoro said that the theme of 2019 International Day Against Drug Abuse: “Justice for Health, Health for Justice,” was selected by the United Nations to tackle the menace of grug-related problems in the world.
The commander noted that the 2019 sensitisation awareness campaign was organised for students of secondary schools because they were the silent victims who were silently lured into the illicit act.
He said: “The campaign is organised for schools because the children are the target, they are the silent victims; they are the ones to be lured in drug abuse cases.”
Adoro reiterated that the agency would continue to sensitise students across secondary schools in the state.
“We have succeeded in establishing Drug Free Clubs in schools,” he said.
Earlier in a lecture entitled: “The Menace of Drugs and its Consequences,” the deputy state Commander in-charge of Operations/Intelligence, Ibrahim Mohammed Bachiri, outlined numerous reasons why people indulge in drug abuse to include peer group influence, availability of drugs, parental influence, among others.
Bachiri enjoined the Federal Government to include the teachings of drug abuse/trafficking in the academic curriculum of students in secondary and tertiary institutions in the country.
He identified drugs that are abused to include alcohol, cannabis, Indian hemp, cocaine, heroin, tramadol and called for ban on cigarette and alcoholic producers.
The deputy commander identified problems associated with drug abuse to include physical, psychological and societal effects.
According to him, illicit drug intakes affect liver, increases criminal activities and risky behaviour.
Bachiri urged students to stay clear of drugs abuse, saying that drug intakes pose serious harm and danger to people.