Ex-international, Friday Ekpo, has urged the League Management Company to return to a regular Nigeria Professional Football League season where 38 matches are played over a period of nine months rather than the abridged league that was used during the just concluded season. Speaking with League Rendezvous, the former Abiola Babes star said going back to the abridged season would be dangerous for the development of the league. While applauding the LMC for the organisation of the Super Six which produced Enyimba as the champions, he called on them to try their best and make sure Nigerians are given opportunity to watch the NPFL on television. “I want to applaud the LMC for organising the Super Six and also taking it Lagos,” he said.  “The Super Six came as a result of the abridged league due to the peculiar situation in which we found ourselves. With all said and done, I will advise we return to the regular 38 league matches for us to know the real winners of the league. “Scenarios like this always play back when we get to the continent, which will show our level of preparedness, because we didn’t play a full strength league. “All the same, I want to give the LMC kudos and also all the teams that took part in the playoffs because the kinds of performance I witnessed were unprecedented. They have all proved to us that they are good and well trained. “Also I am happy that finally we had our league on TV during the last two days of the playoffs, this is one of the things that were missing during the regular season. The fact remains that not everyone can travel for all the games, or be at the stadium every matchday. “But the games being on TV afforded more people to watch matches live and it shows that we can organise our league properly. “I will not advise us to continue the abridged league because it was not a normal situation that made us to go for it in the first instance. “So now that we have sorted out what caused it initially, then we should go back to the regular season. We should continue to play the whole 38 matches.”