Police yesterday evacuated 20 people, mainly children, from a dingy house described by some people as a spiritualist’s shrine at Agugu area of Ibadan, Oyo State. The police discovered the shrine following complaint by some people at the Agugu Police Station, as well as intelligence report, that an Alfa (an Islamic cleric) was housing the children there. The inmates, many of who were skinny and malnourished, were rescued and taken into the custody of the police. The owner and operator of the shrine, popularly called Alfa Oloore, was arrested and detained by the police for questioning. Some residents said Oloore was a spiritualist and a healer who had been operating the shrine for many years. They, however, said they became suspicious of the mode of operation of the place, though some said that parents and guardians of many of the children voluntarily took them to the place for rehabilitation. “What I know is that many of the inmates in that place were stubborn children who could not be handled by their parents again. And instead of taking them to Remand Home or Rehabilitation Centre, they bring them here.” The man has some spiritual powers of turning the lives of most of them around, but the living condition there is what is worrisome and government needs to find something to do to it. If the operations were to be licensed, the place will not be in such a deplorable condition. There would have been standard,” said a man who identified himself as Toyin. Some others described the shrine as a den of ‘ritualists’ and kidnappers, where unsuspecting victims were kept for ritual purposes. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Gbenga Fadeyi, confirmed the arrest of the operator of the shrine and evacuation of the inmates by the police. Fadeyi said the truth about whether the shrine was a den for ‘ritualists’ and kidnappers or not was yet to be determined until the police conclude investigation into the matter. He said: “I can confirm that there was arrest of the owner of the shrine where many inmates were recovered. But some people came later to the police station to say they were the ones who gave their children to the owner of the shrine, who they also claimed to be a spiritualist. “In fact, some of those recovered from the shrine had issues, some behave like drug addicts, some like mentally-challenged people and so on. But what the police want to do is to embark on thorough investigation into the matter and come up with a report.”