Lagos and Ogun residents have raised the alarm over air pollution in their communities following activities of iron manufacturing factories, offensive odour from iron scrap dumpsites and thick smoke of articulated vehicles. Dayo Ayeyemi reports   For residents of communities bordering Ikorodu-Shagamu Road in Ogun State, the high level of air pollution in their neighbourhood is giving them sleepless nights.
In Lagos, especially in Ojota area, emission of dangerous smoke with offensive odour from Olusosun dumpsite is the cross they have to carry, while residents in Apapa communities are battling with environmental pollution as a result of gridlock caused by articulated vehicles. Pollution
Worried by the activities of steel companies in their locality, residents of Ogijo, a rustic community between Shagamu and Ikorodu towns in Shagamu Local Government of Ogun State, said they were finding it difficult to cope with high rate of air pollution as a result of emission of poisonous smoke into the environment by these firms.
There are more than 13 steel companies within the vicinity.
They alleged that their health was in jeopardy, adding that many of them have started manifesting different kinds of air-related diseases ranging from severe chest pains to cough.
Communities affected by the steel companies’ activities include Ogijo, Petoro, Ewu Oloye, Kamalo, Gbaga, Ruku and Ita-sani.
For Ojota residents within the neighbourhood of Olusosun waste dump in Lagos, they can no longer open their windows for fresh air due to offensive odour from the dump.
The residents of Ipetero and Ewu-Oruku communities have also cried out for help over what they described as “the installment killing” of their folks by “the deadly activities” of an Indian owned metal recycling company in the area
The residents, comprising men and women, staged a peaceful protest to the company, carrying placards with different inscriptions, reiterating the devastating effects of its activities on their wellness and the environment.
They used the occasion of the yearly World Environment Day to appeal to government, especially federal and Ogun State Government to come to their aid and control the activities of the steel factories.
They pleaded with government to stop the company from releasing deadly gases into the atmosphere.
Some of their placards read: “We can no longer breathe fresh air,” “Stop killing Ewu-Eruku, Ipetero Residents,” and “Save innocent children.”
Spokesman for Ipetewo and Ewu Oruku communities, Mr. Rufus Noel, explained that though the company started operation in the area exactly 10 years ago, but heavy pollution of the air, environment and contamination of essential amenities like water wells started taking dangerous dimension five years ago.
He said that residents had drawn the attention of both Ogun State and Federal Government agencies in charge of environmental protection and regulation into the matter but to no avail.
He said: “In 2015, we went to southwest regional office of the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA) in Ibadan, Oyo State, to lodge complaints. The agency invited the company and also came for inspection. They asked us to list what we wanted. On top of it was stoppage of pollution of our environment, plus schools, health centres, water and construction of good road networks by the company. Afterwards, the agency promised to ensure that the company is pressured to compliance. But from that time till now, the case has not been revisited again.”
Another landlord, Mr. Adesina Adebayo, said most of the residents and students had become regular visitors to hospitals due to effect of pollution in the communities.
The General Manager for the recycling company, Mr. Vikas K, admitted that his company needed to reach out to the two communities as part of its corporate social responsibilities, but disagreed that his company activities constituted health threat to the inhabitants of the area.
Executive Director, Sustainable Research and Action for Environmental Development (SRADev Nigeria), Lesile Adogami, challenged the company to release its Annual Environmental Management Auditing Report if truly it was diligent in keeping its responsibility to nature.
He argued that the “company’s activities did not only pollute the environment and endanger the lives of the residents, it was criminal because it has neglected the statutory regulatory measures it supposed to follow.
He said: “So far, we have found out that over 50 per cent of the industrial companies sited along this (Ikorodu-Ishagamu) axis are major polluters. And we have been following up on these companies, especially those that are into recycling like Monarch Steel Company Limited.” Stakeholders’ views
Worried by these happenings, concerned environmentalists agreed that almost every Nigerian was exposed to pollution and especially air pollution levels exceeding World Health Organisation (WHO)’s guidelines, which has inflicted significant damage on them.
Speaking at the Project Heart to Earth’s World Environmental Day celebration, Chairman of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigerian (AMCON), Dr. Muniz Banire, who doubled as the chairman of the event, quoted WHO as saying that an estimated seven million people died from diseases related to indoor and outdoor air pollution in 2012 in Lagos.
Lamenting the level of pollution in Nigeria, he said that air pollution was 73.33 per cent high in Lagos; drinking water pollution and inaccessibility – 63.95 per cent high; dissatisfaction with garbage disposal -71.15 high; dirty and untidy, l – 75.00 high; noise and light pollution – 70.12 high; and water pollution – 78.05 per cent high.
Also quoting a 2019 updated data from number.com, Banire, who was represented by Mr Ayoade Adeyemi, a council member, National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria, said that air quality in Lagos was – 26.67 per cent low; drinking water quality and accessibility – 36.05 low; garbage disposal satisfaction – 28.85 low, clean and tidy -25.00 low and water quality – 21.95 per cent low.
He said pollution existed in many forms and affects different aspects of the environment, adding that its point source came from specific, localised, and identifiable sources such as sewage, pipeline or industrial smoke stacks; while “non-point source pollution comes from dispersed or uncontained sources, such as contaminated water, run off from urban areas or automobile emissions.”
Suggesting ways out of the woods, Banire pointed out that reduction in human consumption and recycling of garbage would reduce costs and environmental burden of waste.
Coordinator, Project to Heart, Titilope Nkozi Akoza, said the group had identified urgent need to preserve and protect the environment for future generation.
She noted that efforts invested into putting in place systems, standards and best environmental practices had suffered a major setback in recent times.
“Today, it has been identified that Lagos suffers from myriad of environmental issues ranging from pollution of its air and water resources among others. These challenges threaten the lives and livelihoods of people living in Lagos on a daily basis,” she said.
She said that rising vehicular emissions, fumes emanating from use of generators, bush burning, indoor pollution from cooking with inefficient fuel, gas flaring in Badagry, situation of unsanitary landfills close to residential areas and recently sudden explosion of Olusosun dumpsite posed health risks to citizens and combined to make Lagos a hellish place for the people to live.
According to her, the compounding effect of the failed attempt by the state to privatise the delivery of social and environmental services and lack of participation engagement of civil society and citizens in environmental policy making in the state were issues that required urgent attention.
She bemoaned the shutting of civil society organisations and other relevant citizen’s platforms of engagement in the enactment and the recent amendment of the Environmental Management and Protection Law. Nigerian Bottling Company Limited (NBC) also reaffirmed its commitment towards a safe, clean and pollution free environment nationwide, saying that current environmental challenges demand urgent attention of government and private sector operators.
Officials of the company in conjunction with the representatives from Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) gathered in a beach clean-up activity to observe this year’s World Environment Day (WED) in Lagos.
Speaking,the Public Affairs and Communications Director of Nigerian Bottling Company Limited, Ekuma Eze, described the action as part of the company’s contribution to achieve its 2025 commitments geared towards making the environment safe.
Last line
Climate change and global warming are evident in human environment presently. There is need for synergy and concerted efforts by all stakeholders to go green and enforce lay down guidelines to reduce emission of dangerous gases into the atmosphere.