Increased naira liquidity due to the implementation of the new minimum wage as well as disbursement of the 2019 budget will boost consumers’ disposable income and ensure that the Purchase Managers’ Index (PMI) remains in positive territory this month, Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) Limited has predicted. The firm, which stated this in its latest “Unity Bank Digest” report obtained by New Telegraph yesterday, noted that while the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) PMI in May contrasted sharply with that of FBN for the same period, it expects the implementation of the new minimum wage and the signing of the budget to ensure that the country’s PMI for June records a positive reading. Specifically, the experts said: “The CBN and FBN Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) moved in opposite directions in May. Whilst the FBN PMI declined sharply by 10.39% to 50.9pts in May, the CBN PMI inched up slightly by 0.17% to 57.8pts. According to the FBN PMI reading, four of the five sub-indices (output, new orders, suppliers, delivery time and stocks of purchases) fell while the fifth (employment) was unchanged. The dip could be largely attributed to seasonal factors (Ramadan fast) and a squeeze in consumer’s purchasing power.“On the other hand, the CBN PMI reading expanded by 0.17% to 57.8pts in May,” the firm stated. “ The apex bank reported an expansion in three of the five sub-indices (production level, supplier delivery time and employment level). The new orders and raw materials inventories recorded a slower growth in May. “We expect increased naira liquidity from drivers such as minimum wage implementation and budget disbursement to boost consumers’ disposable income and increase aggregate demand. Therefore, we expect the PMI to remain in the expansion region in June.” It would be recalled that analysts at Cowry Asset Management Limited had stated in a report released last weekend that weak increase in the CBN’s PMI report for May points to weak economic growth for Q2 2019. The firm had stated: “We note that the weaker optimism of local businesses in May, coupled with the rather weak increases in purchasing managers indexes of both manufacturing (from 57.7 pts to 57.8 pts) and non-manufacturing indices (from 58.7 pts to 58.9 pts) in May may be signalling weak economic growth for Q2 2019.” Besides, the analysts stated: “Historically, the second quarter has registered the weakest quarter- on-quarter (q-o-q) growth rates given a 9-year average of 2.96% compared to the third and fourth quarters with average growth rates of 8.93% and 3.92% respectively – although better than an average historical decline of 11.60% in the first quarter. Hence, given historical antecedents and low business optimism we expect weak Q2 2019 real sector growth, q-o-q.”