 The nation’s Labour Union family was yesterday thrown into mourning following the death of the President, Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), Mr Francis Olabode Johnson, who was serving a second term in office. Following his death, President Muhammadu Buhari, the immediate past Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) and the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), all expressed shock at the demise of the union leader. Johnson, who died as a result of an undisclosed ailment, became President of the union in 2014, having two more years to the end of his tenure as the President of the senior oil workers union. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that Johnson, who hailed from Eti-Osa area of Lagos State, died at the National Hospital, Abuja, after a brief illness. Confirming his death yesterday, the PENGASSAN’s General Secretary Comrade Lumumba Okugbawa and the Deputy President, Comrade Frank Esanubi, said the PENGASSAN President died in the early hours of yesterday. In an official statement issued yesterday to journalists in Abuja, Okugbawa noted that the late Comrade President passed on after an undisclosed brief illness. The statement reads: “On behalf of the National Executive Council (NEC), Central Working Committee (CWC), members and staff of we announce the untimely and painful death of Comrade Francis Olabode Johnson, President PENGASSAN in the early hours of Friday 31st May 2019 at National Hospital Abuja, after a brief illness. “Late Comrade F.O. Johnson until his passing on was a staff of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and was on his final lap of his eventful and transformational six years tenure as President PENGASSAN, having been elected to that position in June 2014 and reelected in 2017. “Comrade Johnson will be remembered by his comrades, co-workers, family and friends for being thoughtful, humorous, compassionate and transparent as he touched the lives of so many and was the very embodiment of strength, patience, and perseverance. “These attributes propelled him to develop a deep connection with nature, zest for life and the total transformation of PENGASSAN National Secretariat and initiating the e-library and Events Resources Centres in all of our Zonal offices.” However, President Buhari in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, joined PENGASSAN and all labour unions in the country in mourning the deceased, whom he described as a ”visionary leader”. Buhari affirmed that Johnson’s good nature, understanding and forthrightness had helped in improving the welfare of workers, and contributed immensely to the stability witnessed in the oil sector. The statement reads: “His joyous laughter and giving spirit will forever be ingrained in our memories. Burial rites will be communicated to the general public as soon as we receive information from the family.” In the same vein, Ngige through a statement made available to journalists in Abuja, by his Special Assistant, Media, Mr. Nwachukwu Obidiwe, said he was very sad over the news, describing the late Johnson as a forthright labour leader who understood the intricacies of negotiations and went for what was possible.He added: “Serving as the Vice-President of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), his contributions would be missed on the vexed issue of the new National Minimum wage and the consequential adjustments upstairs. “I remember with nostalgia that he was one of the labour leaders who visited me in solidarity and sympathy when a segment of labour invaded my private home in Asokoro, Abuja some few weeks ago under the guise of an ill-informed picketing.” Meanwhile, TUC’s Secretary General, Mr Musa-Lawal Ozigi, said the deceased, who was the third deputy president of the Congress was a labour leader of note. “Johnson was a labour leader of note, a Christian and a father. He was an embodiment of grace who will be missed by the congress,” Ozigi said. NUPENG in its statement signed by its President and General Secretary, Prince William Akporeha and Mr Afolabi Olawale, said: “NUPENG regrets the huge vacuum created by the passing to eternal rest of the quintessential unionist in the labour movement. “NUPENGASSAN, which he meritoriously chaired kept united, strong and virile has painfully lost a rare gem in its folk.”