Police have sealed some buildings being usede as hideouts for kidnappers in Minna, Niger State. The police also arrested a gun-runner identified as Ayuba Mwatep Gyang, who hails from Vom District in Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State. Gyang said he was a member of a syndicate which usually bring in and supply guns, especially AK47 rifles. Gyang was interrogated by DSP Hassan Gimba Sule attached to the IGP Special Tactical Squad, Minna Sector, in a video which has been trending on the social media. He said: “I was involved in the supply of arms most especially AK47 rifles to Kaduna and Niger states. “In Niger State, I normally deliver them (the guns) at Kuki and Kundi villages and sometimes at Beji village through Jamilu and Ado who are my accomplices.”” Gyang disclosed that he and his gang members usually conceal the arms in sacks of grains whenever they are “travelling out for business”. He added: “Last year I supplied about 18 AK47 rifles, but now I was arrested with one pump action gun, a pistol and 200 rounds of ammunition.
“I do sell each of the ammunition at the rate of N700.” Meanwhile, the three buildings serving as kidnapers’ hideouts were discovered at Bosso area of Minna. One of the houses is situated around Randan Ruwa area of Bosso where arms and ammunition were recovered and suspected kidnappers were also arrested by the police. When the police raided the houses, seven people were arrested while undisclosed several AK47 rifles were recovered. The police learnt about the buildings following a tip off by some members of the community who were suspicious of what they described as ‘unusual activities’ in the buildings. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abubakar Muhammad, refused to speak on the issue. He claimed that any information given out now might jeopardise police investigation, because “investigation is ongoing”. Abubakar promised that once investigation was concluded, journalists would be adequately briefed. He said: “We are already investigating the matter; when we finish our investigation we will let you know the details.” Also, security men did not allow anyone to get close to the buildings. It was also learnt some journalists from the state-owned media house, who got to the area earlier, received calls from top government officials not to pursue the issue because it could “jeopardise” investigations. But residents of the area said a number of persons were arrested but could not ascertain the number. One of the residents, who gave his name simply as Zakka, expressed fear over “attempts by the police to cover-up such discovery”. Zakka asked the police to come out with details of the arrests and seizures made.