As part of efforts to monitor the activities of Almajiris, a non-governmental organisation has kicked off a process of capturing their data across the country, with the Sani Bello Foundation also administering free medical treatment including surgical operations for at least 100 of them. Out of the 85 boys and 15 girls, two boys who had hernia and appendicitis were successfully operated upon, with the NGO in collaboration with Graceland Healthcare Development Foundation carrying out surgical operations on 500 persons who had various challenges ranging from hernia, appendicitis, fibroids to lumps, goitre, hydrocoele and others. Addressing journalists during the weekend at the Kotangora General Hospital, Vice-Chairman of the Foundation, Usman Sani Bello, said: “The issue of Almajiri in Nigeria is very serious, and I am carrying out a survey to see how we can get their bio data. “The Almajiri issue is a serious one that has gained alot of concerns. I had always wanted to do a survey to capture the bio data of those we have in Kotangora, and with time go to local government area level, then State and probably other parts of the country especially the northern part where we have this crisis upon us.” According to him, the offer of free medical care was the strategy used to get the children interested. “I took a small sample of 100 and we have started well. The best way to shed light on the Almajiri system is get their details; put a name on their faces because once you call them Almajiri, it’s a general term to make them feel less human. “Once we put a name to the face, they become more human and people become more sympathetic towards their case,” Sani Bello said, adding: “even if the Government bans Almajiri in the next two or three years, we still need to capture their data because it is very important.” Findings by our correspondent have it that the children who are between the ages of 3 and 10 were captured and had their blood group classifications. “Now that we have gotten their details, we will issue them with a sort of identity card so that we can they can have identity. And in a likely event where they are missing, the identity card can help us tell where they come from,” Usman added.