It was drama yesterday as two speakers emerged at the inauguration of the Bauchi State House of Assembly.
While 11 members out of the 31 lawmakers elected Abubakar Suleiman, representing Ningi State Constituency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as speaker, 20 others re-elected the former speaker, Kawuwa Shehu Damina, also of the APC.
This is coming three days after nine members out of the 24-member Edo State House of Assembly, elected Frank Okiye as speaker during the inauguration of the new Assembly.
Though a statement by the Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Media and Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said the Assembly was inaugurated at 3p.m., reports had it that the inauguration was performed by the Clerk of the House, Alhaji Audu Omogbai, at about 9:30p.m.
The 11 lawmakers, who elected Suleiman as speaker of the Bauchi Assembly, include the nine members elected on the platform of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state and their only colleague member from the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP).
Inauguration of the 9th Assembly was scheduled to hold at 10a.m., but the 11 members came early as 6a.m. and concluded the election of the new presiding officers before the arrival of their colleagues of the APC extraction.
The same group of lawmakers also elected Danlami Kawule, the member representing Zungur/Galambi as deputy speaker.
According to the House rules and standing order of the House, only 11 members are needed to form a quorum and to take a decision on any matter.
At about 7:57a.m., the newly-elected speaker, Suleiman adjourned sitting until further notice.
The early morning sitting was conducted under full security cover by men of the Nigeria Police Force, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and Department of State Services (SSS).
However, events witnessed a twist, when the group of 20 APC lawmakers held a parallel election in front of the Assembly complex at about 11a.m.
The members could not gain access into the chamber as it was locked, so they decided to hold a parallel election outside the complex.
Without the mace, the House symbol of authority, the lawmakers stood in front of the statue of the mace in front of the Assembly complex and elected Damina as speaker through a voice vote.
Speaking with journalists after the purported election, the factional Speaker, Kawuwa Damina, stated that the parallel election and inauguration was done to protect democracy.
He said lawmakers were asked to report for swearing-in yesterday, by 10a.m.
“We came to the Assembly complex some minutes before 8a.m., but to our surprise, we met 11 out of the 31 members in the chamber who had elected a Speaker and his deputy. That is why I was elected by the majority lawmakers,” Damina said.
The commotion that ensued over the parallel elections forced security agents to use teargas to disperse the legislators. The impasse also caused confusion in Bauchi metropolis.
The APC had earlier expressed displeasure over the adjournment of the inauguration of the 9th Bauchi State House of Assembly by Governor Bala Mohammed, which was earlier slated for Monday, June 17 to yesterday, June 20.