 To compensate workers and their families registered with the Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), the agency has so far processed over N1 billion as claims for victims of workplace accidents.
The amount covers arrears, one-off lump sum and monthly payments for over 9,000 dependants/survivors.
Speaking briefly on the feat, the Managing Director, Mr. Adebayo Somefun, said the mandate of the fund was basically to promote social security services to the Nigerian public, adding that its activities were anchored on the Employees’ Compensation Scheme (ECS), as enshrined in the Employees’ Compensation Act (2010).
“The ECS provides social security for employees, who sustain injuries in the course of employment, or their dependants in case of death; it further encourages occupational safety and health standards in the workplace,” he added.
A further breakdown also revealed that the agency had paid over N200 million to several victims of accidents that occurred in their work places.
The amount disbursed over a period of nine years from 2011 to April 2019 went to over 11,000 victims and covered arrears, one-off lump sum and monthly payments.
According to the Deputy General Manager, Claims and Compensation, NSITF, Nkiru Ogunaike, within the period, 54 prosthesis/artificial support amounting to over N180 million were provided for disabled employees.
She said: “A dependant beneficiary of a staff of a brewery company, who died as a result of chemical asphyxiation, has so far received a cumulative dependant benefit of N69.74 million with a monthly benefit of N1.59 million. This is an entitlement of the spouse (wife) till the last child attains 21 years of age in May 2034.
“An oil and gas servicing company staff drowned in a ferry accident. His spouse, the dependant beneficiary, is on our monthly payroll with a monthly benefit of N1.35 million and has so far received a cumulative death benefit of N64.75 million. This benefit ends when her last child attains 21 years of age in April 2029.
“The beneficiary (spouse) of an employee of oil and gas company, who died upon a fall into the sea, has received till date a cumulative sum of N34.23 million as death benefit, her monthly benefit stands at N1.63 million. This will terminate when the last child reaches 21 years in September 2020.”
Besides, she said: “A beneficiary of an oil and gas company, who was involved in an helicopter crash, received an arrears of disability benefit of N34.04 million. He is currently on a monthly benefit of N791,609.17 (100 per cent disability rating). This benefit ends when he attains the age of 55.
“An haulage company employee has so far received a cumulative disability benefit of N13.57 million and on our monthly payroll in the sum N276,890.17.
“Prevention of injury at work is key to the ECS. No one wants to sustain injury at work, loose a body part or die in the course of work.”
Emphasising further the benefits of the Employees Compensation Scheme (ECS), which NSITF covers, Ogunaike said it relieved the employer of the heavy burden of solely taking care of injured worker, maintains payment of compensation to the injured worker even after cessation of business by the employer, allows for payment to the injured worker regularly without recourse to the employer, no matter the amount of liability as well as increased productivity from the workforce.
For the government, the ECS also ensures improvement in the status of Nigeria in the league of nations (being a member of ILO) that cares for workers in the workplace, creating socio-economic development through a pool of investible funds, promotes industrial peace, thus enhancing economic development as well as improved quality of life through prompt response to health challenges at workplace.
She also disclosed that in the event of death, family, beneficiaries are taken care of until the last child attains the age of 21 years or graduates from university (whichever comes first), adding that the ECS guaranteed continued provision of shelter, education and food, among others, in a nut shell basic requirements of life.