Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello and the ousted senator from Niger-East senatorial district, David Umaru, yesterday engaged in war of words over casualty figures from the recent bandit attacks in Shiroro Local Government Area of the state.
This was even as the tears following the killings and maiming of innocent people in the local government, was yet to dry off.
While Umaru said about 70 people had been killed in the attacks, the state government, through the Permanent Secretary, Cabinet and Security, at the Government House, Alhaji Aliyu Isah Ekan, said that the senator’s claim was, to say the least, fictitious and was a mischievous attempt to generate ill-will between the people of the affected area and the state government.
It will be recalled that the governor few days ago visited the internally displaced persons (IDPs) camp at Erena in Shiroro Local Government Area, where he said at least 2,400 people from eight communities were presently taking refuge at Central Primary School in the community.
According to the governor, who said that Umaru’s claim was an attempt to blackmail Niger State said: “We have record of only 37 deaths and not more than 20 persons sustained varying degree of injuries and were receiving treatment at the camp.”
However, Umaru yesterday in a statement he signed and made available to journalists said the government was inconsistent with death figures and playing with incidents of such magnitude.
According to him, “the libellous statement made by the government, making some spurious allusions on my person regarding the death toll that resulted from the attack on my people by bandits is a shame.
“I have pains in me for the grave loss we suffered as a people in this carnage since I hail from Kwaki district of Shiroro Local Government Area of the state.
“It is gruesomely wicked for the governor to, out of shame; say that the death toll is now 37, what a disparity!
“Few days ago, the government claimed that the lives lost are just 12 and only 22 injured, when even its own agency, Niger State Emergency Management Agency as at Monday 10th June, 2019 gave the figure of the dead they had already counted to be above 40 and still counting.