It was Fela Anikulapo Kuti, Nigerian’s gift to the world and a philosopher whose ideas are yet to be fully studied and the wisdom harvested that broached the idea of bastardized Western democracy in Nigeria. In one of his musical master pieces, ‘Teacher, Don’t Teach Me Nonsense’, Fela attacked European democratic system as introduced and practiced in Nigeria. In that musical piece, Fela said that what Nigeria was practicing was ‘demoncrazy’ and that system reeks of “demonstration of craze.” Of course, Fela brought the condemnation of the Nigerian democratic system to the door step of Britain, Nigeria’s erstwhile colonial master that groomed and taught her ‘democracy’. He upbraided Britain and its imperial allies whose retort to his kind of concern and condemnation was usually met with a quip that democracy has many variants – meaning that each country adopts the kind that suits it. Fela should have known and he did in fact know that Britain’s neo-imperial interests and hypocrisy are at the root of Nigeria’s constitutional dysfunction and instability as it deliberately built factors into its social fabric and constitutional structure to render Nigeria dysfunctional in the societal mores and the framework of the legal order.
It is right to put Nigeria’s colonial background in perspective so as to keep in view our poser. So, if you ask the questions: Who is master between the government and the people? What happens when government proposes a programme or a policy and want a resolution of the issue by way of choice? Is it the people’s choice or the rulers’ preferences that should assail or be accepted? Ordinarily, the question is self-evident and the resolution not in doubt that in a democracy properly so-called, the people’s choice supersedes the rulers’ preferences. But in Nigeria which Fela has dismissed as “demoncrazy”, it is the other way round as the rulers dictate what happens regardless of the people’s choice or preferences. This is so because the state has been hijacked by special interests and operated as special facility to care for the selfish interests of the special interests. In this case, the people are helpless as the institutions of State especially the modern parliament which Jonathan Swift in his novel ‘Gulliver’s Travel’ has dismissed as “knot of peddlers and highwaymen” forms part of the hijacked state and even though elected by the people for their representation and safeguard yet it operates largely as a rubber-stamp to the inanities and weird schemes of the executive branch of government. That being the case, the issue of choice between the people and the rulers in Nigerian democracy has since been settled in favour of the rulers as they remain above the law in substantiation of FW Engel’s accusation of the modern state as “a power seemingly standing above society” meant to alleviate the conflicts between classes and keep them within the bound of ‘order’ but now “this power arisen out of society, but placing itself above it, and alienating itself more and more from it…” Engel’s characterization of state best explains the Nigerian predicament in resolving the question of choice between the rulers and the people. So, the state and its officials dictate what is good for society while the society and the people haplessly ‘sidon-look’ and take whatever it pleases Government to throw at them.
It is in the light of the foregoing that one reviews the democratic journey so far in Nigeria especially with the elaborate celebrations in some states where projects are commissioned or new ones launched. The current era took off on May 29, 1999 and last month made the experiment a proud garner of two decades. For the people, it has been a mixed grill. Some sunshine and glimmer of hope here and there as the testimonies from Fashola’s Lagos, Ngige/Peter Obi’s Anambra, Umaru Yar’Adua’s Katsina, and few others have shown. But largely, it has been a tale of woes especially under the three administrations at the Federal level and in most other States of the Federation. In the face of all these challenges, the polity has been hobbled and seriously challenged. In the midst of these shenanigans of political low-life in Nigeria, I witnessed the poser in this article play out in Ebonyi State last week at the Democracy Day celebration when government commissioned its Ecumenical Centre. Ebonyi State is one of the poorest states in Nigeria. Three different governors have ruled the state since May, 1999. The first governor, Egwu did the much he could in the areas of education. Egwu’s greatest contribution was in the reform/restructuring of the local government system and human empowerment. Governor Elechi tried to tackle physical infrastructural deficits as he built 39 bridges of unity and the access roads, established two mega water treatment plants, build state secretariat, radio/television stations building, cared for health needs of vulnerable group such as VVF patients. Governor David Umahi succeeded Elechi and has concentrated on construction of roads and buildings. The concrete pavement system he adopted is excellent but it is arguable whether the flyovers, the shopping-mall and the Ecumenical Centre he undertook are well-reasoned. The governor had declared that he made personal commitment to God to build a place of worship for him. Having become a governor, Mr. Umahi reasoned that he must use State resources to realize that his personal commitment to God. Being a clever politician he took the budget for building the religious temple to the House of Assembly for approval. A budget of over N5 billion to construct the building was allegedly made. The first phase according to him will gulp N2.5 billion. The budgetary estimate for this first phase presented to the State House of Assembly as Supplementary Budget Bill was debated. Speakers on the bill extolled the foresight of the governor in turning Abakaliki into New Jerusalem. None of them touched the issues of constitutionality of using state resources to build it or the wisdom in committing such humongous resources to building as opposed to the competing needs of critical sectors such as health and educational facilities that are in shambles, the low human development index in Ebonyi State and the sheer insensitivity that berthed it. But it took the courage of one Christian Usulor, a member representing Ezza South in the Assembly to call to question the appropriateness of this grandiose project that has no bearing to the material condition of the people. Surprising, after the debate and near unanimous passage of the Bill, the said conscientious objector and courageous representative of his people have not been victimized as feared. Perhaps, the rulers know the truth of the matter and the Honourable Member was representing the silent and helpless majority, so the weight of the judgement of posterity weighed against victimizing him. So, we can see that in a polity such as ours, where the institutions exist for existence sake not for the functionality, the people may not matter and their choice against that of the rulers can be discounted otherwise why should a State House of Assembly of 24 members be near-unanimous in acceding to the governor’s personal commitment to build a religious temple using state resources as opposed to committing such fund to building schools, health and other critical social facilities to uplift the material welfare of the people. So the question of choice in a democracy between rulers and the people is determined by the balance of power.