The Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has apprehended a candidate, Adah Eche, who allegedly upgraded his scores in the recent Unified Tertiary Matriculations Examination (UTME) from 153 to 290.
The 19-year-old candidate, who was alleged to have engaged the services of some con men he contacted through facebook and whatsapp platforms, fell for their tricks and requested his scores be upgraded from the original 153 to 200 which they later settled for 290.
Eche explained that he got to know about them through an advertisement he came across on the social media platforms which read “do you want to upgrade your 2019 JAMB results? Is your scores too poor for admission into any of the universities, then contact the following numbers.”
He noted that after transferring some monies to the fraudsters, he wrote a letter to the JAMB authority informing them that they made a mistake in his scores earlier released as his main scores was 290.
Eche further made available copies of the forged results, which upon investigation was found to be fake.
The development, however, compelled the Registrar and Chief Executive of JAMB to invite the candidate to come for his admission letter at the headquarters where he was apprehended and paraded before newsmen.
It was also alleged that the candidate’s senior secondary school results were also fake as he could hardly communicate in simple sentences during interrogation.
Apart from engaging the services of those who allegedly helped him in forging the scores, he also encouraged other candidates who scored below the cut off marks to upgrade theirs as well in order for them to gain admission.
Details of the transaction and communication with other unsuspecting candidates who were interested in the act were found in his cell phone.
It would be recalled that the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination was marred by malpractices, in spite of measures adopted by JAMB to forestall such practices.
In some instances, a single candidate registered for the examination a record 64 times, a development that led to delays in releasing the results earlier.