Five policemen attached the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (F-SARS) yesterday escaped death by a whisker as they were mistook for kidnappers by an angry mob and market vigilantes at Gwari market, Minna, Niger State.
They were disarmed by the mob.
The confusion ensued over the identity of the armed men who stormed the Gwari market. Angry marketers destroyed the vehicles which took the policemen to the market, with chants of “barawo” (thief), “kidnappers.”
But while the traders claimed that the armed men dressed in police uniforms and carrying AK47 rifles were kidnappers, the police in Niger State said they were policemen from Lagos State Command.
Confirming their real identity, the Niger State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Muhammad Abubakar, said the “armed men are policemen from Lagos”.
He added: “The policemen reported at the police headquarters that they were in the state on special assignment but did not say why they visited.
“When they were going they also were not accompanied to the market by the local policemen. But they are now safe and the situation brought under control.”
Witnesses said the five armed men stormed the market about 9a.m., and went straight to the shop of a prominent trader, whisking him into their vehicle.
But while attempting to take the trader away, some people raised the alarm which forced youths and vigilantes in the market to mobilise to stop them. To scare the mob away, the policemen started shooting into the air.
The traders told our correspondent that all the gates leading to the market were locked to stop the armed men from escaping. Thereafter, youths and market vigilantes were able to disarm the armed men and took them to the market police station where they were handed over to the security men before men of the Paiko Road Police Station arrived the market.
While the police were combing the market some youths descended on their vehicle, broke the windscreen and deflated the tyres to ensure it could not move.
The armed men were later taken out of the market by the police through the back gate to avoid further attacks by the mob.
Meanwhile, at the time of filing this report, the market remained deserted while the vigilantes mounted security at all entry points.
Only last week, the police, acting on information provided by members of the community, discovered a den of kidnappers at Bosso area of Minna.