Luxuria Lifestyle International, one of the world’s leading luxury lifestyle e-magazine and premium events groups, is expanding its operations to Nigeria market in partnership with the Hole19 luxury retail group, based in Abuja.
With offices in 10 countries, Luxuria Lifestyle e-magazine provides an all-encompassing guide to the affluent lifestyle, including informative and interesting articles on the world’s most luxurious products and services, together with industry news, reviews and editorial features.
It also creates world class business to consumer events for connoisseurs of luxury, corporate businesses and wealthy consumers from around the globe.
According to its Chief Executive Officer, Kevin Rose, “with the fast-moving world of luxury digital media and the growing need for premium companies to promote themselves to the required level of audience and to access new pre-qualified clients, we are delighted to be partnering with the Hole19 team to bring our premium E-Magazine and luxury events business into Nigeria.
“Hole19 are a major player in the luxury industry in Nigeria and we are very excited to be creating luxury consumer focused events for their brands and other proactive new business development activities. Working with all the luxury brands in the country, our joint aim, vision and plan is to create Nigeria’s finest online Luxury Lifestyle e-Magazine and to organise and run a number of annual world class business to consumer events and seminars, in some of the country’s finest luxury venues.’’
Luxuria Lifestyle’s business model in Nigeria’s will be including the following three new divisions; A new high- profile luxury lifestyle Nigerian online e-magazine featuring, reviewing and reporting about the world of luxury in Nigeria with a local and global reach. A new Nigerian business to consumer events and seminar division, bringing together the country’s finest brands to allow them to easily connect and reach each other’s pre-qualified client’s, the luxury press, celebrities, VIP’s and the country’s top social media influencers.
Additionally, a new Luxuria Lifestyle strategic partnership programme with a personal account manager and an annual fee, to provide a professional and structured gateway for luxury brands in Nigeria and from around the world to meet and market their products and services to wealthy consumers through-out the country.
Host four annual luxury B2C sales events in top luxury locations to prospect new customers and entertain their own clients.
Hole19 Group is built on a passion for excellence and its subsidiaries have in the last 25 years built its’ business interests around luxury retail. Golf products retail and distribution, supply logistics and outsourcing services including real estate and media.
Headquartered in Abuja but with offices/boutiques in Lagos, Port Harcourt, Uyo, Geneva – Switzerland and Frankfurt-Germany, Hole19 is constantly expanding its horizons, building its brand portfolio while consistently driving innovation and creativity both within the group and the industry at large.
According to the CEO of Hole19 Group and Zakaa Retail Stores, Aderemi Ajidahun, “having followed Luxuria Lifestyle’s recent fast pace growth and continued global success and seen some of the superb international luxury events they have organized with many of the world’s leading brands, it was a very simple choice for my group to partner with them to enter the Nigerian luxury market.
“Together we will be creating an exciting new business in Nigeria where my collection of luxury brands will work closely with other high- end companies through our new Nigerian luxury lifestyle E-magazine and consumer event division, with a joint goal of reaching new local and global pre- qualified clients. We are very excited to be forming this new partnership with the Luxuria Lifestyle International team and we look forward to a very busy and highly successful future together.’’