Former Governor of Sokoto State and Senator representing Sokoto Central, Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, has condemned the Supreme Court ruling on the 2019 Zamfara State Senatorial election as unjust and unfair.
The senator was speaking at Talata Mafara in Zamfara State, hometown of the immediate past Governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari, when he paid him a condolence visit on the apex court ruling against the APC. The Supreme Court recently ruled that the APC had not conducted primary elections for the 2019 polls and thus ordered the declaration of PDP’s Mohammed Bello Mutawallen Maradun as duly elected, along with all candidates in the National Assembly elections, except those of the APC.
Wamakko, while praising Abdulaziz Yari for his achievements in developing Zamfara State, criticized the Supreme Court for what he described as “usurping the mandate of the people of Zamfara State”.
He advised Yari to leave everything to God, adding that what affected Zamfara State also touched Sokoto. Wamakko was accompanied on the visit by Sokoto State’s APC governorship candidate, Ahmed Aliyu; the party’s Sokoto State Chairman, Isa Sadik Achida and other APC stalwarts. Responding, Yari also condemned the Supreme Court ruling that seized the state’s governorship from his party, as the usurpation of the people’s will. Yari: APC strongest party in Zamfara
Also yesterday, Yari, said the APC, remained a strong political party in the state in spite of its loss at the Supreme Court. Yari stated this while addressing APC supporters, who paid him a Sallah homage in his residence in Talata-Mafara town in the Talata-Mafara Local Government Area of the state. According to him, despite the Supreme Court verdict which ceded leadership of the state to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) “our party remains the strongest party in the state”. “This visit indicates that our members remain one family. I thank you for this visit. I am appealing to you not to be discouraged. “We accept the court judgement; we will continue to be opposition party and our opposition will be for the benefit of the state. “We should not blame anybody on what happened; it was ordained by Allah and since Allah designed it, nobody can change it,” he said. He urged members of the party in the state to love one another and continue to work together.
Earlier in his remarks, the state Chairman of APC, Alhaji Lawal Liman, said the visit was to show solidarity to the former governor as the only APC leader in the state. Liman said that APC remained strong and united in the state, with no faction, adding that those parading themselves as factions of the party were not true members but only working to sabotage the party.