Politicians need to intentionally pave way for the seamless transition from the older to the younger generation in governance.
The Chairman of GUO Transport Services Company Limited, Chief Godwin Ubaka Okeke, said this yesterday.
Okeke said it was only natural that the youths should take over the leadership of the country from an ageing generation of leaders across different spheres of the society.
According to him, youths drive the economy of leading countries of the world.
He said: “We do not have a healthy succession plan in this country. It should be naturally generational; the younger should seamless succeed the older generation. That is why we still hear of Coca Cola, and other conglomerates that have operated more than 70 years; whose founders have long gone but have been sustained because of a good succession plan. It is not so in Nigeria which is why many businesses have collapsed shortly after the founder who bears the vision, passed on.”
Okeke, who spoke during a press conference to herald his 70th birthday celebration, appealed to industrialists and all chief executives officers to hand over their businesses to their children and other Nigerian youths to drive as they would do it better.
He added: “Before we move into agriculture let us talk about how to empower our youths, because I just talked about that in passing. Let me give you an idea, I am celebrating my 70th birthday. At the age of 70, I believe I have done more than enough for myself. I need to rest, my children, my relations, my workers, they are all coming of age, why don’t we start planning on how to hand over to them.
“The problem we have in Nigeria is not trusting our children and not giving them the opportunity to grow. In America, we talk about Rothmans, Lemon, Coca-Cola, Guinness; the people that initiated these companies are far gone. It is their children, their relations, their dedicated workers that are the ones that are making the companies grow, and these companies are now family businesses.”
“We as private people, we as a government, we as a country, must copy from these examples; we have to equip our youths and give them the opportunity. I am now telling you what I have not done; I have done that experiment and it is working. My children are the ones controlling all the businesses I established. I am there as the chairman, giving them fatherly advice. They are controlling the businesses. They have moved my businesses from where I left them to the next stage. They are brilliant. They have gone far; they are highly educated, let’s make use of their intelligence, brilliance and youthful energy.”