Osun State government, in conjunction with the Coalition of Civil Society Groups, yesterday organised events to mark the June 12 Democracy Day in Osogbo, the state capital.
This came as human rights activists called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare the winner of the June 12, 1993 election, Bashorun MKO Abiola, as former president.
A procession march to commemorate the day took off from Ayetoro Junction and traversed major streets. It terminated at the Aurora Event Centre where the lecture of the day was held.
The lecture entitled: “The State of Insecurity in Nigeria and Challenges of National Questions – The way forward,” was delivered by Head of Service, Dr. Olowogboyega Oyebade, and a United Kingdom-based lawyer, Mrs. Olutoyin Eweje, before a large crowd of activists, students, pro-democracy activists and political groups.
Others were traditional rulers, members of the National Road Transport Workers Union (NURTW), artisans, students and market women.
The event was attended by top government officials led by Deputy Governor, Benedict Alabi, who represented Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. The governor was away in Abuja for the national event to commemorate the Democracy Day.
The Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prince Wole Oyebamiji; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr. Charles Diji Akinola; Deputy Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mr. Femi Popoola and Deputy Majority Leader, Maroof Olanrewaju, who represented the Speaker, Timothy Owoeye, among others, were also present.
“Our President has done us proud. He has set a new agenda for socio-economic transformation of the country,” Oyetola said in a speech delivered by Alabi.
He added: “The declaration of June 12 is an affirmation of the fact that the present administration believes so much in things that can promote unity and peace.
“This is a period of sober reflection on the selfless service and sacrifice made by our heroes to ensure that we remain united and indivisible as a nation.”
“As we are celebrating the maiden Democracy Day, we must do everything possible to strengthen the peaceful coexistence and unity of the Nigerian nation.
“As a state government, we are doing everything possible to nip in the bud any form of criminality in the state.
“We are working round the clock to improve on the security architecture so as to make our security agencies more efficient and productive.”
Delivering the lecture, Oyebade said: “For us to put many of our challenges behind us, we have to fight poverty, corruption among others.
“There must be a scientific war against crime. We must develop modern way of fighting insecurity in the country.
“We need attitudinal change to the way we do things as a nation and as Nigerians. We need to go back to drawing board. It is time to adopt 1962 Constitution that gives room for true federalism and referendum in democratic setting.”
On her part, Eweje urged the Nigerian government to turn a new leaf at addressing myriads of challenges facing the country.
She described as worrisome the cases of insecurity confronting the country, saying the time had come for the government to battle the menace.
Also, hundreds of Osun indigenes and human rights activists under the aegis of Coalition of Civil Society Groups yesterday converged on Aurora Event Centre, Osogbo to mark the anniversary with a call on President Muhammad Buhari to declare Abiola and Kingibe as former president and former vice-president of the country.
Speaking at the event, the state Coordinator, Justice Now Foundation, Comrade Waheed Lawal, said the Buhari-led administration should approve the entitlements due to Abiola and Kingibe as former president and vice-president, respectively.
He said: “This is the first time in the history of our struggle for actualisation of this historic date in our national history as a people that the government will be celebrating June 12.
“This is a very momentous day that we can never be quick to forget, because of its democratic significance as a day Nigerians defied every divisive tendency to elect Bashorun MKO Abiola as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in a mass accepted, free, fair and transparent presidential election on June 12, 1993.
“We wish to express our sincere gratitude to the people of Nigeria, civil societies, human rights and other pressure groups for sustaining the tempo of agitation for a national recognition of this day as democracy day in Nigeria.
“But for the people and their determination never to give up even in the face of jackboot dictatorship, the Federal Government’s recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day may remain impossible. We, therefore, congratulate Nigerians who are the real winners.
“We equally wish to appreciate President Muhamadu Buhari and his Vice, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, for acceding to the echoes from the street with this long awaited recognition and honour to Bashorun MKO Abiola. History will record this patriotic and heroic move in your favour.
“It is, however, important to state that it is not yet Uhuru; as a nation, we must take a step further by officially declaring the result of the election while former Head of State, Ibrahim Babangida and other dramatis personae are still living to properly situate the history and complete the records for this present generation of Nigerians and that of the future.”
Also, Chairman, CDRP, Comrade Amitolu Shittu, said “the only way through which Abiola’s name could be immortalised was for the Federal Government to declare him as former president.
He said: “There is no gain saying that late Abiola laid down his life for the emancipation and liberation of people of the country and he would remain the hero and icon of true democracy.”
In a statement, the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) called on Nigerians to “celebrate Democracy Day knowingly, because it is but a strategic battle won”.
The party in the statement signed by its Director of Publicity, Kunle Oyatomi, said “there is good reason to celebrate Democracy Day nationally today for the first time; but there is also strong reason to be alert and conscious of the lesson of perseverance which today’s event teaches.”