Famous music instructor and MTN Project Fame star maker, Benneth Ogbeiwi, better known as Uncle Ben, shared his story about music, rested reality TV and family in this interview with LANRE ODUKOYA.   How best do you describe yourself?
In the face of everyone, I am the stumbling block between you, fame and music. I love music and I try to make society better musically. Was this all you wanted to do as a kid?
Basically, I always loved music as a kid. I have been doing music for 29 years; I didn’t even add all those years I was a choir boy. I will always remain grateful to my younger sister, who I only followed to church on a fateful day and everything else changed for me.
After studying civil engineering at Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State, I thought I should take up music professionally. How did a civil engineer develop an interest in music?
I cannot even explain it myself. I wanted to study medicine at the university before finding myself in civil engineering and later music. I think at some point, I found my comfort zone in music. Have you released an album as a singer?
I released one album with a group I started, The Chordwebs. Dare Art Alade was part of the group too and we had a Christmas album. We did a song with Elder Steve Rhodes when he was alive. I also learnt under the late Jaiye Aboderin at Synergy, a band and equipment leasing company. Why are you known more as a music instructor than a singer?
I am more of a kingmaker. I feel it is best to be in the background because you will be able to groom others. I am not one of those who are crazy about being on stage. When I am on stage, you will largely see me doing musicals. The last musical I did was Kakadu The Musical, a show I also directed. I am interested more in writing music for films and television. Have you ever wished you took engineering seriously?
In life, you do what makes you happy and music makes me happy. It was actually a tough decision but I am glad I made it. I can still remember that Elder Rhodes got me a place to work but I said I wanted to do music. At first, he didn’t understand why I wanted to dump what I studied for music. When he eventually understood, he advised me never to end the legacy. Don’t you feel being a singer would have fetched you more money and fame?
As a singer, your lifespan is short. If a singer is not consistent for four years, he or she could be forgotten easily.
But if you are behind-the-scenes and you do stage, music and write songs, you will surely have a longer lifespan in the industry. Does this mean you are fulfilled?
Yea, I’m fulfilled. If any reality show comes up, my name is always mentioned. The entire world doesn’t think Nigerians are serious but right now they respect our music and I am part of the process. Do you feel appreciated enough for what you do?
Appreciations don’t come from the alumni of reality shows but from people who follow my work. These people always reach out to me to tutor them in music and that is evergreen.
Like I said earlier, as a singer, if you are not consistent, you might go into early retirement. But if you teach music, one will take it to the grave. How would you describe your experience on MTN Project Fame?
It has exposed a lot of talents to the world. It also showed me how passionate I could be about grooming the younger ones. I see Project Fame as one of the biggest things that had ever happened to West Africa.
But I have a challenge with contestants who abandoned their old friends after returning reality shows. It is unfair to those because they made sure the contestants were voted for outside. They should always stick to their old friends and if they meet new ones, it doesn’t change anything. But we hardly remember what these old friends had done for us. Once fame comes, then we don’t see people who make it happen for us. If your talent or fame begins to drop, who do you run back to? Why do people think you are inhumane on TV?
My nature on television is to build your character because you will meet a lot of people who don’t like you at all despite your success. I try to show people the bitter part of human nature. As a performer, you will find people throwing things at you or not interested in listening to you, and you must deal with it. R Kelly had a big fan base but suddenly everything changed for him.
The truth is that you will have good and bad friends but everyone still remains your friend. It will surprise you that people who say you are wicked still watch you, while you need to continue to prove yourself to those who feel you are good. For me, the most important thing is to stay consistent in what you do. Are you a no-nonsense father at home?
I am not too strict with my children. I am blessed with three children – two boys and a girl. I watch my kids from a distance how they try to correct their friends who think I’m wicked. They are really amazing. How often do you spend time with your children?
Firstly, my family appreciates what I do and I try to separate work from family. I let my children live their lives without people attaching them to me. They need to build their own names too even though my name is expected to open doors for them.
Once I need to work, we talk about it and I let them know how long I will be unavailable. My children love each other a lot; so, they keep the company of each other. Do your children love what you do?
All my children have an interest in the media. I know my daughter wants to be a broadcaster or a show host. My first son is also good at mimicking characters on television. The baby of the house, who is nine-year-old, likes to draw a lot. How do you describe your parents?
My mother loves to sing, while my father is a disciplinarian. Growing up, once it was 6:30 pm, I must be home. Looking at the collapse of homes now, I understand why my parents were hard on us.
I don’t want to be a failed parent. I want my children to always remember that I taught them that there would always be consequences for their actions. Parents should not ignore their responsibilities to their children in search of wealth. What was your growing up like?
I am from a middle-class family and we had everything we needed to grow. But my father didn’t take our academics lightly, as he wanted all his children to study.
I told my dad that once I finished school, I wanted two years of my life to do music. After a while, I went back to him and he urged me to carry on with my life. He told me that I made him popular as people were always asking if it was his son on television. He became proud of me. Where were you born?
I was born and raised in Lagos, but I’m from Edo State. How do you ensure your emotions do not affect your judg ment in reality shows?
That is the most important part because people will notice and attack you. All I do is to treat everyone equally. The only time I support contestants is when they go on stage. At the academy, I am tough with them because I want them to learn the basics. Have you ever found yourself emotionally attached to a contestant?
Yes, it happens many times, but I cannot show it. When you show it, which I have seen in reality shows, how do you react if your favourite contestant is voted out? It means you will begin to hate the others but it is not their fault. Have you ever been enticed by a female contestant?
Yes, it always happens. They just realise that it doesn’t work with me. Yes, I am always tempted, but I think of the outcome. When I think of the allegations of rape that I read every day, I don’t want to ruin my father’s name. He built it and I want to make it stronger. How do you relax?
I watch television or go see movies. But one place you will never find me is a night club. I don’t drink nor smoke; so, I don’t have any business there. I enjoy spending time at home with the kids or go out with them.
At my free time too, I try to catch up with the happenings in the industry on social media such as controversies and trending news but I don’t get involved in them. If you get involved with certain issues, people will come after you when your time comes. Does it mean you never took alcohol even as a teenager?
No, I didn’t. But I take soft drinks and water a lot. I knew my father was drinking occasionally but I wasn’t just interested in it. Are you satisfied with the growth of music in Nigeria?
It is growing; I just wish we can invest more in younger talents. Most of them are struggling and it is not completely their fault. If there is a structure on the ground, things will get better for artistes. But I am grateful for all the musicians making us proud as a country.
In terms of lyrics, most artistes sing the things that entice youths. But, as an artiste, you can make a choice. I could have chosen to be an armed robber but I didn’t. If I invest in people, they can always invest in my children too. How would you like to be remembered?
I want to be remembered as one who changed the music industry.
I am thankful to God for His grace upon my life. It is easy to become proud but we should always remember those who don’t have the capacity to breathe and they are dead now.