The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in Ekiti State has called on the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to look inward and repair its damaged relationship with the people, instead of blaming its current woes on the party. In a statement released in Ado Ekiti on Saturday by the party’s Director of Media and Publicity Elder Sam Oluwalana , APC said PDP’s relevance in Ekiti today is at an all-time low and will continue with its free fall until it atones for its many sins against the people in the state.  “In order to regain some level of relevance and trust from the people of the state, you are advised to regard your party as the biblical prodigal son, accept failure for your four years of misrule and beg the people for forgiveness, Elder Oluwalana told PDP. According to him, a situation whereby PDP is blaming its woes on APC is an erroneous one. Worse still, the opposition is lamenting that the APC has been scheming it out of the political equation in Ekiti State by giving appointments to some of its members. “How low can a party go in its frustration!” APC, Oluwalana said, is running an all-inclusive administration and knows neither PDP nor any other party when it comes to restoring the people’s values.  The party spokesman further noted that the rumours engineered by the opposition party, blaming the ruling party in the state for depleting its ranks by luring its members with promises of juicy appointments and contracts is nothing but failure to admit its many wrongs and do the needful.   “The PDP administration led by Fayose had the opportunity to make the people happy, but it failed them. And since 14 July 2018 when the people of Ekiti state refused to continue in the journey to penury designed for them by Mr Ayo Fayose and decided to bid farewell to his mis-governance, the PDP ought to have known that its end had come. “The coffin was further nailed for the opposition party by the election tribunal and the other competent courts of law, set up to look into the grievances arising from the election up to the highest court in the land, Supreme Court which further gave affirmation to the wishes of the people and final death verdict for the PDP in the state.  “It is no surprise that the hitherto government in power which held the people of Ekiti state by the jugular, is now being taunted and haunted by its past misdeeds and now being taught what good governance is about,” he said.  Oluwalana, who also doubles as the SSA Party Matters to Governor Kayode Fayemi, said with what accrued to the the immediate past administration from internal and external sources, Ekiti by now ought to have exited the poor states club, but the selfishness and gluttonous tendencies of Fayose robbed the state of the feat. “Where are the several billions of naira from the Paris Club refund to the state? What of the monthly allocation which was more than enough to pay workers salaries, but which Fayose and PDP chose to deprive them of? “Rather than embracing good governance, Fayose preferred to be the spokesman of the opposition in Nigeria that saw nothing good in the APC controlled Federal Government.”  Oluwalana further pointed out that now that the people of Ekiti can sleep with their two eyes closed, having entrusted the wealth of the state in the hand of a pragmatic, consummate and caring leader in person of Dr Fayemi, they need nobody to confuse them about how the state should be otherwise governed.