Dr. Alex Egbona is the only All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives member from Cross River State . The member representing Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency, speaks on local government autonomy, among other issues. OLALEKAN OSIADE reports   You are among those who stood with Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila based on your party’s directive. Why do you think that should be the decision?
We are first of all party men, our party gave us the ticket with which we won our elections. So, we are duty bound to obey our party. That is what is called loyalty. But I will like to assure Nigerians that the speaker is a good party man and has already indicated his readiness to work with everybody, irrespective of party affiliations, because the primary objective is to move Nigeria to the next level.
Our activities and actions would be based on national interest. Of course you know that the APC has the interest of the country at heart and we will always be guided by those principles that will lead to a better life for our people. If you are close to Gbaja, our speaker, you will know that Nigeria is in for a good ride as far as legislative affairs is concerned. From my interactions with him, he is totally committed to the cause of a better Nigeria. He is committed to defending the constitution and people of this country. What are your expectations based on political affiliations?
Don’t forget that he enjoyed the massive support of even members of the opposition, including the main opposition party, the PDP. Look at the array of opposition members that even spearheaded his campaign drive. So, there is an unwritten rule of engagement that all of us have endorsed him in principle, and that is the drive to make a difference in this 9th Assembly. You are now a member of the House of Reps. How does it feel?
Interesting, I will say. I say so because it is a dream come true. My people dreamt of it. They worked towards realising it and now, we have got it. Yes, I am the face for that seat, but the people of Abi/Yakurr are the ultimate owners of the seat. It is all about them and I can only play my role as their representative, to make sure that everything that they deserve gets to them. It is an interesting experience belonging to the lower chamber of the National Assembly.
We have only sat once, after the inauguration. You know, we are yet to be allocated offices and all that. So, we had to adjourn so that by the time we return, all things would have been in place for a smooth take –off. I can only say that there are better days ahead. You spoke about your commitment to resolving the communal conflict between your state and the neighbouring Ebonyi State. What are your plans practically?
My duty as a legislator is basically about legislation and oversight duties. In this circumstance, I have already started making plans for a first action on this; and it will be on the floor of the green chambers. I am already talking to my colleagues to get them to appreciate the gravity of the crisis. That will help us to get the buy in of my colleagues. I will not want to say much about what I am working on. But it will soon become public knowledge, how the crisis which has lingered for a while, will be resolved. For the purpose of this interview, I can say that my team is already working hard on this. I will explore the two instruments of legislation and oversight to resolve this as fast as possible. What is your take on local government autonomy?
I am one person who supports full autonomy for local governments in the country. It is annoying that people have bastardised the local government system and they don’t see anything wrong with that. Some governors see the local governments as an offshoot of their Government House. A governor will wake up in the morning and announce the sack of a local government chairman, and sometimes dissolve the local government system and send the elected officials packing. There are local governments in this country that have been ruled by sole administrators, caretaker officials and so on. It is even more worrisome that in some of the local governments where so called elections have been conducted, the governor will single-handedly bring up all the chairmen and councilors. And so, those officials owe allegiance, not to the people or the constitution of the country, but to the governors.
That is why I am a bit concerned about the workability of the new and commendable decision to credit the accounts of the local governments directly. As much as this is a great idea, I fear that some of the governors will arm-twist the chairmen and compel them to spend the diver the monies to accounts of their choice. Of course you and I know that the chairmen will have no choice than to obey the man who put them in the office. That is why I am a serious advocate of the scrapping of state electoral commissions. While I am pushing for the conduct of local government elections across all the states of the federation, I am also of the strong view that INEC should be allowed to conduct local government elections for the various local governments. I believe that if our country follows this path, there will be some semblance of decency in the local governments. Does that guarantee the role of councilors?
I was once a councilor and I know what it was like, at that time and what the situation is right now. I can boldly tell you that the local government system has been systematically and practically messed up. At that time, councilors were able to check the executive and we made sure that the system worked. The local government chairman would submit his budget to the legislative assembly for consideration and we would ensure that the budget was followed religiously. Projects were executed by the chairmen and those who failed to perform were reprimanded by their councilors. The chairmen lived and operated from their domain. But today, what is happening? The chairmen only visit their offices, sometimes once a month. They prefer to live in the state capitals because the state governor and the house of assembly have taken over their responsibilities. That cannot be allowed to continue. I usually ask, how would the governors feel, if the National Assembly or even the president decide to take over the functions of the state governors? How will the governor feel if the president takes over their functions, withholds their federal allocation and gives them peanuts as pocket money every month, relying on some laws enacted for a selfish interest?
There is really a very urgent need to restructure this country along that line. The local governments must be allowed to take charge of their activities. At the National Assembly, some of us will push for this to happen. If operatives in the various states are arrested, tried and jailed for tampering with local government funds, they will stop. They are so daring that some of the governors even remote-control the LG chairmen to go and protest that they do not want to be free from bondage. Can you imagine a local government chairman saying they want to protest because the Federal Government is wielding the big stick, trying to stop the governors from tampering with LG funds? What do you call that?
The time has come for the local government chairmen to stand up and fight for their right. The governors should be satisfied with their own allocation. They should allow the chairmen to work and develop the grassroots. That is where the masses live. Enough of the brigandage.
The local government chairman and councilor have no business loitering round the state capital if the local government system worked. They don’t need to. They ought to remain in their base and serve the grassroots people. We are complaining of insecurity everywhere. When last did traditional rulers get stipends from the local government system? Who cares about them? Yet, we are all crying that they are not maintaining the peace in their domain. This cannot be allowed to continue like this. It is time to take our local governments out of the woods into the next level.