Four times it was attempted, four times it fell flat. The desire of President Muhammadu Buhari to have a predictable budget cycle that will run from January to December remains a mirage due to combative and sour relationship between the executive and the National Assembly. Abdulwahab Isa reports  Nigeria’s budget process is fraught with hiccups. From embryonic to implementation stage, Nigeria’s budget hasn’t enjoyed smooth sail since the return to the current democratic dispensation.
In the last four years, the current administration has not been able to stick to January to December budget cycle.
Essentially, this was caused by absence of good working relationship, frosty and antagonistic relationship that define executive and legislative arms of the government.
For instance, the current N8.92 trillion 2019 budget recently passed by the National Assembly and assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari was conceived in 2018.
It was set out to be experimented with the January to December calendar template. Sadly, it went the way of three previous budgets; unable to run on the new budget cycle template envisaged. Obstacles to calendar
To achieve the desired mileage required, President Buhari’s administration, as part of the process of budget reforms, came up with December to January budget circle.
The egg heads of the administration and members of the Economy Management Team believe that the January to December budget cycle will afford the economy to recover faster and gain the buoyancy with prompt capital releases and budget implementation.
In the past four years, the administration attempts to reverse the budget to new budget cycle of December to January fell flat. One of the factors responsible for missing December to January budget cycle is the inability of both executive and legislative arms to stick appropriately to the timing of budget framework- Medium Term Expenditure Frame work (MTEF).
Most times, the executive arm does not keep to schedule in sending MTEF document to the National Assembly. On the part of National Assembly members, they don’t treat MTEF expeditiously as expected whenever it is transmitted to them.
The default in prompt handling of this important aspect of budget process laid the foundation for missing December to January budget cycle.
In order to achieve a return to a 1st of January commencement date in budget implementation, the budget must ideally be delivered to the National Assembly by September.
Regrettably, the budget for now is one that commences in June or July. By September, there would have been no idea how the existing budget is likely to perform.
Cost implications on economy
For the entire budget value chain to achieve the desired objectives, the current frosty relationship between Executive and National Assembly has to be amended.
The economy ultimately suffers in the event of budget quagmire. The private sector, the engine driving every economy, won’t be able to make predictable business decision in an environment where budget processes are fraught with delays as being witnessed in Nigeria’s budget process.
The GDP a country attains is a function of effective and efficient budget system it operates.
The immediate past Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, at his valedictory press briefing recently in Abuja, lamented the inability of the present administration to achieve the new budget cycle.
“There is no legal requirement for the budget year to run from January to December.
“However, a January to December fiscal year is more predictable and would help the private sector and other economic players in planning because most economic players run a January to December fiscal year.
“Also, it would be much easier to track budget performance if both the recurrent and the capital budgets run from the same dates. It is therefore desirable to return to the January to December fiscal year.
“However, to return to the January to December fiscal year for a budget when the operation of the current budget only commenced in June or July is a very challenging assignment.
In order to achieve a return to a 1st of January commencement date, the budget must ideally be delivered to the National Assembly by September.
Indeed, given the procurement process, for a budget which starts running in June or July, there might have been little or no capital releases by September. Way out
The executive and legislative arms og government are the problem and the solution to budget quagmire.
To return budget calendar cycle to January to December, this two important instructions must work in harmony.
Udo Udoma admitted such recently, saying “the only way to return to a January to December fiscal year, under those circumstances, is for there to be agreement between the Executive and the National Assembly to produce a budget on the basis of significant assumptions. This will require a very close working relationship of trust and synergy between the two arms of government.
“Unfortunately, we were unable to achieve this in the last four years. I am hopeful that in Mr. President’s second term we might have a situation where the executive and the leadership of the National Assembly are much more aligned. This will help not only to be able to achieve a return to the January to December fiscal year, but to have a much smoother budget process.” Hope in 2019 budget
Notwithstanding the default, failing to meet January to December budget cycle, the Federal Government is hopeful that 2019 budget will lay the foundation for prosperous economy for another four years.
Sharing details of the 2019 budget breakdown recently shortly after President Buhari assented toit, Udo Udoma told Nigerians to be hopeful of a brighter future as the seeds of development planted in the last four years are germinating and would soon be bearing fruits.
While acknowledging the patience of Nigerians and the contributions of critical stakeholders like the National Assembly, the media and other partners to the development efforts of government, Senator Udoma explained that an economy usually take some time to build up momentum after a period of recession.
He added, however, that all indices point to the direction of positive growth and the dividends will soon manifest with greater impact as government continues to faithfully implement the provisions of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), which underpins government’s economic recovery actions.
The minister pointed to the fact that already the macro-economy had remained largely stable and growth has increased from 0.82 per cent in 2017 to 1.93 per cent in 2018 and 3.01 per cent is expected in 2019, with the continuing implementation of the ERGP.
Real GDP increased from 1.89 per cent in Q1 of 2018 to 2.01 per cent in the first quarter of 2019 – the strongest first quarter growth since 2015; Significant growth has been recorded in the non-oil sector: 2.47 per cent growth in Q1 2019, up from 0.76 per cent in Q1 2018 and diversification efforts have continued as contribution of the non-oil sector to GDP increased from 90.4 per cent in Q1 2018 to 90.9% in Q1 2019. Last line
If the current administration is serious on its commitment to attain January to December budget cycle calendar, the executive must reconcile with the National Assembly for a start of harmonious relationship.  