The celebration of the 25th anniversary of World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought brought back to the front burner the culture of tree planting. CALEB ONWE reports  Desertification and shrinking arable lands are some of the effects of climate change that are already manifesting in many northern states and the Federal Capital Territory.
However, there are measures to mitigate this natural phenomenon through integrated policies of the FCT administration.
Part of the measures to ensure that climate change does not destroy the ecosystem of Abuja is the move to revive the annual Tree Planting Campaign through which about 157, 000 trees have been planted in and around the city.
This year’s celebration of the World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought brought government officials, environmental activists, school children and lovers of nature together. It also re-awakened the need for every citizen to become conscious of the devastating effects of climate change and join hands to mitigating it.
Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr. Christian Ohaa, who revealed government’s preparedness to save the ecosystem from destruction, also reinstated the commitment towards the implementation of policies that would ensure that climate change smart projects were promoted.
Ohaa was particular about the desertification which he noted was among the consequences of climate change posing great danger to the environment and human activities.
According to him, desertification is one of the biggest and most serious environmental challenges of global proportions because it affects all regions of the world and is characterized by the degradation of land in arid, semi-arid and humid areas.
“The effects of desertification are equally serious and devastating because it primarily reduces the ability of land to support and sustain life. Desertification ensures that the land becomes less usable, vegetation is lacked and damaged and famine inevitably occurs. Other effects include increased gully erosion, sand storms, migration and death,” he said.
The Permanent Secretary also disclosed that part of the policy plan to combat climate change is the deliberate awareness campaign on the which the administration is aggressively embarking on.
He revealed that residents, communities, organizations and private sector players within the territory would be required to embrace the policy of tree planting as a way of combating desertification.
“Combating desertification through planting of trees requires a great deal of mass awareness and community participation. That is why I am especially glad that organizations such as the 09 Bikers Motor cycle club, a group which one will ordinarily not associate with events such as tree planting has committed itself to this important project”, he noted.
Inside Abuja also learnt that the administration was also losing sleep over the measures to adopt to combat climate change. It was also worried that some residents and estate developers who live in illusion about the effects of this natural phenomenon, were felling trees indiscriminately without replanting them.
“We have the challenge of felling of trees due to the provision of infrastructure and mass housing. I hereby call on construction companies and housing developers to make provisions form replacement of felled trees as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility”, Ohaa added.
Director, FCT Department of Parks and Recreation, Arc. Ali Ukele, stressed that proactive measures had been adopted to protect the environment as well as promote a climate change smart activities in the territory.
He said that about 157,000 trees have been planted within the city over the years and 25, 000 more trees are to be planted along most of the major roads that have just been given infrastructural facelifts.
The areas and roads he said, would benefit from first phase of the tree planting campaign include: the Kubwa expressway, leading to the popular Zuba interchange, Nnamdi Azikiwe Expressway, Wuse zone 3 and the Airport road.
According to him, the Department of Parks and Recreation was worried that residents were undermining the administration’s effort to protecting the environment, by felling trees indiscriminately.
Ukele noted that the administration has approved the Park and Recreation Policy to enable the enforcement of rules against violations. He noted that most of the visible effects of climate change were caused by activities of humans, adding that the challenge was worldwide and not just peculiar to Nigeria.
Talking about Carbon Emissions as part of the human activities that cause climate change, the President of the 09 Bikers Motorcycle Club (09MC), Austin Mbamah, said his organization decided to partner with government in the tree planting campaign as a way to resolving the challenge.
Mbamah stated that his organization recognised that the use of fossil fuel could lead to carbon emissions which encourages climate change and would introduce the 09MC Tree Planting Campaign (‘The Campaign’) to mitigate the impact of its activities on the environment.
He said that the Club has decided to plant 1, 000 trees in the FCT, commencing on the 17th of June 2019 which happens to be the World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought.
“Climate change is a global phenomenon and our city and country is not an exception. Global warming is on the increase annually as a result of our activities as humans, which have negative impacts on the environment, including riding sports bikes. It is only the decent thing to leave this world better than we met it so that future generations can have, if not same, a better quality life, as we,” Mbamah said.
He noted that the theme for the World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought ‘Let’s grow the future together’, resonates with the 09MC’s objective of environmentally safeguarding the future.
“Burning of fossil fuel which powers our sports bikes releases carbon and toxicants to the atmosphere which contribute to global warming and pose threats to our health. Trees on the other hand release oxygen which we as humans and other creatures require to survive. There is no gainsaying therefore, that what we are doing today has a direct bearing on our community.
“It is our hope that as an organisation what we are doing here today will be a continuous activity. We breathe in air daily; we will plant trees for as long as we ride,” he stated.