As President Muhammadu Buhari kick-starts his second term in office, Amnesty International has scored his administration low on human rights issues in the first four years. The global human rights watchdog has, therefore, tasked him to endeavour to uphold the human rights of every Nigerians in the coming years. In a report released yesterday in Abuja, the human rights organisation said that President Buhari’s inauguration last Wednesday was another opportunity for him to demonstrate more commitment to human rights and protection of the citizenry in Nigeria. The document reviews the human rights situation in Nigeria and condemns the several cases of human rights violations and abuses across the country. It observed that the human rights situation in Nigeria has been marked by serious human rights violations such as extrajudicial executions, arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture and other ill-treatment, enforced disappearances. Others are violence against women and girls, restrictions on the rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, mass forced evictions, environmental pollution and lack of accountability for human rights violations and abuses. Amnesty said while the 1999 Constitution (as amended) in Chapter IV contains provisions on human rights and Nigeria has ratified several international and regional human rights treaties, the country had been bedevilled by human rights violations and abuses perpetrated by state and non-state actors in recent years. The global human rights watchdog recommended a number of measures to ensure that Nigeria improved her human rights records. It urged Buhari to end all forms of violence against women and girls; protect the rights of children; ensure accountability for the Niger Delta clean-up; guarantee freedom of expression; end torture, enforced disappearances and extrajudicial executions and secure Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It also admonished the new administration to protect the civic space and improve the operating environment for human rights defenders and activists, as well as abolish the death penalty and commute all death sentences. “Despite Nigeria’s overwhelming ratification of human rights treaties and commitments at the international and regional level, Nigerians continue to face worsening human rights crisis across the country. “Amnesty International is calling on the Nigerian government to seize this opportunity to end decades of human rights violations and pervasive impunity by making human rights central to its agenda and ensuring that human rights are not suppressed,” the report said.