Gunmen yesterday abducted a driver of a commercial vehicle on Akure-Ikere Ekiti Road.
This came barely 24 hours after the governors of South-West states converged on Ibadan, Oyo State to chart a way out of violent crimes in the zone.
The incident occurred barely a week after the Nigerian Army launched an anti-kidnapping drone to tackle kidnapping in Ondo and Ekiti axis of the South-West.
A source said that the driver identified as Felix Akinde was driving towards Akure from Ado-Ekiti, when the hoodlums who had blocked the roads stopped him and reportedly took him away.
The source said the vehicle was left open in the middle of the road, saying this was what attracted members of the public to the abandoned vehicle and raised the alarm.
A source at ‘Ado Garage’ in Akure, confirmed the abduction of the driver. He said the incident had been reported at the police station.
“The ‘garage’ was contacted and the driver’s union swung into action, only to find the vehicle belonging to one of the members of the union.
“The hoodlums took the advantage of the bad spot to carry out their operation. The whereabouts of the driver of the vehicle remain unknown, but we have reported to the security operatives.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, confirmed the kidnapping story.
He, however, debunked the report that more than 10 people were abducted.
Joseph said only the driver of the vehicle travelling to Akure was reported to have been kidnapped by the gunmen.
According to him, the family of the driver reported the incident at the police station.
The PPRO described the alarm raised by some people over the incident as a deliberate attempt to cause panic in the state.
He said: “The Ondo State Police Command wishes to allay the fear of the general public as a result of the news making the rounds on the social media that an 18-seater bus conveying some passengers from Ikere to Akure was blocked while 10 passengers were kidnapped.
“We wish to state that the story was exaggerated, and to set the record straight, a space bus Toyota Previa vehicle was driven by one Akinde Felix from Ikere Ekiti en route to Akure on Tuesday, with only the driver inside.
“About 4.30p.m., on a spot close to the NYSC Camp at Itaogbolu, the vehicle was blocked by suspected hoodlums, while the driver who was the only occupant was whisked away.
“The command has since begun investigation and intensifying efforts to not only rescue the victim but to also arrest the perpetrators.”
Joseph also denied the involvement of any corps member serving in the state in the kidnapping incident, saying that only one person was abducted.
But another source in Ekiti State said the kidnappers pointed guns at the bus and ordered the passengers to come out before they were whisked away.
The leadership of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in Ekiti State confirmed the abduction.
An official of the NURTW said the vehicle belonged to a driver popularly called Baba Ikere.
But Ekiti State PPRO, DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, could not be reached for comments as his phone was switched off.
Meanwhile, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Ondo State yesterday, debunked the news that some corps members in the state have been kidnapped.
This is contained in a statement by the management of the NYSC in the state, saying the news was not only false but baseless and unfounded.
“The management through the established procedure can authoritatively tell the general public especially the parents and guardians not to panic as all corps members serving in all the local governments in the state or those who are currently in camp at Ikare-Akoko are safe, sound and healthy.
“The management of NYSC has put in place necessary machinery and effective measure to safeguard at all times the lives and properties of members of the service corps,” it said.