Doifie Buokoribo is the Publicity Secretary of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State. He spoke with PAULINE ONYIBE on the November 16 governorship election.  What is your assessment of the 2019 general election?
For me and for our party, we believe that the general elections were much better than the previous ones which we have had. Although they were not perfect. There is no way they could have been perfect. There are no perfect elections anywhere in the world. For us in Bayelsa State, contrary to the impression which PDP normally gives by its leadership led by the governor, we are a party of peace loving people, development oriented and law abiding. Indeed we are the victims of his lawlessness. Since 2012, Governor Seriake Dickson has ran a terribly lawless government. He has used his oppressive security force, Operation Doo Akpo, to harass our members. He has inflicted phenomenal pain, hunger and penury on the people of Bayelsa State for close to eight years that he had been in office. The Bayelsa people don’t like him. Go to the streets, go to the market, everywhere, it is the same thing. The civil servants are complaining of unpaid salaries. They are complaining of unpaid allowances. Pensioners are complaining.
There is hunger in the land. In that kind of context, no reasonable person will support Dickson and the PDP. Even in this last elections, officially we have a Senator, two members of House of Reps and four members of House of Assembly, the people voted for APC but of course, you know that Dickson is in government, he is in power. He used state resources to buy the votes. He used state apparatus to harass and intimidate our members. So you see that the results generally were not an accurate reflection of the people’s choice. Even in the areas in which we won, Dickson is angry, he wanted to take everything. APC got some state and federal seats, how were you able to do that?
We got seats because those votes were defended. Our people defended their votes. They defended the votes with all their might and this happened in areas where it was not possible for the PDP to have his way. We won in Nembe, we won in Brass, and we won in Southern Ijaw. There were even areas in which, in the first election before the rerun that we had won. When they now had a rerun, those votes were stolen. Boy loafs younger brother won his election. If the results were declared that day, he would have won, that is Sele Victor Ben. But in the rerun we were rigged out and yet he is the one making the most noise. APC is always accused of using federal might against PDP because PDP is an Ijaw party. How do you react to that?
You can see the mindset of some people and their warped way of reasoning. We all belong to the Ijaw nation. And some people now want to believe that they are more Ijaw than other people. For me as someone from Bayelsa, I don’t accept the view that someone is more Bayelsan than I am. My both parents are from here, so you cannot claim to be more Bayelsan or more Ijaw than me. My ancestors were great warriors in Ijaw land. We took slave that came to serve us. So for someone to claim to be more Ijaw, I don’t understand. In the run up to 2015 election, Dickson openly told the world that the Ijaw nation was under attack.
The two principal candidates in that election were Timipre Sylva and Seriake Dickson but Sylva does not come from Sudan neither does he come from Cameroun. So when you hear those type of stuffs, you get worried. What kind of people are in the PDP? What kind of leadership do they have there that makes this type of false claims about being superior people and being more ijaw than the others? They really deserve to be pitied. And then you talk about federal might, if we had used federal might, how come we didn’t win everything. Is Dickson now saying that he is more powerful than the Nigerian Army? Is he more powerful than the police or the DSS? If any one used state resources, if any one used state apparatus, if any one used violence, it is Dickson and his party, the PDP not the APC. We are the victims not the aggressors. The governorship election is fast approaching. The battle is tactically going to be between APC and PDP. Are you sure of victory?
If elections are free and fair, if the people of Bayelsa are allowed to vote for the candidate of their choice, there is no way anybody in Bayelsa will vote PDP. It is APC they love, it is APC they like. Indeed they don’t want to be outside the center. Historically, our people have always played federal politics. From pre independence, Chief Okilo’s time till date, we have never been in the opposition. We have worked with the party at the center. All the benefits we have secured is because we have worked with party at the centre. The Bayelsa people are ready to work with President Muhammadu Buhari. They are ready to work with APC. They are ready to work with any candidate that APC will produce. In the last election, the people of Bayelsa voted for APC. What happened was that Dickson compromised the electoral body. He used the security forces in 2015 election. He bought that election. After buying the election, he fought every other person in his party which is why in the 2019 election, he imposed candidates everywhere. His party members are not happy. As at today, the PDP is hopelessly divided. So in that context how do you expect them to win? They are not going to win except they compromise the process which is what they are determined to do. Do you have a candidate?
Does PDP have a candidate? We have not done primaries. At the end of the primaries, a candidate will emerge. It is open. Primaries will be conducted and once a candidate emerges, we will all gather around that candidate. The point is this, people must be allowed to play politics. You cannot stop them from expressing themselves. I mean all these about this person having ambition, this other person having ambition, it is the act of politics. People must play politics. You cannot stop somebody from having an ambition. It is legitimate but once a candidate emerges through free and fair and credible primaries, every member of the party will rally round that person. So it is not a problem. What are your chances against the PDP?
They are hopelessly divided. Even Dickson himself is not certain of the candidate that he will support. They said he wants to endorse a candidate. That is part of his game plan. He is determined to get a successor. Does he know the successor? He doesn’t. So, if as at today, a few months to the election, it is not clear who his successor will be when he is the man on the seat, is it APC that you want for us to have a candidate. Come off it, this is politics, we are better than them. The APC is supposed to serve as checks and balance to the PDP, but your party seems not to be doing that. Why?
The government of the day is PDP, they run the government. Don’t forget that we are like a civil servant state. If you are not part of the PDP and part of the government, even in your business they come after you. Recently, we addressed a press conference, we told you that the governor was determined to ruin the businesses of our members who are surveillance contractors to the oil companies. This government is a satanic government, it is ungodly, and it is evil. So when you say we are not on ground, it is unfortunate, that is the PDP propaganda. Our members are everywhere, our secretariat is functional. If you go there, you will meet people. To accuse us that we are not unground is fiction. How were you able to win the state and federal seats?
I have always said that, if given an opportunity to freely exercise their rights to vote, nobody in his right sense will vote Dickson. Will anybody vote for somebody who doesn’t pay salaries? Will anybody vote for somebody who has inflicted pains and hunger on them? I mean nobody will vote for an employer that does not pay their parents their monthly wages and delays their salary till almost the end of the month and allocations come in as usual. That gives punitive taxations. Go round that streets of Yenagoa, everybody is complaining. If everybody is complaining, you think that during election, people will vote that party? It cannot be done. It is not rational. The people are with us. They have always been with us. They want change. Again I repeat in 2015, Dickson did not win that election he used state resources to buy the results. After buying it he became governor and once he became governor, he fought not only the APC even his own party members so much so that as today the PDP is divided into not less than three factions. Each with its own agenda.