Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, at the weekend said he was determined to deliver on his campaign promises to the people. The governor said he was well aware of the high expectation of the people and had resolved to work for the people, especially in road construction and other social infrastructure. “The state of our roads is disappointing. This is particularly true of Kwara North. There is no road, for instance, to Gwanara, especially now that it is raining and yet the contractor handling it is collecting money. That was why the previous administration was stoned in Gwanara. We don’t want to be stoned,” AbdulRazaq said at the weekend at a meeting with top officials of the Kwara State Road Maintenance Agency in Ilorin, the state capital. He was referring to the attacks on the convoy of former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and former Governor Abdulfatai Ahmed in Gwanara town, where locals protested their decrepit road that had long been awarded, but was left unattended. He said the contractors would only be asked to go if they fail to deliver on the administration’s development agenda and timeline. “Kwara people have woken up and if I don’t fix the road, they will protest. So, we will sit with the contractors. We are not sacking or removing them. We want to be proactive so they can do their job,” he said. Governor AbdulRazaq deplored the condition of roads in the state, saying that the new administration would partner with the National Assembly and the Federal Government on how to quickly fix them. He directed the Ministry of Works to compile the list of roads that were in bad state so that the government can work out funding options for their rehabilitation. Meanwhile, the state government at the weekend expressed its determination to make the State University in Malete, Moro Local Government Area of the state an enviable institution among its peers, not only in Nigeria, but also internationally. The governor, who stated this at the weekend at the 7th Convocation and 10th anniversary of the institution, said public resources would judiciously be deployed to ensure that the state reclaimed its lost glory in all spheres. Represented by his Deputy, Mr. Kayode Alabi, the governor, who said the state used to be the reference point for excellence, particularly in Northern Nigeria, when the state paraded the best in the fields of education, healthcare, law, agro-processing, and entrepreneurship, among others, lamented the present pitiable situation of the state.