 Policyholders, who have not been able to receive their mature claims from their insurers, have sustained their protests to the organisations demanding that they been paid.
The situation, which has further dampened the image of the sector, has been made worse by the affected companies’ reluctance to offer good reasons for their failure to pay.
Findings revealed that the industry’s regulating agency, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), is currently relying on the planned recapitalisation to weed out companies that are having issues with claims payment.
According to report, the Commission is being inundated with complaints from the public on companies that are unable to meet their claims responsibilities, adding that such default is enough to withdraw operating licences of the firms.
NAICOM is, however, being cautious in wielding the big stick as it would further batter the image of the industry and knock-out the gains already achieved in getting the public to embrace insurance.
A source at the Commission expressed optimism that the ongoing recapitalisation would help weed-out the weak firms, without causing more harm to the sector.
It was also gathered that claimants on several occasions had gone to some companies to protest and demand payment of their entitlements.
Interactions with some insurance marketers also revealed that the public now refrain from insurance due to the negative experiences they had with companies over the payment of their claims.
According to the marketers, selling insurance had become very difficult in recent times as many people are no longer interested in buying insurance products due to the sour taste they got from their insurers.
It was also gathered from a broker that a firm which is presently on a legal battle with its former managing director over unauthorised expenses running into N5 billion, is struggling to pay claims and brokers’ commissions.
The broker noted that most brokers have severed businesses with the underwriting firm, a decision that would further plunged the firm in serious financial maladies.
The Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari, is of the opinion that the on-going recapitalisation would allow insurance companies in the country to retain huge risks which are presently ceded abroad.
He noted that the exercise would allow local insurers to retain huge risks in the country, thereby, avoiding premium flight, that will, in the long run, increase the profitability of the sector and its impact on the nation’s economic growth and development.
While stating that the recapitalisation is long overdue as foreign exchange rate, asset replacement values as well as claims volume have increased in the last 12 years, he added that, operating with the current capital base is putting insurance firms at risk.
He said insurance operators are fond of resisting recapitalisation exercise, whenever the idea is mooted, saying, some insurers prefer to continue to write huge risks in aviation and marine sectors, with small capital, a development, he said, was responsible for why some underwriting firms are struggling to pay claims.