In the last seven months the Anambra State Government has placed a ban on collection of revenues but there has been increase in activities of fake revenue collectors. In an interview with OKEY MADUFORO, the chairman Anti-Illegal Toll Collection in the area, Mr. Nathan Obikwelu speaks about how the state government is addressing the issue  Why did government ban the collection of revenues?  It became important and also urgent that the Anambra State Government should ban the collection of taxes, storage fees, levies and motor park tolls due to so many complaints on multipage taxation and illegal collection of levies. The people of the state from market leaders to motor park management and business premises operators have written several petitions complaining that unknown persons and individuals have been collecting taxes and levies from them and issuing them several receipts that cannot be substantiated. Before now a storekeeper told me that she pays three times for sanitation, business premises, storage fees and the rest of them. There have been cases of touts destroying people’s shops or attacking innocent people for not paying on toll or the other. They come under various names and guises and some even claim that they were sent by the Commissioner for Commerce or Environment or Special Duties. So as a result of that the Anambra State government had no option but to place a ban on toll collection.  How far has your Task Force gone in enforcing this ban?  So far, we have arrested over 29 suspects who are in police custody and are now awaiting trial in respective prisons in the state. Just recently, we apprehended 17 persons but our problem is that the police told us that they do not have the enabling law to prosecute the suspects. But to God be the glory the state now has the law which was passed by the Anambra State House of Assembly against the collection of revenue illegally. Once you are arrested, you are handed over to the police and you are charged to the revenue court for prosecution. We have been carrying out sensitisation programmes to the public through radio and television and even this interview for them to be aware that the ban on the collection of revenue has not been lifted till June this year. Even at that before you go to collect revenue you would be given an authority paper that has expiry date, just like license and if yours expires you must come to renew your authority papers, otherwise what you are doing is an illegality and it is actionable in the law court.  But some people are alleging that the task force was set up to witch hunt people?  That is not true. We are not after anybody. The problem here is that a lot of people have been using touts to defraud the Anambra State Government when we came into the picture they started shouting. These people are touts and they have been brandishing all manners of tax and levy receipts and tickets. At the motor parks we have about 30 different types of tickets bearing the Anambra State Government letter head. For sanitation, they are about 12 and those of storage fees are uncountable. Even commercial motor drivers have been complaining and these touts would go to any learnt to extort money from the drivers and the divers union have also petitioned our office and the ministries concerned and that is why we are everywhere in Anambra State. It is important to note that in the last one year Anambra State has lost up to N2 billion to illegal tax collectors and motor park touts and street boys who have been ripping-off innocent Anambrarians in the name of revenues.  Recently there was an alleged faceoff between some of your members and the revenue collectors?  No, they are not revenue collectors, but touts that have been defrauding the state and these are some of the challenges that we face in the line of duty. Sometimes, they will attack our men, break their heads and that explains why we use police or Civil Defence in our operations. This happens in the communities where some people see themselves as lords but on that day six of those touts were arrested with all kinds of tickets and receipt booklets. We also have problems of movement and that is operational vehicles in order to reach all parts of the state. You know registered markets in Anambra State and it is not easy to go round the state with limited number of vehicles. But it is heart-warming that the state government has graciously approved the release of 10 vehicles to assist our job in the respective areas. We indeed express our gratitude to our governor Dr. Willie Obiano for his magnanimity by creating the enablers for our task force to operate optimally. I also commend my team, my deputy, Ozo Dominic Osita Okoye, Ikenna Alugo, the monitoring officer, Ceasar Okoye and the rest of them for their team spirit.  In clear terms, which are the officially approved tolls to be collected or paid to government?  We have market tax; we have storage fees which is applicable to government-owned markets and sanitation tax. The market tax is also referred to as traders’ tax for non-governmental or private markets in the state. Our success story cannot be complete without commending the Commissioner for Trade, Commerce and Revenue Generation, Dr. Christian Madubuko as well as the Chairman/Chief Executive Anambra State Internal Revenue Service, Dr. David Nzekwu for their fatherly assistance.