Benneth Ogbeiwi (popularly known as “Uncle Ben”) is a celebrated music instructor and director, band head, vocal coach and actor. In this interview with TONY OKUYEME, the graduate of Civil Engineering from the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State, bares his mind on various issues in the entertainment industry in Nigeria    You started as a choirboy in St. Dominic’s Catholic Church, Yaba Lagos. Did you actually plan to become a musicologist from the onset?
It wasn’t a plan at all; I guess it just happened. I found myself in a place where peace thrives and I enjoyed every singing moment it brought my way. How has the journey been so far?
The journey was surreal. I accompanied my younger sister to rehearsals and found myself blending in and ultimately standing out: I owe it to God ultimately.
Three decades of loving what you do has been amazing. There were challenges which were mostly human based but there was always a solution to that effect. You were a member of the acclaimed Steve Rhodes Voices. What was your experience?
That was the turning point in my career. Uncle Steve Rhodes gave me all the tools I needed to forge ahead and the most important of it all is DISCIPLINE. Tell us about your encounter with the legendary musicologist, the late Elder Steve Rhodes…
Francis Agu (actor: ‘Checkmate’), of blesses memory, saw my sister and I perform in church and felt compelled, persuaded us to join the SRV. He was an amazing man but very strict with the language of music. He shared all the ethics of growth and continuity and this has lived with me since then. You were also a member of Laz Ekwueme Chorale…
Yes. That was also an act of fate. A friend, Barrister Ikechukwu Eseka Esq., asked me to join the Laz Ekwueme Chorale because he (HRH Igwe Prof. Laz Ekwueme) was recruiting then. It was an opportunity to grow my chorale skills whilst harnessing the contemporary aspect with Uncle Steve. On the side, it was also a positive competing ground against anyone and everyone who claimed they could sing better than you and didn’t have the opportunity to do so. Hahahahahahhaha… You are a graduate of Civil Engineering from the Ambrose Alli University Ekpoma, but most people know you by your exploits in the entertainment industry.
Well, my dad wanted me to get a white collar job (you know how parents can be with work), I told him I’d found my path in life. He would have nothing of it; and so I made a deal with him: I’ll get the degree, give me two years, after that then let’s agree on the way forward. The rest is history. I won the challenge and he has supported me since then. Tell us about Kakadu The Musical in which you played the lead role, Lord Lugard…
Sir Uche Nwokedi (SAN) is the writer of Kakadu The Musical. We met some 19 years ago and I think he liked my very thorough methods of teaching. We had done a few established musicals then – Joseph And The Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, Jesus Christ Superstar and a few more – before the story of Kakadu came to bear. He asked me to write the prologue based on the words he had put together and because he’s a very great appreciative individual of music, he also requested the playlist in the entire musical be vocally overhauled. Kakadu is a success and is going places. You were a Vocal Coach in West African Idols Season 1; Music Facilitator: Nokia First Chance; presenter: Celebrity Takes 2 (Seasons 1 & 2); Narrator: Gulder Ultimate Search V; Head of Music: MTN Project Fame West Africa (Till Date). How has it been so far?
These reality shows gave me an opportunity to relay my gift to the world: you can’t own this gift and so, you’ll have to pass it on at some point to others. Music is really never yours, the discipline to handle it differs for every individual. Kudos to everyone who gave me the opportunity. What is your take about Reality TV shows in Nigeria?
They are growing rapidly and create an avenue for those whose strength are in the creative sector. We appreciate all who have been involved especially the multinationals and encourage others to join in and grow this sector. How would you rate the music industry today?
Compared to the 80s, it has grown rapidly; and I dare say, Nigerians are the most sought-after musicians globally: apart from the language structure our songs bring, our vibrant nature on stage can be very overwhelming. I must not fail to thank Fela Anikulapo Kuti, Sir IK Dairo, King Sunny Ade, Osita Osadebe, Rex Lawson, Ebenezer Obey, Haruna Ishola and our other Nigerian greats, for sustaining our culture. What do you think is the best way to curb piracy?
Once we begin to obey laws, legitimize policies and individual grow away from greed, we can begin to pursue this venture. Tell us your most memorable day or days in your career?
It was the amazing nine years on MTN Project Fame West AFRICA, where we were able to export entertainment and education from our wonderful nation Nigeria. Where do you see the Nigerian music industry in the next five years?
The evolution will not be contained and considering our citizens are beginning to acquire education and technology, we will climb straight to the top. What is your advice for the young ones on how to get better in the industry?
Every good thing requires time to grow, I’ll advise we remain patient with the system, practice and perfect our craft, stay consistent and consequently, expect positive results. Tell us about the most challenging role you have played as an actor?
The lead role in Kakadu The Musical, because in addition to teaching the entire music, orchestration and vocal arrangements, stepping into the role required a lot of research, growing into the character was equal if not more, important. Fake lifestyle has become popular among entertainers? What is your view about this?
At some point in life, our individual revenue will diminish and all fake lifestyle pundits will phase out. The route to success is still hardwork and consistency. You can’t give what you don’t have. How have you been able to handle this?
Fake life? I don’t live a fake life! Lol. I still trek the streets of Lagos, still take okada, and I still eat in bukas. Are you fulfilled as an artist, particularly, as a musicologist?
Certainly, but I still want to make more money. Let’s talk about marriage. How has it been?
Blissful. Artistes are said to be promiscuous. Is it right to call you a lover boy?
That’s very correct! We yearn for the finer things and the job provides it on a platter. I am a lover of music and all things bright and beautiful. Lol Have you been embarrassed? What happened?
Not really. Once people recognize me, they appreciate what we’ve done in the industry. Only thing is I can’t go shopping at Idumota. Any regrets?
So far? None Has your exploits as a music instructor translated financially rewarding to you?
Yes it has, even though it has been more fulfilling for me giving jobs to my colleagues. How do you unwind?
Watch television at home; go to the cinemas once in a while if the schedule isn’t too intense. What has been your greatest challenge as music instructor?
MTN Project Fame West Africa. I was faced with the responsibility of providing the playlist for the entire season: rehearsals, select musicians and prepare them for the weekly performances for 13 weeks each year; recce the vocal abilities of every contestant, deal with the opinion of judges and our wonderful viewers and critics. That’s the beauty of the job. Which of your movies or stage plays is your favourite? Why?
Kakadu The Musical: the vintage collection of the music, the great Nigerian story and how it reminds us that we’ll need to urgently, both individually and collectively fix our great country Nigeria. What is your advice to budding artiste? Be very, very patient with the system. Would you encourage your child to be an artiste or a musician? Absolutely. They’re towing the creative line already. Against the backdrop of economic realities, some of your colleagues have gone into other business to as a means of alternative income. What else do you do or plan to do? I am exploiting all the options: whilst others are just into one of music, stage or movies, I’m also adding voice-overs, film score, chorale presentations, MC services and consulting services to the mix. Any plans to go into politics? Why? Not for me but if the terrain grows zero tolerance to violence, then there’s a chance. What should your teeming fans expect from you in the next five years? More from the creative industry and an amazing experience that will impact us all greatly