Fifty four firms, which indicated interest to execute contracts for the National Youth Service Corps NYSC) in the 2019 financial year have qualified to handle various projects across the country. Director General of NYSC, Brig. Gen. S Ibrahim, who unveiled the results of the financial bids, yesterday, said a total of 184 companies started the process. He noted that the 54 successful companies were subjected to rigorous scrutiny by the Technical Evaluation Committee before the bids were handed over to the regulatory bodies for further checks. Ibrahim assured the contractors that NYSC would continue to handle procurement processes in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, 2017, which is the guiding document. Before opening the bids which were divided into 31 lots, Yahaha Umar, Secretary, NYSC Tenders Board, noted that the exercise was going to be as transparent as possible and that contractors should ensure that all documents were provided and properly entered in line with the requirements as advertised in national dailies. Umar also noted that the bids had been arranged serially and proceeded to open the bid boxes. After the exercise, Director, NYSC Procurement, Yakubu Jok, said that merit was strictly followed in picking the qualified bidders as neither him nor the DG had any interest and did not interfere with the processes. Jok however warned the firms to ensure that the quality of jobs to be executed would not be compromised and would be delivered on time. The projects bided for included sinking of boreholes at the Orientation Camp in Kogi, Rivers and Bauchi states; rehabilitation of NYSC male hostel in Imo State; rehabilitation and refurbishing of dilapidated block of building in Ondo State as well as rehabilitation and refurbishing of staff quarters in Kogi State. Others are renovation of the NYSC Orientation Camp in Taraba State; rehabilitation and renovation of NYSC Orientation Camp in Sokoto State; procurement and supply of one ambulance; supply of two utility vehicles for NYSC headquarters and the supply of one tractor and accessories. The contractors are also expected to procure and supply 2, 400 locally fabricated double bunk beds for NYSC Orientation Camps in Cross River, FCT, Ondo, Imo states; the procurement and supply of 1,700 mattresses for Delta, Oyo and Imo states and procurement and supply of 3, 000 life jackets for Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Delta states. It also includes the procurement and supply of two 100KVA power generating sets; supply of 40 motor bikes, 40 pieces of TV sets; 40 digital cameras; 40 printers; 185 copiers; hair dressers and dryers and the upgrading of the NYSC distress call centre. Others are hospital equipment which include oxygen cylinders and one 100KVA generating set for Nasarawa State Orientation Camp as well as lap tops as for Sayeed programme and 40 pieces of public address systems.