Ijebu-Igbo, the headquarters of Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State, stood still yesterday as the remains of the Bejeroku of Oke-Agbo, Oba Haruna Olaoye Abass, were committed to mother earth.
Oba Abass, aged 94, joined his ancestors on Tuesday after spending 27 years on the royal stool.
The late monarch, who was among the pioneer staff of Nigerian Broadcasting Corporation (now Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, FRCN), rose to the rank of Commercial Manager before he retired in 1976.
At his burial ceremony held according to Islamic rites in Ijebu-Igbo, eminent personalities, kinsmen of the deceased and Muslim clerics led by the Chief Imam of Ijebuland, Alhaji Mufutau Ayanbadejo, poured encomiums on the departed Oba.
Those who mourned included former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel; Senator Adegbenga Kaka, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye, former Minister of State for Defence, Mrs. Modupe Adelaja; immediate past Commissioner for Health, Dr Babatunde Ipaye, and Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, who was represented by Alhaji Danladi Dangote.
In his tributes, Daniel said foresight and progressive ideas stood the late traditional ruler out among his contemporaries which, according to the former governor, earned him great respect from his subjects.
“Oba Abass was an exceptional leader and a socialite who held executive posts in both private and public sectors before his ascendance on the throne in 1992,” he said in a statement by his media aide, Ayo Giwa.
“He was a loveable personality who will be greatly missed by his people and the entire Ijebuland,” Daniel added.
On his part, Senator Kaka said the people of Ijebu-Igbo will greatly miss the late monarch for his exemplary leadership, selfless service, dedication and generosity.
Responding on behalf of the family, one of the monarch’s children, Prince Taiwo Abass, thanked the people of Ijebu-Igbo and other communities for the support given to his father throughout his reign.
New Telegraph reports that as the Bejeroku, the late monarch was the prescribed authority for Oke-Agbo and areas traditionally associated with the town, consisting of over eighty villages which share boundaries with three other states of Osun, Oyo, and Ondo.