 The World Bank has revised down Nigeria’s 2019 real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) down to 2.1 per cent, from its earlier projection of 2.2 per cent in January.
In its twice-yearly Global Economic Prospects report released on Tuesday, the World Bank, however, said that Sub-Saharan Africa’s growth is expected to accelerate to 3.3 per cent in 2020, if investor sentiment towards some of the large economies of the region improves and oil production in large exporters recovers.
Specifically, the World Bank stated: “In 2020, growth in South Africa is anticipated to rise to 1.5%; growth in Angola is anticipated to pick up to 2.9%; and growth in Nigeria is anticipated to edge up to 2.2% in 2020.”
According to the Bretton Woods institution, the expected increase in the region’s GDP growth next year will also depend on: “robust growth in non-resource-intensive economies underpinned by continued strong agricultural production and sustained public investment.”
The Bank stated that: “While per capita GDP is expected to rise in the region, it will nevertheless be insufficient to significantly reduce poverty.”
Similarly, citing a slowdown in trade growth to the weakest since the financial crisis a decade ago and a drop in global investment, the World Bank cuts its global growth forecast for this year to 2.6% compared with a projection of 2.9% it made in January and easing from an estimated 3% in 2018.
It, however, forecast that the pace will pick up to 2.7% next year.
Commenting on the report, World Bank President, David Malpass, said: “There’s been a tumble in business confidence, a deepening slowdown in global trade and sluggish investment in emerging and developing economies. Momentum remains fragile.”
The bank also warned that risks are skewed “firmly” to the downside, citing reignited trade tensions between the U.S. and China, financial turbulence in emerging markets and sharper-than-expected weakness in advanced nations, particularly Europe.
“Heightened policy uncertainty, including a recent re-escalation of trade tensions between major economies, has been accompanied by a deceleration in global investment and a decline in confidence,” according to the report.
The bank joins the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in lowering its forecast over concerns President Donald Trump’s trade actions will undermine global growth.
In his latest threat, the US President announced plans to impose tariffs on all Mexican imports starting next week if the southern neighbour doesn’t halt a flow of migrants reaching the U.S. border.
According to Bloomberg, the tariff move prompted several economists to downgrade their outlooks and consider the possibility the Federal Reserve may have to cut rates.
On Tuesday, US Fed Chairman Jerome Powell signalled an openness to reduce interest rates if necessary, pledging to keep a close watch on fallout from a deepening set of disputes between the U.S. and its largest trading partners.
“We are closely monitoring the implications of these developments for the U.S. economic outlook and, as always, we will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion, with a strong labour market and inflation near our symmetric 2% objective,” Powell said.