 The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has called for international collaboration to ensure that countries around the world are able to cope with the very rapid change often triggered by Financial Technologies (Fintech).
IMF Deputy Managing Director, Tao Zhang, stated this in a speech entitled, “Some Key Challenges Going into the Next Decade,” which he delivered in Stockholm, Sweden yesterday.
Zhang noted that while Fintech has brought a lot of benefits to the world, one of such benefits is rapid change which however, can entail some stability risks that would require cross border cooperation to be adequately tackled.
He stated: “Financial technologies, or ‘Fintech,’ are advancing rapidly, and have already significantly altered the way that many people and companies make payments, borrow money, manage their savings and investments, insure their risks, and receive financial advice. Fintech builds on the foundations of mobile communications especially smartphones, cryptography, and on the interlinked rise of Big Data and data science including AI.
“On top of reducing financial service costs, Fintech holds promise for financial inclusion. This has already been evident in low income countries where mobile phones have bought payment and credit services with profound impacts on economic opportunities. In Kenya, for example, about 90 percent of the population over 14 years of age pays with M-Pesa.”
Continuing, he said: “But, we need to be aware that new technology can also lead to very rapid change. One scenario is that ‘Big Tech’ companies enter the payments and credit markets, and quickly become major players in financial services given their large user base. Another scenario is that some banks adapt more quickly to Fintech than others, leading to sizable movements in market shares over time.”
The IMF top official, however, pointed out that: “Very rapid and deep changes in financial systems can entail stability risks. Recall the financial liberalizations of the 1980s, when the transition from credit controls and other regulation to reliance on market forces led to an easing in credit standards, asset price booms especially in commercial real estate, culminating in serious banking crises including in the Nordic countries.”
According to him, countries around the world therefore face a shared challenge of finding a balanced framework that promotes financial innovation while preserving stability.
“International collaboration is more important than might first appear. By the nature of the internet and telecommunications, Fintech is global in reach, and payments and other financial services can cross borders at little cost seeking arbitrage opportunities. Fintech innovations can also spread rapidly across countries. In many respects, this mobility is welcome, but it also calls on countries to keep an eye on trends beyond their borders,” he added.