Babatope: Why I’ve never believed in INEC  Chief Ebenezer Babatope is a former Minister of Transport and member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on 20 years of uninterrupted democracy in Nigeria, political reform and 2023 presidency, among other issues  Nigeria celebrated 20 years of uninterrupted civil rule on Wednesday last week. What is your take on that and how do you feel about Nigeria’s democratic process? Nigeria is advancing though with problems all over the place. But, we are advancing because we have not got any intervention and it appears that the Nigerian people are not set for an intervention from any extraneous force other than the democratic process. Unfortunately, the All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to give true meaning to democracy in Nigeria. That, notwithstanding, we are there. We thank God and we will continue to play the political games until our democracy comes to ripe age in Nigeria. You said APC is yet to give true meaning to democracy in Nigerian, but looking at the last 20 years, your party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was at the helm of affairs for 16 years before APC took over in 2015…  PDP ran a government and I am not saying that we are all perfect, but that notwithstanding, I don’t think we have great problem during the PDP administration as we are having now. What is happening now is frightening; hunger all over the place. It is not only that; people are afraid to move from one place to the other. I was reading a post on Facebook recently by somebody, who said the South-West has been taken over by the Hausa/Fulani jihadists and if we are not careful, they will descend on the South-West and there would be political travail in the land. So, we are not free; we are finding it difficult to eat, hunger is biting hard and it appears to me that the APC boys are glimmering over the fact that Nigerians are suffering. Despite all these, we must accept that we are making progress, but the progress should be defined in a manner that will suit democratic principles in Nigeria. As a politician, what can you say about our electoral process in the last 20 years? Our electoral process is awful, it is terrible. We have had the worst type of electoral system under the present Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). I’ve never believed in the present INEC, which is headed by Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. We will give time for our country to improve and hope the country will improve, especially for the younger ones. We, the older generations are passing on. I am 76 years old, but I wish the best of luck for the youth, who definitely have got the courage to put the country on their head and have got to take the country to the Promised Land. What would you say is really wrong with Nigeria’s electoral process? There are manipulations here and there, no freedom. Look at what happened in Osun State during the last governorship election. We did an election and the PDP won, but the APC twisted the outcome of the election. We went to the tribunal, we won at tribunal and then a woman came to announce at the Court of Appeal that the tribunal ruling had been set aside. But that notwithstanding, we still have confidence that the Nigerian judiciary will restore the true image of democracy. We have that confidence because when the PDP had problem with Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, who laid claim to leadership of the party, it was the Supreme Court that saved PDP and we do hope that the Supreme Court will save Nigerians from the tyranny of people who are not democrats.  Are you saying that PDP is confident of regaining Osun State through the Supreme Court? We believe that by the grace of God the Supreme Court will give us justice. We believe that and I do hope that the apex court will do as it had done before. It has done it twice in which I have applauded the justices of the Supreme Court. First was when they overturned the judgement against my friend, Olabode George, by nullifying the judgements of both the High Court and Court of Appeal that jailed him. The Supreme Court saved the situation by defining properly what could have been the definition of how contracts should be awarded.  The second time was when they said Ali Modu Sheriff should step down as National Chairman of PDP; that he was not running a proper PDP and that the party should be run on a true democratic basis. So, we hope that this time around again, the Supreme Court will justify what is right and advance reasons why Nigeria’s democracy has to be saved.  What will be your reaction if the Supreme Court rules in favour of the APC? What can we do? I am a lawyer, but again, I am appealing to the Supreme Court as the last arbiter in this affair, to see itself as the last pillar that people can rely upon to restore hope in democracy. If it doesn’t do that, then we shall fall into what Fela Anikulapo called ‘demon crazy.’ So, I hope that the Nigeria judiciary through the Supreme Court will give us justice.  You were an active participant during the First, Second and Third republics, can you compare those republics with the present Fourth Republic? You can’t. When the late Shehu Shagari was president, I was a functionary of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) under the leadership of the late Papa Obafemi Awolowo. No matter what anybody says, President Shagari tried his best. Even though he gambled, he tried his best. What happened during Shagari’s time cannot be compared to what is happening now. What is happening now, like I said, is what Fela called ‘demoncrazy,’ and demonstration of crazy. The APC has made all of us in this country to be criminal elements.  How did the ruling party do that?  We are unable to do anything. They twisted and manipulated elections and they have a professor in INEC, who came to manipulate things for them. So, we have got to accept it, but all I know is that things cannot continue this way. By the grace of God, the younger elements in Nigeria will have a say.  Are you saying this because your party lost the last presidential election?  No! We are still at the tribunal. Again, our hope is in the Supreme Court, not in the Court of Appeal under the leadership of that woman (Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa). Honestly, people have come to regard the Court of Appeal as a big tragic punctuation mark in Nigeria’s progress.  How do you mean?  Because in every case that gets to the Court of Appeal, you can be sure that it is going to be twisted and manipulated by those who are there in favour of the ruling class.  But the appellate court has ruled in favour of the PDP at a time?  When did that happen?  The case of Rivers State in which it ruled that APC had no candidates for the 2019 general elections…  It was so obvious that the APC in Rivers was so disorganised in its operations that the party didn’t have a candidate, so anybody that was put in the judiciary at that time cannot but do that. In fact, it wasn’t a pronouncement by the Court of Appeal that APC has no candidates; it was a question of the fact that the case has been well solidified and built by the High Court and from there it proceeded to the Supreme Court that gave meaning to what was happening.   You said APC government came to power in order to punish people over alleged corruption, but it is believed that some of those people who are facing corruption cases today were those who served in PDP government…  Those who served in PDP’s government but later joined APC, some of them didn’t get it correctly, so they got themselves enveloped in heavy punishment. I don’t want to waste time defining the democracy of President Muhammadu Buhari as regards the question of corruption. Anybody knows clearly that anyone that joined the APC in a manner that is so clear to the eyes has become a saint in the presence of the corruption principles of President Buhari and his APC. But that notwithstanding, Nigerians have got to struggle on and we are going to struggle on until justice is done to the people. The battle for 2023 presidency has already started with political leaders in both the North and South positioning themselves to succeed President Buhari. What is your take on that?  I don’t see that race between North and South; we can only see that within APC. They are the people who are now fighting themselves. There is no battle of North, South in PDP. PDP has not taken any decision; we are in tribunal and when we finish at the tribunal and we see the outcome, then PDP will take decision that you can be sure will serve the best democratic interest of Nigerian people. The war that is going on now between North and South over 2023 presidency is within the APC. The issue of 2023 presidency is not being raised by APC leaders alone as some northern and southern leaders are also involved…  They have not said it categorically to anybody and every political party has the right to decide what seems good for it. As far as PDP is concerned, we are waiting for the tribunal and when we finish everything, we will come out with our decision concerning 2023. But as at now, Atiku Abubakar remains the symbol of PDP and we are going to rally round him. Some Northern leaders and groups have already come out to declare publicly that power should remain in the North in 2023 on the ground that in the present Fourth Republic, the South has ruled for 14 years and therefore they should be given another four years in 2023 to balance the equation. What is your view on that? I wish them the very best of luck. But as far as I know, the definition of democracy as it will happen in 2023 is predicated on two fronts – first, God’s will for Nigeria and secondly, the decision of the political parties themselves to fashion out a programme that will suit their members and the country. Do you see the possibility of PDP zoning its presidential ticket to the North in 2023? It is possible. Why not? Don’t forget the fact that PDP had already zoned the presidency to the North before we had the last election and that was what produced Atiku Abubakar. All the people that appeared to be in the presidential race on the platform of the PDP were from the North. I was a member of the 12-man panel set up by the party to screen the candidates and I can tell you that we have done it before the country ever did it. There may be other variables that will happen between now and 2023, which will determine the attitude of PDP towards the presidential election in the country and whatever happens, you can be sure you will meet us there. Don’t you think the South should produce the next president after Buhari? My party has not decided. When my party decides, then we will know what to do. As it is now, within the PDP, the party is supreme and we are going with whatever the party says. All I know is that by the grace of God, the party will take decision that will suit the interest of the country. Don’t forget that what is happening now had been predicted by Papa Awolowo. He said during Shehu Shagari’s time that: “You young men if the current democratic experience should collapse, you young men may never know democracy again in your life time no matter how long you may live.” But having said that, those of us who are still alive and who served under Awolowo are only trying and saying that we will give true and proper advice to our party when the time comes. But as far as I am concerned now, I am concerned about the life of the younger generation and I do pray that the younger people in Nigeria will have one day, a government that suits the true meaning of democracy. What is your take on the jostle for the leadership of the 9th National Assembly among APC lawmakers-elect?  That is within the APC and they can do anything they like to themselves. Whatever that is a struggle in APC cannot be quoted as struggle within Nigeria. APC should be careful because they are talking about the president of the Senate. They have forgotten the fact that PDP represents a major force in the National Assembly, particularly in the Senate and you cannot discard or throw into the wind the feeling of PDP senators who are there. Right now, Senator Biodun Olujimi has led the PDP to lay credible legacy for the PDP there on what to do. If APC is not careful, they will play the game and PDP again will come and inherit it. For example, it is a pity that they will say Senator Danjuma Goje was in PDP before. Goje is a fine political character that can give true meaning to democracy in Nigeria. But they are not talking about him; they are talking about other people. But I know the PDP there given the legacy laid down by Olujimi and her group will make sure that this country gets proper leadership in the Senate. Presently, PDP has only one governor in the South-West in the person of Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State. What do you think will be the effect of this on the party in the zone ahead of the 2023 general elections?  Let us wait for what the Supreme Court will say about our case in Osun State. Our lawyers have already gone to the Supreme Court because we were dissatisfied with the judgement of the Court of Appeal. But whatever happens, the South-West deserves the best. We are going to have a meeting of South-West caucus; that is where the whole thing begins. We were at the inauguration of Seyi Makinde as the proper and fit governor for Oyo State and that will also define what is going to count as our struggle for the future. But I have no doubt in my mind that the place of the PDP in the South-West is well guaranteed. So, you see PDP winning more states in South-West before 2023… Of course, PDP will win more states and will constitute the heart and conscience of democracy in the South-West and it will also extend to Nigeria. What is your advice to Nigerians as they celebrate 20 years of unbroken civilian administration in the country?  We should keep our political focus on. We must not invest in demon crazy as Fela described it. We must invest in peaceful coexistence of Nigerians and also in proper execution of the true and basic tenets of democracy.  How do you think we can strengthen our democracy? We can strengthen our democracy if those who are there make sure that they do not manipulate the electoral process to suit their whims and caprices, and by making sure that we have an electoral umpire that will love Nigeria and will really put the interest of common people at heart all the time. As a former minister, what is your advice to President Muhammadu Buhari in terms of who should be part of his cabinet?  I can’t give advice to President Buhari. First of all, President Buhari is of my generation. If what he has given down as his date of birth is correct, then he is only one month older than me. We are both 76. He is old enough to know what is good for himself, his party and the country. So, I can’t give him any advice. He chose those who served with him during his first term and there was no cabinet reshuffle; that was his own style and of which nobody can quarrel with. I can’t quarrel with it. If he decides to choose anybody again next time, that is his own style. But all I can say is that one cannot but wish Nigeria the best of luck because Nigeria is a great country and greater than all of us.