…raises panel on MAUSTECH, Ogun Poly  Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has constituted a committee to look into the operational modalities of Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology (MAUSTECH), Abeokuta and Ogun State Polytechnic, Ipokia.  The committee is headed by former Vice Chancellor of Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun, Prof. Segun Awonusi. Abiodun also ordered that the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta, should revert to status quo ante with full academic activities restored while the committee determines the way forward for the new institutions.  This is contained in a statement issued in Abeokuta yesterday by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr. Kunle Somorin. Abiodun’s predecessor, Ibikunle Amosun, had established MAUSTECH and the new polytechnic in Ipokia and constituted management as well as Governing Councils for the institutions. However, the institutions had been bogged down by controversy and consequently did not take off.   But yesterday, Abiodun said the committee set up to look into the situation at the tertiary institutions because the state-owned MAPOLY had been comatose since MAUSTECH and the Ipokia polytechnic were created. According to him, as a  result of the unresolved issues, the fate of candidates and students of MAPOLY and their lecturers now hangs in a balance. He said: “Worse still, academic activities have been disrupted.”  The governor said the review committee was expected to recommend operational modalities for these institutions after interfacing with stakeholders in the education sector. He said: “As a responsible government, we cannot fold our arms and allow the situation to continue.   “We cherish human capital development. This committee is therefore set up to holistically review the status, viability and sustainability of these newly established institutions.”  The committee has as members former Rector of MAPOLY, Alhaji Waheed Kadiri; National President of Workplace Educators and Managers Association of Nigeria (WEMAN), Prof Joseph Odemuyiwa; and Chief Lecturer at the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Dr. Biodun Oluseye.  Others include a seasoned lawyer, Mr. Abeeb Wale Ajayi; National President of MAPOLY Alumni Association, Mr. H. O. Ayoade; while Dr. Waheed Olanloye, Director Primary and Tertiary Education, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology will serve as the committee’s secretary. The committee has five terms of reference, including determining the viability and sustainability of the institutions on a long term basis