Stakeholders yesterday called for drastic increase in the number of police personnel in Nigeria.
Speaking during the South-East Security Summit organised by South-East Chambers of Commerce, Mines and Agriculture (SECCIMA), in collaboration with the South-East Governors Forum (SEGF), in Enugu, the Police Service Commission (PSC) decried the yearly recruitment of 10,000 policemen.
According to the commission, it is a far cry from meeting the demand of police personnel that are in very shortage in the country.
Similarly, the National President of Mayetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), Alhaji Mohammadu Kirowa, said demanded an establishment of ‘Fulani Youth Vigilante Group’.
He said: “The Fulani Youth Vigilance body will be working with the security, the neighbourhood watch or vigilante to ensure security in all communities, as it was done in Enugu State.
“We will solicit for your support and cooperation in adopting dialogue where problems exist as a means of brokering peace and to report cases against our members to the Fulani Youth Vigilante Group, state or local branch of the association.”
The Chairman of SEGF, Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Kelechi Igwe, said the region could not engage in policy of exclusion to limit any farmer or herder, but that rules of engagement should be observed in every relationship.
He said: “We will continue to accommodate the Miyetti Allah but our plea to them is that as we are magnanimous to allow settlers, every community has a custom that need not to be violated. It is the violation that breeds problem.
“I believe that at the end, resolutions will generate further national dialogue, promote agenda setting and a solution to the lingering national insecurity. All we need is the good idea of one or two men to find direction and I believe this summit will do that.”
Also, the Commissioner in charge of Human Rights in the Police Service Commission, Mr. Rommy Mom, bemoaned the inadequacy of the police personnel.
According to him, Nigeria presently has less than 350,000 police personnel.
He said: “This translates to 1.6 police officers to every 100,000 Nigerians, which is a far cry from the world standard of 225 police officers to every 100,000 people. In some local governments, you have less than 10 police officers.
“Lack of data is a major challenge to the extent that even the Inspector-General of Police is not very sure of the exact number of police officers under his command. Electronic data is very important.”
Mom also said that it was high time Nigeria embraced the use of Information Communication Technology (ICT) and other equipment for policing the country.