  Like students on their first day in school, the Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, and his colleagues had an interesting plenary session in their first outing on Thursday, June 13. Gbajabiamila, who returned to his traditional suit and tie instead of the Kaftan and cap he adorned throughout the campaign period, sauntered into the chambers at about 11.07 am. And as he walked through the aisle to take his presiding seat, the Speaker acknowledged cheers from his colleagues and exchanged pleasantries. Apparently yet to come to terms with his new position, the Speaker made his way to his former seat of House Leader, attracting the attention of those in the chambers and the gallery, who all exclaimed in humorous surprise. It was at this point that it dawned on Gbajabiamila that he had missed his way and jogged on the steps like former US President, Barack Obama used to, to his exalted seat. Being a lawmaker, who has been around for the past 16 years, Gbajabiamila did not betray any form of trepidation, but took his seat calmly and began the business of the day with the opening prayer. However, the malfunctioning of the microphones in the chambers soon reduced the glamour with which the Speaker commenced proceedings for the day as they intermittently tripped off and momentarily frustrating the presiding officer. “Clerk, what is going on?” he queried the Clerk, Mr. Patrick Giwa, who quickly rose from his seat and approached him. When the Speaker’s microphone was finally fixed, he warned the Clerk thus: “Clerk, from today, always delegate someone that will put everything in the chambers in place. I will not accept this because it is no longer going to be business as usual.” He thereafter approved the votes and proceedings of the inauguration session of June 11. Swearing in: Speaker Gbajabiamila called for any member-elect that had not been sworn in to rise, and Hon. Musa Sarki Adar (APC, Sokoto) instantly stood up. “Hon. Adar, what happened? You were in the chambers yesterday, how come you were not sworn in?” he asked. Following the Speaker’s injection, the Clerk whispered to Gbajabiamila that since the honourable was in the chambers, the oath administered on his colleagues also covered him. But being accustomed to legal issues, Gbajabiamila quickly countered the Clerk with: “But Clerk you know I’m a lawyer and I know that somebody can go to court tomorrow and claim he didn’t take oath and this may be a problem, so Hon. Adar, please proceed to take your oath.”
The oath was consequently administered on the lawmaker. Point of order: The Speaker recognised the first point of order from Hon. Ugonna Ozorigbo (APC, Imo), who complained that his name was missing from the attendance of June 11. The matter was promptly referred to the clerk for necessary action. Another point of order came from a returning member, Hon. Ndudi Godwin Elumelu, who drew the attention of the Speaker to the fact that most honourable members had no votes and proceedings and therefore could not ascertained whether their names were on the attendance list.
“Clerk, what is happening?” he asked. But before the Clerk could respond, the Speaker noted that such occurrence was inevitable as the Committee on Rules and Business was yet to be constituted. “Clerk, we are having a very difficult time kicking off today. Honourable members, please be patient; if anyone goes through the list and find out his name is missing, he should bring it to my notice.” Continuing, he promised: “It is the rules and business committee that would have handled that, but we’ll sort out that before we proceed on two weeks break today.” Announcements: In the absence of any communication from the President, the Speaker directed the Clerk to first write a letter to the Senate “notifying the lawmakers in the Red Chamber that ‘Hon. Femi Hakeem Gbajabiamila and Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase have been elected as Speaker and Deputy Speaker respectively’’. The second letter the Clerk was mandated to write was to the Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF) “advising the SGF to inform the President and Commander-in-Chief that the House is now properly constituted and ready to receive communications from his office”. The new Speaker subsequently announced that ideally they were supposed to appoint some special ad hoc committees and adjourn but because two of his colleagues had approached him with matters of urgent national importance, he would oblige them.  The motions: First to raise a motion was Hon. Benjamin Okezie Kalu (APC, Abia), who came under Order 8, Rule 4. Perhaps being a fresh member, the lawmaker without praying for the suspension of the relevant provisions of the House Standing Orders and Rules, went straight into reading the motion. But the Speaker quickly tutored him saying: “Hon. Member, you have to apply for the suspension of the relevant rules to enable you take the motion as a matter of urgent nation importance. According to our rules, a motion raised under point of order, is only entertained on the next sitting day, so move that we suspend the rule.” But Hon. Gbajabiamila himself was perhaps carried away as he was trying to call to order his colleagues who were not concentrating; and forgot to call for a seconder before putting the motion to question. Unfortunately, it was a total rejection as the nays were in the overwhelming majority. Gbajabiamila did not hit the gavel and rather pleaded with them saying: “Honourable colleagues, this is our colleagues’ first outing and I think it is important we make his outing a memorable one.” It was at this point that the Speaker remembered that he should have called for someone to second the prayer for suspension of House rules. “Sorry, I forgot to put the question to decide whether the matter should be taken immediately,” he said.  The correction was promptly effected and the Speaker proceeded to put to question the motion. This time, he only called for those in support and immediately hit the gavel without calling for those against. The scenario generated a hilarious moment in the chambers. The second motion was brought by Hon. Ajibola Muraino (PDP, Oyo), who informed the House of the activities of bandits in his state and called for the intervention of the relevant security agencies. Just like the first motion, it was not debated but the Speaker mandated the Clerk to write the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to address issues of kidnapping and banditry in Oyo State. Also, the Clerk was to write to the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to compensate those that suffered losses as a result of criminal activities. The House consequently dissolved into an executive session and when they reopened, ad hoc committees were set up by the Speaker before the Green Chamber ended the first day of the 9th Assembly.