A former inmate, identified simply as Femi, has revealed why he had to spend 10 years in Kirikiri Prison, Lagos State.
Femi, who was incarcerated for robbery, urged Nigerians to do everything to avoid crime.
After 10 years in prison, Femi was discharged and acquitted for lack of evidence. He disclosed that bad friends on Lagos Island destroyed his dream of becoming a banker and led him into crime.
Femi (33) spoke recently at an event organised by the Prison and Hospital Ministry of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Ogun Province 4 Headquarters, Redemption Camp, Ogun State.
Femi testified along with two others at the event, tagged: “Reigning in Everlasting Dominion.”
He said that he spent 10 years in prison for the crime he didn’t benefit anything from. He said that the crime involved stealing of jewellery.
Femi, who is unmarried, said his ordeal started in June 2008 when he and some friends were arrested at Lafiaji area of Island for allegedly stealing Jewellery in the neighbourhood. Femi and his friends were later discovered to have sold the items.
He said: “It happened in 2008, at Lafiaji area. Three of us went to rob Mr. Ajibola of his jewellery. It was a friend of mine that brought the information about the jewellery to us.
“We succeeded in the operation, but we didn’t get enough money in the house where we went to rob the victims. We then decided to collect jewellery. We didn’t know that some of the jewellery were customised. The following day, we took the jewellery to a pawn shop.
“We didn’t know that the owner had alerted the supposed buyer and the police. Before we knew what was happening, three of us were arrested and taken us to Lion Building Police Station. Police tortured me in order to get me to confess our activities. They wanted more information, but I had nothing more to give. While further interrogating me, one of them shot me in the leg. I fainted immediately. I was rushed to the hospital where I was later revived.”
He continued: “After I was revived, we were transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) office at Ikeja, where we spent a month, before we were taken to court. It was from the court that we were taken to Kirikiri Medium Prison. There is a school in prison for new inmates. In that school, inmates are taught how to relate with others.
“A week after I got into the prison, the Redeemed Christian Church of God Prison and Hospital Ministry came to the prison. We had a Bible class. The teacher, who used to take us in Bible classes, noticed that whenever he was teaching us, my mind used to wander away. The teacher came to me one fateful day and asked me what my problem was. After I explained to him all I had gone through, he sent for the principal of the school; this happened four years after I had been in prison.
“I later registered for General Certificate of Education (GCE). Fourteen other inmates and I also registered for National Examinations Council (NECO).”
Femi said that when the result eventually came out, he had six credits and by 2014, he got admission to study Business Management at the National Open University (NOUN). He explained that throughout his stay in the prison, none of his family members came to check on him.
According to him, his acquittal and subsequent release from prison was nothing short of miracle.
He added: “During my stay in prison, my family members didn’t come to check on me. It was a lawyer from RCCG that came to my rescue. He was the person that got me released from prison.
“Pastor Sam Coker, who also a lawyer, took up the case and in 2018, by God’s grace, I was discharged and acquitted. I spent 10 years and three months in the prison. I got into the prison at the age of 23. After I came out, my family members still did not bother about me.
“I believe they didn’t visit me because of my conversion from Islam to Christianity. I used to speak with my mother on the phone.”
After his release from prison, Femi said Coker registered him in a shoe-cobbling centre. The man also assisted him in getting an apartment and placed him on a monthly salary.
Femi said: “I felt ashamed, finding myself in the prison. It was nothing, but sheer greed that took me to prison. As a Christian, I believe God has a way of doing things. If I was not involved in the robbery and remanded in prison, I might not have further my education and also known Christ. God is still in control of everything.”
When asked to describe his stay and life in the prison, Femi styled the Nigerian prison a dustbin.
He said reflectively: “Whoever finds himself or herself in prison becomes alone. No family would come to visit you. You will have no right to good food. What they serve us is nothing to write home about. Your right is also taken away and your movement will be restricted.
“It was pathetic in prison; people die every day! No treatment is given when someone falls sick. It was some churches and non-governmental organisations that used to assist inmates. In 2008, when I first got there, there was nothing like borehole water. We drank from open well. I will forever remain grateful to the General Overseer of RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, for the food he always sends to us every Sunday.”
The National Chairman of the Prison and Hospital Ministry, Pastor Ariyo Popoola, while speaking at a conference, which was held at Redemption Camp, Ogun State, said the ministry was still funded 95 per cent by individual members.
He said: “Our theme for this year’s conference is both prophetic and filled with expectation for the ministry and the people we minister to; in prisons, police stations, remand homes, hospitals and old people’s homes. We believe that the Lord will intervene in their cases and that they’ll receive Christ.” Justice delayed is justice denied; justice denied is injustice. This is a popular maxim. But it seems to explain the situation of awaiting trial inmates, who have to fuel prison vehicles to take them to court, writes JULIANA FRANCIS     Nigerians woke up on April 4 to read with… In "Insight" ...86 prisoners answer altar call   A 23-years-old inmate, Samuel Adekumbi, who was arrested for armed robbery on December 23, 2014, said he thank God that he was sent to prison. The inmate, who was trained on how to produce detergents and other washing soap at the Medium Prison,… In "Metro and Crime" Born prisoners: Inmates’ children and stigma   Several innocent people spend years in prison custody while awaiting trial. Most pregnant inmates literally go through hell before being delivered of their babies, writes JULIANA FRANCIS   A glance at Rita, in her body hugging, black and white striped gown, leaves one… In "Insight"