A retired army general, Major General Patrick Ademu Akpa( Rtd) has joined the race to the Lugard house in Kogi. The retired army general from Kogi East said he is in the race following calls from his people to deliver them from bad leadership being perpetuated by the present administration. According to a statement from his media office, the leaders of Kogi state young professional and other cultural bodies in the state made the call during the week. The statement added that they called on the General to offer himself to contest for the governorship election of the state on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC. General Akpa, who through his career was a commandant of NDA, corps commander of the prestigious Army engineers and held many directorate post at the army and defence headquarter including chief of army policy and planning and director of training and operation at defence headquarter. Upon his retirement from military service after 35 year’s meritorious service, he undertook a study on mortgage in the United Kingdom, where he was trained on mortgage and properties development, which he is currently practicing in Abuja. Akpa is a member and Alumni of National institute of strategic studies, Jos and member of Nigeria Institute of Quantity Surveyor. Major General Akpa is an elder of the APC in Kogi State. He actively campaigned for the APC candidates during the 2015 elections. He was a member of the APC Campaign Council in Kogi State and in the Reconciliation Committee after the Governorship primaries of the APC. He was the Chairman Security Sub-Committee of the Audu/Faleke Campaign which led to the victory of the party in 2015 Governorship election. Like 2015, General Akpa campaigned actively for APC candidates during the 2019 elections. He was in the Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Council and took active part in Kogi State leading to victories of the APC in the state The Leader of Kogi state young professional, Pastor John Desmond said, ‘Akpa is the leader the people of Kogi state need. Akpa is a detribalized person, a man that has help many young people to grow their profession. During his days in the military, he helped a lot of our people into the military service, he has assisted orphans, built hospital, school, and given many scholarship to student of kogi state. In fact, if kogi people want to enjoy a better governance, the emergence of Gen.Akpa is an opportunity for us to taste a better government again’.