Leader of Arewa Youths Consultative Forum (AYCF), Comrade Shettima Yerima, has called on the incoming members of the 9th National Assembly to vote people of strong character for principal positions in the soon-to-be constituted 9th session of the National Assembly.
Describing the former Governor of Abia State and Senator-elect, Abia North Senatorial District, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu is a good choice for the position of Deputy Senate President, the activist stressed that all geographical zones should be equitably represented in the leadership of the 9th National Assembly.
Yerima, while acknowledging the noble contributions of Kalu to Nigeria’s growing democracy, called on politicians to build and sustain relationship beyond their regions for the sake of unity and harmony across the country.
The activist, who called for a healthy relationship among the three arms of government, stressed that a vibrant leadership in the National Assembly will promote good governance at all levels of government.
Addressing a cross section of Muslim faithful in Kaduna yesterday, Yerima faulted politicians who drop the President’s name for their selfish ambitions.
He said: “The leadership of the 9th National Assembly should be inclusive, robust and vibrant for the sake of building a prosperous nation.
“People with proven track record of achievements in all spheres of life should lead the 9th National Assembly.
“Although some politicians are dropping President Muhammadu Buhari’s name as their sponsor for their selfish ambitions, but we know the President believes in justice and equity.
“Kalu is a highly detribalized and patriotic Nigerian, who will work collectively with other stakeholders in sustaining the unity among all ethnic groups in the country.
“We are solidly behind the candidacy of Kalu for Deputy Senate President. Kalu has also done well for the All Progressives Congress (APC), especially in the last Presidential and National Assembly elections.
“He also secured seats for the APC in the House of Representatives in his region despite the tough opposition.”
The activist while advising returning senators and senators-elect to work collectively for the progress of Nigeria, urged the APC to zone the Deputy Senate Presidency to the South-East in the spirit of justice and fairness.
He admonished Kalu to deploy his political dexterity and leadership acumen in fostering a healthy relationship among members of the yet-to-be inaugurated 9th National Assembly regardless of party affiliation.