●Says Rangers players played through pains during playoff   After leading his club back to the continent, Rangers of Enugu coach, Gbenga Ogunbote, has called for early preparation for all the country’s representatives on the continent ahead of the next championship expected to start later in the year. Rangers secured their place in the CAF Confederation Cup after finishing third at the recently concluded Nigeria Professional Football League Super 6 playoffs played at the Agege Stadium. Enyimba won a record eighth title after emerging top with 12 points ahead of unbeaten Kano Pillars who ended the Super 6 with 11 points. The two teams secured the two available slots in the CAF Champions League while the winners of the AITEO Cup will join Rangers in the Confederation Cup. Lobi Stars who played in the Champions League this year got to the group stages likewise Rangers, the winner of the last AITEO Cup. Speaking with League Rendezvous, Ogunbote said the country’s representatives will continue to suffer as long as preparation is poor. “It is a great moment going back to play on the continent again after playing as far as the group stages of last CAF Confederation Cup, same championships we are going to be taking part in again this time around,” the former Enyimba coach said. “The team just returned from the continent and we have seen the grey areas we need to attend to and it will be easier for us to dot the I’s and cross the T’s. “However, I will continue to say this, we will continue to have issues at this part o f the world if our preparation is poor, if our equipment is not right and if there is no financial backing. “These are the three factors that will affect our performance on the continent. There is nothing special about those other teams from other countries, what they do special is their preparation. “They have the money they are going to use possibly till they get to the final, you hardly can see any one of them going with domestic flight, it is always private flight or chartered flight. These are the major things we need to excel here in Nigeria.”