A coalition of All Progressives Congress (APC) Youths Support Group in Yobe State, has urged the party’s national body to fill the vacant position of the national secretary of the party with the Director-General of the National Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr. Garba Abari, an indigene of the state.
Speaking with journalists in Damaturu, the Yobe State capital, leader of the group, Alhaji Abdullahi Mohammed Maishayi, said since Zone A in the state had produce a governor, Hon. Mai Mala, while Zone C had the Senate President, Dr. Ahmed Lawan, it would be fair to allow Yobe South, Zone B, produce the national secretary.
According to the group, it would be unfair to deny Yobe South the position of the national secretary for any reason.
The support was coming from some APC youth groups made up of young men and women devoted to the building of a free and successful democracy in the state and the country at large.
The group said Abari was the right choice to be the APC national secretary, since the slot had been allocated to Yobe State.
He said Garba was qualified and had the requisite experience to become the national secretary of the party, adding that his contributions to the party were immeasurable even as he was trustworthy and had the capacity to unite the party. The group expressed worry over the non-inclusion of Yobe South in APC political arrangement; the party’s national secretary should be a man of principle in order to sustain the weight of the party ahead of 2023 general election. He said: “Let me tell you the truth, Garba is ahead of his contemporaries in all ramifications, he’s a man of honour and integrity, hardworking and with manners. “We need him because of his concern, commitment, dedication to the success of the party; we feel that he can continue from where Governor Maimala Buni ended, we have commenced consultations with critical stakeholders across the members, seeking advice and blessings on our mission.” He urged Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, to support our endorsement for Dr. Garba Abari, NOA Director General, to fill the vacant position of the national secretary of the party, for he deserved it.