Your location determines who and what you see. It also determines who and what sees you. Your location determines what you attract and who you are attracted to. A good gift located in a wrong location will not thrive. A great business idea located at the wrong location will never flourish; it is just a matter of time, it will surely die. A great talent in a wrong location will fizzle with time. Location is so important that God had to create a place (location) first before creating man (human). Your location could determine the level of the blessing or disfavor that will come to you. When you are at the wrong place, you will see both the wrong things and people. Tendencies are high that wrong stuff would happen around you from time to time. When you leave the wrong environment, wrong things will stop happening. And when you find yourself in the right location, right things will start happening. Location also mean environment. Your environment matters. Same chicken being sold for N2,500 in some places is what is being sold for N12,000 in some other places. The secret is location. When you find yourself in the right location, your little effort will yield greater results. A place of business could be a wrong environment. The kind of friends you surround yourself could be a wrong environment. A place of worship could be a wrong environment. Until you separate yourself from some environments, some feats may not be achieved. David had to leave the bush to find his way to town in order to see Goliath. Esther had to leave her comfort zone and be groomed alongside people who want to showcase themselves to the king for marriage. Zacchaeus had to climb the tree to see Jesus. If he was on the floor, he wouldn’t have had an encounter with Jesus that day. Most times, movement to the right place is key. I am sure you’ve this saying countlessly – Your location determines your allocation. Your location determines what you see and get in life. Location doesn’t have to be a ‘big’ place, it just has to be right for things to work. A small but right place could be all that matters. It is better to be a servant in the city than being a King in the forest. Environment matters. A friend of mine few years ago, moved from his previous place of residence, a 2-bedroom flat to a 4-bedroom flat in an environment where rent rates are outrageously very low. Now, I have no issue with someone moving to an environment where rent is relatively low. When one’s level of income is no longer meeting his expenditures, especially basic expenses, it is advisable one makes some necessary adjustments. However, while making some adjustment or taking some steps, make sure you don’t end in the ditch. There is a level you attain in life, you do not need some environment. Two years down the line, my friend is really not enjoying his new place anymore. He complained bitterly. He said “Nothing” was working there. When I tried to find out what he meant. The reason was endless – wrong location for his kind business, no new challenges, no improvement, drop in his children’s intellects as a result of change in school; all these have now affected both his income and family. Friends, not every environment is meant for you. That a place is cheap doesn’t make it conducive for you or your destiny; except it’s a situation you can’t help. A small place in a very strategic location could be all you need to get into limelight. What you could have sold for kobo in the slum, you could sell for dollars in another location. May you find yourself in the right location; a place where people that matter reside, and they won’t be scared to pay for what you have to offer. May you possess the resources to get yourself to the right location. If you are presently at the wrong place, I pray that God will relocate you to the proper place. Like Joseph, you will be called to the palace. There is a change of fortune. God’s grace is locating you…Do have a great week