Indigenous technology company, Arnergy, has raised $9 million in a Series A round of funding led by Breakthrough Energy Ventures with participation from the Norwegian Investment Fund for Developing Countries (Norfund), ElectriFI and All On.
The funding according to a statement, is to expand the company’s capacity to provide renewable energy solutions for Nigerians.
With this development, the company said it would be powering 35,000 businesses and homes in Nigeria in the next 36 months through its technology deployment. Speaking on the new investment at a press briefing in Lagos, Founder and CEO of Arnergy, Mr Femi Adeyemo, said, “we are excited to enter this next phase in Arnergy’s development with investors that share our vision of tackling the most pressing energy challenges across emerging market economies, starting with Nigeria”.
He said the company believes that energy needs in Nigeria have surpassed rudimentary requirements of low power utilization, adding that its solutions would be solving the problem of reliability and not just access. “Arnergy’s distributed renewable energy systems harness the combination of solar power, superior storage solutions and proprietary remote management technologies to deliver scalable, reliable and affordable energy solutions that are tailored to tackle issues related to intermittency and grid unreliability,” he said.
Adeyemo noted that the company’s market scaling ambitions, fuelled by the influx of new capital, would include new business models and partnership opportunities, as well as consumer financing and channel expansion activities.
Commenting on the investment, Executive Vice President Clean Energy from Norfund, Mark Davis, said, “creating accessibility to reliable renewable energy sources is paramount to economic growth in this region. With Arnergy’s technology, we can significantly decrease carbon emissions and it’s a model that can be replicated all over the developing world.”
“Access to clean and stable energy is a prerequisite for job creation and development,” he said. “Norfund is proud to support the expansion of Arnergy, which will provide Nigerian households and businesses on a weak grid connection with a cheaper, cleaner and more reliable power solution to meet their daily needs.”