 Concern
Global debt hit an all-time record of $184trn in 2018  As countries around the world grapple with rising public debt burdens, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has stressed the importance of sound debt management practices, as Fund, the problem is not likely to go away anytime soon. The IMF’s Financial Counsellor and Director, Monetary and Capital Markets Department at the Bretton Woods Institution, Mr. Tobias Adrian, stated this at the IMF Public Debt Management Forum held in Japan. In the forum’s keynote address, Mr. Adrian stated : “Sound debt management and the efficient functioning of sovereign debt capital markets is as important as ever, not least because debt levels are high and are likely to remain high.” Noting that debt management is of macroeconomic importance, he called on debt managers to take into account macroeconomic conditions in setting their strategy and also to anticipate the effects of their actions elsewhere in the economy. He also stressed the longer-term advantage to both borrowers and investors of promoting debt transparency, as the basis for the efficient, stable and cost-effective financing of public goods. The forum which was co-hosted by the IMF and the Japanese Ministry of Finance, brought participants from 33 advanced and emerging market economies, who discussed the trends and associated challenges and opportunities they now face in sovereign debt capital markets. According to a press statement released by the IMF, “public debt managers have been able to deal with high and rising debt levels against the backdrop of mostly benign global conditions: Accommodative policies in the major economies have kept interest rates low and contained spreads and funding risks. It remains, uncertain, however, what strains will emerge when financial conditions eventually tighten. “Meanwhile, the investor base for government securities is shifting and becoming more globalized. Furthermore, market functioning is evolving under the influence of regulatory changes, technological innovation, and the introduction of new instruments.” It would be recalled that the IMF in its “Global Debt Database Update” released late last year, stated that the world debt had hit an all-time record of $184 trillion. The figure represents an average of $86,000 debt owed per person, according to a statement by the Fund. According to the update, global debt reached an all-time high of $184 trillion in nominal terms or the equivalent of 225 per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2017. The $184 trillion was $2 trillion higher than the estimated number released during the IMF’s Fiscal Monitor press conference held last October, because it included end-2017 data and the debts of several countries, which had not previously reported their updated data. “On average, the world’s debt now exceeds $86,000 per person – more than two and half times the average income per-capita. “The top three borrowers in the world (United States, China, and Japan) account for more than half of global debt, exceeding their share of global output,” the IMF stated. 