Scientists in the United States (U.S.) have said that having a regular pattern of going to bed and waking up, could protect metabolic health in humans. This was the result of a new study published in the journal; ‘Diabetes Care.’ The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI), which was part of the U.S. National Institutes of Health, funded the study. Metabolic health is defined as having ideal levels of blood sugar, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, blood pressure, and waist circumference, without using medications. These factors directly relate to a person’s risk for heart disease, diabetes, and stroke. Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of health conditions that can increase the risk of an individual developing Type 2 diabetes, stroke, heart disease, and other serious illnesses The findings of the new study linked the habit of regular sleep pattern to a lower chance of developing risk factors that make up metabolic syndrome, such as high blood pressure, obesity, and high cholesterol. The researchers studied relationship between variability of sleep pattern and the development of metabolic risk factors in 2,003 people aged between 45 and 84 years, and found that for every one hour of day-to-day variation in bedtime or length of sleep, there was a 27 per cent raised risk of developing metabolic risk factors. According to Corresponding Study author, Tianyi Huang, who worked as an epidemiologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, U.S., “Our research shows that, even after considering the amount of sleep a person gets and other lifestyle factors, every one-hour night-to-night difference in the time to bed or the duration of a night’s sleep multiplies the adverse metabolic effect.” The analysis showed that the individuals with the biggest variation in their bedtime and the number of hours that they slept were also the ones who were most likely to have metabolic risk factors. The study authors maintained that this result strengthened the argument that there was a causal link between irregular sleep patterns and metabolic syndrome.