President Muhammadu Buhari has challenged leaders of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to develop a common strategy that will help end the different levels of threats facing the region.  The President stated this on Saturday at the 55th ordinary session of the ECOWAS authority of Heads of State and Government held in the presidential villa, Abuja. Buhari who is the out going chairman of the organisation reminded the leaders that the sub-region continues to face considerable security challenges with recurring incidents of inter   communal clashes, herdersfarmers conflicts, banditry and terrorist attacks in all member countries. According to him, such unrest also undermines all efforts to achieving full regional integration.  He said: ”Taking into account the transnational nature of the threats confronting us, the need for the adoption of a common strategy at the national and regional level to combat them, has become imperative.” President Buhari said what is necessary now is for the leaders to reinforce collective actions and resources for a more effective response to protect citizens and secure the territorial space of respective countries.  According to him, recent developments have shown that the leaders must cooperate more effectively to achieve the region’s goals. ”We should send a strong and unified message to the perpetrators of violence that we are resolute in our collective determination to confront and defeat them. ”As we strive to create a secure, stable and prosperous environment in West Africa, we must also intensify our efforts to ensure sustainable economic and social development in our sub-region.  By doing so, we will be able to tackle poverty and youth unemployment and contribute to our sustained stability, ” the President added.  Buhari who sympathized with the families of victims of terrorist attacks, banditry and inter-communal clashes perpetrated by some misguided elements in the sub-region said the organisation will not relent in its efforts to protect the peace loving people of ECOWAS and their properties. While expressing gratitude to all leaders in the sub-region who have skilfully conducted the political mediation missions entrusted to them, he said the war against terrorism and criminality will be vigorously sustained.  The President also thanked the African Union (AU), the United Nations (UN) and other bilateral and multilateral partners for their sustained cooperation and assistance which he said remains valuable in the partnership.  In his remarks, the Special Representative of the Secretary General and Head of the United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel (UNOWAS) Mohamed Ibn Chambas said that beyond military approaches, the leaders should make efforts to address the root causes of violent extremism and other conflicts in the sub-region. Chambas noted that UNOWAS will enhance coordination with G5 Sahel, ECOWAS and other partners within the framework of the UN integrated strategy to advance long term stabilisation goals in the region. He said the UN remains committed to support ECOWAS in its determined efforts for sustainable growth and development of the sub-region.  Other speakers at the event include president of the ECOWAS Commission Jean-Claude Kassi Brou and president of the International Criminal Court Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji. Among leaders of ECOWAS who attended the event are those of Benin, Burkina- Faso, Cote D’voir, Gambia, Gana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Ngeria Sierra Leone, Togo. The leaders of Cape Verde and Senegal were absent.