It is almost a month that President Muhammadu Buhari’s second tenure commenced on May 29th. He was declared the winner of the election amid protestations and disputations by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). On February 27th, when his “victory” was made public, he was aware that May 29th would be his inauguration day; almost three full months to the end of his tenure. Despite this, he is still unable, in his characteristic slowness, to put together a cabinet that would drive his governance process for another four years, all things being equal.
When he waited for six months in 2015 before he set sail, Nigerians thought he was preparing the footnotes that would guide his intervention in critical sectors of the economy. His unwarranted delay killed our economy, and we are still struggling to get out of that logjam. As a convenient route, he blamed the state of the economy on the halitosis of the previous government. If this government does not blame previous government for everything happening now, then it is not day break yet. It blames PDP for its failures. It probably will blame PDP for allowing the president to wear “babariga” everyday, or for allowing the wife of the president to take the title of First Lady against what we were told in 2015.
We have set sail again but the ship is still at the harbour. The passengers are kept in suspense. Nobody is offering any explanation except some inaudible words rendered in hushed tones, in a monologue that has become the style of this government. The President’s saxophones told us that his June 12 speech would set the tone for a new Nigeria; it ended up with soundless bites that set agenda for no agenda. He promised to take 100 million people out of poverty in a 10-year timeline. He referred to India as one of the countries that gave him motivation for such an ambitious agenda, but Modi, the Indian Prime Minister, put together a cabinet within 72 hours after he won a re-election. Cyril Ramaphosa, the South African president, barely 24 hours after inauguration, put his cabinet together to set the tone for his country’s direction. Almost a month, a president who wants to take 100 million people out of poverty, is still speechless about his cabinet. That is the beginning of failure. Time is a huge resource when it comes to management.
I understand the cabal is at work. A cabinet that is not too different from his immediate past is almost ready and nominees are going through security clearance; whatever that means. Those who were cleared in the past by this same security were found wanting later. Kemi Adeosun, former Minister of Finance, came from London to make some wads without an NYSC certificate. Adebayo Shittu, the former Minister of Communication, did not serve Nigeria after graduation, yet he served out his appointment as Minister for Communication. A government that preaches so much of transparency, anti-corruption and integrity, looked the other way while these persons were being interrogated in the public space. Kemi was given what is dubiously called “soft landing”, after her case became a sore thumb for a government of supposed anti-corruption orientation. She was chauffeur driven to the airport, and zoomed off into the safety bowel of London. Her forgery case is forgotten. Her perjury case almost silent. In APC, there are no sinners, only sins.
In President Buhari’s government, we are seeing the very strong desire to set agenda to nowhere. We are seeing a greater need to energise sheer nothingness. We are seeing too much of shadow boxing with no discernible opponent. Poverty has become our companion. Hunger, unwillingly, has become our neighbour. Insecurity has become our ridiculous relatives. Kidnapping has become our unwanted sibling. Armed banditry has become the occupants of our geographic space. Boko Haram has become our permanent forwarding address. I heard the new Governor of Borno State was telling the army not to inflict colossal damage on them, whatever the intention is, I really can’t say. The people agonise everyday and joined by government to lament about our precarious situation. Rather than deliver the right leadership to provide practical solutions to these problems, the presidency has become prayer warriors, waiting on God to send down solution. The country is fast being torn apart like erupting volcano.
In this APC-led Federal Government, suicide has become a topical issue more than ever before. The value for human lives has ebbed remarkably. Nigerians, out of frustration, have become willing martyrs by suicide. They die almost everyday, for reasons that are located within the ambit of government’s incompetence to deliver leadership and hope for the people. Job losses have continued to increase. Debts are pilling up. Loans are increasing by the day. Infrastructure are decaying everyday. Education has become a poisoned chalice. It is rotten to the soul with outdated curricular in a modern world driven by productivity, technology and innovation. We are still detained by 2.3 million barrel per day oil production, when electricity cars are taking the centre-stage in a new world order driven by technology. Our seasons are predictable, yet we can no longer make use of the rains to grow agriculture because the farmlands have been surrendered to insurgents, armed bandits and Fulani herdsmen. They kill, maim and rape our men and women. They are all over Nigeria; from the East to the West, North to the South, unleashing mayhem on a people that have become vulnerable in their fatherland.
The Chief of Army Staff, General Buratai says the soldiers and officers are no longer motivated to execute their responsibilities. They are somewhat war weary. Once a man, trained to kill, now becomes tired to do so, then, we are in deep danger. The Chief of Army Staff declaration is like a surrender anthem. He can no longer vouch for his troops, yet he still remains their commander. This presidency tolerates the bizarre. Sack is never in its dictionary. Overhaul is an unknown word to it. Its dominant agenda is to set no agenda. When trouble comes, it turns to God for solutions as if Nigeria is the only country created by God. In fact, allowing Nigeria’s perfidies to fester in this manner, God must be wondering what manner of country we truly are. He must be wondering about our paternity. But God must tolerate the helpless, voiceless and the vulnerable, and not our oppressors and aggressors.
Aside from forming a cabinet that will drive governance in the next four years if President Buhari sails through the waters of litigation, he must be forward looking more than ever before. But he doesn’t seem to be ready for the great walk. The more he talks tough inside the protective walls of Aso Villa, the more killings are reported daily from Zamfara, Sokoto, Taraba to Borno, Yobe and Adamawa. There is absence of critical engagement amongst a broad spectrum of Nigerians in the respective geopolitical zones. Government is depending too much on issuing orders and directives rather than engage in deliberate psychological orientation and mobilisation to change the mindset of soldiers that have become “unmotivated” and “unwilling” to deliver the right punches against insurgents, according to the Chief of Army Staff. The narratives of “we will do the needful” remain the same yesterday, today and probably tomorrow. Nothing significant will change, more so when the President is ageing fast.
Ask an average power player in the corridors of Aso Villa what exactly is the agenda of this government, he probably will tell you; anti-corruption, economy and security. Ask further what modalities are being put in place to drive them, you are likely to hear them stammer and murmur. Those who served in the last tenure, are engrossed in monumental corruption. Those who cannot afford decent living before they were appointed in 2015, have become proud owners of exclusive architectural derring-dos in Maitama and elsewhere. They now live lavish lifestyles. They shout about anti-corruption during the day and go back to their illicit wealth at night, such a contradiction, made worse by the president’s incapacity to oversee all the rots of his government. The APC should sit down to plan for the country and provide the desired leadership, rather than warming up for 2023 when no one can predict who will be alive to engage that process. Nigeria needs leadership and not procrastination.