The Onitsha Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ONICIMMA), has enumerated the importance of the Onitsha River Port to the economy of the South East and Nigeria in general, saying the port which had all the necessary facilities when it was commissioned in 2012, has remained comatose because it has not been gazetted to give it legal power to commence operation. President of the Chamber, Mr. Don Ebebegu said this in Onitsha, during the 12th edition of the annual lecture series of the chamber, tagged ‘Perspective’, aptly described what happened to the port as ‘Onitsha River Port Politics’.  “Onitsha has played a central role in the trade and distribution of goods all over Nigeria and across the West African region, because of its strategic position between Eastern and Western Nigeria, and between the densely populated Igbo hinterland and the oil-rich creeks of the Niger Delta.  “For over 50 years, it has remained the regional hub for trade and logistics in Southern Nigeria. There are over 15 key highly capitalised, independent open markets spread in this metropolis, majority of which are dedicated to particular distinct. “Goods like textiles, electronics, households, foods, beverages, automobiles, building materials, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and machinery. It also hosts the famous Onitsha Main Market; the largest single market in Africa in terms of physical size, capitalisation and volume of trade. Onitsha has an estimated transaction value in excess of US120,000,000 daily.  “It is therefore, pertinent to note that the Onitsha River Port built by President Shehu Shagari in 1983 and rehabilitated by the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan at a cost of N4.6 billion in 2012, was done out of sound economic considerations, for the benefit of the Nigerian economy,” he said.  Ebubeogu lamented that political consideration seems to be the only reason the port is lying comatose seven years after rehabilitation, a port that boasts of transit sheds/warehouses of 100×55 metres with a storage capacity of 10,000 20-feet equivalent units (TEUs), port one ‘ions building, nine senior staff quarters, II junior staff quarters, fuel tank farm, 150mm diameter borehole and so on.  He said: “In what I will personally term ‘the politics of Onitsha River Port’, unlike the usual convention whereby after commissioning a facility as important as a river port, there would be an official declaration and gazetting of the facility to officially give it a legal status to operate, no such official proclamation was made on each of the occasions the Onitsha River Port was commissioned.  “Nevertheless, we must not fail to appreciate the role the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) has   been playing in recent times, under the leadership of Senator Olurunnimbe Mamora, which prompted the former Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi to grant the approval for the commencement of the declaration and gazetting process. It believed that when completed it would give some measure of comfort to shippers.”  He said despite the directive given by Amaechi, the people of the zone is still concerned about the concession exercise of Onitsha River Port, which according to him, has been controversial. Speaking, Senator Olurunnimbe Mamora, Managing Director of NIMWA, disclosed that the Federal Government has perfected arrangements to gazette Onitsha River Port as the first Inland Port of destination for cargo coming into the country from any part of the world and as Origin Port to cargo going out of the country as export.  He said that on completion of the process and upon the declaration, Onitsha River Port will be recognised by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), as a port to which goods can be consigned from, and from where goods can also be consigned to, from another destination, which could be Sea Port or Inland Port located anywhere in the world.  Sunday Telegraph learnt that as part of the process, the port, which has the capacity to handle about 1. 2 million 20-foot equivalent units (TEUs), is expected to be provided with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Port Health Services (PHS) and other relevant agencies of Government to enable clearance of import cargoes at the Onitsha Port.  Mrs. Obaigeli Obi, Director General, Nigerian Chamber of Commerce, said the current operational challenges at the Western Ports call for urgent and sustainable ways of maximising the economies of the Eastern Ports. Meanwhile the Obi of Onitsha, Obi Alfred Nnaemeka Achebe has said that proper placing of priority has been the Nigerians leadership managerial inadequacies.