  Following the crises currently engulfing the African Action Congress (AAC), and the Action Democratic Party, (ADP), the call may have to be renewed for the deregistration of the fringe parties for making no impact in the last elections even as they are alleged to be conduit for fraud.  The National Executive of the AAC had announced the suspension of the Chairman of the party, Mr. Omoyele Sowore and Deputy National Chairman (South West), Ogunlana Rotimi Jacob, a couple of week for a period of six months over alleged anti-party activities. He said the allegation bordered “particularly on inflow of illegal foreign funds into the party and personally retaining same in contravention of Section 225 (3)(4) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), together with eight others.” However, Sowore had fired back, stating that Dr. Leonard Ezenwa who has been appointed the National Chairman had been suspended earlier from the party for anti-party activities for months and is in no position to suspend the national chairman. Similarly, the leadership of the ADP is currently swimming in trouble water with different groups claiming leadership of the opposition party.  But its presidential candidate at the last general elections, who is also double as the national chairman, Engr. Yabagi Sani, said he remained the “authentic ADP national chairman.” In a statement recently, the National Secretary of the party Dr. James Okoroma and six other members of the ADP National Working Committee (NWC) said Engr. Yabagi, who was accused of breaching the party constitution had been suspended and replaced with the former Agriculture Minister of State and Deputy National Chairman South, Alhaji Najeem Awodele.  The statement said “The NWC has also directed Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani to hand over all Party properties in his possession to the National Secretary. These include vehicles, cheque books, and documents among others. But Yabagi denied all the all the allegations, stating that the statement “credited to the suspended National Secretary of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Dr. James Okoroma and his cohorts, which claimed that I, Yusuf Yabagi Sani, have been suspended as National Chairman of the party by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party is untenable.. He said it was clear that the purported suspension “is self defeating, dead on arrival and completely invalid for the following reasons amongst others: (1) The socalled NWC members are either former or suspended ADP National officers who are no longer members of the ADP NWC.  For instance Dr. James Okoroma knows he is no longer ADP National Secretary by the resolution of Yakubu Abiodun SUNDAY JUNE 9, 2019, SUNDAY TELEGRAPH the National Executive Committee (NEC) of ADP which has since several months ago been duly communicated to INEC.”  Sources said the fringe parties have become something akin to private businesses of the chairmen, their wives and children who often manipulate and utilize the funds collected and attend capacity training sponsored local and international agencies. ‘The parties have become like private companies while   the INEC is something akin to the CAC, who merely registers them, only for the parties to serve the interest of the chairman and his family. “At one of our quarterly meeting with the INEC, the electoral umpire’s chairman told us that the wife of one of the parties’ chairman is the Woman Leader and his son the National Youth Leader.  Hence three members of the executive council are from his family,” the source said. Of all the 73 political parties in Nigeria, less than 50 actually participated in the last elections, even as about 25 of the rest endorsed various candidates of the major parties in the presidential and governorship elections. Besides, less that 10 of them won seats at various levels of governments, posing logistic problems to INEC which had to print a long ballot papers with logos of the non-performing parties.  While some have argued that the nation runs a multi-party system with its attendant right to freedom of association, others have submitted a merger of the fringe parties to reduce INEC load and assist in strengthening the system, especially now that they have become he vortex of crises than development.