The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Auditor, Chief George Moghalu is one of the think tanks of the present National Working Committee and also close to the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as one of the eyes of the Presidency in the South East. In this interview with some journalists, Moghalu looked at the last four years of Buhari and the next four years. According to him, what the President needs do is to sustain his aspirations for the development of the country. JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM was there and reports  President Muhammadu Buhari has just been sworn in for a second term in office. Would you say he had justified his first term in office and addressed those nagging issues that were there before he came into office? From my own assessment he did quite well, extremely well taking into account the challenges, the enormity of the challenges he met on assumption of office and the circumstances. Barring all these he did quite well. If you’ll recall in the course of the campaigns, the campaigns was anchored on three major planks; addressing security challenges, fighting corruption, and expanding the economy, and these three areas he did quite well. Recall that as at the time he was been sworn into office 14 or 15 local government areas of this country were under the control of Boko Haram insurgents. The terrorist group was running crazy, attacking everywhere and taking control. But today as we speak no piece of Nigerian soil is under the control of Boko Haram or ISIS no matter the name they go with. As we speak the issue of Boko Haram has been reduced drastically. That is not to say you don’t have attacks on soft targets, like you also have in some developed economies where once in a while you have security challenges. Overall the President has done very well. There are new challenges – the issue of herdsmen, kidnapping and so on – government has demonstrated commitment unlike before, the moral of the military and the police is quite high, the effort is been sustained in that sector. So, in the area of security he has done quite well. And if he continues with what he’s doing I’m sure that in the nearest future the security issues will be a thing of the past, because if you look at the roadmap, the new security architecture, you will agree that a lot is being done.  Then on the issue of corruption, even the man’s enemies will agree that he has also fought corruption frontally, but as has been said if you are fighting corruption, corruption is fighting back. So, he is doing quite well in addressing issues that has to do with corruption. He’s addressing it seriously and the agencies of government that are responsible for fighting corruption are living up to expectations and effort is been made to sustain that.  You and I agree as most Nigerians that corruption is endemic in the country, so it will require a sustained action to stem it. Like the President would say, if you don’t kill corruption, corruption will kill you. He has been fighting corruption frontally. Though it has been resisting, but I’m confident that he will continue the fight and it will soon be a thing of the past. Today people do not steal with impunity, people look at their back before they commit any crime that has to do with corruption unlike before. So that fight is on, it has to be sustained, it has to be continuous so that in the end we can achieve the objective.  On the issue of the economy, the economy is being widely expanded. Today we are talking about developing alternative sources of revenue, and that has to do with the investment government is making in the agricultural sector, solid mineral sector and even investment in infrastructural development which has a way of providing opportunities for expanding the economy, providing opportunities for employment of additional hands, making money available in the hands of Nigerian people.  If you look at the investment government is making in road and rail infrastructure, the transport sector and power sector. So overall speaking he has done quite well but that is not to say all our problems have been solved. The problems are still that a good number of the problems are still there, but these are problems that are associated with everyday living and so we continue to address them as they come up. But overall he’s done quite well and that is why Nigerians gave him the opportunity for a second term. Because I’m sure that if he didn’t do well, Nigerians would not endorse him for a second term.  You talked about Boko Haram, that it is degraded, but the greatest concern of the average Nigerian today is security, which has become worse in recent times; herdsmen attacks, kidnapping, rustling, banditry, many states are now affected, Zamfara, Kaduna, Katsina, Taraba, Benue, Plateau and the list is endless. Some videos you watch can be scary! If you want to make your assessment based on social media report then you may be wrong. One thing about the social media is that they may pick up pictures of things that happened in say Libya and post and put some titles and people are led to believe that it is what is happening in our country. Most of them are not correct. That is not to say the issue of the herdsmen is not there. The important thing here is, is government committed to addressing them? That’s the question anybody will ask. And you and I know that government is doing all that is possible to ensure that these issues are addressed. When you fight issue of security, you also juxtapose it with the economy. Someone might say that because many young people are unemployed, there’s no money and therefore they are looking towards crime. That may be an excuse but that is not the position because government is at the same time addressing these areas by way of investment in alternative sources of.revenue, investment in agriculture as a means of providing employment opportunity massive investment in transport infrastructure by way of road and rail infrastructure so that many of our youth can be meaningfully engaged. But I agree with you that the scourge of insecurity is worrisome, but government is addressing it. Don’t forget that these are new phenomena, by the time he came in to office in 2015, the issue that was on the front burner was Boko Haram. And Boko Haram has been sufficiently reduced to the point that it was not like before, now the other security issues are also being addressed. Government is providing equipment to the fight these criminals, morale of the security forces is high and recently police said it recruiting more personnel.  Also don’t forget that the issue of security is not only for government, it is also for us citizens because if we leave the security agencies information they need to achieve the same objective, at times you find these criminals we know them. They didn’t fall from the sky. The citizens know them. They are people’s relatives and friends. They operate in the community and environment so we also have a responsibility and role to play to make sure that the environment is secure. The people are also trying in giving police the right information, we saw when the police paraded about 95 persons involved in kidnapping. My prayer is the efforts should be intensified in the area of intelligence gathering, citizens should continue to assist the security forces in information gathering.  After nearly three and half years, the ministers bowed out recently. How would you rate their performance? They have done well. It is a collective responsibility, the President alone can’t do it. It is a team work, the Vice President is involved, the ministers, even the civil servants are involved, because when they see the direction of the government, they are bound to work in line with that government. I think they have done reasonably well. But like I said, all our problems have not been solved and cannot be solved in four years and in one fell swoop. The important thing is that they are in the right direction. The president is focused in what he wants to achieve and he has the support of the Nigerian people, that’s why he was elected.  In the next four years what direction would you like the party and government to focus on?  Let the government sustain the effort that is being made. The vision of Mr president to leave Nigeria far better than he met it is clear. If you look at the issue of infrastructural investment, I will like that to be sustained. There is no state today, I want to be shown that state, that has no single Federal Government presence, either road repays or new roads, or rail lines and what have you.  Nigeria is like a construction site now, everywhere infrastructure is being addressed. My prayer will be that government will sustain what they are doing, in pursuit of improved power generation, sustain the issue of infrastructural development, sustain the issue of economic growth and development, further investment in agricultural sector and things like that. At the end of the day I think we will achieve a better result. But I’m confident that the coming cabinet will see Nigeria from the prism of Mr. President.   What manner of persons would you like to see in the new cabinet? Nigerians, who are committed like the President to achieving results. Committed, and I mean committed. Nigerians Who will see Nigeria from the bird’s eyeview of the president.  You’re from the South-East and many believe the zone has not benefited much from the administration, especially in sharing of key positions. Do you agree with that? That’s a misconception. The president has done a lot even for South-East and I can name projects. He has done a lot and is still going to do more. That he has not done anything on South-East is an absolute misconception. The South-East are beneficiaries of this government. The 2nd Niger Bridge that we have been living on promises for the past 16 years Buhari is doing it aggressively. I was    there with the Vice President the other day. The Onitsha-Enugu Expressway is being constructed, the Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway is being reconstructed. The contract for Aba- Ikot Epkene-Abak Road has been awarded, these are key first class government projects that were abandoned by the previous administration. Our sons are in key positions of responsibility. We are beneficiaries of the tradermoni, the social investment trust we are part of it. So, where are we excluded? Key positions are being shared it is not about me deciding. Mr president has said that he is not discriminatory, and indeed he is not discriminating and the party is not discriminating. The important thing is that every part of Nigeria will be represented, and that I can assure you.  Key positions of the National Assembly are being decided, every zone is positioning for one slot or the other, some say Deputy Senate President, some Speaker. What would you like the Southeast zone to go for? Every other zone wants these positions you are talking about. I will not say which position, the important thing is that the party will decide and after deciding, we appeal to our people that this is what we want done. It is still the choice of our representatives in the two Chambers to decide where the leadership will come from, at the end of the day. So what the party is doing is recommendatory because we are interested and justifiably so. Left for me, the selfish human in me, I would want the president, vice president, Senate president, Speaker, all to come from my local governments but it is not possible.  