 Experts in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector have called for deployment of technology in Nigeria’s tourism and travel space to boost the sector.
The experts, who spoke at the maiden edition of Tourism and Technology Summit held in Lagos, noted that no sector can survive in this 21st century without technology.
Delivering a keynote address at the summit, the Director-General, National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP), Dr Dan-Azumi Ibrahim, said there were six technology trends to watch out for in the tourism industry. These include: Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR/VR), Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), Voice Technology, Wi-Fi Connectivity and Wearable Devices.
The NOTAP DG noted that Nigeria has the best brains around the world and it must use them to achieve growth in all these areas of technology trends to achieve economic growth. According to him, the country could be the first to sell or franchise Virtual Reality software for the Digital Tourism in the world. He added that the agency was working towards ensuring that all technologies in the country would run on Nigerian software saying.
“We have an online travel websites such as Wakanow and hotels-finding service, hotels.ng. These brands use software to run their businesses; they show how ICT and Tourism can work together to bring desirable products to the market place,” Ibrahim said.
Quoting Global Data 2018 Report, Technology Trends in Travel and Tourism, he said technology is fostering a change in the travel and tourism industry regarding how companies interact with customers. “Consequently, travel companies are adopting various technologies to improve operational efficiencies and meet customers’ expectations at every stage of their journey,” he said. The NOTAP boss said that Nigerians could leverage on these trends to create new realities in the tourism space, adding that using real time location sensors, the country could create digital experiences never imagined.
Also Jemi-Alade, the Chief Executive Officer, Jemi-Alade Associates Ltd., a Travel Agency, said that disruption by technology was forcing travel agencies to innovate or die. According to him, technology is radically transforming the way travel and tourism business is conducted around the world, including Africa. “The rapid growth in the travel and tourism sector across regions of Africa is largely driven by technology and numerous initiatives across the continent to attract more tourists,’’ he said.
Jemi-Alade said that tourism industry players were beginning to realise that tourism and travel space had become a technological business and were adapting to the new reality.
“African countries are discovering the need to develop and market their tourism potential, and technology is making it easier and cheaper to promote destinations and showcase various tourism endowments,” he said. “Technology has helped reduce operational costs, cost of travel and also simplified visa procurement systems. “Sustainability of growth in the travel sector is dependent on the sector’s ability to recognise the key drivers and respond to challenges facing it. The online movement is the next big wave in travel and is now shaping the way Africans travel within Africa, and how the travel business is conducted on the continent.”
He added that online and mobile app travel booking are the new trend, adding with over 200 million smartphone users in Africa, the is sure to expand.
Jemi-Alade said that African continent is well endowed with various tourism assets and products that attracted tourists from around the world.