 Nigeria’s food & beverages sector can kick-start the revival of the agro-allied sector through creation of massive employment and foreign exchange earnings for Nigerians if government can unlock its potential, experts have said.
The immediate past Ogun State Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Abimbola Ashiru and Chief Executive Officer, BtoB Events Jamie Hill said this in Lagos.
While the former spoke with New Telegraph in an interview on the sideline of the Food & Beverage Exhibition in Lagos, the latter spoke at the event.
Ashiru said that the sector currently accounts for most of the jobs created in the country’s industrial sector with billions of Naira being contributed to government’s coffers.
He said that food & beverage companies have key roles to play towards achieving government’s backward integration policy in the area of using local source of raw materials for production in the country.
According to him, local source of raw materials have created momentum for the country’s industrial sector.
The commissioner, however, urged the Federal Government to create a conducive enabling environment for operators in the sector, alluding to the fact that the sector is at the position to galvanize the use of locally sourced raw materials for production in the agric/industrial sectors, which has been identified as one of the banes stifling growth and development.
Speaking on the importance of the Food & Beverage exhibition on the economy, the industrialist explained that the participation of foreign food &beverage firms with their Nigerian counterparts showed that Nigeria can integrate as one big family globally with the aim to create thousands of jobs for its teeming youths and earn more forex.
“This is a country of about 200 million people and with the kinds of Food &Beverage companies, both foreign and local, that are here today, it shows that this is a process that Nigeria can integrate as one big family globally,” he said. “I asked them a question on where are they getting their raw materials from and they said they are sourcing them locally. Look at Sona Breweries of the Sona group, they’ve been here for 35 years, they have been able to source 90 per cent of all their raw materials locally, that is, they been able to get alternatives for source of raw materials. And with this other people coming together to penetrate our markets, it will create thousands of jobs and FX earnings for the economy”.
Besides, a Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) survey reported that local sourcing of raw materials in the country increased from 47.2 per cent in 2014 to 60.23 per cent in 2018, with key sectors such as Food, Beverage and Tobacco, Textile & Wearing Apparel, Carpet, Leather and Leather Footwear, Non-Metallic Minerals Products responsible for the significant growth.
In his own submission, Hill explained that Nigeria’s food beverage sector is a hub for foreign investors if well managed following the attractions from global foods firms.
He said that the food & beverage industry is rapidly growing across in West Africa, stressing that the exhibition is an opportunity for food entrepreneurs to showcase their businesses to the world and at the same time partner with international businesses.