●Rohr, Omeruo wary of minnows ●Eagles must respect opponents –Ambrose   Super Eagles of Nigeria are looking forward to hitting the ground running in their African Cup of Nations campaign by securing a dominant performance against Burundi in their opening game today. The Super Eagles are playing their first game in the tournament since 2013 when they won the tournament in South Africa after missing out of the last two editions and will be looking forward to making an instant statement on their return. Although the Eagles are not in blistering form considering their recent results, they have lost just once in their last nine games. Burundi are taking part in this competition for the very first time but the inexperience as well as the opposition might cause them some trouble. Their preparation seems to be in tatters, as all they could return from their last 15 games were just two wins. Both these victories came against minnows – South Sudan and Ethiopia. Their last match saw them losing to Tunisia in a friendly international. The squad did have a draw in sights, even into the injury time, until the winner came in the 90+3rd minute to negate the hard work of the players. Taking part in the Cup of Nations for the first time, the opener against a previous champion should be one of the harshest beginnings that could have been allotted. Also, the squad was winless in 10 of their last 11 fixtures, and in 13 of their last 15. They have also not been able to keep a clean sheet in their last five battles and will face huge odds as underdogs this weekend. However, Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr insisted it could be a tough encounter for his side. He downplays the pedigree of his team over their opponents, insisting that the Burundians have good players that play in Europe. He harped on the importance of starting the tournament on a winning note, saying it won’t be a stroll in the park for his side. “It is not going to be an easy game; first match is always important. We have to work hard because it is the opening game for everyone; these smaller teams have nothing to lose. Burundi are going to be dangerous but we will work hard to win. “We have the experience more than them, we have players who played at the World Cup, our captain Mikel (Obi) is back, he has won this tournament before with (Ahmed) Musa and (Kenneth) Omeruo,” he said. A winner with the 2013 squad Omeruo also warned his teammates, insisting they must not underrate any side in the competition including Burundi. He believes Burundi might not want to show them respect, the reason the Eagles must show maximum commitment. “There are no small teams again in football; African football is difficult, you can’t afford to underrate any opponents. You could see how Zimbabwe played a goalless draw with us at home even though that was a friendly match. We have to show passion, determination and I can assure you that we are not going to disappoint,” he said. With Madagascar and Guinea comprising the other two sides in group B, Nigeria have the chance to end up at the top of the group, and Omeruo insisted that it’s important they begin campaign with a win. “We have to start the competition on a good note; it will help our confidence and boost the morale. I can assure you that we know how important this match is and the lads are ready to win,” he said. Ex-international Efe Ambrose who was a member of the victorious 2013 Eagles said the current cast must show respect to their opponents. “They can’t afford to underrate any team in the competition; they must show their opponents respect and take it match after match. Nations Cup is a difficult tournament but they have to remain focused throughout to be able to succeed. I am confident this team can go all the way in Egypt,” he told our correspondent. 