 A middle-aged woman has been arrested for posing as Lagos State governor’s aide to seek visas at Italian Embassy.
It was learnt that the woman (name withheld), via an e-mail sent to the Embassy of Italy in Lagos allegedly posed as an official of Lagos State government and sought the country’s visas for some unsuspecting Nigerians.
But the suspect denied the allegation, claiming that her email was hacked into.
Following the shocking development and the subsequent denial from the suspect, Lagos State Governor’s Office ordered a comprehensive investigation into the matter by the appropriate security agencies for suitable action.
It was learnt that the Italian Embassy had received the visas application supposedly sent by the office of the state governor but the bubble burst after the embassy wrote a letter to the state government to confirm the application.
The Deputy Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Gboyega Akosile, said in a statement that the woman was arrested following intelligence on the usage of the Governor’s Office to seek visas for some members of the public.
Akosile warned members of the public to be wary of some people who might fraudulently use the office to commit criminal act.
He said: “This security alert came to the fore, over the weekend after a middle-aged woman was arrested following intelligence on the usage of the Governor’s Office to seek visas for some members of the public.
“The suspect (name withheld), via an e-mail sent to the Embassy of Italy in Lagos allegedly posed as an official of Lagos State government and sought the country’s visas for some unsuspecting Nigerians. The embassy, however, wrote to the Governor’s Office to authenticate the claims, which were later found to be false.
“The letter from the Italian embassy led to further investigation and her subsequent arrest and interrogation.”
Although she denied the allegation, claiming that her email was hacked, the Lagos State Governor’s Office has sent the matter to the appropriate security agencies for appropriate action.”