President and Chairman BoT of Association of Professional Creative Artist and Designers in Nigeria (APCAD), Kingsley Okafor, has lambasted the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Bankers Committee for negligence by intentionally excluding the Visual Artists in the recently approved Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI) valued at #200B. Okafor, who is a creative arts development economist, sculptor and art promoter, noted that the Creative Arts highlights and projects the culture of the people, stressing that the most authentic way this can be depicted is through the Visual Art. “The CBN in collaboration with the Bankers Committee structured the Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI) as part of effort to boost job creation in Nigeria, particularly among the youths. “This Initiative has four pillars according to CBN, namely fashion, music, information technology and movie. Details shows that IT students receives up to N3million,fashion designers N30 mission, movie producers N30 million and movie distributors gets up to N500 million loans at a single digit interest rate of nine per cent and a 10-year repayment term. “These loans will cover rental fees, services, equipments, training etc. I implore the CBN to explain their understanding of the components of the creative industry and the modus for selecting the professions that make up the Creative Industry while leaving out an integral part of the Industry, the Visual Art,” Okafor said. According to him, “artists spend a lot of money and effort on materials to provide intellectual work. Nothing kills creativity than lack of support and patronage. To receive patronage, the artist needs support and encouragement by way of financing. “This will enable the artist reach the expected standards and apply quality materials to boost patronage as well as compete effectively at the international market. You cannot talk about creative industry without mentioning the Visual Arts, the core and integral part of the creative industry.  “The creative arts highlights and projects the culture of the people, the most. It is the culture of the people that chronicles their history, their values and origin. The most authentic way this can be depicted is through the visual art.”