The former minister of youth and sports, Solomon Dalung, has claimed that the Nigeria Football Federation failed to include the Africa Cup of Nations tournament budget in its 2019 programmes sent to the Ministry of Budget and National Planning. Dalung’s reaction followed a recent newspaper report that the Super Eagles’ campaign was threatened by poor funding. In the report, an NFF official was quoted as saying: “The Ministry of Sports did not capture NFF’s expenditure in international competitions in the 2019 budget it submitted to the Federal Government.  “You also recall that the ministry of sports did not include our budget in the envelop it submitted to the Federal Government as part of the annual budget and so we are left to look for money from everywhere possible to fund our programmes.” However, Dalung, in a press release signed by his Special Assistant, Media Nneka Anibeze, debunked the NFF’s claim, insisting that it was false.  Dalung said: “They were asked to submit their plans for 2019 to the office of Budget and National Planning, directly. They did not include AFCON in what they submitted to the Budget Office.  When the budget process was already advanced, I think it was already at the National Assembly when they discovered that they did not make provisions for AFCON.  “They approached the Ministry of Youth and Sports and I directed that they should write, so that we could apply for intervention from the office of the Presi dent. This happened towards the terminal date of the tenure of this administration . “I also took it up personally with the President as requested, for his special intervention to save the situation but of course, the process, as we all know, is slow.  It has to go to the office of the President to the Ministry of Finance for advice before it will now go to Budget Office and back for approval. “It is a cumbersome process and therefore it is yet to materialize.  Based on the time they initiated the process, it is not the fault of anybody but the fault of the Nigeria Football Federation which completely failed to include AFCON when they were invited by the office of Budget and National Planning to submit their programme and budget for the year.”  Dalung further stated that the Office of Budget and National Planning demanded that NFF send their programmes for 2019 directly to its office because sports had in the past three years taken the better chunk of intervention funds meant for other unforeseen events.  “The Budget Office told them to present all their activities for 2019 so that it can be captured in the budget instead of asking for intervention funds always,” the former minister said.  “Every self- accounting parastatal submits its budget directly to the Budget Office because it defends its budget. NFF has capital and recurrent expenditure. It also receives monthly overheads from government so it also submits its programmes and budget to the Budget Office and defends same. The omission is from the NFF and not the Ministry.”