Nigeria’s technology company, Medallion Communications, has launched the first Tier 4 design certified data centre in West Africa.
The facility, which is sited in Ghana and scheduled to commence commercial services in July this year, according to a statement, was constructed under a strategic partnership between Etix Everywhere, Ngoya, and AIG.
Under the partnership, the data centre will be managed commercially by AIG and Medallion, while the technical operations will be managed by Etix Everywhere. While taking anchor clients on a tour of the facility, the CEO of AIG, Dr Samuel Ankrah, stated that the solar powered data center would have the best availability in the sub-region with power availability of 99.99682 per cent.
He added that the data centre’s specifications include: three independent generators, three independent UPS, three independent switchboard, three independent cooling systems, and world-class access control and intrusion detection system.
“The carrier neutral data centre provides full transmission redundancies with fibre connections from four different routes including multiple aerial and underground fibres from multiple metro and long distance providers. The site is concurrently maintainable,” Ankrah said.
Throwing more insight into the operation of the data center, Dr. Ankrah indicated that the track record of project partners ensures the facility will not only be the best in the sub-region in terms of infrastructure but also in terms of operations. “Etix builds and operates the best multi tenant carrier neutral data centres that meets and surpasses all required specifications for efficient service delivery,” he said. “Medallion operates the most connected data centre in the West African sub-region having as its clients all major service providers in the region. The expertise of Medallion in efficient data centre services delivery is vital to ensuring our clients get the best value for the services they will take at the facility.”
Corroborating the statements by Dr. Ankrah, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Medallion Communications Limited Engr. Ikechukwu Nnamani, said the official opening of the Etix Accra #1 data centre will lead to localization of content within the region, promote regional connectivity, promote security of data, enhance quality of service delivery to the subscribers in the region, and generate employment.