 Twelve years after the Justice Mohammed Uwais-led Electoral Reform Committee submitted its report and two years after the Senator Ken Nnamani-led Constitution and Electoral Reform Committee submitted its own to the present administration, their respective recommendations are yet to be implemented. There are fresh calls for electoral reforms given the various reports of election observer teams that monitored the 2019 general elections, FELIX NWANERI reports  Nigeria’s history of electoral reforms, which dates back to the different political transition processes since her independence in 1960, has remained a recurring decimal in the polity. The current Fourth Republic, which commenced in 1999 after long years of military rule, has equally had its own fair share of such reforms. Prominent among efforts in this regard was the 2017 Electoral Reform Committee set up by then President Umaru Yar’Adua. Headed by a former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Mohammed Uwais, the committee was the Yar’Adua administration’s response to the outcome of the 2007 general elections, which in the views of most stakeholders, including international election observers, fell short of international standards. Yar Adua had in his inaugural speech admitted flaws in the process that brought him to power and he charged the 22-member committee to make proposals for electoral reforms. As expected, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) made a submission to the ERC and contributed to its work by providing relevant documentation and clarifications as required. The committee delivered on its mandate and submitted its report within a year. It formally submitted its report on December 11, 2008. Unfortunately, Yar’adua was unable to implement the report as he died before he served out his tenure. The succeeding administration led by his then vice, Goodluck Jonathan, promised to implement the report, but it never did until it was voted out in the 2015 general elections. The report consisted of six volumes, volume one dealt with the main report, while volume two and three dealt with memoranda received by the committee that comprised 22 parts and analysis of the presentations made at the public hearings held by the committee. Volume four, which was in 13 parts contained the verbatim report of the public hearings, while volume five and six contained reports of retreats held with foreign experts and the appendices to the main report. Justice Uwais had reasoned then that the implementation of the recommendations “will significantly restore credibility to the Nigerian electoral process and usher in an era of free, fair and credible elections that will conform to international best practices.”   Uwais committee recommendations Among the recommendations of the report include the appointment of chairman of INEC and the rest of the board by the National Judicial Council (NJC); that only the Senate should have the power to remove the INEC chairman or anyone on the board based on the NJC’s recommendation and funding of INEC directly through the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the federation. Others were setting up of a Constituency Delimitation Commission, Political Parties Registration and Regulatory commissions; holding of presidential and governorship elections at least six months before the expiration of the term of the current holders of the offices; independent candidates and that no elected person should assume office until the case against him or her in the tribunal or court is determined. Of particular interest was the recommendation for the setting up of an Electoral Offences Commission to ensure prosecution of offenders. And drawing on the ERC’s recommendations, the executive prepared a white paper that formed the basis for drafting the Constitutional Amendment Bill.
Although some of the recommendations were not passed during the constitution amendment process, there was no doubt that those adopted helped in the appreciable success recorded during the 2015 elections by the Prof, Attahiru Jega-led INEC. Jega, a former Vice Chancellor of Bayero University, Kano, and former national president of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) was appointed by Jonathan in 2010, and it is to his credit that the country’s electoral process witnessed remarkable improvement while he held sway.  Through several innovations including the introduction of Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) and card readers for accreditation of voters, the electoral umpire under Jega, restored hope on the country’s electoral process. This was justified by commendations the commission received after the 2015 general elections from local and foreign election observers. Observer teams from the African Union (AU), European Union (EU) and the Commonwealth gave INEC a pass mark for its impartial handling of the polls. The AU team led by former Ghanaian President John Kuffour, for instance, described the election as peaceful and transparent.  Nnamani Constitution and Electoral Reform Committee Despite the thumbs up for the 2015 polls, it was another journey to electoral reform eight years after the Uwais committee submitted its report, when President Muhammadu Buhari, who defeated Jonathan in the 2015 elections, set up a 25-man Constitution and Electoral Reform Committee in October 2016. Headed by a former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, the committee’s terms of reference, according to the then Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who inaugurated the committee on behalf of the President Malami, centred on looking into possible amendments to the Constitution and Electoral Act and coming out with a more robust and generally acceptable electoral system. Malami, who advised the committee to consult far and wide and in particular with the National Assembly and judiciary in order to make recommendations that would stand the test of time, added: “The committee is also advised to take a holistic look of the recommendation of Justice Uwais Electoral Reform Committee.” He recalled that the President had in his inauguration speech (first term in office – May 29, 2015) stated his desire to deepen the country’s democracy and entrench the culture of an enduring electoral system. “It is important to evaluate our democratic journey thus far with a view to fashioning out a more enduring system that will serve present and future generations,” he said. He further noted that recent judicial decisions have shown that there is urgent need to scale up confidence in the electoral system, pointing out that even the then Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Mohammed Mahmoud, had decried the widespread distortion of binding judicial precedent with conflicting judgements. But justified as the reasons for the constitution of the committee then, most stakeholders questioned its essence, when the report of the Uwais-led Electoral Reform Committee is yet to be implemented. Besides the Uwais committee report, there is also the report of the 2014 National Conference convoked by the Jonathan administration, which made far reaching recommendations on how to reform the country’s electoral process but yet to be implemented as well. Interestingly, Senator Nnamani chaired the conference’s sub-committee on electoral reform, but Buhari, on coming to power, described the conference as a misplacement of priority. The position of most stakeholders then was that the Buhari administration should have dusted the Uwais committee report, which they described as comprehensive, for implementation and avoid the duplication of effort and waste of resources, which the Nnamani committee would amount to.    But giving justification for the committee, Malami said the Constitution and Electoral Reform Committee differ from the Uwais-led Electoral Reform Committee. His words: “Fundamentally, there are two key differences. The first difference is that in the other committee their assignment concluded with a recommendation and no further steps were taken in terms of actualising it. The whole essence of this committee is that of consolidation. “From 2008 when the Uwais committee was put in place, a lot of other issues have come up within the electoral landscape in Nigeria. Those new innovations and events that came on board were not taken into consideration by the Uwais committee that is why we call this committee a consolidation committee. Consolidation committee in terms of looking at the recommendations made by the Uwais committee over time, looking at the new innovations that came into the electoral-space and then look at them jointly to see how the process can be taken forward for action and implementation. “The essence now is taking the process forward by way of seeking the blessings of the Federal Executive Council and National Assembly, and eventually passing it into law. By so doing, the process would be moved from the point of recommendation to the point of implementation through legislative process.”
He decried a situation where the lives of electoral officials are at risk during polls and where politicians make the environment for elections a war theatre. Nnamani, on his part said he was confident that President Buhari would enhance democratic structures in Nigeria. His words: “The issue of inconclusive elections in the country affects national election, which leads to loss of lives and the best way to handle it is to stop inconclusive election. The best way to stop it in advance is to support the government in implementing what will make Nigeria have non-violence elections.”  Committee’s recommendation The report of the Constitution and Electoral Reform Committee submitted to Malami in May 2017, recommended among others, the unbundling of INEC. It also proposed the establishment of new agencies that would handle some of the commission’s tasks, participation of independent candidates, Diaspora voting and the use of technology for elections. But unlike other previous reports on electoral reform, the committee did not recommend the establishment of the electoral offences tribunal. Rather, it recommended the expansion of courts by building more courtrooms and appointing more judges under the existing court system. Two new agencies, proposed by the Nnamani committee to take up some of INEC’s mandates, are the Political Parties and Electoral Offences Commission (PPEOC) and the Constituency Delineation Centre (CDC). While the PPEOC will be concerned with the registration and regulation of political parties as well as prosecution of electoral offenders in regular courts, the CDC will carry out the delineation of constituencies. Interestingly, the committee did not end its job with the report; it submitted it alongside four proposed bills, two of which sought the establishment of the new agencies. The two other bills sought amendments to relevant parts of the Constitution and the Electoral Act. The four bills were expected to be transmited to the National Assembly as Executive Bills.  EU EOM, NDI/IRI reports rekindle call for electoral reforms While those, who expressed pessimism over the Nnamani committee appears to have been proven right as nothing positive has come out of the panel’s report, most stakeholders believe that the appreciable success recorded by the Jega-led INEC has not be sustained given the reports of foreign observers who monitored the 2019 general elections.
Among the observers are European Union Election Observation Mission (EU EOM) and the joint Nigeria International Election Observation Mission of the National Democratic Institute (NDI) and the International Republican Institute (IRI). The EU EOM, which spoke through its Chief Observer, Maria Arena, during the presentation of its final report on the 2019 elections, said it observed that the leading parties were at fault in not preventing acts of violence and intimidation by their supporters. Arena, particularly noted that violence, violation of ballot secrecy, and harassment of voters and journalists characterised the polls. She added that INEC worked in porous security and politically-charged environment, making the electoral officials exposed to physical attacks and intimidation.
The report read in part: “The EU observed 94 collation centres. In almost all, the results forms and smart card readers were not packed in tamper-evident envelopes as required. “Numerical discrepancies and anomalies on polling unit results forms were identified and were mostly corrected by collation officers on the spot, but without a clear system of record-keeping. “Leading parties were at fault in not reining in acts of violence and intimidation by their supporters, and abuse of incumbency at federal and state levels. “Inconsistent numbers during collation, lack of clear checks and explanations, and insufficient public information undermined the integrity of the elections. “Citizens did not have sufficient means to scrutinise results. INEC did not provide centralised information on the declared results for the different locations and has not posted complete results data on its website. “Similarly, there is a lack of disaggregated results by local government, ward or polling unit, which would allow for thorough checking of results.” “The elections became increasingly marred by violence and intimidation. This harmed the integrity of the electoral process and may deter future participation.  “Around 150 people died in election-related violence during the campaign period and over the election days. INEC reported attacks on its offices, and also fatalities, abductions and sexual assault against its officials.” The mission also identified the suspension of the former Chief Justice Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, by President Muhammadu Buhari days to the election ”as seen to lack due process and reportedly undermined judicial independence.” On the postponement of the elections, the EU EOM said: “Severe operational shortcomings resulted in the elections being postponed by a week just five hours before polling was due to start on 16 February. INEC then gave regular updates on election preparations, but before this, and after polling began, there was a serious lack of public communication with insufficient information made available.” Against these backdrops, the EU Mission called for fundamental reforms to the Nigeria’s electoral process in order to address systemic failure noticed during the 2019 elections. “Such reforms need political leadership that is dedicated to the rights of Nigerian citizens, and an inclusive process of national dialogue involving state institutions, parties, civil society and the media. This needs to be urgently undertaken to allow time for debate, legislative changes and implementation well in advance of the next elections,” EU EOM Chief Observer said. She added that out of the 30 recommendations by the mission, priorities were given to seven. They include strengthening of INEC’s procedures for collation of results to improve integrity and confidence in electoral outcomes; establishment of a requirement in law for full results transparency, with data made easily accessible to the public and strengthening of lNEC’s organisational and operational capacity, as well as its internal communication. For the joint Nigeria International Election Observation Mission of National Democratic Institute (NDI) and the International Republican Institute (IRI), the 2019 general elections “fell significantly” short of the standards set in 2015. Members of the joint observation mission were former president of Botswana, Festus Mogae; former president of Latvia, Vaira Vike-Freiberga; former vice president of The Gambia, Fatoumata Tambajang; former United States Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, Johnnie Carson; Vice Chairman of IRI’s board of directors, Randy Scheunemann; NDI President, Amb. Derek Mitchell and IRI President, Dr. Daniel Twining along with 40 observers from Africa, Europe, and North America. Five thematic experts were also deployed by the United States based organisations to provide in-depth      analysis on key issues identified during the pre-election assessments: electoral violence, election administration, inclusivity and the political environment. The final report was based on findings and recommendations of three pre-election assessment missions in July 2018, September 2018, and December 2018 as well as preliminary statements released following the February 23, 2019 presidential and National Assembly elections and the March 9, 2019 gubernatorial and state House of Assembly elections. “The 2019 general elections fell significantly short of standards set in 2015. Citizens’ confidence in elections was shaken. Election stakeholders should take concrete steps to address the concerns of citizens with regards to the polls in order to rekindle their faith in the power and possibility of credible elections,” IRI President, Dr. Twining, said. NDI President, Amb. Mitchell, on his part, said: “The 2019 elections highlighted for many Nigerians the need for a national conversation about the country’s democratization since the 1999 transition to civilian rule. We hope this report may both spur and contribute to enriching that national   conversation.” The NDI/IRI report also provided recommendations to enhance the credibility of elections in Nigeria. It called for improvement in areas of political parties conduct, civic engagement, election security and legal frameworks around election disputes.  APC, PDP bicker over reports  While President Buhari accepted the EU EOM report and promised to implement its recommendations during the next elections, a battle of wits ensued between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The presidency, in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, said: “The administration of President Buhari will work with all Nigerian citizens, state institutions, parties, civil society, the media and other experts to make sure that the improvements recommended by the EU are implemented, and that these areas of concern are addressed.  “It is noteworthy that INEC is in receipt of a number of recommendations that form a part of the EU report. The Presidency assures Nigerians that the commission is in safe hands and happy that they are currently engaged in root and branch reviews of the 2019 general elections and will input lessons learned into its recommendations for electoral and constitutional reforms.  “We believe that the commission conducted good elections and will continue to improve on its processes and procedures. While it is regretted that the elections in a few parts of the country witnessed some violence, among other shortcomings highlighted by the EU, we note however that none of these hitches affected the overall outcome of the elections.” Despite government’s position on the report and its promise to implement the recommendations, the PDP, which absolved itself off the indictment of major parties by the report on issues of violence, said it has been vindicated that the election was outrightly rigged.  The party, through a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “Nigerians are still in shock over the revelations by EU of how about 2.8 million votes were deliberately ‘cancelled without sufficient accountability’ and how several returning officers gave no reason for the cancellations.” PDP added that more shocking was the distortions and “a large discrepancy of 1.66 million more registered voters, as announced by INEC on Jan. 14, compared to those announced by state returning officers during the collation of presidential results.” Ologbondiyan said that the report also exposed how security forces were used to intimidate voters as well as aid violence against PDP members and added: “Moreover, the report has further reinforced the confidence of millions of Nigerians in our collective expectation of justice in the quest to retrieve our stolen Presidential mandate at the tribunal.”  But, spokesman for the Buhari Presidential Campaign Organisation, Festus Keyamo (SAN), who faulted the EU EOM report, insisted that his principal won the election. He added that the result of the presidential election as declared by INEC reflected the wishes of Nigerians. He noted that even if anomalies were witnessed in a few polling units, they were not enough to substantially affect the overall results. According to him, the problems associated with elections were not peculiar to Nigeria as they were also being witnessed in the United States and United Kingdom, among others. Hiswords:“Theresultsof theelection reflected the overall wishes of Nigerians.  Thatwasthereportof manyobservers. If youareanobserver, youshouldcometoa definite conclusion. We have 120,000 polling units across the country. In all, I don’t think they discuss more than 500 polling units in the report. “If you observe anomalies in those units, how does that substantially affect results coming from 120,000 polling units? It is not enough for the EU to discuss the anomalies, they must discuss overall results of the country, whether it reflects the wishes of the people. After all, there were problems in the U.S, elections. There were problems in Europe and even in UK recently.”  INEC assures on recommendations  The bicker between the APC and PDP over the EU EOM report, notwithstanding, INEC promised to ensure the implementation recommendations by the EU Mission. Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who made the pledge, said the EU EOM recommendations will help the commission to improve on its activities in subsequent elections.  He noted that the observations and recommendations of the EU Election Observation Mission to the 2015 general elections were particularly useful not only in the design of some important proposals for reforming the electoral legal framework, but also in improving the electoral processes and procedures in the country. According to him, “one of the key recommendations was that we merged the accreditation and voting processes on Election Day, which was subsequently implemented during the Bayelsa governorship election of December 2015 and in all subsequent elections. “The implementation of some of the other recommendations went a long way in enhancing our organisational and operational planning and strengthening our engagement with stakeholders.”  Reps offer legal backing  While previous suggestions for improvements by reputable citizen and international observation missions went unheeded, Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan, assured that the 9th National Assembly will commence immediate action on some of the recommendations of the EU Observation Mission. He, particularly, said that the National Assembly will prioritise working on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill to ensure more credible and acceptable electoral processes in the future.  His words: “I am sure that this time around, we will start considering those issues that we feel require urgent legislative intervention,” he said when the EU EOM delegation presented him a copy of its report on the elections. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, also promised that the House will work on the recommendations to improve on the electoral process in the next four years during a similar visit to his office by EU EOM delegation.  “Nigeria is ready to always follow International best practices. I commend the fact that there has been improvement in Nigerian electoral process, but more needs to be done. “Parliament will hit the ground running in terms of electoral reforms as the process of elections is before, during and after the elections. Election is the bedrock of any democracy and there is the desire to get the process right,” he said. Gbajabiamila promised that the parliament will look into the recommendations to see how to domesticate them as laws.  No doubt, the relevant critical stakeholders have assured on looking into the recommendations of the respective election observer missions, analysts believe that the Buhari administration should spare Nigeria another round of electoral reform process that will amount duplication of efforts and waste of resources by dusting the Uwais and Nnamani committees’ reports, which they described as comprehensive. 