BABATOPE OKEOWO writes that due to the array of political giants eyeing the Ondo governorship seat within the ruling APC, and with many hurdles to cross, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has started making some deft political moves aimed at strengthening his hold on power and checkmating his political opponents ahead of a controversial second term bid. In order not to be given the kind of treatment meted on the immediate past governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, who, as an incumbent, could not secure his party’s nomination, the governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, has embarked on moves aimed at checkmating his political opponents. In the Sunshine State, it is no longer a secret that the supporters and opponents of the governor have openly divided the APC over Akeredolu’s second term bid. As such, for the governor to be ahead of his traducers in the political game, one of the steps taken is the removal of three commissioners, who are tagged as ‘disloyal’, in order to pave way for those that can help his cause. Akeredolu’s supporters had been making underground moves to sustain the governor in office, while using his achievements to canvass for the second term bid. Those in the governor’s camp believe that the regular payment of salaries and the infrastructural developments would get him the second term ticket, while some APC leaders who are opposed to his continued stay in office are up in arms against the legal luminary. To this end, Akeredolu has appointed five people to replace the three sacked. The governor has also made some political appointments, considered as deft, to woo some political gladiators to his side. Since the sack of the three commissioners; Hon. Taofiq Olawale Abdusalam, Prince Solagbade Amodeni and Alhaji Ismail Olurimisi, of Works, Physical Planning and Urban Development and Culture Tourism ministries, the Ondo governor has been on appointment spree. The commissioner nominees, according to statements signed by Chief Press Secretary, Mr Segun Aniboye included Mrs Yetunde Adeyanju, Mrs Titilayo Adeyemi, Mr Temitayo Oluwatuyi, Hon. Fatai Olotu and Akindotun Olubunmi Owanikin. Apart from the five commissioner nominees, the governor also appointed Hon Babatunde Kolawole and Hon Oyebo Aladetan as Special Advisers.  As if these appointments were not enough, Akeredolu, also approved the appointment of Mr. Dele Ologun as Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Political Matters (Central). Mr. Andrew Ogunsakin as Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Political Matters (South), Mr. Williams Ebimodehghan as Special Assistant, Niger Delta Matters and Mrs Elizabeth Akpan as Special Assistant to the Governor. This move, many politicians in the state said was aimed at giving the governor political leverage ahead of his opponents in the next year’s All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primaries as the appointees would work for his reelection in their different constituents.  Among the APC members rumoured to be interested in Akeredolu’s job are; the Executive Director Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), Mr Ife Oyedele, who said to be a close associate of President Muhammadu Buhari; a former governorship candidate, Chief Olusola Oke; the pioneer Chairman of the APC in the state, Hon Duerimini Isaacs Kekemeke; the Senator representing Ondo North senatorial district, Prof Robert Ajayi Boroffice; the runner-up in the APC’s primary in 2016, Dr Segun Abraham; and the Director General of Technical Aid Corps, Dr. Pius Osunyikanmi.  Apart from Oyedele that is said to be affiliated to the Abuja power bloc, other contenders are presumed to be political associates of the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomole.  However, the governor is not resting on his oars, as he is moving to use the disbursement of government patronages to woo some opponents to his side.  But Akeredolu may be facing a hurdle from within his camp, as his move to consolidate power is allegedly being threatened by the actions of the Deputy Governor. There are rumours in the state that the Deputy Governor, Mr Agboola Ajayi was not on the same political page with the governor and that the state cabinet is divided along Akeredolu/ Ajayi lines.  The Deputy Governor is now said to be looking for alternative in form of Federal Government appointment in order to escape from the hammer that will befall the government of Akeredolu, but Ajayi denied the allegation, saying it is the plan of his opponents to blackmail him out of office before the next governorship election.  Ajayi said the plan of some politicians in the APC was to blackmail him with spurious allegations and pitched him against Akeredolu who is likely to seek re-election.  The Deputy Governor in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Leke Akeredolu said the number-two man in the state has no plan to ditch the governor or contest the governorship primary against his principal. In a statement, Ajayi described the story linking him with a move out of office as fiction and imagination of the writers, noting that the report where the Deputy Governor was alleged to be gunning for the top job of NDDC is baseless and lacking in merit. His words: “The sponsors of this news story, who are disgruntled politicians, are merely interested in blackmailing the Deputy Governor for the purpose of heating up the polity ahead of 2020 governorship election in Ondo State. “Agboola Ajayi cannot be sneezing and also be whispering at the same time. He is contented with his current position as the elected Deputy Governor of the state. We also see the published news story as an attempt to pitch the Deputy Governor against his boss, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, and to finally cause disaffection between them.  “Let me clearly state that the Deputy Governor has neither lobby, nor has the intention to become the Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). It is bewildering and laughable that those behind the news story would alleged that Agboola Ajayi has been making secret consultations with his alleged associates without the knowledge of his boss, Akeredolu.  “We are challenging these “busybody politicians” to come out with evidences or desist from causing acrimony between the governor and his deputy. We will like to inform the general public that the same set of politicians peddling the rumours about the purported resignation of the Deputy Governor to contest against his boss in 2020, are the same set of people behind NDDC published news story.  “We are aware that these same set of rascals, had one time attempted to criminally forge the signature of the Deputy Governor for their selfish gains. Let me use this medium to clear the air that there is no crisis between the Deputy Governor and the Governor. Agboola Ajayi is a loyal servant, who is committed to the vision and mission of Oluwarotimi Akeredolu led administration. “Also, the good people of Ondo State should be reminded that on several occasions, the Deputy Governor had made it known to the public that       he will give necessary supports to his boss, Akeredolu if he seeks reelection  “We, however, call on the people of Ondo State and prominent political leaders to continue to ignore this rabble-rousers who are hell bent on creating a crisis where none exist.” Meanwhile, one of the commissioners axed by the governor and former Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Abdusalam has denied any rift with the governor. He explained that he does not have any grudge against the governor, despite the fact that he was said to be expecting his sack letter since the last general election. He also noted that he has moved his personal effects from the office, thanking the governor for giving him the opportunity to serve the people of the state. Abdulsalam in a statement personally signed by him, titled; ‘All I have to say is Thank You’, the former commissioner said his service to the state in the last 22 months would be memorable in his political carrier. “Today goes down in history. 22 months of service as a Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure. All thanks to God first. He made it possible and gave Strength and wisdom needed for the job. “Appreciation to the governor, Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu (SAN) who saw in me the desire and the passion to serve the people of Ondo State and went ahead to appoint me as the Commissioner. “Staff of the ministry showed support and understanding all through. We built relationship with the aim of delivering quality service to the people of Ondo State and we didn’t achieve less. The goals and mission were clearly stated and we painstakingly achieved them. Thanks for your support. “The people of my Local Government, Akoko North East, gave me the opportunity to serve and I have not taken this rare privilege for granted. From the party leaders to party faithful and everyone in the local government, I say Thank you.” “Never to be forgotten are the good people of Ondo State, across all divides and party lines. Your resoluteness is second to none”, he wrote.  