The rising smuggling and dumping of palm oil in Nigeria without recourse to regulation, which compelled presidential directive to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to blacklist any firm involved in the nefarious act is a wake-up call. Taiwo Hassan reports   For a country that has comparative advantage in the production of palm oil and traditional belts suited for the growth of oil palm, one would have expected that Nigeria will hold sway on the march not just towards self-sufficiency in Crude Palm Oil (CPO) production, but also intensify its drive towards the export of both CPO and Refined Palm Oil (RPO). But sadly, Nigeria has rested on her oars such that the country is now referred to as being the “once upon a global leader” in the production of palm oil amid incessant smuggling of the product into the country at the detriment of local production. Debate over Nigeria’s palm oil
In the early 1960s, crude palm oil was one of Nigeria’s major sources of foreign exchange. Unfortunately, today, the commodity is massively imported from Malaysia and Indonesia. Nigeria currently occupies the fifth position on the global production ladder, with Indonesia a distant first with 33 million metric tonnes, Malaysia, 19.8 million metric tonnes, Thailand, 2 million tonnes and Colombia, 1.1 million metric tonnes.
However, in the past few years, there has been an increase in the production of the commodity in the country. Moribund oil palm plantations have been revamped, and smallholder plantings were established even far beyond the traditional oil palm belt to include the fringe states such as Kogi, Kaduna and Nasarawa states.
Yet, there is a controversy over Nigeria’s production figure. While Index Mundi puts Nigeria’s production at 970,000 tonnes annually (a figure that has stagnated for 11 years), available data from the Plantation Owners Forum of Nigeria (POFON) put domestic and industrial demand for palm oil in the country at 2.8 million tonnes annually with production at 1.8 million tonnes. This leaves a production shortfall of about 1 million metric tonnes – a deficit. which ordinarily should be balanced off by imports.
In reality, the lack of agreement on production data has led to rising concern among industry players. They are of the opinion that more quantities of the commodity than the actual shortfall are either imported or smuggled into the country through land borders, a factor that has made Nigeria a dumping ground for CPO from Asian countries, especially Malaysia and Indonesia. Palm oil as money spinner
In a press statement made available to New Telegraph recently, the National President, National Palm Produce Association of Nigeria (NPPAN), Henry Olatujoye, stated that the activities of economic saboteurs operating at Nigeria’s borders are depriving the country of huge foreign exchange from palm oil export.
He said that the country will benefit a lot from CPO as a leading foreign exchange earner with its price now 500 dollars per tonne against 426 dollars of crude oil.
“The current domestic market value of palm oil is about N400 per litre, while that of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise called petrol remains N145, just as diesel is N210 and kerosene is N250,” Olatujoye explained in the statement.
He decried lack of government incentives and programmes to further promote palm oil farming and production in the country, saying this backwardness thinking is causing setback to the growth and development of local palm oil production.
“Right now, there is no financial credit, technological support and other assistance from the government and its agencies for our members that have injected billions of US dollars into the industry,” he said.
“Whereas the cost of establishing a petroleum refinery is estimated at $500 billion, while a mere N50 million can be used to set up a palm oil refinery that can be replicated across the oil palm belt of Nigeria.” Blacklist
However, President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive that the apex bank should blacklist any firm, its owner and top management caught smuggling or dumping palm oil in the country last week has brought succor to the local producers of palm oil.
The presidential directive, which was announced by CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, at a meeting with oil palm producers in Abuja, indicated that government is not sitting on the fence and folding its hands watching the on-going incessant smuggling and dumping of the product in Nigeria.
At the stakeholders meeting, it was reported that Emefiele warned that henceforth, those caught smuggling palm oil into the country would be blacklisted from all banking businesses and would also be blocked from the foreign exchange market.
He said that this also included those who tried to smuggle in palm oil through Customs as “hydrogenated vegetable fats.” N30bn intervention fund
The CBN boss was quoted to have disclosed that close to about N30 billion had already been disbursed to those currently involved in oil palm farming.
He said that for those coming newly into the oil business, credit facilities would be extended to them through their banks and that Out-Grower schemes would also be organised.
“We want to make everybody understand how serious we are and also to emphasise that what we are doing to stop the importation of oil palm into Nigeria is a presidential directive that must be adhered to,” he said.
“Doing this also means that while we are stopping the importation of palm oil, we must do all possible to ensure that palm oil production is aggressively increased in Nigeria.
“Like you all know, and I never cease talking about it that Nigeria in the 50’s and 60’s used to be the largest producer of oil palm in the world with a market share of 40 per cent.
“For one reason or the other, particularly because we found crude oil that even today by any analysis is cheaper than palm oil, we decided to abandon our God-given gift – palm oil.
“By doing that we lost jobs, our farmers lost jobs because we began to import palm oil from different parts of the world,” he said. Last line
With the presidential directive, stakeholders are optimistic that the Presidential order would curb illegal importation of CPO into Nigeria, boost foreign exchange earnings and employment opportunity for Nigerians.