 A group of young professionals, operating under the aegis of Youth Advocates Nigeria, has launched an aggressive move towards revolutionising agriculture with the ultimate aim of tackling poverty in the country.
Led by an agricultural economics graduate from the University of Ibadan, Aina Tolulope, the enterprising youths comprise of fish, maize, lettuce, cassava farmers.
As part of their agenda, they converged last week on the Recreation Centre, Adamasingba, Ibadan, Oyo State capital, for a seminar on how to collaborate, synergise and harness various available resources in the agricultural sector, towards making them self-reliant and taking the youths away from unemployment, social malaise and poverty.
Among the various entrepreneurs who gave motivational talks were Tolulope (MD/CEO, Tolulope Foods and Farms), Olayinka Ayowole (an agronomist and CEO, Viyola Foods), Yinka Adesola (a practical organic farming entrepreneur), Abayomi Egbemode (CEO, Dipo Integrated Farms), Oluwafemi Aliu, Babatunde Oladimeji, and Sam Ogboli (a bio-technologist and expert in modern soil-less farming), among others.
Speaking on the objective of the group, Tolulope said: “We have a generation of young farmers who are passionate about this sector; but a lot of things do not work, and we need to make it work by coming together and having a strong voice that can harness opportunities among our space, and also push a movement that can make things work and affect us.
“We don’t want to be a generation of farmers that will be poor because we are not poor; we cannot be poor. We are sophisticated and changing the face of agric tech through improved agri-business practices.”
Noting that the organisation is a non-political and non-governmental, Tolulope also said that in striving to improve their wellbeing, “we chose the theme of the event: ‘Collaboration for progress in Agriculture.’ We need to come together because if we do it separately, we will not come to a concession and pull weight for opportunities that affect our sector.
“So, ours is an advocacy group focused on creating a movement, a voice for young people in this space. We have sustainable agro-business ventures. It is when youths in agric business are creating job opportunities, food security, that we can say the nation is moving forward and Nigeria has the largest population of young people in which agriculture can accommodate over 70 per cent of them in employment opportunities.
“Average age of our farmers is 65. What will now happen in about five years if we don’t transit to groom a generation of young people that are passionate about agriculture and have agri-businesses that work?” she asked.
Asked how they intend to generate funds, the president said: “On finance, we are meeting today to have every one of us young professionals to put our thinking cap on; think of how we can generate funds from supports from private and public organisations. This is because many of us lack take-off capital. Our objective is to ensure we have youths that own sustainable agro-businesses,” she said.
In his lecture, Sam Ogboli said that there was the need to introduce technology into agriculture and make it a tool for building a country desired.
According to him, “we cannot be depending on soil for our farming because there are many factors militating against soil farming. There is a need to ensure that we can produce food, not dependent on the soil or weather. That is why there is need for soil-less farming. It is not to throw soil out of the window but to complement soil production in both rural and urban areas.
“Less than 49 per cent of soil in Nigeria is useful for agriculture. Despite this, we have desertification, desert encroachment and the rest. Just like those in oil and gas sectors are living well, agriculture should also be able to provide comfort for farmers, using modern technology. One of such is soil-less farming. It is good for plant support, airation and water retention to make plants flourish without soil. It is made from pitmoss which is ground to nurture plants.
“Many of the plants we consume are chemically enhanced unlike the organic one that reduces health hazards. So, every citizen should see this, first from their health perspective, just like many other advanced nations are already doing.”
Talking on the cost of maintaining soilless plants, Ogboli said: “The set-up cost is higher than soil-based farming, but you will realise that 90 per cent of your set-up cost goes into your asset, which means that from year to year, you can continually use this asset without having to reinvest so much amount. You don’t need re-cultivation. So, it is much more profitable than soil-based farming, moreso that it uses much less of fertilizer to grow plants.”
Aside the challenge of finance to agricultural production, majority of the speakers at the seminar blamed epileptic power supply, leading to compulsory purchase of diesel and fuel for production and processing. This results in non-productivity among many stakeholders in the sector, they submitted.
The youth group has the mission “to connect, equip, empower the next generation of agricultural change makers to take collaborative and innovative action towards feeding the nation and the world.”