Following its new strategy aimed at tackling kidnapping menace in Abia State, the Abia State Police Command has arrested over 22 kidnap suspects, rescued over seven kidnap victims and recovered some vehicles used by the criminals.  The state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr. Etim Ene Okon, said the success, which came within the past two weeks, was made possible by the new strategy he said the command has adopted which entails taking the fight to the doorsteps of kidnappers. The CP disclosed that having received the desired result; this proactive measure and strategy would be sustained in the days ahead.  Okon, who spoke in Umuahia, said on Wednesday, operatives of the SIB Umuahia led by ASP Anthony Etim, acting on credible information, swooped on a seven-man syndicate noted for diverse criminal activities in Atani, in Arochukwu Local Government Area. The suspects comprised six males and a female and have been fingered in different crimes by their victims.  Okon gave their names as: Amarachi Nwankwo (33), ( gang leader); Okechukwu Ogbonnaya (25); David Kalu (21) and Ifeanyi Ogbonnaya Ajah (24). Others are Igboko Emenike (18); Chikaodi Okoro Mba (18) and Victoria Emmanuel ‘f’ (30).  According to him, when search was conducted in their houses and premises, one locally made single barrel pistol, one locally made designed gun, one short sword, one black face mask, two parcels of weeds suspected to be cannabis, 10 GSM phones, two 3G modem, Vikings cult group emblem, charms and assorted SIM cards were recovered.  Okon added that on the same Wednesday, a patrol team of Ubakala Divisional Police Headquarters in Umuahia South LGA, while on routine patrol along Apummiri Ubakala road intercepted a tricycle with registration no. EZA 560 YU which its two occupants abandoned on sighting the police and fled. When the tricycle was searched, a long double barrel and a short double barrel locally made guns with two live cartridges concealed in a bag filled with sawdust were recovered.  He said investigation was in progress to track down the fleeing occupants and or owner of the tricycle. In the same aforementioned date, Okon disclosed again that two scammers who went about deceiving unsuspecting members of the public that they would train them on skill acquisition and at the end of the training, give them jobs, were arrested in Umuahia. He said the suspects who were collecting between N5, 000 and N18, 000 from their victims, would disappear from the area after collecting the money and relocate to another area they are not known. Okon further urged the members of the public to keep volunteering information to the police and stressed that all those arrested would be prosecuted upon completion of investigation.