Matthew 17:15-17 says: “Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is lunatick, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water. And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him. Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me.”  As you bring your problems to our Lord Jesus Christ today I promise you all of them shall be uprooted, today the Lord will rebuke that enemy in your life and all of them shall give you way, and you shall be free in Jesus name. I don’t know what you are passing through the day of your answer has come, God shall destroy them and you shall see them no more.  Eccl. 3:1-8 “To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven: A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted; A time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up; A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance; A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing; A time to get,  and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away; A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak; A time to love, and a time to hate; a time of war, and a time of peace.” I want to ask you what time are we now? It is the time for God to answer that your prayer.  Matthew 7:7 “Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:” It is time for God to answer you today, and all your prayers shall be answered today. If you don’t have a child, ask and the Lord shall give it to you, in every area ask the Lord to intervene in your life, and he will take away your ugly situations, and give you victory. Everyone hearing this message today, as you open your mouth something will happen. God said before they call I will answer and while yet speaking I will hear, your   prayers must be answered today. I will hear your testimony. You must make sure that when you are coming to Him that nothing is standing before you and Him, he is the holy one of Israel.  Now for those who are sinners and backsliders and compromisers they should repent and confess their sins to the Lord and promise God no more they should accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and personal saviour.  Every one of you should understand that a Christian is not a sinner and a sinner is not a Christian. If you want God to fight for you, you must repent of your sins. 1John 3:8-9 “He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. Whosoever is born God doth not commit sin; for his seed remaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.”