Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State has vowed to recover all looted government properties, funds and private land unlawfully acquired by the immediate past administration.  He said that a comprehensive list of all those involved in one criminal act or the other in the past administration would soon be compiled and forwarded to security agencies for necessary action in line with his vision to rebuild and rediscover the state.  The governor stated this when he declared open a three-day retreat/orientation for members of the Ninth Assembly of the state House of Assembly held at the Crystal Lake Resort & Tours, Oguta, Imo State.  Ihedioha, who denounced the proliferation of autonomous communities in the state by the immediate-past administration, advised communities still angling for autonomy to shelf their ambition, saying that he would not grant such request but would take steps to grant financial autonomy to both the local government system and the legislature as enshrined in the nation’s constitution.  Aside this, the governor said that he would review all land allocations made by the last administration, expand the Owerri capital territory through public hearing while a befitting and decent office and residential blocks for himself and his deputy would soon be put in place.
The governor also professed his respect and regard for the rule of law, due process and separation of power in governance.  He said: “Although the challenges are many, they are not insurmountable. Imo was held ‘siege’ through bad governance but we must liberate ourselves and if you are a beneficiary of that bad government, the time to repent and forgive is now.”  Ihedioha re-emphasised his commitment to qualitative education, poverty alleviation, job-creation, wealth creation, massive investment in agriculture, good quality health care for the people as well as an enabling environment to make the state a preferred destination for business, entertainment and tourism. The governor called for team work between the executive and the legislature. He added: “The opportunities that your legislative position offers may also appear daunting as it is exciting and as challenging as it is empowering. I say this because you will be assuming your position as members of this legislative assembly at a very critical time when the state is at a crossroads of seeking recovery from an era of arbitrariness to the new direction that we are set to go, of order, due process and respect for the rule of law.” The state Chief Judge (CJ), Paschal Nnadi, in an address earlier, stressed the importance of the legislature in a democratic process and enjoined the legislators-elect to always be guided by the oath of their office and to be faithful to their legislative functions.
The CJ charged the legislators-elect to demonstrate legislative competence. According to him, the judiciary is always there to see if the laws they make are in order or not. He also enjoined them to support the governor who he said was passionate about the independence of the judiciary and the legislature.