For Ogun State-born personality who is simply known as Otunba Runsewe, it is not out of place to say he needs little or no introduction as far as the entity Nigeria is concerned. Otunba Runsewe has remained a consistent phenomenon in the media, culture and tourism sectors in Nigeria in the last three decades. Having worked and been exposed in the world of marketing, public relations through which he had a stint at The National Theatre , tourism enthusiast Runsewe was later appointed as the Executive Director of National Orientation Agency and due to his hard work and result yielding performance. He was later made the Director General of Nigeria Tourism Development Corporation, NTDC. While he was at NTDC, Runsewe achievements were too pronounced and loud to be concealed, hence, he got into the consciousness of the people. Until he left the Corporation to become Director General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, NCAC, he attracted honour after honor due to his effectiveness. In his usual way, the stoutly built Runsewe may have continued to attract accolades on account of his diligence and commitment to work at his present designation as the front man of NCAC, as he just won the prestigious Africa Travel Quarterly magazine (ATQ) award as the Culture and Tourism Man of the Year. In a letter of notification to Runsewe by the management of the magazine dedicated exclusively to Africa travel narratives, it explained that the DG of NCAC who was once in the saddle as Nigeria’s tourism marketer, was overwhelmingly chosen across the spectrum of its board of directors, stakeholders and Journalists across Africa as worthy of the award for his dedicated service and promotion of inter-Africa cultural understanding and for using the culture platform to drive tourism on the west coast of Africa. Since his assumption of office as the Director General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, NCAC, the Council has witnessed a turn-around. There are visible evidences to show that President Muhammadu Buhari indeed put a round peg in a round hole.