Mr. Keniebi Okoko, who is a United States-trained entrepreneur, son of the former Vice Chancellor of the Niger Delta University, Professor Kimse Okoko, intends to grab the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ticket for the November 2019 Bayelsa governorship election and afterwards become the next governor in the state. He speaks with PAULINE OYIBE  You are known for philanthropy and business and not politics. Why are you now in the race? I want to disagree with you. Yes, my father is Professor Kimse Okoko, whom I am very proud of, tutored and nurtured me. Maybe I am not as prominent in the political space as much as I am in business and philanthropy. Funny enough, this is not my first time in politics. When I finished from Carlton in Canada and I came back to Nigeria in 2005, I participated in the House of Assembly election. I didn’t get the position. Afterwards, I left and went into business. And I think I am glad that it happened because it gave me more grit and determination to succeed in life. Now, politics is not about how long, but what you are bringing into the game. Donald Trump wasn’t a politician, but he beat everybody.  The Bayelsa State governorship election is fast approaching and you have indicated interest to be the next governor of the state. Why do you want to be the next governor and what do you think sets you apart from the rest of the crowd? I want to be governor because I want a massive change in Bayelsa and among our people in terms of education, in healthcare, in terms of the economy and in fact in all spheres of their lives. I am not trying to evaluate my fellow contestants. I am not too concerned about them. I am more concerned about my own blueprint which will enable our people take a decision soon.I am not from the regular political class.  Everyone else who is interested has held one political post or another. Bayelsans want to know what achievements those who have held these positions had when they held those positions. I am not bothered by my fellow contestants. The people know what is good for them at this point in time.  Outsiders see Bayelsa State as performing below expectation, given that it has a lot of resources and a high level of poverty. What do you think is responsible? I am not aware of people saying our state is underperforming and I cannot confidently say how much money comes in. There are different dynamics. Bayelsa is a growing state. Let’s not be quick to judge. When you don’t wear the shoe, you don’t know where it pinches. People might be saying that the money coming in is a lot, forgetting that there are several ongoing capital projects. There are lots of bank loans, debts from what I gathered, salaries, capital projects etc. So, I am not quick to judge. It’s also possible that the head is good, but the strength around the head may not have the capacity to deliver the vision of the visioner. The visioner may have a good vision but the workforce is not able to implement the vision. I am not saying that is the situation, but I don’t think that statement that Bayelsa is underperforming is fair.  Bayelsa is a coastal area, what would you do to ensure that the state takes full advantage of its peculiar environment for the good of its people? Industrialisation! The same environment is pretty much what they have in Singapore. The government should stop being a company, it should not own companies. It should create a decent environment for business to thrive. It should be looking for Foreign Direct Investment. I will be inviting companies that have been tested and trusted. Today, Nigeria is branded as a corrupt destination. Most of these companies are afraid. But that is not the case. So, I will be an ambassador for the state, go into contractual agreements and sticking to these agreements. Because many foreign investors think we don’t follow through signed agreements. In Vietnam for example, you talk about rice, in Singapore, you talk about fishing. Not long ago, these countries were tagged underdeveloped. We can have agreements with these countries, ensure they come and transfer this knowledge which is very important. Our people have to understand this, that government cannot provide everything, but provide opportunities. I have always been a strong advocate of knowledge transfer, educating the mind to greater things that we can achieve. The Ijaw man is not lazy, there is nothing you give an Ijaw man to do that he cannot accomplish, given the right circumstances. We are a determined and dogged people.  The first civilian governor of Bayelsa State, late Diepreye Alamieyeseigha was known for resource control, Governor Seriake Dickson, like almost all the Niger Delta stakeholders are talking about restructuring. What is your take on that? It is obvious that this country needs to be restructured. I have always been a strong advocate of this. We need to use every channel as far as it is violence-free. It has to be more intellectually driven now. I do not subscribe to making inflammatory statements from whichever side of the divide. We need to talk about it because it is inevitable.