 Scientists have discovered a means that would make it possible to transfuse some blood types without restriction, a development that was impossible before now.
The new discovery is significant considering that blood transfusions were not as simple as taking one person’s blood and giving it to another. This is because there are four different blood types, but type O negative blood is the only one that can be given to people with all other types.
Going by this “universal” quality, type O is therefore in short supply and in high demand, but the breakthrough announced on Monday could be a game changer.
The breakthrough has been published in the journal ‘Nature Microbiology’.
According to the study, type A blood could be converted into O blood using enzymes from the gut bacterium Flavonifractor plautii.
When these enzymes are added to type A blood, the molecules on its surface that define it as A type become unattached, turning it into universal type O blood. These surface molecules, called antigens, determine blood types. They are either sugars or proteins and are attached to different parts of the red blood cell membrane (a different molecule, the Rhesus factor, identifies blood types as positive or negative).
Blood types A, B, and AB each have their own types of antigens, but Group O does not. That’s why O is considered universal.
The immune system attacks foreign molecules, but O blood has no foreign molecules on its surface to attack. All the others, meanwhile, could trigger a response against transfused blood, if the wrong type of blood is used. A-type blood is the second-most common blood type.
According to a report in ‘Medical News Today,’ the research team was starting safety testing in conjunction with experts at the Canadian Blood Services, a blood donation non-profit, to make sure that the converted red blood cells are fully safe and functional.
Study team leader, Stephen Withers, Ph.D., a professor of chemistry at the University of British Columbia, said this study marked the closest time scientists have been able to convert blood types, adding that the feasibility of using enzymes to do so was first demonstrated in 1982 for type B blood (which is easier to convert), but huge amounts of enzymes were needed to make it happen.