Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has secured the release of 2,517 inmates within four years of his first tenure in office. This was revealed by the governor during his Sallah visit to Goron-Dutse prison, where he secured the release of another 200 inmates, which costs a huge sum of money. Ganduje said: “We release them judiciously based on some guidelines. We are doing this to comply with directives given to governors to help in decongesting our prisons.” Ganduje advised those released to change and be productive in the society. He added: “We want you to be good citizens for the socio-economic and political development of the state and the nation in general.” Among the 200 inmates released, 60 are from Kurmawa Central Prison, 33 from Wudil Prison and the remaining 107 were from Prisons across the state. The governor said that all other inmates in the next two months or thereabout, during Eid-el-Kabir Sallah celebration, would be released. He added: “I want you to be well behaved while staying here as inmates. Each and every one of you should strive to be of sound character, so that you can be among those that would be free next time I come here.”
Deputy Comptroller of Prisons, Yahuza Aliyu, who spoke during the event, commended Ganduje for his humanitarian posture in the last four years of his administration. Aliyu added: “With today’s new set of release of inmates by His Excellency, we are optimistic that more and more inmates are on the verge of gaining freedom.” Meanwhile, Ganduje paid similar visit to Goron-Dutse Torrey Home, where the state government, through the Secretary to the State Government and the Permanent Secretary, Protocol, secured the release of nine children. The children’s release was secured after their fines had been paid. The governor said: “My administration would put to good use, some skills acquisition materials for the children. More attention will be given to this place.” At Nassarawa Children’s Home, Ganduje promised to improve the welfare of the children staying there. One of the most important functions Ganduje attended after Eid Prayer was his visit to Goron-Dutse Cemetery, where he offered prayers for the repose of the souls of the departed.