Dr. Omenazu Jackson is the Chancellor of the International Society for Social Justice and Human Rights (ISSJHR), based in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Apart from being a social crusader and an active member of the civil society in Rivers, the onetime presidential aspirant speaks with EMMANUEL MASHA on some salient issues  The British government recently warned its citizens not to travel to 21 states in Nigeria due to insecurity reasons, just like the United States equally warned its citizens. What do you make of such warning? The entire world is facing security challenges, but our own has become endemic. The spate of killings in the country is unprecedented in the history of our retain. When you keep hearing the same negative security reports, it becomes a source of concern within and outside the country. For Britain to have warned its citizens against travelling to 21 states in Nigeria tells you how outsiders perceive Nigeria. So, there is need for Mr. President to check the security challenges we are witnessing. This is the time for him to tackle insecurity headlong. Almost on a daily basis, you hear cases of banditry, kidnapping, herdsmen menace and Boko Haram insurgents terrorising people. These are the things that create negative image about Nigeria. We can’t wish it away, but we need to take proactive measures to check these security challenges. And I think that is where the President comes in. How many states do we have in Nigeria? Nigerians need their government to take action; they want their government to go after people who have embraced crime and criminality, which fuels insecurity. When a government is faced with security challenges like the one we are currently facing, it must take decisive steps to ensure peace and stability. It means taking the fight for sanity to reign to criminals no matter where they hide. The world as a global village cannot wait for Nigeria to put its house in order. Investors that have the intention of doing business here will not come until we put our house in order.  Some say that the country is long overdue for a state police, arguing that it will help in the fight against insecurity. What is your take on this? The International Society for Social Justice and Human Rights (ISSJHR) does not have anything against state police. But we strongly believe that we are not yet ripe for such because of the way some of our governors behave. But the key thing here is that we see state police as a constitutional matter that should be debated by Nigerians from the various ethnic groups at a sovereign national conference. The 1999 Constitution is an anomaly, an imposition on the Nigerian people by the military shortly before they left power. There was no time that Nigerians from the various ethnic groups sat down together, and agreed on the outcome of the 1999 Constitution.  Yet, the opening sentence of the 1999 Constitution reads “we the people”. Should our leaders be afraid to sit around a table and discuss our continued existence as a people? That should not be the case. There are lots of issues to discuss as a people at a sovereign national conference. State police is one among them. It is not a matter that we should rush into because we want to tackle insecurity. Some governors act like dictators and won’t waste time in using the police to hunt real and perceived enemies. We have not yet seen credible elections that brought politicians that have the zeal to serve the people into power. What we have are politicians that have refused to be accountable to the people. And when you give such people the opportunity to oversee a state police, they will misuse that chance.  The administration of former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan convened a National Conference whose report is yet to be implemented. Some Nigerians are of the opinion that the report of that conference addressed some of contentious issues, including state police?  Before I answer your question, I want you to know that Nigerians from the various ethnic groups know their real leaders. They know those that can represent them very well when given the opportunity. Most of those that participated in that conference were handpicked by the Federal Government, hence did not reflect the expectation of the people that credible and trusted leaders should represent them. There is everything wrong with a conference where people are paid to make their input on key national issues.  In a serious conference, people should even pay their way to the venue and take care of themselves. It should not be sponsored by government. Our main grouse with the conferences convened by Jonathan is that it was not a sovereign National Conference. In such a conference you ratify the decisions reached there. That is how it should be.  In your state, Rivers, Governor Nyeson Wike recently appealed to the British government for support in agriculture, education in a bid to create jobs. What are groups like yours and individuals with the wherewithal doing to support the state to forge ahead? The governor’s appeal to the British for support for me is a right decision. But there are some things the state government should do first to encourage others to lend a helping hand. The government must ensure that our youths are removed from the street and the negative lifestyle they live. Our youths should be encouraged to move away from Satan to God. It is like a mob out there with the way things are. Our youths are not in school studying to gain knowledge or in vocational centres to acquire skills that will make them key role players in the economy of Rivers. What we have are youths that have deviated from the ways of God. Sure, the government needs security for businesses to thrive, but our youths should be carried along by government through education and trainings. If you go to Trans Amadi, an industrial hub that had different companies, you will discover that there are no longer activities there. Michelene and other companies that left Rivers have relocated to other places. That should not be the case. The state government can buy the license of Michelen and start operation instead of not taking action. What is the worth of that company that the state government cannot afford, likewise other business concerns. Activities at Trans Amadi alone can employ more than 10, 000 people. So, we have to take some key steps before we start seeking assistance from outside.  Look at how Pabod Breweries is faring since the state government took it over. Today it is making profit while providing employment to the people of the state. We want the current government to look into agriculture, because there are lots of opportunities in agriculture and lots of money to be made by the state government.  