The presidency yesterday said that it extended an invitation to former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo for the May 29th 2019 presidential inauguration ceremony and the celebration of June 12 Democracy Day in Abuja. Obasanjo and other former Nigerian leaders, including General Abdulasami Abubakar, Chief Ernest Shonekan, General Ibrahim Babangida were absent at both the presidential inauguration and Democracy Day celebration. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, in a statement, said former President Obasanjo owes an answer to Nigerians on his absence from the 2019 Presidential inauguration and Democracy Day celebration. Garba insisted that the claim that he was not invited or he did not receive an invitation cannot be sustained. “Since the claim was first made, elements in the polity that have deliberately and consistently been trying to lead the country toward polarization have cashed in on it, throwing all manner of rubbish at the Buhari Presidency. “The fact remains that the Secretary to the Government, Boss Mustapha, wrote on May 16th, 2019 to: His Excellency, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, GCFR, Former President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Agbe L’Oba House, Quarry Road, Ibara, P.O. Box 2286, Abeokuta, Ogun State, ” Garba added. The presidential spokesman said: “The invitation was sent to Chief Obasanjo’s known forwarding address, detailing out all the major events, and the invitation cards were delivered by a reputable courier company as confirmed. “The receipt of the letter and invitation cards as delivered by the courier company was confirmed by Mr. Taiwo Ojo, the long standing Personal Secretary to the former President. “If, in the circumstance, Chief Obasanjo did not see or receive the letter and invitation cards as published by Vanguard newspaper (Page 16, June 16, 2019) and several other news platforms, then the former President needs to find out what is happening with his own secretariat. “The government office did its job diligently and should not be blemished for no reason.”