Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday said he was not against the decision to grant full autonomy to local government councils in the country.  The governor, who was responding to reports of his opposition against the system, described the allegation as ‘misleading and mischievous.’ He said he was one of the governors who supported constitutional amendment granting local government autonomy, a development that earned him an award by the National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) last year.  Governor Ortom said in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Terver Akase, that during his interaction with journalists in the state last week, he “frowned at the statement credited to Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), which tended to describe state governors as fraudsters who divert local government funds for personal use.  “I have taken exception to such sweeping incriminating comments by NFIU, which sought to indict all governors.  “I have never touched one kobo of local government funds so it’s an insult for NFIU to refer to all governors as corrupt. So, they have to apologise to me,” he emphasised.  He said he had since washed his hands off council funds, adding that he was already practising local government autonomy as council chairmen were directly responsible for the payment of workers’ salaries and general running of administration in their areas.  Meanwhile, Governor Ortom at the weekend called on elected members in the national and state Houses of Assembly in the state to forge a common front and join hands with his administration to tackle challenges confronting the state.  The governor specifically expressed concern over the excruciating insecurity pains that had held the state down over time and noted that with the collective support of the lawmakers, such challenges would be overcome.  He made the call at the open assembly organised for senator-elect for Benue North-West, Rt. Hon. Emmanuel Orker Jev, by the Jev Initiative for Leadership Transformation Volunteer group, where he met with his constituents to identify their problems and tackle them squarely when he assumes office.  Governor Ortom, who spoke through his Chief of Staff, Mr. Terwase Orbunde, regretted what he called the dwindling allocation from the federation account to the state, which he said had made it impossible to tackle the perennial problem of payment of workers’ salaries and those of pensioners.  Ortom administration is currently indebted to civil servants about five months, local government staff about eleven months and pensioners over a year now, while salaries of lectures and staff of the Benue State University had been paid up to date.  He said his administration would source for funds to clear the backlog of salaries owed workers at all levels.