Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, representing Abia-North Senatorial District, has commenced the second batch of distribution of 450,000 palm seedlings to farmers in Abia-North, Abia State and neighbouring states.
The first batch, which commenced in April 2019 under the Agricultural Empowerment Initiative of the Orji Uzor Kalu Foundation, involved the distribution of special high yielding palm seedlings known as “Tenera” at no cost to beneficiary farmers.
The former Abia State Governor, Kalu, said the initiative was his own support to President Muhammadu Buhari’s policy to revolutionise agriculture in Nigeria with aim of encouraging the people, particularly youths, to delve into farming to create wealth and become self-reliant.
Speaking at the launch of the second batch distribution, the Executive Secretary of the Orji Uzor Kalu Foundation, Rev. Ola Jemaimah Kalu, said the initiative aimed at creating wealth via agriculture.
She said: “Recall that on April 29, 2019, Senator Orji Kalu started the distribution of 450,000 special palm seedlings known as the ‘Tenera Specie’ to the public and today we have continued the second batch distribution and the distribution is ongoing. It is an Orji Uzor Kalu Foundation programme to ensure that by the 2030 poverty will be eradicated in Abia State and South-East in general because it is expected that the beneficiaries will be self-sufficient.
“The maturity period of the ‘Tenera Specie’ is within three to four years and it will start yielding very high quality palm trees and we are giving them out free of charge all they need to do is to come and register and collect the seedlings for onward planting.
“In addition, the Foundation has also acquired the services of an agricultural consultant who would be educating the farmers on how best to nurture seedlings to get maximum yield.
“The agricultural empowerment programme is bi-partisan and cuts across religion, tribe or gender. Most of the beneficiary farmers are from Abia-North, Abia State, Enugu, Cross River and other neighbouring states. The initiative also aims at putting fallow lands into productive uses. The only criterion for qualification is proof of ownership of family land.”
Speaking on behalf of the farmers gathered at the Igbere, Bende residence of the Abia-North Senator, Rev. I. Alvin appreciated Kalu for the initiative while also highlighting the many economic benefits of the programme. He said: “We appreciate the magnanimity of Senator Orji Uzor Kalu for his vision and futuristic initiative to provide food and reduce hunger through this agricultural empowerment programme. This seedling will empower many organisations, including the religious ones.
“Through this initiative the economic wealth of community dwellers will be increased when the seedlings begin to produce. We urge more community dwellers to come and be part of this programme because it is a reality.”