As Nigerians await the unveiling of nominees to the next Federal Executive Council (FEC), President Muhammadu Buhari has been advised to consider unbundling some of the ministerial portfolios perceived to be too large to avoid over-burdening the next batch of ministers.  A civil society organisation, Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democracy (VATLAD) which gave the advice in an open memorandum to the President, said that the merger of portfolios and over-concentration of powers in the hands of some ministers was largely responsible for the poor performance of the last cabinet.  National President of VATLAD, Comrade Odafe Igbini, who signed the memorandum on behalf of the group, said the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing should be dissolved into three separate ministries manned by three substantive ministers while the Federal Ministry of Information, Culture and Tourism should be broken into two.  Similarly, Igbini said, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development should be split into two to create a separate ministry for Rural Development, amongst others. According to Igbini, the objective of splitting these ministries is to ensure that no minister is saddled with too much workload and each portfolio received adequate attention and delivered the expectations of the people.  The last cabinet attracted so much criticisms from Nigerians who blamed the ministers for the failure of the President to deliver on his campaign promises that was hinged on tackling insecurity, reviving the economy and fighting the war against corruption. He observed that appointment of ministers for the federation has become so critical because the performance of the Federal Government depends largely on the composition of members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and the capacity to steer the government’s policies and programmes to positive outcomes.  “One major mistake President Buhari made in his last ministerial appointments was to put three very critical engineering ministries in the hand of a total novice in the very specialised engineering professions. I am talking about the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. As a result, these three sectors failed to meet the expectations of Nigerians in the last four years.  “Ministers should be appointed into ministries where they have adequate educational training, professional competence and experience. Doing so will obviously help such ministers to hit the ground running immediately after their inauguration rather than spend almost four years learning about their ministries,” Igbini said.