…says troops rescued 95 hostages, kill three suspects  Nigerian Army said that, with the farming season around the corner, suspected terrorists had resorted to the use of women and children as labourers.
It said the aim was to meet up with their daily feeding demands, which the Army said its ongoing operations had disrupted, largely.
The Acting Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Col. Sagir Musa, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the troops rescued 95 people from the captivity of suspected terrorists’ captivity.
Musa added that the fighting troops of Operation Lafiya Dole on clearance operation within Kobe and Boboshe villages, also killed three suspected fighters.
He said: “In continuation of the ongoing clearance operations tagged ‘Halaka Dodo’ within Sector 1 Operation Lafiya Dole, the troops of 112 Task Force Battalion and 22 Brigade in collaboration with members of Civilian Joint Task Force and vigilantes had on Saturday, June 22, 2019 conducted a robust clearance operation to Kobe and Boboshe villages respectively.
“In all the operations and victims so far rescued, it was observed that with the coming of the rainy season, farmers are preparing for the farming season, while the terrorists are also using women and children as farm slaves (labourers) in their farmlands to meet up with daily feeding challenges due to food drought in the forest sustained by the nobly ferocious operations of Nigerian Army troops.
“In the circumstance, troops have been directed by the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai, to upscale their patriotism and continue to dominate the battle space with aggressive decisive clearance operations from all flanks to ensure the looming defeat of terrorists of whatever shades in North-East zone.”
Musa disclosed that further clearance operations culminated in the killing of three suspected fighters, and subsequent rescue of the victims.
He said: “The troops discovered newly established camps at Dubula village with some bicycles and motorcycle tracks. The camp was destroyed and one of the terrorists was neutralised while trying to escape.
“Similarly, the Acting Commanding Officer of 202 Battalion in conjunction with Civilian Joint Task Force, vigilantes and hunters group conducted a robust offensive clearance operation to Tafana 1 and Tafana 2 villages.
“The troops came in contact with some terrorists who fled their camps on sighting the approach of the ferocious troops in Mines Resistance Anti-Patrol vehicles. Troops also neutralised the fleeing terrorists. During the operation, two men, 29 women and 25 children were also rescued.
“Additionally, 13 women and 26 children were rescued during the operation.”
According to him, 24 out of the children rescued were administered with polio vaccines by Nigerian Army Regimental Medical Officers in line with the Chief of Army Staff’s directives on the collaboration between the Nigerian Army and National Primary Health Care Development Agency to reach out to areas not captured in the polio vaccination exercise.
He added: “The Acting General Officer Commanding, 7 Division, Nigerian Army and Commander Sector 1, Operation Lafiya Dole, Brigadier General Abdulmalik Bulama Biu, has, on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff, commended the entire indefatigable troops of the Division for the latest exploits and exemplary tempo of the operation and conveyed to them the assurances of Chief of Army Staff’s unrelenting support.”
Among other items recovered, according to the statement, are two terrorists’ flags, two copies of Quran, one generator and bicycles.