The Central Bank of Nigeria is committed to upscaling Nigeria’s position in palm oil production within the league of palm oil producing nations as it recently unveiled a rescue plan that contains sub-actions including, but not limited to blacklisting product smugglers. Abdulwahab Isa reports  In early 2019, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) listed two items in agriculture value chain that need intervention. They include textile and palm oil production.
Ironically, Nigeria dominated in palm oil supply chain many years in the past, earning impressive returns from foreign patronage.
Regrettably, helped by country’s inroad into petro-dollar economy, a development that made it weave her economy almost entirely on crude oil export, palm oil production was consigned to background.
Its production suffered a massive plummet. Nigeria would later abdicate her leading position of palm oil to Malaysia, a country that borrowed palm seedlings from Nigeria in the late 70s. CBN rescue plan
As it stands today, over $ 500 million of Nigeria’s foreign exchange is said to be annually expended to import palm oil.
CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, confirmed the figure during his maiden meeting on palm oil production revamp with select governors from South-South and South- East in March this year.
Admittedly, this is a colossal waste for a country with proven potential to be a leader of palm oil.
Emefiele lamented waste of scarce foreign exchange, job losses and other other adverse effects of unrestrained palm oil import.
He gave his firm commitment that under his watch as CBN governor, the ugly trend mustn’t endure.
He said the economy had to be forward looking by changing ugly narrative and return Nigeria’s fortune on palm oil to the good era of 50s and 60s.
The maiden meeting looked at the larger picture of what needed to be done to revamp the palm oil.
Three governors from the South South; Akwa-Ibom, Mr. Emmanuel Udom, his counterpart from Edo, Governor Godwin Obaseki and Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, were in attendance.
As a net importer of palm oil, Nigeria, according to figures of CBN, imports between 400,000 600,000 MT of palm oil in order to meet local demand for a commodity it had once controlled.
“As some of you may recall, in the late 50s and 60s, Nigeria was not only the worlds leading producer of palm oil, it was also the largest exporter of palm oil, with close to 40 per cent of the global market share.
“Today, we are a distant 5th among leading producers of palm oil; we barely produce up to three per cent of the global supply of palm oil, with estimated production of 800,000 MT of palm oil, while countries like Malaysia and Indonesia produce 25million and 41 million tonnes of palm oil respectively,” he said.
Emefiele said despite the availability of over three million hectares of farmland for palm oil cultivation, production remains low at close to two tonnes per hectare, relative to a global benchmark of 25 tonnes per hectare.
“This is as a result of the maturation of existing palm trees, as some of these trees were planted in the 50s, as well as low investment in replanting high yielding palm oil seeds. As some of you may know, the usual life cycle for optimum palm production is 25 years.
“If we had kept pace with our peers in supporting improved cultivation of palm oil, at the current global market price of $600 per tonne, and an assumed production level of 16m tonnes, Nigeria could have generated close to $10 billion worth of foreign exchange.
“This analysis does not take into consideration the amount of jobs that could have been created in our rural communities from large scale small holder developments,” he added. Unfolding plans
“On our part, the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) and our Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS), the CBN will work with large corporate stakeholders and small holder farmers to ensure availability of quality seeds for this year’s planting season and agro-chemicals in order to enable improved cultivation of palm oil.
“We will also work to encourage viable off taker agreements between farmers and large-scale palm producing companies. Loans will be granted through our ABP and CACS programs at no more than nine per cent per annum to identified core borrowers.
“Some of the targeted large scale farmers are in our midst today and we shall use the opportunity of this engagement to achieve concrete results,” Emefiele promised. Turning point
There was a follow up meeting last week. Called at the instance of the CBN governor, the meeting briefed palm oil producing chief executives, governors from palm oil production belt zones of action plan to resuscitate production and return the county as palm oil export hub.
Pointedly, Emefiele said President Muhammadu Buhari directed CBN to blacklist from the banking system any firm, its owner and top management caught smuggling or dumping any of the 43 items that are not eligible for foreign exchange.
Relatedly, Emefiele said the presidential directive mandated the apex bank to provide support to firms and individuals that wanted to expand the production of 10 different commodities in Nigeria.
The 10 different products are rice, maize, cassava, tomatoes, cotton, oil palm, poultry, fish livestock dairy and cocoa.
And to achieve the presidential directive, Emefiele said the apex bank would work to encourage viable off-taker agreements between farmers and large-scale palm producing companies.
“We want to ensure palm oil production is aggressively increased in Nigeria. Nigeria in the 50s and 60s used to be the largest producer of oil palm in the world with a market share of 40 per cent. For one reason or the other, particularly because we found crude oil which by any analysis is cheaper than palm oil, we decided to abandon our God-given gift of palm oil. By doing that, we lost jobs.
“Our farm lost jobs because we began to import palm oil from different parts of the world. The presidential directive that we have received is not about palm oil alone. We have received a presidential directive to focus on the production of ten different commodities. And this is the programme we will be embarking upon in the next couple of years. The ten different products are rice, maize, cassava, tomatoes, cotton, oil palm, poultry, fish, livestock dairy and cocoa,” he said. Benefits of intervention
With CBN’s intervention, tangible economic benefits will fall into places as the inroad by the apex bank when fully crystallised would create jobs.
In addition, enforcement of palm oil ban as currently being contemplated would lead to preservation of forex.
“Our economic intelligence department has started investigating those who are involved in smuggling or smuggling palm oil into Nigeria.
“Before any action is taken against you in terms of blocking you from the foreign exchange market or blacklisting you from doing banking in Nigeria, we need to inform you that we are drawing a line that importation of palm oil must stop.
“But stopping it also means that we must as central bank and the deposit money bank also create an opportunity for you to access credit to grow your plantations,” Emefiele said.
Above all, the governor reiterated that CBN’s ultimate vision “is to overtake Thailand and Columbia to become the 3rd largest producer over the next few years.” Last line
The plans by the apex bank to rescue and resuscitate palm oil production, if dutifully implemented, remain the best road map for restoring Nigeria to her hitherto enviable leading position in palm oil production. The bank deserves cooperation, support of all stakeholders in the direction headed.