 Welcome to the concluding part of this teaching. I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. Today, we shall focus on: Exploring Divine Direction Through Vision! From scriptures, we discover that we owe ourselves the responsibility of ascertaining the genuineness of our vision before launching out in its pursuit. The question on our mind should be ‘how does one determine a genuine vision?’ Let us see what the prophet Habakkuk has to say: I will stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved. And the Lord answered me, and said, Write the vision, and make it plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it. For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak, and not lie: though it tarry, wait for it; because it will surely come, it will not tarry (Habakkuk 2:1-3). One major characteristic of a genuine vision is that, it has its source in God. It is God’s revealed plan and has to be traceable to Him.  Any vision that does not have its source in God leads to destruction. It might flourish for a while but certain destruction is inevitable. For instance, Absalom, the son of David, had a desire. He wanted so much to be king that he could not even wait for his father to die. His comportment and appearance gained the people’s approval. Being pushed on by his own selfish vision and the people’s, he declared himself king. His vision was not from God. For a while, it was sweet but sudden destruction caught up with him. Remember, every vision not from God leads to destruction. When our vision is of God, He will create a peaceful way out for us in His own time. Every God-given vision is characterised by peace. Vision and peace are covenant partners. Any vision we receive and rest is driven from us should be examined. Abraham was an addicted visionary. For twenty-five years, he held on to his vision –the promise of a son. He was at peace. The Bible records: He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God; And being fully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also to perform (Romans 4:20-21). A vision which has God as its source has peace as its companion. God will always speak peace to His people (Psalm 85:8). What, then, are the Characteristics of a Genuine Vision? •Confirms the Scope: Genuine visions are plain; they clearly state what to do, when to do it, where to do it and how to go about it. As it is written: And the Lord answered me, and said, Write the vision, and make it plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it (Habakkuk 2:2). This is why great men of God today are identified with specific, clear callings. For one man of God, it is salvation, for another, it is faith and healing, yet for another, it is prosperity. God is not an author of confusion. When He calls us, He makes our calling plain. •Imparts Divine Zeal: A God-given vision always imparts a divine zeal into the beneficiary which drives him/her on to accomplishment. Zeal is that inward excitement that pushes us forward to accomplish our mission. For it is written: For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up… (Psalm 69:9).When the zeal of God consumes us, every other factor becomes subsidiary. God cannot call us to a task without giving us the zeal to perform it. •The Time Element: Vision from God always has a time element. Timing is very important in God’s programme. There is always the time to take off. John the Baptist was on a divine mission. It had been said of him, even before he was born, that he was going to prepare the way of the Lord. He knew it but he did not go about it immediately until he came to the fullness of age. He waited for God’s time. The Bible says: And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of his shewing unto Israel (Luke 1:80). Jesus also knew of His mission but He waited for thirty years carrying out menial jobs before He finally launched out after receiving John’s baptism and the baptism in the Holy Ghost. The time God calls us to ministry is not necessarily the time for us to step out. Always get God’s appointed time and walk in it. If our vision must be accomplished, we must run and pursue it. Every calling of God culminates in glory but there is a demand to press (Philippians 3:14).  ü It Speaks Forth: A genuine vision speaks at the end. For it is written: For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak, and not lie: though it tarry, wait for it; because it will surely come, it will not tarry (Habakkuk 2:3). The source of any vision is made apparent for all to see at the end; it speaks louder than words. A vision is like a seed whose full dignity only emerges at the end. Thus, the source of a vision will not be a hidden secret after its execution. Surely, the vision will speak and not lie.  In conclusion, the prize for every high calling is a crown, which is enthronement. In other words, every genuine vision leads to enthronement. However, accessing God’s plan through heavenly vision cannot be possible until you are born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again!