Positive
Lower US interest rate will reduce Eurobond financing, external debt service of FG, States, banks  As speculation mounts that a rates cut from the United States Federal Reserve could be imminent, the Chief Executive Officer, Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) Limited, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, has explained how the move will positively impact the Nigerian economy. The respected economist gave the explanation in the FDC’s Lagos Business School (LBS) June presentation obtained by New Telegraph last weekend. He stated: “A lowering of US interest rates will be naira supportive; reduce the inflation interest rate differential from 0.5 per cent to 0.25 per cent and also reduce Eurobond financing and external debt service of the Federal Government, States and banks.”  It would be recalled that in a report last Friday, the Wall Street Journal stated that central banks in emerging markets around the world were cutting interest rates, as expectations of easier money in the U.S. give developing markets the room to stimulate their economies. The study noted that the Russian central bank cited the recent change in course by the Federal Reserve toward looser monetary policy in its decision to lower its key interest rate by a quarter-percentage point to 7.5per cent. Just six months ago, the Russian central bank had to raise interest rates to get ahead of the Fed’s ninth rise in three years. Last year, tighter monetary policy in the U.S. pressured several emerging markets’ central banks to keep monetary policy tight.
U.S. central bank officials are now considering whether to cut rates, if not at their meeting this week, then in July or coming months. In January, the Fed surprised investors by signaling it was done raising interest rates for now, opening the way for a series of cuts in developing countries. According to the report: “U.S. monetary policy has an outsize effect on central banks in emerging markets because of its influence over global flows of capital and currency moves. When the U.S. raises rates, it encourages investors to bring their capital back home, forcing developing countries to follow—even if their economies are slowing—to keep their currencies steady and avoid a surge in inflation as the prices of imports rise. “When the Fed is easing, others can follow suit, and indeed sometimes have to avoid appreciations in their currencies that would hurt exports and push inflation down.” The report disclosed that since April, India, Malaysia and the Philippines all have lowered rates, while China’s central bank has taken steps to encourage more bank lending. It predicted that the trend is likely to broaden over coming months, particularly if the Fed cuts its key rate, as officials have signaled it may.  However, the report noted that while the global trend may be toward lower interest rates, individual countries could find themselves on the sidelines if other challenges keep their currencies under pressure.