Welcome to another impactful week. I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. Today, we shall focus on: Running with the Vision! From scriptures, we understand that we do not sleep with vision, we run with it. It is written: I will stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved. And the Lord answered me, and said, Write the vision, and make it plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it. For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak, and not lie: though it tarry, wait for it; because it will surely come, it will not tarry (Habakkuk 2:1-3).It is the pursuit of vision that gives value to divine purpose. Many of us have an understanding of God’s plan for our lives but we have difficulties when it comes to fulfilling it. Knowing where we are going is just the beginning of the journey because without motion, we will never get to our destination. Furthermore, the Bible admonishes us to run with patience the race that is set before us (Hebrews 12:1-3; 1 Corinthians 9:24-27). Therefore, if we must actualise the destiny that God has ordained for us, we must accept the responsibility of running with the vision. A ‘press’ is the price we pay for a fulfilled destiny because only those who care to press ever get the prize (Philippians 3:13-14). God’s eternal purpose for our lives is to press because nothing of value is ever free. Thus, as the plan of God for our lives unfolds, we must accept the responsibility for its pursuit. Jesus gave us a graphical description of what a press means when He said: I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished (Luke 12:49-50)! Every divine purpose that is not pursued will become a burden. Thus, we must have an understanding of the principle of starting from the beginning and from the place where we are in order to fulfil God’s plan for our lives.  What Must We Do to See God’s Vision Fulfilled in Our Lives? •We Must Believe in It: The vision we don’t believe in will never be actualised. Why? We are only empowered to become what we believe. For it is written: But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name (John 1:12). Thus, if we don’t believe in the vision God gave to us, we can never be empowered to achieve it. •We Must Plan Towards It: Every purpose delivers on sound planning. As it is commonly said, ‘Failing to plan is planning to fail’. When God gives us His plan and defines His purpose for our lives, we must plan towards the delivery of that purpose. The Bible says: Through wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is established: And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches. A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength. For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in multitude of counsellors there is safety (Proverbs 24:3-6). The appropriate placement of facts is what we call planning in the pursuit of God’s vision for our lives. •We Must Programme Our Actions: This suggests that we put our plans into segments with time slots. In other words, we need to allocate a specific timeline to set goals as we seek God’s approval at every stage. As it is written: To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven …He hath made everything beautiful in his time: also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end (Ecclesiastes 3:1-11; see also Proverbs 3:5-6). Consequently, when we involve God in the planning of His vision for our lives, our vision will not be similar to the ordinary man in the corporate world because it is orchestrated by divine directives. Therefore, as we programme our actions and receive our timings through God’s directives, we will arrive at the topmost top.  o We Must Pursue the Plan: The pursuit of a vision is simply the execution of the programme of actions. It is not enough to have a plan and a programme; we must be ready to hit the ground running. The statement, ‘write the vision, and make it plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it’, in Habakkuk 2:1-3, connotes programming God’s vision and then running to accomplish it. Just as hunters do not wait on the road for animals to come but go after them in the forests, we too must pursue God’s purpose for our lives until it is accomplished.  o Never Quit: The vision we are running with may look as though it is being delayed but we must wait for it; for it shall surely come to pass as we keep running with it. It is written: For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak, and not lie: though it tarry, wait for it; because it will surely come, it will not tarry (Habakkuk 2:3). We must refuse to quit until we have accomplished it(Galatians 6:9).  In summary, if we want to make the most of any divine plan, we must run with it tirelessly and sacrificially until it delivers (2 Peter 1:10; 2 Timothy 2:3-5). Also, we understand from scriptures that Jesus operated at the centre of divine plan all through His earthly ministry (John 5:30). However, all these will not manifest until you are born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again!