  It was a low key presidential inauguration ceremony. Guests invited to the event, and other Nigerians were indeed, not oblivious of how scanty the programme of activities at the Eagle Square would look like on Wednesday, 29, May 2019. An announcement had earlier been made by both the Secretary to the Government of the Federation Mr. Boss Mustapha and the former Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed about the shift of major activities to June 12, the new date for the nation’s democracy day celebration. Unlike previous presidential inauguration ceremonies through Olusegun Obasanjo beginning from 1999-2003, late Umaru Yar’Adua 2007, Goodluck Jonathan 2011 and General Muhammadu Buhari 2015, Wednesday’s swearing-in of Buhari and his Vice, Professor Yemi Osinbajo at the Eagle Square was denuded of the usual fanfare such as military motor-bike displays and parade by troops, colour party drills and airmen parachuting. In the eyes of a reporter, the atmosphere at the venue seemed both of excitement and solemnity. While party men and women of the All Progressives Congress (APC) saw it as yet, an opportunity for another four-year reign of the government under President Buhari, classical tunes from the military band ignited a solemn reflection. One could see it glaringly on the faces of many guests who watched the ceremony with absolute silence as if to question the future of the country in the next level agenda. One quick attraction at the event was the fleet of exotic chauffer driven cars in the convoy of President Buhari. As I sat just a distance away from the VIP State Box, one could listen to a few people analyzing the class of vehicles parked a few meters on the red carpet from the saluting dais where the acting Chief of Nigeria (CJN) Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed administered the oath of office and allegiance on both the President and his Vice. President Buhari arrived the Eagle Square at precisely 10:00 am, driven in a fully tinted black Mercedes Benz saloon car. I watched one of the guests, who is well intuned with Mecedese products as he searched the web to be sure of what model it was. He looked like a car freak considering the passion with which himself and the other colleague argued about the vehicles. There were two cars of the same brand and model in the convoy. One of the vehicles flew the national and defence flags and the seal of the President, a 2019 Mecedese-Maybach, V12 engine.I was hearing the name of the Mercedes model for the first time from these gentlemen. ”Its worth as muc as N250million a unit, depending on the nature of the bullet proof configuration,” they argued further in low tones. Trust Nigerians, a few people made frantic efforts for an opportunity to have selfies beside the exotic cars but for the heavily armed security guards. Mr. President’s fleet of cars has since become a trending issue on various social media platforms. When he took over in 2015, Presisent Buhari drove a Mercedes Benz S600 also, a tinted bulletproof V12 engine inherited from the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan. Records have shown that on assumption of office, President Buhari turned down every request for the purchase of additional new vehicles in the presidential fleet until late 2018. Aside the Mercedes Benz attraction, spectators left the Eagle Square wondering the content of a hand bag hung by President Buhari during his oath taking ceremony. He was administered the oath in company of his wife Aisha after that of the Vice, Professor Osinbajo. Rather than handle the Holy Koran in public glare and as provided in the Oath Act, Buhari was given a bag believed to contain the Islamic Holy book. I remember attending the same ceremony in 2015, but then, the President held the Holy book in his right hand while performing the ritual. On 29 May 2019, Buhari chose the new option. This issue, which generated a lot of discuss at the Eagle Square, has since also trended on different social media platforms. Those who have taken it up as an important topic wonder why on the contrary, the Vice President held before the crowd a copy of the Holy Bible in his right hand as he took the oath of office. As many guests exchanged pleasantries before departing the arena, one could hear them debating whether any of these two leaders eared in law regarding the process of the oath taking. During his oath taking and swearing-in as acting CJN by President Buhari at the presidential villa, the oath administrator Justice Tanko, hung a similar bag. Inside the Eagle Square, I could hear some people cite relevant sections of the Oaths Act 2003 to draw home their points. Section 5(1a) sub-sections (I) and (ii) of this section states that: ’if a Muslim, place both hands on a copy of the Koran,’ while ’if a Christian, hold in his right hand a copy of the Holy Bible or of the New Testament.’ While the inauguration at the Eagle Square went on, I brows Facebook where I saw a live video of the swearing-in ceremony of Mallam Nasir El-Rufai as governor of Kaduna state for a second term. He also held a copy of the Holy Koran open on one hand, as he took his oath. Of course, notwithstanding whether the Holy books were hung or held, the reality of an inaugurated brand new President and Vice for Nigeria have since come to past.  Another takeaway scene during the presidential inauguration was the presence of the former governor of Zamfara state, Abdul’aziz Yari. It was surprising to see the former governor drive to the event in a car wearing the seal with the inscription ’Executive Governor Zamfara State’. The implication of Yari’s action in Abuja is that the state had two executive governors at the same time on the same day. His successor, Dr Bello Muhammad Mutawalle of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on that day had just been sworn-in by the State Chief Judge in Gusau, the Zamfara State capital as the new governor. Who says this is not impersonation? But, Yari also a former Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forumn (NGF) was sighted at the Eagle Square in his official car, a Lexus 570, hoisting both the national and APC flags as a state chief executive. Virtually everyone who saw the former governor in that vehicle at the presidential inauguration event wondered whether he was still in charge of affairs in Zamfara, despite the decision of the Supreme Court which pronounced the candidate of the PDP as winthe ner of the 2019 governorship election in the state. Back in the Presidential Villa, at the Conference Center, hundreds of guests had been invited to an inauguration dinner as part of the events lined up for the swearing-in ceremony. The dinner scheduled to kick off at 7:00pm began few minutes after 9:00pm with the arrival of Vice President Osinbajo. The Hall was filled to the brime as guests waited patiently in anticipation that President Buhari himself would show up. What a shoddy arrangement for a presidential event? It seemed that organisers of the programme were overwhelmed by the large attendance. Who dolled out the invitation? Of course, no crowd control. The number of guests outside the large capacity Hall was almost equal to those already seated inside. It was worrisome to see diplomats loitering without seats assigned to them, some had to take their leave after waiting aimlessly. To the organisers, this presidential embarrassment must not go unnoticed as a lesson for some days in the near future.  Aso Rock guests of the week High profile personalities were guests of the Presidential Villa this week. During the period, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the 2019 Budget, a ceremony witnessed by the President of the Senate Bukola Saraki, Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu and Speaker of the House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara. Head of Security agencies including the nation’s service chiefs also visited the villa. Governors from the northern parts of the country also paid a visit to President Buhari. They came to discuss the increasing spate on insecurity and possible solutions to cases of banditry, kidnapping and insurgency. Among them were Governors Aminu Masari (Katsina), Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna) and Abdulaziz Yari former governor of (Zamfara), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Sani Bello (Niger), Yahaya Bello (Kogi), and Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa). 