With the bailout of N7.9billion released to Oyo State by the Federal Government, Governor Seyi Makinde now has an opportunity to live up to his campaign promises.  This assertion was made by the state All Progressives Congress (APC).  Speaking today at the party Secretariat in the aftermath of a successful inauguration of the National Assembly, which saw the emergence of Senators Ahmed Lawan and Ovie Omo-Agege as President and Deputy President of the Senate respectively, the state APC Publicity Secretary, Dr. Olatunde Azeez, said the governor had made certain promises during his campaign.  Some of the promises include the payment of more than the recently approved N30,000 minimum wage.  He said: “Makinde had said the workers of Oyo State deserve more than the money approved by the Federal Government, now is the time to live up to that promise. He does not have any excuse not to pay with the money recently released to the state. I am sure the labour unions are aware too. The workers should have cause to smile, going by the governor’s promise.  “I recall that the Ajimobi administration spent the bailout to clear arrears of workers’ salary in the state, about seven months arrears, Governor Makinde should equally take a cue from this.”  Azeez said the bailout fund was enough to take care of the need of the state. “The issue of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) should also be tackled by the governor especially with the promises made before the election. As governor-elect, Makinde had met the management of LAUTECH where he again reiterated his promise to rescue the institution from the claws of death,” he said.  The APC spokesman also advised government to complete the purchase of the remaining vehicles for judges in the state.  He said: “The former governor had approved 12 vehicles for judges in the state but due to paucity of funds could only buy six. The governor should therefore make it a point of duty to complete the purchase. It is a deserving gesture; the judiciary is an arm of government that is in no way subservient to the executive arm.”