 There was excitement at the port city of Apapa this week over the announcement by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) that it has approved a 10 per cent discount on Harbour Dues for all vessels calling at the Eastern Ports.  The National President of the Council of Managing Directors of Licenced Customs Agents, Mr. Lucky Amiwero called for early implementation of the 10 per cent discount, saying it will serve as an incentive to attract shipping companies and importers to the Eastern Ports which have been at their lowest ebb in recent times. “Ten per cent discount is a big incentive and I believe shipping companies and importers will take advantage of it and reduce the massive pressure on the Lagos ports which I strongly believe is the real reason for the notorious Apapa traffic gridlock.  Speaking, Founder of National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Chief Boniface Aniebonam in his reaction, said: “It is a welcome development and congratulate the Managing Director of NPA, Ms Hadiza Bala Usman for taking this bold step which successive CEOs at NPA failed to do and that is why there is so pressure on the Lagos ports, and the very reason why we have traffic congestion in Apapa. I am now convinced that the government and NPA is now very determined to bring this seeming hydra-headed Apapa gridlock to an end. “This will go a long way in making the Easter ports viable, reduce cargo congestion at the Lagos ports and bring back businesses to Apapa as this and other efforts of the Federal and Lagos State government could end the Apapa gridlock,” he further said.  Meanwhile, an auto parts importer, Chief Eloka Mbazuluki, who was told by Sunday Telegraph that the implication of the discount give to the Shipping Companies by NPA, is that shipping firms would likely extend its own discount to the importers sending their goods to the Eastern ports, said if that happens, he will immediate route his container to the Onne Port or Port Harcourt Port. “It will make sense to do that because I will save a lot of money, including the millions I pay on land transportation of my container from Apapa to Nnewi; Wharf Landing Fees, and many other illegal charges we are forced to pay in Lagos. The management of NPA on Tuesday said as part of efforts to increase patronage at the Eastern Ports, it has approved a 10 per cent discount on Harbour Dues in all concession terminals at the Eastern Ports. A statement by the GM Corporate and Strategic Communications, NPA, Jatto A Adams, said that ports that will be affected by this initiative are Calabar, Rivers and Delta ports. The Authority however clarified that this discount will only apply to Harbour Dues payable by the following types of vessels/cargoes: Container vessels with at least 250 TEUs, General Cargo vessels with at least 16,000 MT, Combo Vessels with at least 16,000 MT and RORO Vessels with at least 250 units of vehicles. It further disclosed that the discounts shall not apply to: Vessels coming Inbalast, Vessels calling at private jetties, Vessels calling carrying Liquid bulk.  The application of these discounts will take immediate effect.