“I am the LORD your God which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen; and I have broken the bands of your yoke, and made you go upright’’. (Leviticus 26:13) The above explains how the children of Israel were able to revoke the curse of slavery placed on their generation by the tyrannical Pharaoh. The Bible says their lives were made bitter. ‘’And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor. 14And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in morter and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all their service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigor’’. (Exodus 1:13 &14) The Pharaoh’s of today are the demonic people who put heavy load on the believers to cause hardship and frustration. Any one that is in a situation of slavery that comes about this message can easily revoke whatever curse that fastens the hardship to him. The Generational Curse The entire people of Israel that left Egypt were those born into slavery. The people of Israel were in the captivity of slavery for four hundred years (400) sparing about seven generations. If there is anything in your life that put you in in disadvantaged position or situation among your contemporaries, it is a curse and must be revoked with the word of God. “And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shall be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing’’.(Isaiah 10:27) “For thou has broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian’’. (Isaiah 9:4)
“If the son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed’’. (John 8:36) The Curse of Balam In the manner of Balam against the people of Israel, every effort of the enemy to curse will fail. God delivered through Balam as follows
“And he took up his parable, and said, Balak the king of Moab hath brought me from Aram, out of the mountains of the east, saying come, curse Jacob, and come defy Israel. 8How shall I curse, whom God hath not cursed? Or how shall I defy, whom the LORD hath not defied?’’ (Numbers 23:7 & 8)
‘’God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do it? Or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? 20Behold, I have received commandment to bless: and he hath blessed; and I cannot reverse it. 21 He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seen perverseness bin Israel: the LORD his God is with him, and the shout of a king is among them’’. (Numbers 23:19-21)
As a true believer you are entitled to the blessings of Abraham in the following word of God. Gen 27:29, Exodus 23:22, Galatian 3:13 &14 and Colossians 2:13 &14. “Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother’s sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.” (Gen 27:29)
“But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary unto thine adversaries”
(Exo 23:22) “Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for  us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree: 14 That the  blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ; that  we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.” (Gal 3:13-14) “And you, being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, hath  he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses; 14  Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was  contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross;” (Col 2:13-
14)