 Churches have been asked not to underate the power of rendering praises and worship to the Almighty God. The was a consensus by participants at the second edition of Pentecost Concert organised by Lagos Archdiocesan Music Commission (LAMCOM), held at the MUSON Center, Onikan Lagos. It was held in commemorate of the 60th birthday of His Grace, Maost Rev. Dr. Alfred Martins, Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos. Stressing the place of reverencing God through songs, stakeholders present at the event which served as platform to raise N50 million funds for students of the Cecilian Music Academy, urged that sacredness be the watchword of churches and Christians in their worship, praise and dance styles. Tracing the foundation of music in Christendom, Right Rev. Monsignor John Aniagwu, Vicar General Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos, stated, “Music has been critical aspect of Christian worship, going all the way to the bible, talking about the Psalms-songs composed to accompany worship in the Jewish tradition and when Christianity came along, the culture was brought into Christianity. “The Christian church has always been involved in worship of God. Saint Paul even admonished that Psalms be used in Christian worship. By the fifth century we had someone like Saint Augustine, the holy Bishop of Hippo saying, ‘He who sings prays twice.’ So when your worship is accompanied with music the value is doubled.” He maintained that God is specially delighted in music, “It is a kind of offering that we give to God which is very acceptable to Him.” Aniagwu maintained that secular music is not acceptable in the church setting, stating, “Secular music is for the secular place, is not for the church. I mean you don’t come to the church and start playing calypso, it is in order in places like the theatre. “When you come to the church your music has to be of a certain character, very solemn and uplifting music. We do dance in church but it is a different type which is modest and different from that of the secular way.” Condemning the offensive lyrics churned by some secular artistes which is becoming the norm in the society, especially as it corrupts children, he noted, “It is unfortunate and unacceptable like many things you will find in our society, including indecent dressing. “Our songs and way of dressing should give glory to God. Musicians should stop immodest songs. It does not matter the religion they belong as no religion encourages immorality. In the past we had people like Sunny Ade and Ebenezer Obey who sang songs with lots of moral value. “While borrowing other people’s culture we should not borrow the bad side but ensure we borrow what is good and see that we promote our own culture which is about enhancing values.” Her Royal Highness, Erelu Dosumnu who was the event Chairman, while speaking with journalists, corroborated Aniagwu on music as a tool of advancing morality in the society. “Musicians should drop the negative aspect and dwell on the positive ways of using music to advance the society. They should come off the use of vulgarity, for vulgarity does not go with the identity of decent human beings. “Also you don’t need to be eerotic in the name of praising God. There should be decorum even in the songs and dances in the church as the essence of singing or dancing in our churches should be to praise God.”
Rev. Fr. Peter Osuntope, Director of LAMCOM, added that the event was also to recognise the clergy and laity who have distinguished themselves in promoting sacred music. However, he, encouraged the youths to sing to glorify God. “I encourage everyone especially our youths to sing to the glory of God, through this the world will be a better place,” he stated.
Osuntope, also called on the youths to develop their talents, acquire professional certification and use the talents therein to God’s glory. He mentioned that the Cecilian Academy was part of the Diocese’s efforts in bringing solution the menace of unemployment in the nation.
“There is need for certification to make a living with your talents. In an environment where there is no job, this is one of the means of creating jobs. For the students and in the Diploma and participants in the preparatory programmes, we help to seek funds to help them and make their lives better,” he added.