Councillors from the 20 local governments and 37 local council development areas (LCDAs) of Ogun State yesterday, barricaded the entrance to the state House of Assembly, protesting their suspension by lawmakers. The councillors, who thronged the Assembly complex at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, as early as 8a.m., prevented the lawmakers and staff of the House from gaining entry into the complex. Armed with placards bearing various inscriptions, the protesters asked the Speaker, Suraj Adekunbi, to respect the Supreme Court judgement on local government tenure and autonomy. The House had, on Friday, suspended all political functionaries in the local governments to allow investigation into allegations of gross misconduct and misappropriation of public funds levelled against them. Subsequently, the Governor Dapo Abiodunled administration ordered the freezing of accounts of all the local governments pending the conclusion of investigation by the House of Assembly. But yesterday, scores of aggrieved councillors stormed the Assembly complex, demanding a reversal of their suspension. The protesters charged at the convoy of Adekunbi, who caught them unawares at the complex, hurling abuses at the Speaker for presiding over their suspension. Spokesperson for the councillors, Azeez Oloyede, said they were surprised the Assembly took the decision at a time when the issue of local government autonomy was being addressed. Oloyede, from Abeokuta South East Local Council Development Area, also declared that the councillors had not received any correspondence about alleged financial misappropriation. He explained that they initially disregarded the rumour of their suspension, since no letter was addressed to them, only for them to be attacked by career officers at the local governments when attempts were made to resume at their offices. He said: “As far as we are concerned, there is nothing like suspension. What is our offence that warranted this kind of rumour that we, the legislators and chairmen, were suspended?” But addressing the councillors, the Speaker told them to find a better way to address their agitations, stressing that calling him names would not solve any problem. Speaking with journalists later, Adekunbi said he was surprised to see the protesters at the Assembly complex since they had not received any correspondence to the effect of their suspension. He explained that the House only acted within its own powers, urging the councillors to wait for communication from the executive arm of the government. He pointed out that the House had received a lot of petitions against the administration of local governments in the state and that he had brought same unofficially to the notice of the council chairmen. On why the petitions were not investigated before the suspension, Adekunbi said “it doesn’t matter which one comes first”. The speaker said the development was as a result of exigencies, adding that the suspension was thoroughly debated by the members of the Assembly before the decision was eventually taken.