President Muhammadu Buhari has promised to continue to provide adequate security for residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) despite their not voting for him in the 2019 presidential election. The President stated this while receiving residents of the nation’s capital, led by the Permanent Secretary of the FCT, Christian Ohaa, who paid him a Sallah homage at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. In the February 23, 2019 Presidential election, former vice president and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, defeated President Buhari in the FCT. Atiku polled 259,997 votes against Buhari’s 152,224 in the nation’s capital.  Speaking at the event, President Buhari explained that he did not have an option but to secure Abuja which provides himself, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo the necessary security.  Buhari, who also spoke jocularly, said: “I have just spoken to the senator on my left (Philip Aduda) and I told him that his constituency did not vote for me. So I was very pleased that when they made the arrangement, they put him very far away from me.”  According to the President, he presently has the constituency results from Abuja on how the residents voted in the last general election.  “I have all the results of all constituencies. I am not threatening FCT, because to make FCT secure is to make myself secure and the Vice President. I think they are a necessary evil, that was why they decided to vote for PDP,” he added.  The President also appealed to officials in his administration to show exemplary leadership that will not make the government unpopular.  “I appeal to you to remain exemplary so that those under you will know that the country is doing very well. If you break down and complain, the impact will reverberate all over and then government will not be popular and whatever efforts we are making will not be appreciated,” he said.  President Buhari said he was happy that a lot of Nigerians voted for him and sympathized with his political experiences beginning from 2003 and 2019, a period which he even went up to Supreme Court to challenge the outcomes of the elections.  “I thank you very much for those of you who suffered very much to support me. And I congratulate you for being happy that I made it and I assure you that I will continue to do my best in spite of the toughness of my neighbours.  “During my long journey to this place, 2003, 2007, 2011, those were interesting political developments that enabled me visit all the local governments in this country, all 774 local governments. “First port of call whenever I visit any local government was to visit the community leader for understanding and support. I am very pleased that Nigerians understand me that although I was a governor, minister of petroleum and one time head of state, people know I don’t have a lot of money to give,” he added. President Buhari commended Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for his commitment to leadership. He said often, the Vice President works very hard without being heard. “I want to appreciate the number two man of the country because he knows what we are going through very quietly. I am very pleased that you came with this very powerful constituency,” the President said.  In his remarks, Osinbajo congratulated President Buhari for the end of Ramadan, a period which he described as solemn. He said: “I want to say that God almighty has been extremely good to you and to our government. I recall about two years ago when I had to host this particular event because you were away on medical leave at the time.  “But God has been so good, not only did he bring you back healthier than when you left, but has also been gracious enough for you to have a second opportunity to lead our great nation. I thank the almighty God for you and for all of us who have been a part of your government and who have been a part of what God has done in our midst.”  According to Osinbajo, the period of the Ramadan is always a very good time.  He said Nigeria, as it is today, is at a threshold of greatness,  “You have said so many times. Any situation where something great and something important is about to happen, usually you will have very many and negative opposing voices that want to keep that thing from happening.  “I believe that our country is at a threshold of the breakthrough that we have been praying for and hoping for all these many years. And this is why many challenges are going on. Challenges around security, religion, people who are stoking up religious grievance and ethnic divisions and all that. “But this gathering is one of those gatherings that we are at liberty, political leadership, religious leadership to demonstrate to our people that this country is a country of one people, the Nigerian people. They may be different in their faith, ethnicity but we are one people. We are one and united people. “I want to commend all our leaders who are here for making this tradition, that we will come together – Christians, Muslims, and people of different faith to demonstrate that this country is a united country. And that those who will want to stoke up fire or division we will not allow them to do so.  “So I want to urge all our leaders here that we must not allow the rhetoric of religion to supersede the rhetoric of unity. We must also speak up; we must seek  ways that will unite our country. “We cannot keep quiet because there are so many negative statements being made every day and sometimes we ignore those statements and say these are people who have no understanding. But if we allow these negative statements to continue, then they will define our country and will define the situation of our country. “As I have said, our country is destined for greatness and I pray that the almighty God will lead us to that greatness. And as we move day by day towards that greatness, those who want to bring us down, God almighty will prevent them from doing so,” he said. The FCT Permanent Secretary said residents of the city were solidly behind the administration of President Buhari. He said: “We in the FCT will continue to do our part to ensure that you succeed in your second term in office starting, of course, with first celebration of our Democracy Day on the 12th of June 2019.” The Permanent Secretary disclosed that residents of the city have been fully mobilized to be exceptional hosts to the hundreds of foreign guests who will honour the invitation for the celebration of Democracy Day in Abuja on June 12 this year. Among those who attended the homage are the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari; Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; the National Security Adviser, Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd), and the Director General of Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Magaji Bichi, Civil Defence FCT Commandant and former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha. Others were Permanent Secretary, State House, Jalal Arabi, and former Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu.