 Operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Ikeja, Lagos State Police Command, have arrested a suspected armed robber, who swallowed the wedding ring of his victim.  The suspect, Taofeek Adebayo (19), was arrested along with Toheeb Tijani (20). The two suspects were arrested at Oshodi-Oke, moments after they robbed two ladies occupying a grey Sienna bus of gold earrings and a set of wedding rings. They were arrested on Friday night.  Also arrested the same day at CMS, are Samson Oluwa (20) and Michael Amodu Adamu (22). The two were arrested in an all-night sting operation.  Adebayo, in company with his gang members, on Friday, begged the two gorgeously dressed ladies, who were in a Sienna bus to assist them with money for food. The two ladies extended a N100 note to them, which the suspects rejected.  The driver of the Sienna bus, who wishes to remain anonymous, said: “My colleague and I were coming from Anthony and heading to Ilasa for our association’s meeting. Three of them came close to our vehicle; there was traffic and we couldn’t reverse anywhere. We were scared.  They said we should give them money for food. I told my colleague to give me money. She gave me N100, which I gave them. They rejected it. One of them said that was not the kind of money they were looking for. I told them that was what I had. One of them pulled my left ear and removed my earring.  “Two of them turned to the other side of my vehicle. They threatened to waste us if we didn’t give them money. They started shouting at us, ‘where is the money.’ In a hurry to leave our car, they forced my friend to surrender her wedding ring. This guy, (Adebayo) took the first ring and swallowed it in our presence. His colleague took the other one.”  Fielding questions from police, Adebayo said: “I swallowed it, but I later vomited it. I handed it over to ‘Young Boy.’ He is the third guy. I handed it to him when police were chasing us. I told him to hand over the rings to the ladies so that the police would release us, but he absconded with the two rings and earrings.”  Tijani, who sources said was on the wanted list of police for snatching a mobile phone from a commuter in traffic earlier in the day, stated, ‘I have released the phone to the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) officials standing at Oshodi Oke. They told me that RRS officers were looking for me and wanted to arrest me.”