 Crude oil swap czar, Mr. Mele Kolo Kyari, yesterday emerged the 19th Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in a shake-up that began at the corporation exactly a month ago.
Thirty senior members of the NNPC staff had earlier, in a shake-up of May 20, been sent on statutory retirements and redeployment, which the corporation said was for its repositioning.
Besides, before yesterday’s emergence of Kyari, a Group General Manager in charge of the influential Crude Oil Marketing Division of NNPC, his name and that of two Chief Operating Officers, Bello Rabiu and Rabiu Suleiman had been frequently mentioned as front runners in succession to Dr. Maikanti Baru, a career NNPC staff, who turned 60 – the mandatory retirement age.
In an announcement that consolidated the May 20 compulsory retirement of 11 senior staff and a major shake-up affecting 19 members of the top echelon of the national oil company, President Muhammadu Buhari appointed Kyari, a junior in position, among the three names.
Kyari, from Borno State, is both the Group General Manager in charge of Crude Oil Marketing Division of NNPC, as well as the country’s National Representative to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Suleiman is Group Executive Director at NNPC, but currently on secondment to the Ministry of Petroleum Resources as Senior Technical Adviser Refineries, Gas & Power Infrastructure. He chairs the Ministerial Steering Committee (Steer Co) of the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP).
Rabiu is Chief Operating Officer (Upstream) at NNPC. He joined the corporation in 1991 with a degree in Statistics and has moved up rapidly, by NNPC standards, from senior planning officer through Technical Assistant to the GMD to Group General Manager, Corporate Planning & Strategy, the last job before the current position. He earned a Master’s degree in Petroleum Engineering from London’s Imperial College in 1998.
Kyari is a geologist by training. Suleiman joined the NNPC with a degree in Chemical engineering.
Meanwhile, the new GMD has promised transparency and accountability in discharging his duties as the helmsman at the corporation.
He said this in a tweet while reacting to a congratulatory letter by the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI).
“Most profound message I received on this appointment. Deeply challenged to do more on transparency and accountability aspirations of @NGRPresident, @AsoRock @NNPCgroup, @nigeriaeiti #OOTT and the global transparency community,” he said.
NEITI, in a congratulatory message, described the appointment as an intimation of more openness and reforms in the national oil company.
“Mr. Kyari is a well-known transparency champion and one who enthusiastically shares the principles, which underline the work of NEITI and the global EITI on good governance of the oil and gas industry.
“Just yesterday, Mr. Kyari participated at a session on ‘the business case for state-owned enterprise and commodity trading transparency’ at the EITI global conference in Paris, France,” said Waziri Adio, executive secretary.
The appointment of Melee Kyari as the new Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) makes him the 19th person to head the nation’s apex oil institution.
Those who have occupied the most coveted seat in the multi-billion dollar oil industry in Nigeria in the past 15 years are: Jackson Gaius-Obaseki, Funso Kupolokun, Abubakar Lawal Yar’Adua, and Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo.
Others are Shehu Ladan, Austin Oniwon, Engr Andrew Yakubu, Dr. Joseph Thlama Dawha, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu and Dr. Maikanti Baru.
Meanwhile, NNPC has thrown more light on the reason for appointment of new Group Managing Director, Kyari, as well as the six Chief Operating Officers and a Chief Financial Officer for the corporation.
A follow-up release on the new appointments by the NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, stated that the new Group Managing Director, Kyari, takes over from the current occupier of the office, Dr. Baru, effectively on 8th July, 2019. Baru would retire statutorily on July 7, 2019.
The NNPC spokesperson said Kyari would be bringing to his new appointment more than 27 years of experience in the various value chains of the Petroleum Industry.
Mr. Roland Onoriode Ewubare, who hails from the South-South region of the country and is appointed Chief Operating Officer (Upstream), was until his new appointment Group General Manager, National Petroleum Investments and Management Services, a Corporate Services (NAPIMS) unit of the corporation headquartered in Lagos.
Before his NAPIMS’ appointment, Ewubare was Managing Director of the Integrated Data Services Limited (IDSL), a seismic data acquisition company of NNPC based in Benin.
Engr. Mustapha Yinusa Yakubu hails from North-Central of the country and is newly appointed as Chief Operating Officer, Refining and Petrochemicals. Until his new appointment, he was the Managing Director of National Engineering and Technical Company Limited (NETCO).
Engr. Yusuf Usman hails from North-East and is Chief Operating Officer, Gas and Power. Until his new appointment, Engr. Usman was Senior Technical Assistant to the Group Managing Director of the corporation.
Ms. Lawrencia Nwadiabuwa Ndupu, from South-East, is newly appointed as Chief Operating Officer, Ventures. She, until her new appointment, was the Group General Manager, NNPC Oil Field Services, established to provide technical services to players in the Industry.
Mr. Umar Isa Ajiya, from North-West, who holds the new position of Chief Financial Officer, was until his recent appointment, the Managing Director of Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) of NNPC, a downstream arm of the corporation. Prior to holding the position as the Managing Director of PPMC, he was the corporation’s Group General Manager Corporate Planning and Strategy (CP&S).
Engr. Adeyemi Adetunji, who is from the South-West, holding the new appointment of Chief Operating Officer, Downstream, was until his new appointment the Managing Director of NNPC Retail Limited, a Downstream Marketing Company of NNPC. Prior to his position as the MD of the Downstream Marketing Company, he was General Manager, Transformation Department, a Think-Thank unit of the corporation.
Mr. Farouk Garba Said who hails from North-West and holds the new position of Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Services, was Group General Manager, Engineering and Technology Division of NNPC. Mr. Said would be taking over from the present occupier of the office who retires statutorily on 28th June 2019.
The new appointees have been directed to work with the current occupiers of the various offices by President Buhari till 7th July 2019 to ensure a smooth transition on 8th July 2019 when their appointments would take effect.
The outgoing GMD, Dr. Baru, said he is willing and ready to do more if given the opportunity to serve the country.
Baru spoke to journalists on the sidelines of the 2019 Annual Lecture, Life Achievement Awards and Induction of New Fellows of the Nigerian Academy of Engineering, yesterday in Lagos.
“Service to Nigeria is everybody’s call. Every Nigerian should be willing to serve the country when called upon to do so.
“The system that has been put in place is for a public servant to retire when he is 60 years or after 35 years in service.
“However, if it is the prerogative of President Buhari to invite you to do more and of course you should look at it and you should do more.
“The President graciously accepted my statutory retirement, but if he says I should come and do more, I’m willing to serve,” he said.