With the recent sweeping Supreme Court verdict on the Zamfara State primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC), BIYI ADEGOROYE argues that the party seems not to have learnt its lessons from downfall of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  One fact that emerged from the inauguration of governors across the country on May 29 is the dwindling fortunes of the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), and of course this is causing great ripples within the party. On May 29, 2015, the APC swept 20 states in addition to its existing ones, while the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had nine. But four years later, last Wednesday, the party, which rode to power on the integrity of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015, is gradually losing that goodwill, and has lost seven states to the opposition (PDP). Today, the party, once loathed for profligacy and wanton corruption has total of 16 states, even as it is hopeful of winning Osun State as its candidate in the last governorship election, Senator Ademola Adeleke has appealed to the Supreme Court. The new states now in the kitty of the opposition are Imo, Oyo, Bauchi and Benue. Others are Adamawa, Sokoto and the latest, via a Supreme Court verdict, Zamfara. The current misfortune of the party has been attributed to internal crisis that rocked APC inability to unite its members in the various states in the buildup to the elections, causing the ruling party’s strongholds like Zamfara and Imo. In particular, observers have blamed the party’s leadership inability to manage victory and introduction of indirect primaries in the state and direct primaries in the national level and for lack of internal democracy. For instance, contrary to provisions of the Electoral Act (2010) as Amended, it held parallel primaries in Zamfara, Rivers, Imo and a number of others. In Imo, a group loyal to then Governor Rochas Okorocha held its primaries where Okorocha’s son in-law emerged as candidate while another said to be favoured by the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole and witnessed by INEC officials produced Senator Hope Uzodinma as candidate. A similar incident occurred in Zamfara and Ogun states. When the then governor Abdulaziz Yari conducted controversial primaries and even lambasted Oshiomhole, the party’s chairman, he probably though it was about ending of the governorship aspiration of Senator Kabiru Marafa in Zamfara, little did he know he was dealing a deadly blow on the future of the party in the beleaguered state. Of course, Oshiomhole hardly handled the matter with discretion as he resorted to tongue-lashing INEC when the electoral umpire declared the party’s primaries illegal having been conducted outside the stipulated time, and without the presence of INEC officials, as provided for in the Electoral Act. Expectedly, the party chairman came under swipe as both Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun took him to the cleaners. Okorocha had described Oshiomhole as a political liability “who is on a mission to destroy the ruling party,” even as the former said Okorocha and Amosun, are political liabilities that only have one vote. The post-primaries rancor and utterances of the party chairman also informed Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, who dubbed Oshiomole an “undertaker” with a mission to evacuate what is left of the APC into oblivion. He said: “Oshiomhole appears to be in a hurry to justify his moniker as an ‘undertaker’ who has come to evacuate what is left of the once popular APC into oblivion as recently observed by the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party,” The confusion and poor conflict management capability APC party leaders in Oyo, Imo and Zamfara had created an internal feud and muzzle–flexing. And like the war of attrition between Femi Agbalajobi and Dapo Sarumi in the Social Democratic Party in Lagos State in 1991, the opposition party, National Republican Convention candidate, Sir, Michael Oteodola became the state governor.   Pains imposition  The fact that INEC withdrew 64 Certificates of Return, and top among them were 36 retrieved from the APC in Zamfara State, was indicative of the lack of internal democracy in most of the parties. To the PDP was affected, the figure is massive and certificates have been re-issued to persons declared winners by the courts, following the 2019 general election and issued to the candidates of the PDP.  The post election litigations have been massive. “At the moment, there are 809 pre-election cases pending in various courts across the country challenging the conduct of primaries by political parties for the 2019 general election. This is clearly more than the total number of petitions currently before the various election petition tribunals nationwide challenging the outcome of the main election.  “With the Zamfara case, the figure has now risen to 64. In addition, the Commission is studying nine more judgements we were served in the last one week in which primary elections conducted by different political parties were upturned by the courts,” INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu said.  The commission withdrew Certificates of Return from the APC candidates in Ekiti North federal constituency and Ehime-Mbano/Ihitte Uboma/Obowo federal constituency of Imo State and issued them to PDP and Accord Party respectively.  In Darazo State Constituency of Bauchi State, the commission withdrew the certificate of a candidate of the APC and issued to the candidate of the PDP. The commission withdrew a certificate of return from APC senatorial candidate in Bauchi South senatorial district and issued to another APC candidate. In Delta State, the commission withdrew the certificate of return issued to the candidate of the PDP in Delta North Senatorial District and issued to another candidate of the PDP. In Oredo state constituency of Edo State, INEC withdrew a certificate of return from    APC to another APC while in Akko Federal Constituency of Gombe State, a certificate of return was withdrawn from APC candidate and issued to another APC member. It was the same case in Billiri East state constituency of Gombe State, where PDP candidate lost to another PDP member.  Other constituencies where Certificates of Return were withdrawn from APC and issued to other candidates of the party are in Igabi Federal Constituency, Kaduna South federal constituency and Kaduna North II state constituency of Kaduna State; Takai/ Sumaila Federal Constituency; Gaya state constituency and Gezawa/Gabas Awa Federal Constituency of Kano State.  Others are in Bakori/ Danja Federal Constituency of Katsina State; Arewa/ Dandi Federal Constituency of Kebbi State; Esha/ Shawo/Igbo Idum State Constituency of Kwara State; Ilorin South State Constituency of Kwara State; Niger East Senatorial District of Niger State and Kontagora/ Mairiga/Mashegu/Wushishi Federal Constituency. Also, INEC withdrew certificates of return from APC candidates in Suleja/ Tafa/Gurara Federal Constituency and Magama/ Rijau Federal Constituency, as well as Lavun State Constituency and Suleja State constituency, all of Niger State, and issued to other APC candidates.  INEC has learnt some lesson from the incidents as it declared: “Going forward, we will not accept the submission of names of candidates by political parties under Section 31of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) unless there is evidence, monitored by the commission, of compliance with the provision of Section 87 of the Act. Party members interested in contesting elections start as aspirants before they emerge as candidates through the democratic process of direct or indirect primaries enshrined in Section 87 of the Electoral Act.  “It is only after they comply with this requirement of the law can their names be submitted to INEC under Section 31.” He stressed the importance of political parties to conduct credible primaries for the nomination of candidates, adding that the nation’s democracy and the electoral process “cannot be virile unless political parties rise to the challenge of internal party democracy. “It is in this context that the latest judgements of the Supreme Court are crucial steps in strengthening our electoral jurisprudence.”  Danger foretold Though the APC had declared that the Supreme Court decision in Zamfara on the National Assembly, Governorship and State Assembly elections was a miscarriage of justice, and an imposition of ‘strangers’ to govern the people of Zamfara State, observers believe that the party should have seen the hand writing on the wall if its legal department had studied a combination of the Electoral Act and the party’s constitution. Oshiomhole, who gave the position of the ruling party on the issue, said it was wrong for the Supreme Court to have awarded the victory given to the ruling party by the electorate to the PDP, suggesting that the Supreme Court should have ordered INEC to conduct fresh elections in Zamfara State! But the gale of events seemed to have rather corroborated the position of many governors and party leaders earlier that the APC Chairman lacks the qualities and experience expected of a party leader. Hence, it was hardly surprising that Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Deputy National Chairman, North, threw another spanner in wheels of the APC as called for the resignation of Oshiomhole for allegedly failing to add any value to the APC since his election. Also, immediate past Communication Minster, Mr. Adebayo Shittu and a former presidential aspirant, Mumahai Unagha have joined voices to call for Oshiomhole’s resignation. Shuaibu, a native of Zamfara State, for obvious reasons accused the chairman of incompetence, high handedness and immaturity in his handling of the affairs of the partya dding that APC had lost control of seven states under Oshiomhole. “I am a critical stakeholder in the APC project and therefore, have a stake for which I reserve the right to write this letter to you. This is, however, in addition to my being a legitimately elected Deputy National Chairman, North at the last National Convention, and not because I have any higher stake in APC than any other member.”  To him, Oshiomhole lacked the capacity and necessary composure to lead the party, hence the respect and sympathy the APC used to enjoy among its members and sympathisers before Oshiomhole emerged as its Chairman had been eroded. “It is my honest opinion that your ability to ensure this party flourishes is deficient as you lack the necessary composure and you also don’t possess the capabilities and requisite experience to run a political party,” he said. While some have argued that the current quagmire in the party is a battle of who holds what in 3023, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC is undoubtedly worried about the development, hence the inauguration of a five-member committee to review the numerous petitions on anti-party activities of some members from states. It is indeed a great battle for the head of the committee, the party’s Deputy National Chairman (South), Otunba Niyi Adebayo, and the National Vice Chairman (South-West), Mr. Bankole Oluwajana; National Legal Adviser, Babatunde Ogala; National Treasurer, Adamu Fanda and National Disabled Leader, Misbau Lawal Didi. Pundits believe that the party needs a soul-searching and various criticism to identify the problems in order to regain its prime position in the subsequent elections. Otherwise, the impunity which precipitated the crumble of PDP in 2014 might be knocking on the ruling party’s door.   