Head of Kingston Bright Star Academy, Abule Egbe, Lagos State, Mr. Oyebode Moses, has said that they are not only teaching their students how to read and write but equipped them for future challenges. Speaking with our correspondent at the school event to celebrate the children’s day, Oyebode said that for their students to be able to fit into the present society, they go extra miles in equipping them. Oyebode said: “The present society like Nigeria need students who are creative and skillful. So, that they will be making meaning contributions towards the development of the country. Days are gone when, students will finish schooling and will get jobs easily. “Our students are trained to go out there and get something doing no matter how little it is. Students are equipped with various skills and empowerment programmes to enable them become employer of labours than searching for job after their graduations. Oyebode noted that in terms of academics, the school is 85 percent as compared to other schools in the state. The former entertainer who later became educationist said that the school set aside time to support the students in building career with them. “Like a student who wants to be a journalist, we will start engaging the person in the writing activities and other related areas of journalism in the school. We will take the student to media houses, so that he or she will begin to relate to the practitioners in the industry. When he graduate, it will be very easy for the person, to start doing something for himself or herself because, experience is very important in the world of labour market now. We recognize that and we are making our students very relevant and suitable for the opportunities out there, locally or internationally,” he said. He commended parents who have been supporting the school, one way or the other, assuring them that their children are in good hands. Oyebode appealed to the new state government to invest more in education as the sector is facing lots of challenge.