P revious videos uploaded to the Internet on the horrific attacks on former Senate Deputy President, Ike Ekweremadu, on Saturday, August 17, 2019, were such that cast doubts on the authenticity of the assault.   The amateurish pictures were unsteady, with limited apertural viewing, and dominated by background noise that it’s difficult to discern physical attacks from mere heckling by members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). But late on Monday, August 19, a more viewer-friendly video was played on an 11 p.m. repeat current affairs programme, “Journalists Hangout,” on TV Continental.  Watching the video, I was moved to tears seeing Professor Ekweremadu running, frighteningly, like a rodent (apologies) escaping from hunting children. His countenance was that of fear and alarm. It’s an unbelievable spectacle! Initially, he managed to escape from his attackers at the middle of the foreground of the venue for the Igbo New Yam Festival in Nuremberg, Germany. But they were unrelenting. Thinking he had spotted a possible sanctuary, he slid from them, turned right, and dashed, as his legs could carry him, into the foyer of the building. But he miscalculated!  Some person(s), ostensibly an accomplice(s), slammed the door against him, or pushed him into the waiting hands of his assailants. And behold! All imaginable missiles, including eggs, walking sticks and plastic water bottles were used on him, while his traditional Igbo regalia was ripped off his shoulders.  Without a few sympathizers that saved his neck, Ekweremadu could have been lynched by the crowd of angry members of the IPOB who, obviously baying for blood, were shouting, “beat him, hit him, don’t let him get away.”  It’s hectic “freeing,” and bundling him into a car that sped off amidst pelting and cursing by the maddening crowd, while some German security operatives watched as if it’s a picnic.  Ekweremadu’s humiliation in a “strange land” has elicited strong and robust condemnation across Nigeria. Criticisms came in torrents from the Presidency; the leadership of the National  Assembly; South-East governors and their counterparts elsewhere; the Ohanaeze Ndigbo and other nationality bodies; the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); and concerned groups and individuals. Sadly, the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, and his members are un-remorseful and unapologetic. They gloried in their action, and promised similar treatment on targets they had drawn up.  They include: President General of Ohanaeze, Chief Nnia Nwodo, Governors Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), and Willie Obiano (Anambra), and prominent Igbo in government.  Utterly disconcerting was watching or reading our so-called elite, including journalists, joining the average Igbo, who seem to have swallowed the Kanu and IPOB “bait,” to hail the attacks, and egged the malevolent on to “more action.”  What’s IPOB’s grouse? Its spokesman, Emma Powerful, either for himself or Mr. Kanu, labelled those targeted as having “connived with Nigerian government to instigate, finance and defend a full-scale bloody military invasion of Biafraland, during ‘Operation Python Dance’ by the military in the South-East.”   Mr. Powerful said the IPOB, “not in the habit of excusing intolerable evil and wickedness,” would ensure that, “every perpetrator of evil, every purveyor of iniquity, every merchant of misery and every defender of injustice must and will be held to account. We will not relent until justice is served.” Most people would wonder the kind of justice the IPOB mouthpiece talked about. Is it the justice of “mob action” or justice of intellectual discourse, in which leaders, perceived to have failed the people, are persuaded to join and even lead the cause?  It appears the IPOB members are ambivalent in rationalizing their position. They’ve changed from Ekweremadu’s alleged backing for the military “invasion” of the South-East, to his being selfish, and a “Nigerian,” as the reason(s) for attacking him.  As they observed: “Igbo politicians, like Ekweremadu, loved Nigeria (more) than the owners of Nigeria; a case of being more Catholic than the Pope. For a mere slave role, they love their prison and zealously promote a system that puts their people down.”  Well, this is the crux of the matter: Ekweremadu (and others), as a representative, reportedly failed to “gauge the anger and fury in their land,” and instead, tried to exhort “angry” IPOB members with “patriotic rhetoric” about Nigeria that they deride as a “Zoo.”  And he made the “unpardonable” mistake of appearing at the Nuremberg “festival” dressed in an Igbo regalia ornamented with the Nigerian “Coat of Arms.” One could imagine the “revulsion” in the IPOB members, who had evidently planned to humiliate Ekweremadu, seeing him bedecked in a material embossed with Nigeria’s “insignia.” They might have felt his “audacity” and “insensibility” to their agitation!  Yet, they could have handled the matter differently, by engaging, and letting him know the “folly” of coming to such a gathering with a tell-tale sign he wasn’t “on their side” of the struggle for Biafra. But attacking Ekweremadu, and threatening other Igbo leaders not only detracts from IPOB’s preachment of “non-violence,” but also unwittingly plays into government’s narrative for labelling it as a “terrorist organization,” and appropriately proscribing it.  I haven’t met Senator Ekweremadu in flesh and blood (our paths have crossed due to my writings), but I have followed his journey in the public sphere. Nigerian “dirty” politics apart, I think he’s a gentleman, who loves his people, Ndigbo, first, and even more than the country in general. That’s true for all politicians, and political officeholders, the world over. They “pretend” to love the country more, whereas they only scavenge for what to maximize to advance sectional interests.  Without being rabid and confrontational about it, Ekweremadu has pursued, and represented the interest of Ndigbo, especially during his tenure as the Deputy President of the Senate. For many citizens, particularly IPOB members, who didn’t know about it, the Nuremberg attacks have prompted prominent Ndigbo, and other Nigerians, to reveal the actual “surety” for Kanu’s bail. He’s Senator Ekweremadu, who, as the Number Four in the hierarchy of governmental power, deployed his influence to see that Kanu enjoyed the bail that the courts had granted to him.  It would have looked odd for Ekweremadu to volunteer as the “guarantor” for Kanu. Hence, he and major stakeholders voted for Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe to lead the “sureties” for him. So, it’s ironic that Kanu has listed, as targets for IPOB attacks, the very persons that ensured he’s breathing an air of “freedom.” And they began with Ekweremadu, who, forgiving his assaulters, went biblical: “They know not what they do.” (Luke 23:34) Aptly said!