The General Officer Commanding (GOC) Division two of the Nigerian Army, Major General Anthony Bamidele Omozoje yesterday said the Nigerian Army would partner with the Police in tackling insecurity in the South-West geo-political zone. Omozoje assured the officers and men at the Division that their welfare would be of importance to the Nigerian Army. Inspector General of Police had already deployed special squad to tackle henious crime especially kidnapping in the state. But speaking at the 32 Artillery Brigade, Owena Cantoment, Akure, the Ondo State capital after the commissioning of six kilometers of road and Artillery Gun at the barracks, Omozoje said the Nigerian Army had already deployed soldiers in the South-West to complement effort by the Police. He said: “The army is already deployed in the southwest.  The headquarters is the 32 Army Artillery Brigade here in Akure and it is one the divisions in the command which covers six states of the Southwest. “We are conducting various operations across the six states of the South West under the GOC 2 Division including Edo State, so whatever the police is doing, we complement their effort, because in internal security, police take the lead. “This is done in recognition of the role that the army is playing in providing security, supporting government to function and this will impact on the welfare of officers and troops of this brigade. And with that, it will also have multiplier effect to deliver on their ability and capacity to deliver on the statutory mandate. “So, welfare is a key aspect of the military duties. It was done with the effort of the Brigade Commander to secure the area and beautify the environment.” The Deputy Governor of the State, Hon Agboola Ajayi said the government embarked on the renovation of the barracks in order to boost the morale of the military. According to him, “the military has sacrificed a lot, so their environment should be well kept. It now one of the best and cleanliness barracks we have in Nigeria. “They are here to protect us, so we have to ensure that they live in a decent environment and that is what we have done so that they can continue to do more. The road network is about six kilometers and it is in billions. “As regards the police barracks we will think of what we can do because they are also here to take care of Ondo State citizens. We must also make sure that they are properly taken care of and live in a decent environment. We will soon reach out to the police barracks.”