Prince Okey-Joe Onuakalusi is the Coordinator, Christian Lawyers Fellowship of Nigeria (CLASFON), Lagos sub-region. In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on insecurity, judiciary’s independence, prison reforms and sundry issues    There has been a change in the nomenclature of the Nigeria Prisons Service following the recent signing of the Nigerian Correctional Service Bill 2019 into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. What reforms are you expecting in the nation’s prison system with this new development?   Prior to the emergence of the law, prisons were seen as places of punishment and prisoners are usually stigmatized.   This, however, should not be the case because the essence of prison ought to be a way of taking someone who have committed a crime out of the society and placed him in a place where he will be able to re-adjust into the system before bringing him back to the society.   This new arrangement of Nigerian Correctional Service system brings out what is obtainable in advanced countries where correctional agencies are in existence for people who have been convicted for various minor offences.   This was done to take away any stigma of a prisoner. My expectation of the new legislation is that it will make prisoners better members of the society.   I know for a fact that the organization I represent, the Christian Lawyers Fellowship of Nigeria (CLASFON), do visit prisons, made donations as well offer free legal services to prisoners. Through our legal services, we have been able to rehabilitate some of them.   We hope that government will be able to implement all that were contained in the new law for a thorough reformation, revamping and rejigging of our prison system.   I also hope that mechanism that will make our prisons truly correctional facilities will be put in place by government. Officers who will man these Correctional facilities must also be trained.   What is your advice to the Federal Government on how to tackle the growing spate of insecurity in the country?   The primary responsibility of any government is the protection of lives and property of the citizens. So, it is the responsibility of the government in power to ensure that people’s lives are secured.   It no longer news that the country is battling with insecurity. There is no part of Nigeria that is safe. I expect President Muhammadu Buhari to show leadership and act fast in rejigging the security architecture of the nation.   The president as the leader must take responsibility for any failure of security. There is no reason for any buck passing. He must also be able to harness the best brains in all security outfits and assign roles to them, in a bid to secure the country. Any of the security officials found wanting should be shown the exit door.   In order to tackle the menace, the vigilante groups at the grassroots must work together with other security outfits.   Besides, the National Assembly should repeal the existing Police Act and put another Act that accommodate 21st century policing in place. The responsibilities of both the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Commissioners of Police should be well defined by law.   Traditional rulers should also be incorporated into the issue of security. These monarchs as leaders in their various domain should endeavour to make prompt report of any criminal activity to law enforcement agents.   Another thing we must address on the issue of insecurity is our porous borders. Foreigners now enter the country unhindered without being queried. This can only happen in Nigeria. I don’t know what the Federal Government is doing on this anomaly. There should be proper documentations of people leaving and entering the country. These are some of the measures I think can be taken to address the problem of growing insecurity in Nigeria.   What do you think should change in the fight against corruption in President Buhari’s second term in office?   There must be a measure to ensure that institutions work in this country. Once the institutions are functioning effectively, we will have lesser corruption.   The various anti-graft agencies cannot even carry out their functions optimally because institutions are not working effectively. Therefore, the president, in his second term in office, must ensure that institutions are working if the anti-graft war is to be fought successfully.   Besides, everyone found to have indulged in corruption must be brought to book irrespective of their tribe, religion or party affiliation. These are some of the things I expect in the fight against corruption in the president’s second term in office.   Many of your colleagues believed that the ineffectiveness of the National Judicial Council (NJC) coupled with the enormous influence of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) on members are responsible for the recent woes that befell the judiciary. Do you share their sentiments?   Let me start by expressing my regrets as to the fact that the Judiciary as we have it now is an appendage of the Executive. Ordinarily, the Judiciary should be able to raise its budget, defend it and manage it, just like the National Assembly.   But, I must also point out that the problem being faced in the Judiciary is an extention of what obtains in the larger Nigeria society. However, we must begin to look at the Judiciary as the last hope of the common man. Now to your question, I don’t agree with those who are saying that the National Judicial Council (NJC) is responsible for the recent woes that befell the judiciary. I believe the interference from other arms of government, particularly the Executive has been hampering the NJC in effectively discharging its functions. Look at the way the immediate past Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) was suspended from office by the president. This was done in a very clear breach of the Constitution. So, until the Judiciary is left alone by the Executive and be allowed to perform its Constitutional function as an independent arm of government, we may not get it right in this country.   How do you think the Judiciary can help in the fight against corruption?   The Judiciary can only help in the fight against corruption if it is truly independent. Besides, for the Judiciary to help in the anti-graft war, there must be incorruptible judges on the Bench.   On this, I want to say that we must take a second look at how judges are appointed. Nothing stop the National Judicial Council (NJC) from conducting exams for would-be judges and with that we can get the best brain on the Bench.   When we have qualified judges on the Bench, then it is equally important to take good care of them. Their welfare must be of paramount importance. When they were well taken care of, it is very possible that they will stay away from corrupt act and when that happens, they will dealt with cases before them judiciously without fear or favour.     