The House of Representatives recently resolved to constitute an ad hoc committee to investigate government expenditure on the power sector since 1999. PHILIP NYAM examines the issues involved  The erratic state of power supply in the country has been a source of concern to almost every Nigerian because it adversely affects the economic and industrial growth of the nation. Consequently, the Federal Government has since 1999 expended humongous amount of money on the sector to improve the situation without success. In the 7th Assembly, the House of Representatives under the leadership of Speaker Dimeji Bankole mandated the standing committee on power headed by the present minority leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu to investigate alleged expenditure of $16 billion on power between 1999 and 2007 by the Chief Olusegun Obasanjo administration. But the investigation ended up in controversial circumstances. Following the privatization of the sector by the then Goodluck Jonathan administration, many expected that since the sector is now in the hands of private owners, the story will be different. The current administration under President Muhammadu Buhari has also in the last four years spent huge sums of money, hoping to change the narrative. Unfortunately, the change has not been so significant. Just recently, the Federal Government entered into a deal with a German company, Siemens Ag, in its bid to find a lasting solution to electricity problems and perennial power challenges in the country. President Buhari had on July 22, met with the Siemens AG’s president, Mr. Joe Kaeser, to see how the partnership between Nigeria and Germany would help the nation come out of its present precarious power state. It was given this disappointing picture that the 9th House on July 25, resolved to set an ad hoc committee that will probe the administrations of Obasanjo, late Umaru Yar’Adua, Jonathan and Buhari on how much they invested into the power sector and obstacles working against its transformation. The ad hoc committee, which will investigate contracts and deals in the sector since 1999, is to submit its report in not more than six weeks. The decision was consequent upon the adoption of a motion sponsored by a member of the House, Hon. Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), which was titled “Need to review government expenditure on the power sector to ensure sustenance of the power reform programme in Nigeria” Leading debate on the motion, Soli noted that the objective of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act was to eradicate ineffectiveness in the sector for positive transformation that will enhance businesses and increase access to electricity by Nigerians. His words: “The House notes that the Electric Power Sector Reform Act was aimed at removing the ineffectiveness of the sector in order to transform it to a more efficiently-managed sector. The power sector reform was expected to open opportunities for the development of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs), increase access to electricity in processing farm produce, create job opportunities for Nigeria’s teeming graduates and enhance socio-economic development of the country. “The House recalls that an investigative hearing was conducted by the House of Representatives in 2008 over the alleged spending of about $16 billion on the power sector. The set power generation target was that by year 2020, the nation would have achieved 40,000MW based on the alleged investments in the proposed power plants, but till date, such generation target has eluded the nation. “The House acknowledges the lamentation by the President (Muhammadu Buhari) to the effect that such huge sums of billions of dollars could be spent without commensurate results in the generation, transmission and distribution of power supply in the country.” The House claimed that so far money spent in the sector has not yielded much result. The committee is to conclude its probe within six weeks and submit its reports to the House. During his electioneering campaign in 2015 elections, President Buhari was quoted as alleging that “When the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) came to power in 1999, Nigeria was generating about 4,000MW of electricity. After 15 years and $20 billion spent we are generating between 3,000 and 4,000 MW.” But, the PDP countered his claim, submitting that “as at May 29 1999, when PDP took office, Nigeria was generating 1,600MW,” but that today the country generates “4,568 MW of electricity.” The Presidential Task Force on Power recorded generation of 3,800MW in December 2013. As of 28 October, it was generating 4,327MW. But according to the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), generation in 1999 stood at only 1,750 MW. But installed capacity stood at 5,906 MW. The reason for that, the commission stated, is that at that time “of the 79 generation units in the country, only 19 units were operational.” However, shortly before the end of President Buhari’s first term, the then Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, gave some insights into the performance of the current administration in the power sector. He disclosed that “incremental, steady and stable plan did not record a high success because a number of power projects initiated to boost the power supply situation in the country have either been stalled or have yet to be completed.” He informed that when he assumed duties in 2015, there were some ongoing key power projects in 2015, which he promised to continue and complete. Among these are the 718 megawatts (MW) Zungeru Hydropower in Niger State, the 215MW Kaduna Power Plant, the 40MW Gurara Hydropower in Kaduna State and the 10MW Katsina Wind Farm. According to him, government initiated the 240MW Afam VI Fast Power and the 3050MW Mambilla Hydro-Power projects in Taraba State. But sadly, none of these projects was delivered before he handed over though substantial work has gone into them. The 10MW Katsina Wind Farm is expected to be commissioned by October, 2019, after a timeline for that was missed in 2018. The 40MW Gurara Plant is not yet commissioned so is the 240MW Afam Fast Power, which is taking over two years to complete. Fashola also disclosed that power generation was over 4,500MW when he assumed office, but as at May 2019, the peak generation had risen to 5,375MW. He, however, said that basic fluctuation, systems collapse and power rationing still exist. He also noted that generation capacity rose from 6,000MW to 7,500MW; transmission capacity, from 5,500MW in 2015 to 8,100MW in 2018, while distribution rose from 4,500MW to 5,375MW in 2019. The Buhari administration also declared the Customer Eligibility policy and initiated a Meter Assets Providers (MAP) policy. The Eligible Customer was declared in May 2017 and by November, NERC was pressured to roll out the regulation to allow customers who use power over 2MW to connect directly to a GenCo and have TCN transport the power to them. It was to ensure that a debated 2,000MW stranded energy is evacuated to attain steady and incremental power as well as boost supply to manufacturers. Insiders said NERC and the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) slowed the pace for the policy to kick off despite Fashola’s support for the regulation. The MAP was pursued by the Buhari administration since 2017 and materialised in March 2018, when NERC unveiled the regulation to allow customers to buy metres to stop the chaotic regime of estimated billing. The government also intervened to assist the DisCos by ensuring that over N90 billion energy debt owed by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) were verified and cleared. The Federal Government’s debts were verified at about N50 billion and were offset against the energy debt DisCos owed Niger Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET). DisCos have recorded more payment from MDAs due to those interventions and the mass metering of those maximum demand or large power users. The government is also said to have introduced the Distribution Expansion Programme (DEP), which has not been fully functional. But it is believed to involve a N72 billion investment in distribution networks to help distribute more power, especially in supporting the eligible customer regulation. Despite these efforts, it is not yet Uhuru in the power sector. The ad hoc committee will therefore be seeking to find out the mystery associated with power generation and distribution in Nigeria. It will also seek to find out how much has been expended; whether it was judiciously used or misappropriated; and perhaps preferred solutions on how to resolve the problem once and for all.