How to reverse the current trend in which some Nigerian food products are rejected in the international markets was the focus of an interagency meeting between the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and some relevant agencies. The agencies have consequently teamed up with NAFDAC to ensure the safety of agricultural food produced locally as well as facilitate their marketing especially at the international market at the same time. The meeting tagged ‘Effective Inter- Agencies Collaboration as a Means to Diversify Nigerian Economy through Export,’ which held in Lagos at the weekend was attended by officials of the Nigerian Customs Service, Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Shippers Councils, Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Nigeria Agricultural and Quarantine Service (NAQS), among others. The meeting is expected to be a continuous nationwide awareness on food safety under the Inter-Agency collaboration forum. The Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof. Christiana Mojisola Adeyeye lamented the rejection of Nigerian food products abroad. According to her,  the rejection was not only about losing money but losing Nigeria’s image. “We are working together to ensure that bad products do not go out of the country anymore and that is one of the reasons why we scheduled this meeting so that we can consolidate our efforts. From our discussion, we are planning to consolidate through enlightenment, targeted sensitisation and consolidated testing of these products between SON and NAFDAC. “We want our people to understand the right thing to do before they ship their products outside the country.” “We have the instrumentation to detect Azo-dye. We take samples to the laboratory to ensure that whatever is sold to our people doesn’t have this dye that can destroy our kidneys.” Corroborating her views, the Technical Assistant to the Director General’s Office, Mrs. Simidele Onabajo  who stated that the meeting was to look at the state of the commodities and products consumed locally as well as those exported out of Nigeria, said the inter-agency collaboration would motivate diversification of the economy through systematic mechanism to facilitate export for Nigeria.