The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has once again expressed fears that Nigeria is collapsing under President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) government. The party, which rose from its weekly National Working Committee (NWC) meeting yesterday, noted the escalating insecurity, rising political uncertainties, biting economic hardship as well as prevailing tension in all parts of the country. PDP said in a statement after the meeting by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, that the nation, which was a prosperity hub and a reference point for democracy, personal freedom and good governance, now has all the trappings of a failed state. It blamed this on the inability of President Buhari to guarantee security of lives and property of Nigerians, regretting that the people now take their destinies in their hands. “It is clear that the APC and the Buhari presidency have held Nigerians hostage. “Nigerians are now being treated like a conquered people. They can no longer freely exercise their constitutionally-guaranteed rights. “Executive high-handedness have become a state policy, just as the APC government, burdened by challenges of illegitimacy, has lost direction and only thriving in vindictiveness,” PDP noted. It added that the red flag has been raised following the manifest total loss of faith by Nigerians across the board. PDP added that due to the prevailing anti-democratic proclivities of President Buhari’s administration, the once cohesive and economically thriving nation has come under distress on all fronts. According to the party, never in the history of the country has the fault lines become so visible, noting that uncertainty now envelopes the nation. “Our party has also noticed that since the defence of the APC and President Buhari collapsed at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, APC and its government have taken to harassment and repression of Nigerians by surreptitiously suspending constitutional provisions of freedom of speech and association in our country. “Many compatriots are being taken in as political prisoners all in a bid to foist a siege mentality and suppress public opinion. “Today, the Buhari presidency cannot guarantee the security and safety of citizens. Bloodletting and violence have become the order of the day. “Invaders, insurgents, kidnappers and killers have taken over major highways and communities; our nation’s security machinery has become overstretched; Nigerians now live in palpable fear; they cannot freely travel within their country and government has no answers. “On the economic front, President Buhari has ruined our economy and led our nation to become the world’s capital of poverty, while condoning the humongous corruption that has become the hallmark of his failed administration. “Sadly, President Buhari’s anti-development policies, the corruption in his government as well as its failure to provide security have scared away foreign investors from our nation,” the party added. It recalled that the United Nations recently declared that 43 per cent of Nigeria’s Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has taken flight to other countries. “Unemployment has gone out of proportion and there is no hope in sight. “Our worry is that the prevailing situation of hopelessness under President Buhari and APC is threatening our national cohesion and corporate existence as a nation,” PDP said. The opposition party called on Nigerians of good faith as well as the international community to come to the rescue by speaking out against the prevailing situation in the country before it is too late. However, APC has said that the allegation of the opposition PDP that Nigeria was collapsing under the government of President Buhari does not worth its response. According to the ruling party, when the opposition makes a genuine allegation, the party would respond. APC’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said there was nothing for the party to respond to. “When they have a good case or allegation, we will respond, but for this, it does not worth our response,” Issa-Onilu told New Telegraph.