President Muhammadu Buhari has called on election management bodies (EMBs) in West African sub-region to conduct credible elections to ensure stability of democracy in the region. Buhari, who spoke yesterday at the 6th biennial General Assembly of Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Network of Electoral Commission (ECONEC) in Abuja, particularly said the successful conduct of November 24 presidential election in Guinea Bissua would facilitate withdrawal of ECOWAS troops from that country. The president, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, noted that with the successful conduct of parliamentary elections in Guinea Bissau in March this year, the country has taken a leap towards the stability of civil democracy. “I want to assure you of Nigeria’s continued assistance because credible election in our sub-region is not only good for democracy and periodic elections, it is also good for overall sub-regional stability. “We cannot allow the failure of the political process to destabilise our countries to the extent that regional military intervention becomes inevitable as is unfortunately still the case in the sub-region,” Buhari stated. He added that despite the progress achieved so far, more needs to be done by the regional governments through legislation. The Nigerian leader charged political parties to ensure inclusivity in the nomination of candidates for election. “This is a very encouraging sign of our steady progress in ensuring that all segments of our society have a voice in the management of public affairs, especially through the democratic process,” he added. He also charged the EMBs in the sub-region to support one another in conduct of elections, stating that in the last two years Nigeria was chairman of ECONEC,it has been a strong advocate for Nigeria’s bilateral electoral assistance to countries in the sub-region based on need. “Within the limits of available resources, Nigeria has responded by providing material and technical support to ECONEC. “The more recent examples include logistics support to Sierra Leone, deployment of experts from INEC on the request of ECOWAS and the United Nations to assist in cleaning up the voters’ register in Liberia ahead of the Presidential run-off election in 2017 and the provision of voter registration equipment to Guinea Bissau which facilitated the conduct of parliamentary election in March this year,” the president disclosed. Outgoing Chairman of ECONEC, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, lamented the high cost of conducting elections in the sub-region. Yakubu also called for proper funding of ECONEC, disclosing that the sub-regional electoral body recently commissioned experts to undertake a study on cost of conducting elections in the sub-region through the support of OSIWA,” Yakubu stated.