Pauline Onyibe reports on the intriguing battle within the Bayelsa State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over who flies the party’s flag in the forthcoming November 16 governorship election in the state   It is another election year in Bayelsa State after the 2015 governorship poll that was a keen contest between the incumbent governor, Seriake Dickson and a former governor of the state, Chief Timipre Sylva. The poll, held on December 5, 2015 was the second test of might between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC), after the March/April 2015 general elections. The first was the November governorship poll in Kogi State. While the 2015 election is now history, it will amount to political gamble for any of the parties to rely on the variables that shaped it going into the forthcoming governorship contest given that politics remains dynamic. For instance, the APC seized the opportunity of the 2019 general elections to make inroad into Bayelsa State that was hitherto under PDP’s grip. The ruling party at the centre was able to win a senatorial seat, two House of Representatives seats and four seats in the state House of Assembly. Again, the fact that whichever way the pendulum swings in the forthcoming November 16 poll in the state will further strengthen the confidence of the two leading parties ahead of the 2023 general elections, will see both sides deploying all they could to either consolidate on what they have or extend frontiers. Governor Dickson, who recently reasoned along this line, while speaking at a forum in Yenagoa, acknowledged that the battle for his successor is going to be a defining moment for the state. His words: “The last governorship election is still fresh in the memories of Bayelsans. It was more than an election, it was a war. The 2019 governorship may not be any different. The stakes are high as some persons are desperate to capture the state regardless of how unpopular they are among the people. “In their desperate bid to launch a deadly come back, they have begun to gradually disrupt security architecture in the state. This they have done by using their privileged positions against the people. In 2019, they are expected to be more daring, but as always, Bayelsans know them and in line with true Ijaw spirit, the people are ready to repel every attempt to circumvent their will.” Though there may be justification for governor’s fears of reoccurrence of violence given the build-up to the poll, the question many political analysts and observers in the state have asked, is: Has the PDP presumed to be an Ijaw party done well in the state to deserve to be re-elected? While the question can be answered by the people of the state, the belief in some quarters is that it is has been a mixed grill for Bayelsans in the second term of the Dickson’s restoration government. This, analysts say, if not properly handled may hamper the chances of PDP returning to the Creek Haven as Bayelsa government house is known. At the moment, some notable political gladiators in the state, especially those of PDP extraction, have already picked expression of interest forms at the cost of about N26 million, despite the seeming division in the party. The PDP in Bayelsa State has two camps; that of former President Goodluck Jonathan and that of Governor Dickson. While the former president seems to be supporting some aspirants, the governor has his own people. Though the party’s spokesman in the state, John Macbere, at a time said there is no truth in that, the fragmentation seems to be playing out now as the Dickson’s camp through the office of the Special Adviser to the governor on Political Affairs, Fyneman Wilson, recently mentioned some names being supported by the Restoration Government. They are Kemela Okara, the current Secretary to the State Government, who is from Bayelsa Central and a son of Ekpetiama kingdom, where Arch. Reuben Okoya and Keniebi Okoko (also aspirants) are from. Another personality is the Chief of Staff, Government House, Talford Ongolo, who is from Southern Ijaw Local Government Area in Bayelsa Central. Outside the governor’s camp are the likes of Douye Diri, the senator representing Bayelsa Central Senatorial District and a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Timi Alaibe who has already obtained the form to contest the PDP governorship primary election. Wilson’s dropping of the names was on the heels of the fasting and prayers organised by the Restoration Government to choose the next governor of the state. But, some people are tempted to think that Dickson is technically trying to dislodge some those who have already obtained forms for the PDP primary election as he had repeatedly said that people cannot be outside watching, while others are busy making the party attractive only for them to come and pick tickets to become governor. Dickson even at the last day of the fasting and prayers said the people of the state will not elect an ungodly person as their next governor. According to him, the state will never again experience governance by cult elements as well as crude and brutal human beings, whose aim is bloodletting, killings and violence. He also restated his call to the people of the state to resist cultists who could use the temptation of political offices to lure the youth to dangerous practices. His words: “Let me remind us of some of the very powerful pronouncements that our men of God and fathers of our faith have led us to declare for the past seven years and still counting. One of the most important is that only a man after God’s heart, not a man who is not destined by God, who wants to take it by violence, no such person shall ascend the position of governor. Not one who does not subscribe, understand, submit to the authority and divine mandate of God over our lives shall ascend the seat of governor.” Governor Dickson said that the essence of the three-day programme was to seek God’s guidance and control of the transition process to reveal his successor. He added that the governorship seat of the state had been handed over to God, which will make it impossible for cultist or anyone involved in occultic practices to occupy the position.