Armed robbers have attacked reverend sisters at Nativity Convent in Okwunga area of Ugbokolo, Okpokwu, Benue State. The attack on the convent came as the police in Gboko Local Government Area yesterday arrested a suspected notorious kidnapper, Chile Kama (32) and a kidnap kingpin, Mr. Terna Tsega (61) at Mbaamandev, Mkar, near Gboko after they rescued a victim. The attack on the convent occurred on Tuesday. Rev. Fr. Ojaje Idoko said in a statement that a white Toyota Hiace bus belonging to the church, branded Sisters of Nativity, was stolen during the robbery. Ojaje gave the registration number of the bus as Lagos APP786AS, engine number (2TR8466172) and chassis number (JTFO2P20O045264). The reverend appealed to anyone with useful information that could lead to the recovery of the vehicle to contact the nearest police station. Meanwhile, a source said Kama and Tsega were arrested through well-coordinated intelligence information on the kidnappers from locals and vigilantes. The source said: “The villagers of Mbaamandev community, Ipav, Gboko, alerted the police when they discovered that a member of the community, Mr. Terna Tsegba, who is a ‘staff’ of NKST Rehabilitation Hospital, believed to be a kingpin of the kidnappers, escaped with the kidnappers through his 504 Peugeot car last night and the police swiftly picked him up this morning (yesterday). “With the aid of the vigilantes and the locals, the police were able to arrest Mr. Chile Kama at a village between Masaje and Ameladu, who is suspected to be a notorious member of the kidnappers, who carried out operation in Gboko yesterday.” When contacted, the Area Commander, Gboko, ACP Agene Emmanuel, declined comment. “All I know is that there is an order from the Inspector General of Police that serious security be beeped up in Gboko to get rid of the criminals. As you can see, I am very busy. In short, I am on my way out,” he said. Similarly, on Tuesday, the police rescued a 61-year-old man, who is a Nigerian Brewery distributor, Mr. John Akombo, from the hands of abductors, also in the area. Witnesses told New Telegraph that the team of security Joint Task Force from the Police A Division Area Command and the Army pursued the abductors from J. S. Tarka Way, overpowered them and rescued the victim around Mbaamandev, Mkar- Ameladu Road, Gboko. But Akombo said, “the well-armed abductors numbering four came in a tinted bulletproof ash colour Honda Pilot ‘Jeep,’ approached me in my office and forced me into their vehicle. “My friend picked my car, followed us behind closely and alerted the police officers on patrol, who trailed, opened fire on the abductors, punctured one of their front tyres and overpowered them around Mbaamandev Mkar-Ameladu Road and I was rescued. Glory be to God and thanks to the police”.