…victim, others die in accident on way to court during trial  An Evbuoriaria Magistrates’ Court near Benin, Edo State, yesterday sentenced a 52-year-old herbalist, Jacob Alonge, to 21 years imprisonment for impregnating his 17-year-old daughter, Gift. Alonge, an indigene of Ososo in Akoko-Edo Local Government Area of Edo State, was convicted on a three-count charge of unlawful possession of fetish wrap of his daughter’s pubic hair, unlawfully and indecently having carnal knowledge of his biological daughter and repeated sexual assault and impregnating her. Sadly, Gift, who was five months pregnant, and four others prosecuting Alonge, died in a motor accident on January 16. The five victims were travelling to Benin for the judgement when they met their untimely death. Other victims in the accident were Miss Rhoda Braimoh, Miss Promise Ezekiel (an official of a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), known as Brave Heart Initiative (BHI) for Youth and Women, which has been assisting in the prosecution of the case, the victim’s maternal uncle, Mr. Ukere Adagbogu, and the driver of the vehicle in which they were driving in, Mr. Paul Opashi. Moments after the convict learnt that his daughter had died, he recanted his plea from guilty to not guilty and the case started afresh. But in her ruling yesterday, the magistrate, Mrs. D. I. Adamaigbo, sentenced Alonge to five years (count one), two years (count two) and 14 years (count three). They are to run consecutively. She said: “He (Alonge) consecutively had sex with her (the victim) who is his own daughter and got her pregnant and thereby subjected her to shame and emotional stress; may her soul rest in peace. “To serve as deterrent to others and would-be offenders, we are of the opinion that the defendant should not have a space in a decent society.” Adamaigbo said the statement of the victim and the evidence of the PW1 confirmed what the victim said that “she was five months pregnant and that she was demoralised, emotionally distressed is sufficient corroboration that the victim was indeed sexually assaulted.” She added: “It has been established beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had carnal knowledge of the victim as she said in her statement: ‘My father by name, Jacob Alonge, used to wake me up at night and said I should follow him for prayers when we reach inside the bush, he will force me and have sexual intercourse with me.’ “Then in the second statement which she made at the state police headquarters, she stated and I quote: ‘Last year, which is 2017, my father by name, Joseph Alonge, has been having sex with me. He threatened me not to tell anybody and if I do, he will kill me.’ “She stated further in the same statement that and I quote: ‘One night, he called me and put me on top of a stone and used razor blade to shave my private body and threatened me not to tell anybody.’ This statement was corroborated by the statement of the police in evidence. “The convict admitted in his statement and the law is that evidence admitted need no further proof. The defence that he was lured into the crime by his own daughter is an afterthought. We therefore find him guilty of each of the counts.” In her reaction, the Executive Director, BHI, Priscillia Usiobaifo, expressed happiness over the judgement. She said: “We have seen how resilience can prove a worthwhile. I am very happy that there is no option of fine because we have had several cases that we won and they will give options of fine and this has encouraged us and those that died did not die in vain.”