For the campaign against corruption to be successful in Nigeria, the National Assembly has a critical role to play, stakeholders at the 13th Anti-Corruption Situation Room (ACSR) held recently in Abuja resolved. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  Although corruption is a world-wide phenomenon as there is hardly any society without one form of corrupt practice or the other, but in Nigeria, corruption is a huge cankerworm that has eaten deep into the fabric of the society. To trace the bane of Nigeria’s socio-economic development to shades of corruption by successive administration is like calling a child by his name. The clock of development in Nigeria is usually pulled back by wanton corrupt acts and it is the reason why nothing much is coming out. However, the coming on board of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 gave a fresh fight against corruption and some measures and institutions were floated to at least checkmate the wanton graft in the country. Of course, Nigeria practices a federal system of government where the National Assembly through legislators plays vital roles in ensuring the success of any policy of the Executive through lawmaking and oversight functions. For Nigerians, aside from the executive, another critical arm of government that should be in the forefront of the war against corruption is the legislature. Forthwith, the manner at which the leadership of the current 9th Assembly emerged a few months ago gave a modicum of hope to not a few citizens of the country. Thus, Nigerians expect a robust, effective and efficient assembly with progressive legislation and oversight functions from the Ahmad Lawal-led National Assembly. Determined not to join the bandwagon of those playing only lip service to the fight against graft without a specific objective and agenda for government officials especially the National Assembly, foremost anti-corruption organization in Nigeria, Human and Environmental Development Agenda [HEDA] alongside its partners put together a one-day Anti-Corruption Situation Room (ACSR) summit with the theme “Setting Anti-Corruption Agenda for the 9th National Assembly”. The Anti-Corruption Situation Room (ACSR) is a platform for high-level engagement and review between anti-corruption stakeholders. The central objective is to build synergies and gather momentum for partnership  in the war against corruption between anti-corruption focused CSOs, labour movement, Media, Academia, parliamentarians, concerned citizens and the judiciary as a means of broadening discussions and monitoring progress in the fight to end corruption. Held at the Reiz Continental Hotel in Abuja on Thursday, August 22, the summit was presided by a former Director-General of the Inter-Govermental Action Group Against Money Laundering in West Africa, Prof. Shehu Abdullahi. The historic event had in attendance very rich layer of experts, professionals, labour, civil society, the media including the Chairman of the event, Special Adviser to the President on Social Intervention Programme, Mariam Uwais; Chief of Staff to the Deputy Senate President, Dr.Otive Igbuzor; DG National Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr Garba Abari; Mr. Femi Falana SAN; Coordinator, AFRICMIL, Mr. Chido Onumah and Mr. Auwalu Musa Rafsanjani represented by Mr. Jaclar Prusa(CISLAC). Others are Prof. Sola Akinrinade (ICPC Academy); Mr.Dayo Olaide (Deputy Country Director,MacArthur Foundation);  Dr. Aminu Guzau (EFCC Chairman Representative); Hon. Kayode Oladele; Dr. Bala Mohammed (Representative of ICPC Chairman), Ms. Ene Obi (Actionaid, Country Director), Hadjia Saudatu Mahdi(WRAPA General Secretary), Ms. Lilian Ekeanyanwu (Head TUGAR), and other eminent personalities. Stating the objective of the summit, HEDA Chairman, Mr. Olarewaju Suraju, said the forum is aimed at assisting the parliament and gives it a focus needed in making laws and oversight functions that will reduce corruption in the country. He said: “We can’t actually say at the end of the National Assembly session in four years that the lawmakers have failed to rise up to the occasion or failed to live up to the expectations of Nigerians if we haven’t given them an agenda to work with. “That is why we have found it fitting for us to have this gathering where we can say that within the next four years, citizens have set these milestones for the NASS in preference to lawmaking, oversight function and supervisory capacity.” Suraju said as the 9th Assembly reconvenes in September, lawmaking, oversight should be taken serious. He added that the government must review its policies and fund the agencies to meet the demand for an effective fight against corruption. For the chairman of the summit, Prof. Abdullahi, every stakeholder must contribute to the fight against corruption, adding that “Corruption is a problem and Nigerians talk about it everyday. Despite the concerns, corruption still stays with us. We don’t intend to eliminate corruption, but we can reduce it to its lowest minimum. “We are here to set an agenda for the National Assembly. But did they ask us to set an agenda for them? However, we will do what we are expected to do. From the constitutional provision, the National Assembly has the responsibility to enact the necessary legislative framework for the country to tackle corruption. “If we are going to set an agenda for the National Assembly, we need to engage them first and understand where the problems are,” he listed areas where Nigerians want the 9th Assembly to block corruption to include Budget Proposals, Constituency Projects, endless committee investigations and the remuneration of lawmakers. On his part, Dayo Olaide of McArthur Foundation said that in fighting corruption, Nigerian must move from name-calling to taking action. “The challenge appears to be that the country has lost the capacity to enforce the laws. The laws are not enough, people give bribes because they see more people doing it.” Aminu Ibrahim Gusau, who represented the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, said the anti-graft body was established by the National Assembly but wondered why the lawmakers “can’t guide the institution.” To Mrs. Ene Obi, the Director, ActionAid, there is the need to take the fight against corruption to all the states and local governments, adding that, “We need to fight corruption completely. People need to go to jail if they have to go to jail.” On his part, Falana urged for deeper oversight on government activities in the states and local governments, stating that the budgeting processes in the sub-national governments should be audited within the public view. Delivering his keynote address, Oladele highlighted the different challenges confronting the fight against corruption, urging for a critical analysis of Anti-Corruption legislations. “The National Assembly is the constitutionally ordained institution which is most democratically positioned to lead and direct the war against corruption in Nigeria.  It must rise to these constitutional and statutory responsibilities reposed on it and cooperate with the Executive arm of government towards the realization of this objective. “ The gathering which eventually broke into panel discussion with the first panel discussing on National Assembly, Anti-corruption, Civil Societies, and the Media; the Second panel discussed on Anti-corruption Agencies, fight against corruption, and the National Assembly, while the third panel discussed on Development Partners, Foreign Relations, Anti-corruption and the National Assembly. At the end of the discussions, the communiqué of the roundtable stated that participants recognize the past and present contributions of the National Assembly to the fight against corruption through  the enactment of laws like the Corrupt Practices and other Related Offenses Act 2000, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission,(Establishment Act 2002), the Public Procurement Act, 2007, the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit Act which draws its powers from the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 and the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit Act 2018 among many other bills pending in the National Assembly. They also recognized that the National Assembly, as part of its oversight functions, is also empowered to aid the investigation of crime, control the financial excesses of the tiers of government, expose corruption, waste or inefficiency including ensuring transparency in the disbursement of public funds. The summit however observed that in spite of the various anti-corruption laws, many loose ends persist as corruption continues to rear its head in every social, economic and political sphere in Nigeria. The communiqué read: “After exhaustive debates which involved panel discussions of experts from various fields backed by a very rich and robust input from contributors, the participants hereby make the following resolutions: “That the civil society are determined to assist in setting a new anti-corruption agenda for the 9th National Assembly with the hope of setting up the vigorous pursuit of anti-corruption campaigns in ways never before seen for the peace and prosperity of Nigeria. “Five critical areas identified as important to the anti-corruption watchdog responsibilities of the National Assembly: Budget Process; Constituency Project of lawmakers; Effective Oversight Functions of the legislators; Prompt release of the outcome of National Assembly investigations on corruption-related issues; opacity surrounding the budget, Remuneration, and Emoluments of the National Assembly which is of deep concern to Nigerians. “That the National Assembly should work with the civil society to promote the effective and efficient enforcement of anti-corruption laws and also ensure that the law enforcement agencies do not work at cross purposes but collaborate and complement to effectively fight corruption.” From the roundtable, it is lucid that the fight against corruption is not a sprint race but a marathon that demands the effort of all stakeholders. For Nigeria to move a needle in the fight against graft, the synergy between the National Assembly and the civil society must be strong especially as it involves the advancement of capacity and institutional building for the anti-corruption agencies for optimum performance.