 …parades 85 suspected cultists  Anambra State Commissioner of Police, Mr. John Bassey Abang, yesterday denied collecting N15 million bribe for the release of Mr. Emeka Agumadu, Awka main market leader, who was accused of sponsoring cultists. Speaking yesterday to a crop of journalists, Abang said that no such of money was paid to secure Agumadu’s bail. He said: “The crime in question is a bailable offence, which does not need money to secure. As far as I’m concerned, N15 million is a lot of money and nobody paid any money for his release. Some of those who were arrested in connection with the case, had been granted bail, while investigations are still ongoing.” Abang also paraded 85 suspected cultists, who were accused of terrorising the state. The Anambra State Anti-Cult Unit, headed by Mr. Christopher Bassey, had in the last three months, arrested 875 suspects, who are currently helping the command in its investigation. Abang, while parading the 85 suspects, disclosed that between August 10 and 19, the command arrested 85 suspected cultists. He added that they were arrested at various locations within the state. He added: “On August 10, at Awka/Aguleri/Umueri axis, 16 suspected cultists were arrested. Others were arrested at Oko/Amaokpala/Awka, gbariam/Ukwulu/Nkwelle Ezinaka, Ogidi, Obosi and Oko areas. The suspected cultists are members of the Aiye Confraternity, who came from different states within the South-East for initiation. “From all the raids carried out so far, a total number of 85 suspects were arrested, out of which 36 were screened out. Ten suspects were charged to court and another 10 were placed under police supervision for being underage, while 29 others are undergoing investigation. Exhibits recovered in their possession include six machetes, three berets, three improvised bunkers for inhaling substances suspected to be cocaine, three axes, one dagger, one sword and some quantity of weeds suspected to be cannabis sativa.” The police chief noted that in order to stem the tide of recent cult attacks in Awka and following intelligence report, the command’s Puff-Adder Operatives, on August 13, launched a manhunt of the hoodlums in Awka and arrested four. He said: “The suspected sponsors and members of Black Axe and Vikings confraternities, who were allegedly behind the attacks, have been arrested. The command is investigating the allegations and will bring perpetrators to justice when a prima facie case is established against them.” “One major factor responsible for the overall successes recorded by the command was the support of the good people of ‘Ndi Anambra,’ who were observed to have been extremely law-abiding and very cooperative with the personnel of the security agencies. “I acknowledge this fact and urge the people of the state to sustain this level of cooperation with the police at all times.”