Muritala Ayinla  There was mayhem this morning at the National Stadium, Surulere when a combined team of soldiers and officers of the Nigerian Police Forced fired canisters to disperse groups of protesters who had converged to commence what was tagged, “#RevolutionNow” protest. Although the law enforcement agents’ action was targeted at the protesters, other residents and business owners, who were just opening their shops, were also affected by the tear gas. New Telegraph learnt that as early as 7am protesters, comprising students and members of different civil rights’ groups, had started trickling into the venue of the rally. They were about strategizing on the demonstration before the security personnel began to fire tear gas canisters to disperse them. As the environment became tense and uncomfortable for the demonstrators following the tear gas in the air, some of the protesters took to their heels, while some others were arrested. It was observed that some officers of the Police Force and the Nigerian Army manned strategic places at the two main entrances into the National Stadium. The protesters expressed disappointment with the conduct of the law enforcement agencies, described their experiences as unfortunate. Among those affected was the Lagos State Chairman of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Alex Omotehinse. He said that it was unfortunate that the security will chose to disperse peaceful protesters simply because they were carrying out orders. According to him: “The protest was very peaceful from 7:00am not until the arrival of some policemen with the task force vehicles and black Maria came and started shooting teargas and live bullets. Some of the protesters were arrested and some sustained gun injury and more so the armed policemen went ahead and started harassing and arresting innocent passers-by. “I am highly disappointed in this Inspector General of Police if he can deployed such number of security men mixed with soldiers and policemen, that he sent to disperse harmless protesters today to fight insurgents, Nigeria would have been freed from insecurity.” Also lamenting the disruption of the protest, Berkley Adesanya, another protester, who suffered a minor arm injury, also accused the officers of high-handedness. He said he fell while running away and got his left arm bruised when police descended on them.