“My mother lives at Iyana-Oworo area of Lagos. I recently went to stay with her, and that was when cultists struck. “They were in group and were hunting for their targets. My mother was scared. She thought I had joined a cult group, but I assured her that I had not! They didn’t come to the community to attack because of me. After attacking their targets, they fled before the arrival of policemen.” This came from Jimoh Idris, who witnessed cultists in operation, when he went to visit his mother. Idris said he had never been as terrified as he was on the fateful day.  He added: “I can’t even begin to tell you how terrified I was on that day. My mother was scared to death. It was mental torture for everyone in that community, because we had to stay indoors until the cultists finished fighting.” The frightening insecurity situation in Lagos State, caused by escalating cult wars, has made many citizens to urge the state government and security agents to up their game. Last month, the Iyana-Oworo, Bariga and PPL Okokomaiko areas of the metropolis were turned into a warfront as cultists engaged one another in a deadly battle. The clash at Iyana-Oworo area and its environs occurred barely a week after suspected cult groups, Aiye and Eiye confraternities, attacked each other at the PPL and Okokomaiko areas. After the dust of the battle settled and head counts taken, it was discovered that two persons had been killed. Residents, who were caught up in the fight, sustained injuries. Investigations showed that suburbs like Somolu, Fadeyi, Mushin, Ojuelegba, Bariga, Shitta and their environs had witnessed cult-related clashes in the last five years and fallen victims in cult groups’ mindless attacks. A police source said: “These days, it seems like a normal thing for young boys to belong to cult groups. Their parents are aware of it, but they do not try to stop them. We found out that residents are living in fear and are not willing to speak out. These cult boys have different names. They are called ‘Feeling Stealing Boys,’ ‘EFCC Boys,’ ‘Down Town Boys,’ ‘Shaggy Boys,’ ‘Toba Boys,’ ‘Eiye and Aiye’ cult groups. “The Feeling Stealing Boys move in a group of about 50. Their ages are between 10 and 25. Their strength lies in their number. It is due to supremacy battle between rival cult groups that make them to kill and destroy property. Whenever cases of looting or raiding of houses are reported, we discover that the suspects almost certainly would belong to a cult group. The two major cult groups in Somolu and Bariga are the Eiye and Aiye gangs. “These boys are well known in the community. When we arrested and interrogated some of them, they confessed that they join cult groups to get protection. They told us that belonging to cult groups make them to feel secured and give them a sense of belonging. Such gangs engage in looting of houses to fend for themselves. Members of the community, where they operate, know them, but will never expose them.” According to investigations, from 2011 till date, cult clashes have led to the killing of many people in Lagos. Residents and passers-by usually get caught in the protracted fracas by cultists. A resident, who didn’t want his name mentioned, said: “During  a street football match recently, boys from Bariga, who are mostly Aiye cult boys, who came to watch the match at Odunlami Street in Somolu, were attacked by the Eiye boys in Somolu. A boy, Tijanni, was axed to death. The following day, Aiye cult caught up with Hammed and retaliated. Three days later, a boy named Elede was wounded by the Eiye boys at Rufai Street. The attack and counter-attack affected residents at Popoola, Oreofero Adifase, Osho and Fadipe streets.” Another resident, Kazeem Odunsi, said: “In a renewed gang war in Oduduwa area of Bariga, Aiye cult group, on reprisal mission, attacked Udeme, believed to be a member of Eiye over the attack of their member identified as Wisdom.  Udeme, with his Eiye gang members, attacked Wisdom. “Wisdom’s gang members from Aiye stormed Adefemi Street and attacked Udeme, leading to his right hand being chopped off. He was later killed and his corpse left to rot. About 8.15p.m. the next day, a cultist, 22-year-old Tunde Lawal, was shot dead by rival cult gang at Fadipe Street. Members of the Eiye cult rode on motorcycle to their base at Salami Street. Residents expressed joy over Tunde’s death as they accused him and others at large of raping a pregnant lady at the Abule-Ijesha area before the clash. The lady died due to the trauma of the rape.” A resident of Cole Street, Mr. Lanre Obada, said that cult clashes in Somolu and Bariga areas of the state had continued unabated. He said: “Over 20 young men have died in these senseless killings and there seems to be no end. The battle is always between the Aiye and the Eiye boys. It is a clash over supremacy of the area. Each time they go on the rampage, they leave behind tales of woe, looting, vandalism, robbery and all kind of atrocities. These killings are mindless and innocent residents are wounded and killed in the process. “During one of the fights at the Akoka area of Bariga, over 100 vehicles were vandalised. Residents were injured when suspected members of the Eiye confraternity attacked residents of Popoola and Akoka streets during a funeral rite of one of their members called ‘Old School.’ Old School was killed in another cult clash during a festival tagged: Judas Iscariot festival.” A patent medicine dealer at Bariga, who also didn’t want his name mentioned, said: “EFCC Boys cult group stormed No. 16, Onile Iyan Street, in the Sungas area of Bariga, where they killed two men and injured two others. The cultists were in search of Tijani and Oshodi, both members of Aiye, residingin that house 16, Onile Iyan Street. The cultists were wrongly informed of the two men exact room in the house. The cultists attacked Michael, an auto-mechanic and Jimoh, a generator engineer, who were fast asleep, with three other people in the room. They attacked these innocent men with machetes and killed them. When Tijani and Oshodi members got the information, they went to retaliate. They stabbed 25-year-old Osondu Boobu to death in a bar the following day.” A resident of Mushin, who also requested anonymity, said: “The cultists in Mushin area of Lagos State caused the killing of 29-year-old Bode. Bode was killed after members of a rival gang from Akodu Street attacked him at Adeyemi Street. Following the murder of Bode, his gang members from Adeyemi Street stormed Akodu area and vandalised cars and other properties. Cultists struck at Oyebola Street, Bariga and stabbed Lekan aka Stubborn in the stomach. His intestines gushed out. The cultists also moved to Adefise Street in Somolu that same day and murdered Tosin, popularly known as Eniba.” Last month, the police said they arrested over 100 persons suspected of belonging to various cult groups during the 7/7 celebration. The state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muiazu, said the cultists were arrested before they could cause mayhem and disturb public peace. According to police record, cultism has led to mindless killings, destruction of properties and disturbance of public peace in the metropolis. A former Lagos State Anti-Cultism boss, a Superintendent of Police (SP), Godwin Agbegbe, revealed that cult groups and their identifications include ‘Omije Cult’ known for bearing two teardrops at the lower right eyelid. They are based in Agege area of the state. The ‘Awawa Cult’ members inscribed one tear drop close to the right eye and are also in the Agege area of the state. Aiye Cult group, also known as the Black Axe confraternity, wear Black beret with two crossed axes. The Eiye Cult members inscribed bird on the arm. While the Buccaneers cult members wear yellow beret. The Vikings Cult members wear blue beret. Other cult groups include the ‘One Million Boys,’ based in Itire/Ijesha area of the state. They are also at Ajangbadi and Ojo areas. The ‘No Salary Cult’ group, with members between ages 12 and 16, are based in Itire area. The ‘No Case Cult’ group based is also Itire and the ages of the members also ranged between 12 and 16. The ‘Indomie Boys Cult’ group is based at Onipanu area. Further investigations revealed that other cult groups in Lagos include the EFCC Boys in Somolu, Feeling Stealing Boys in Bariga, Skipo Boys in Ebute-Metta, the Toba Boys in Mushin, the Falapa Boys, Onola Boys, Sego Boys and Idumota Boys, based on Lagos Island. The Aiye Boys and Eiye Boys are at Ajah while Vikings are at Ladipo and Alaba Market. Speaking on the increasing cases of crime among youngsters, experts said the youth “need to be gainfully employed to keep them from crime”. One of them is Mr. Gregory Imafidon, who organises yearly football tournament for under 15 boys to deter them from crime. He said: “All hands must be on deck to stop youngsters from engaging in crime. We need to catch them young.’’