Gabriel Uduafi, in this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, speaks on Federal Government’s proscription of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), Edo Assembly crisis and sundry issues   What is your take on the controversies trailing the proscription of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) by the Federal Government?   The Constitution is very clear; everyone is free to practice his or her religion. However, I am a bit skeptical when people are saying that because the IMN is a religious organization, they cannot be proscribed by government.   We should not forget that the dreaded Boko Haram terrorists group started like a religious organization. The ISIS also started in the name of religion. Every militant organization in the world today took off in the name of religion.   So, sometimes, it is better for us to look beyond what a group called itself. You can tell me you are a journalist and you are talking to me like a lawyer. Once, you start behaving as a lawyer, I will draw your attention to the fact that you told me you are a journalist. That is what is called checks and balances.  There must be a mechanism of checking people so that they will not engage in excessive propagation of a notion they claimed to hold, so that it will not pose a risk to the entire society. If the action of any group is posing a risk to the society, then those in authority should not fold their arms. So, taking a look at the activities of the Shi’ite Movement in recent times, can we say all their actions genuinely tend towards the propagation of any religion?   Let me ask you a question, will you be free to move around on a day you learnt that the Shi’ite Movement will be going on a procession? Of course, it will be impossible for you to do so.  For a group to attack the convoy of the Chief of Army Staff and attempt to shut down the National Assembly, I think all these go beyond the propagation of any religion.   I am in total support of government’s plan to check the excesses of this group. Even, if it is a Christian group that is indulging in such nefarious activities, it should not be spared.   Don’t you think government should also be blamed for all these crises having failed to honour the court’s order releasing the Shi’ite leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky on bail?   I am a student of history. Let us deal with our immediate history before going to our remote history as a people. We all knew for how long Major Hamza Al-mustapha, the former Chief Security Officer (CSO) to the late General Sani Abacha, was imprisoned when he was facing trial over the murder of Alhaja Kudirat Abiola. Throughout Al-mustapha’s stay in prison until he was subsequently freed, no individual or group was involved in any protest whatsoever.   For every legal challenge, there is always a legal solution. The issue of bail is neither here nor there. I don’t believe that the only way to address a perceived injustice is to perpetrate more injustice. It is by continuing to seek justice legally.  We should not forget the reason behind the arrest of El-Zakzaky in the first place. You will recall that this man raised an army and his group was being funded by a foreign government. We should also be concerned about the role played by the Iranian government on the issue. These are some of the facts that we should looked at and not just the issue of bail granted the man.  If government is right at all times, then, citizens may no longer be relevant. We can never have any perfect government. Any government that does not make mistake is not a government of this world. This is because human beings are prone to mistakes. But, the point I am making is that we should all pursue our grievances in an orderly manner. There is no justice anywhere in the world, even in the United States.  My advice for the IMN is to pursue their grievance in an orderly manner. If they have issues with the proscription order, they should seek judicial remedy and prove that they are not terrorists. After all, they were not proscribed by Executive proclamation but by a court order.   What is the legality of the National Assembly’s request that Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State should issue fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the State House of Assembly?  The situation of things regarding the Edo State House of Assembly is quite unfortunate. If I recall very well, the Edo Assembly is a 24-member House. If the governor is making a proclamation for the Assembly’s inauguration, I want to believe he is not unaware of the number of members elect. My expectation is that for the effectiveness of the proclamation, all the elected members should have been duly informed of the exercise by the clerk.  The office of a governor is not a comedy theatre. Governance is serious business. As a human being, I was embarrassed by that inauguration, as a lawyer, I was scandalized and as a democrat, I think the exercise was undemocratic.   It is undemocratic for the governor to inaugurate only five members in a House of 24 members. Can the five members validly and legally passed a resolution that will be binding on the House? We all have to agree that the inauguration was improper, otherwise we have a problem.   If that inauguration was improper, is it something that we should promote? The governor was elected as a politician and if he has a political problem, he must solve it politically. So, irrespective of the party affiliation of members of the House, there was a constitutional infraction regarding their inauguration. In my view, that House was not competently inaugurated. What happened was a shame on our democracy.  Even if you go by a simple majority, it means we must have at least half of the entire House members inaugurated. With this, there can be a basis for discussion. There is a popular saying that whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well, I think the inauguration has to be properly done again. The governor should do what is right.  Do you share the view by a former Vice-President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, that a way of having credible election in the country is by transferring the President’s power to appoint INEC Chairman to the judiciary?  I completely disagreed with him. That will be unconstitutional because we run a presidential system of government. Once a country has adopted a particular system of government, every other thing will revolve around it.  In the United Kingdom parliamentary system of government, everything revolves around the parliament. The Heads of various Ministries and Parastatals were appointed by the Prime Minister and they were accountable to him. This is because the bucks stop at his table.   If I may ask, why should the judiciary appoint the INEC Chairman? What will the country benefit? This is very wrong. It is the President that appoint the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), he also appoints the Justices of the Supreme Court as well as the Justices of the Court of Appeal.   Aside all these, the judiciary is a special instrument that must be insulated from partisan politics. The position of INEC Chairman and the electoral body’s Commissioners were not created for the performance of judicial functions but political functions. Therefore, they cannot be accountable to the judiciary.   I think the problem is not really in the process of appointing these individuals but their character. If we have a credible person in charge, he will surely discharge his functions and move on. We must look for the right individuals to perform the right functions.   Are you in support of the clamour for the creation of Electoral Crimes Commission to investigate and prosecute electoral crimes?   This is an idea that I supported because there are penal provisions which were never evoked in our Electoral Act. This is happening either by reason of our weak institutions or the unwillingness of those in charge to perform.   So, I wish we should have an Electoral Crime Commission just like the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). This will among other things help us to deal with criminal violations of our electoral law. At the moment, we have an electoral system that is marred by massive personal interest that makes people to go to any length to achieve their political objectives.