The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday admitted to bail a United States-based businesswoman, Mrs. Isabella Oshodin who is standing trial over alleged receipt of N22.9 billion from a former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) to bail in the sum of N250 million. The businesswoman, whose husband, Bob Oshodin, was said to be at large, was arraigned on a 25-count charge bordering on sales of a furniture manufacturing company to the Federal Government to the tune of $55 million. Oshodin, who has been in the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for about 70 days, pleaded not guilty to the charge. Amongst others, the defendant was said to have sold the company to the Federal Government in 2014 and received the alleged sum through the office of NSA. However, delivering judgement in her bail application, the trial judge, Justice Taiwo Taiwo, ordered the defendant to produce two sureties in like sum. The court ordered the defendant to remain in country pending the determination of the suit against her. He later adjourned trial to October 15, 16, 17 and 22. In the charge, the anti-graft agency alleged that the defendant received the said amount in about 16 tranches through her family company, Bob Oshodin Organization Limited, which is the 1st defendant in the charge. The defendant was alleged to have, on 16 occasions, received the sums of N500 million; N750 million; N125 million; N350 million; N170 million; N85 million; N60 million; N50 million and others which totalled N2.366,000,000 from the Office of the NSA under Dasuki. The anti-graft agency further alleged that the defendant, on eight occasions, received from Dasuki’s ONSA sums totalling $57,217,301.15 into the Escrow accounts of Bob Oshodin Organisation Ltd. After pleading not guilty, prosecution counsel, Aisha Habib, prayed the court for a date for trial. Defence counsel, Osahon Idemudia, prayed the court to admit the defendant to bail in liberal terms pending the determination of the trial. While moving the bail application, Idemudia drew the attention of the judge to the fact that the defendant has been in the underground cell of EFCC for about 70 days without electricity. He further told the court that the alleged offence borders on civil contract freely entered by the Federal Government and that the defendant is committed to accelerated trial to enable her clear her name from the allegations. “This has to do with a civil contract transaction. It is either a misunderstood commercial transaction or someone is being mischievous. The defendants sold their furniture factory to the Federal Government for $55 million. “They have only paid half of the money, which the prosecution has calculated as N22.9 billion. The money stated in the charges, which they claimed to be money laundering, is actually payment for the purchase of the furniture factory,” he said. The defence lawyer averred that a copy of the contract for the sale of the factory had been exhibited before the court and that the prosecution admitted its existence in the counter-affidavit it filed. Idemudia therefore pleaded with the court to use its discretion in favour of the defendant, especially on conditions of her ill-health. The prosecution, however, objected to the bail application on the grounds that the defendant may likely jump bail if granted, because her husband and all her children are based in the United States of America. Habib however submitted that if the court was inclined to grant the application, it should do so with some conditions that will ensure the defendant is available for trial.