A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State and a member of the newly established Warri, Uvwie and Environs Development Agency, Hon. Kelly Otuedon, speaks in this interview with OLA JAMES on governance in the state and other issues  Governor Okowa has constituted his cabinet. What do you make of his second term team?   Yes, it is no more secret that the governor is really working according to his promise of making Delta the Dubai of Africa. Above all, he has fulfilled his election promises, especially in his first tenure, and I can assure you that Deltans have nothing to fear because the man will definitely improve on his first term performance.   Obviously, the governor started well and he is going to touch every part of the 25 local government areas of the state. May I remind you of the vast development he has been carrying out since he became the governor? He is a known detribalized person, who does not discriminate among the ethnic groups. For instance, he has been able to create roads linking various riverine communities, which people believed were difficult terrains. Apart from these achievements, his peace effort is second to none.   The governor has just set up a development agency. What do you think the body should do in order to succeed, and what is the political situation in the state, especially in Uvwie Local Government Area, where you hold sway?   Well, I thank God that the group is made up of persons of impeccable character and I can assure you that we are going to succeed. Everybody knows to a great extent that Delta is one of the most peaceful states in the country and Uvwie council is PDP and no other political party can penetrate the area. For instance, the people of Uvwie Local Government Area voted massively for Governor Okowa and all subsequent contestants; such PDP is the only party in the area.   What are the expectations of the people of the state from the governor this time around?   I don’t know why you are asking me this question because both the blind and lame are feeling the handiwork of Governor Okowa. Without mincing words, you can see infrastructural development spread across the state. I can reveal to you that Okowa won massively for the second term because of the good work he is doing. I challenge any doubting Thomas to point out any area the governor has not touched since he came on board?   Are you aware that the factionalised All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state has come together and is battle ready to take over the governorship of the state from PDP in 2023?   My response is simple and that is, we should wait till that period. However, when we get to the bridge we shall cross it.   What is your impression about Okowa performance so far?   He has done a lot of things, ranging from empowerment in all strata, road rehabilitation and construction. Above all is the peace we have been enjoying in the state since he came on board. Without peace, we can’t enjoy anything, especially the rapid development of infrastructural facilities across the state. Besides, we are enjoying a massive network of roads. Delta State has been transformed; network of roads, no community is left out.   Youths have been empowered hence we now witness less criminal activities. I must say that all the criminal activities being committed in Delta are people from other states, Deltans are no criminals. Every good citizen in the state is now useful to him or herself. In the education sector, primary education is free and I can also tell you that a lot of persons have benefited from the bursary scheme across the state. It has helped a lot of people to achieve their aim as more Deltans now go to school.   Farmers have also been encouraged a lot with all sorts of facilities to make Delta one of the most prosperous state in the area of agriculture. Consequently, production of foodstuffs has increased. In sports development, Delta is ahead of other states, taking into account the international matches that have taken place at the Stephen Keshi Stadium.  