President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) to immediately set up a committee for investigation of the killing of three policemen in Ibi, Taraba State. The incident, which occurred on Sunday, involved the troops of 93 Battalion, Takum, Taraba and also resulted in the death of a civilian. Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, disclosed this yesterday while speaking to State House correspondents after the end of the National Security Council meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Army and Police authorities had, on Wednesday, constituted a Joint Investigation Panel to probe the incident. Acting Director of Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, in a statement on Wednesday, said the panel would be headed by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) in charge of Criminal Investigation Department, Mike Ogbizi. Musa said that the panel would jointly investigate and report on the true circumstances surrounding the unfortunate incidence in order to avert future occurrences. According to the Chief of Staff, the Defence Headquarters will carry out the directive of the president on the matter. He said: “During the meeting, Council decided that a committee will be set up under the Defence Headquarters to critically look into the circumstances that led to the unfortunate incident in Ibi, Taraba State.” Abubakar also revealed that the Council evaluated the current strategy of managing internal security operations across the country. According to him, the Council expressed satisfaction with the current efforts aimed at restoring law and order in the country. “We are making substantial progress in all the areas of conflicts,” he said. On the issue of using technology and drones to fight crimes as earlier pledged to the South-West leaders by the president, Abubakar said technology would continue to play a very critical role in resolving security challenges in the country. “All the services are using one technology or the other in order to ensure that our country is secured. So, security will continue to play a role and we are also looking at other areas of technology that are not currently in use to ensure that we put together all that is required to ensure the security of Nigeria and Nigerians,” he added. The Air Force chief also reassured Nigerians that the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies would continue to work to ensure the security of Nigerians and to also ensure that no individual or group of individuals undermine the territorial integrity of country. “This brief is just to acquaint you with the issues discussed during the National Security Council. The Council evaluated the current strategy of managing internal security operations all over the country and we are satisfied with the current efforts, we are making substantial progress in all the areas of conflicts. “The Council also decided that a committee will be set up by Defence Headquarters to critically look into the circumstances that led to the unfortunate incident in Ibi, Taraba State,” he said. Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, had earlier issued a statement that the Police operatives, led by ASP Felix Adolije of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) reportedly came under sudden attack by soldiers along Ibi-Jalingo Road. Mba said that the operatives, who were taking the arrested suspect, Alhaji Hamisu to the Command Headquarters in Jalingo, were shot at several times by the soldiers despite sufficient proof that they are Police personnel on legitimate duty. He said that three policemen comprising one Inspector and two Sergeants and one civilian died as a result of gunshot injuries sustained in the attack while others sustained serious gunshot wounds. According to him, the soldiers thereafter released the handcuffed suspect, Alhaji Hamisu, who is now on the run.