Barrister Kenneth Imansuangbon, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), is fondly called ‘Rice Man’ because of his magnanimity. He has contested governorship elections in Edo State under various political platforms. In this interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN, the Abuja based business mogul speaks on his ambition to govern the state, among other issues. Excerpts…  Why do you want to run again as governor in 2020?   This is your fourth time of vying for governorship position in Edo State, why are so keen about being governor of Edo State? Edo is my state, I’m not a foreigner in this state, I have equal rights as other citizens of the state to vote and be voted for.  As a known politician, I have paid my dues; I have used my hard earned money to help millions of the rich and the poor in Edo. I was born from a poor family, so each time I see people who cannot afford one square meal; a day I feel touch in my mind.  I have human feelings, I feel the pains of the poor and the homeless, I see the aguish and hunger on the faces of our people, I feel our leaders are not doing what is expected of them, I want to come and give millions of our poor masses hope for tomorrow, I want to come and put smiles on their faces, I want to come and make them feel that they are human beings created by God to be great and live good and comfortable lives within their immediate environments.   You have been moving from one party to the other. Now, under the PDP umbrella, what are your plans for Edo State if given the mandate? Any God-fearing leader in Nigeria who has conscience would agree with me that all is not well with us. Our leaders have lost touch with reality. Look at the rate of suicide being committed by Nigerians today.  What makes people commit suicide?  Is it not frustration, depression, suffering and total loss of existence?  So, I’m coming to give back to Edo people, respect, dignity and honour that we are known for.  I’m coming to create jobs, take the boys and youths off the streets. Edo people are peculiarly created by God Almighty and given special gifts, but today we are decimated and degraded.  A man who wakes up in the morning and has no hope of his next meal, is that person not good as dead?  You cannot pay your child’s school fees, is it live that you are leaving? If your child graduates from school and he has no job and he keeps roaming the streets, what will be the end product of such child?   By the time a child is frustrated, he will have no option than to take to crime and cyber crime fraudster. Our people have thrown away humanity, so if I become governor of our great state, I’m going to rewrite the wrongs that had been done to our great generation so that the next generation to come will have an Edo of their taste and choice. Insecurity challenges is sweeping across the country.  How would you tackle the menace on the home front? Any serious government would secure his people because the primary purpose of governance is to protect lives and property of its citizenry. My first primary assignment is to secure Edo State. In my time, Edo would be secured. I will collaborate with the most powerful country in the world to secure Edo state. I will not disclose the details. In the area of security, I know where to go and what to do. In your previous attempts, Esan people have always disappointed you at the primaries, how are you sure they would not do the same in the coming primary? As we speak now, I’m the most popular PDP aspirant in Edo that has showed interest to run for the governorship position.  Edo Central will speak with one voice; they are not coming to the party primaries with divided minds. Yes you will agree with me that the average Esan man has always been treated like a second-class person in the state. This fight is not for me alone, it is for all the peace loving people of Edo State. I have a good political structure in Edo State and good track records; I have the people with me, before I made up my mind to run I have consulted with major stakeholders across the state, if they had told me to stay away I will gladly accept.  This is the time for PDP to get it right, government house is beckoning on us to come and take over our position.  So I’m very confident that we would regain our lost glory. And the only candidate that has what it takes to give the APC a good fight for their money is Kenneth Imansuangbon.   Now that there is crisis in APC, and there is rumour making the rounds that Governor Godwin Obaseki may likely to decamp to the PDP. If that happens, won’t that act as impediment to your ambition?   I am not bothered or moved by whoever is decamping to PDP, be you a seating governor or president; it is the people that would determine who they want as governor. With my level in politics, I do not think that I should be scared of anybody, I have my people beside me, and I have my plans also.  Look, PDP is a political party with high political generals, we are not APC that does cut and paste politics. All I know is that PDP cannot to throw away this golden chance, the state party chairman has said that the ticket is open for people that has what it takes to make the party proud. So it is not a question of whether you are from Edo South, Edo North, or Central.  An Edo person knows that it is our turn to take over. If PDP allows a free and fair party primary, I will beat anybody.  Some people are saying that Esan should wait for their turn, do you agree with them?   What turn are they talking about? Is Edo State for one particular people?  Do you like the way our people have been marginalised and driven from the political scene for the past 16 years? Are we slaves in our state? Those who are saying that is not our turn, they should also step outside. Esan have more than enough competent people who have everything it takes to be governor. For Kenneth Imansuangbon, I’m fully ready for the 2020 election. Let us go to the primaries.   The APC government has failed us both at the federal and state levels. Nobody can cow us anymore; our so-called leaders of today have no plan for the poor masses.  How many of these top government functionaries can walk to hospitals and pay hospital bills for those who are not able to pay their bills? How many of these big men that ride on convoy with tight security can work to prisons to give food to those there, how many of these politicians can go to the market scene with a tuck of trailers loads of rice and share to those in need, how many of these big men have taken up payment of school fees for the poor parents that cannot afford to pay their children’s feels?  These are things I have been doing with my hard earned money. I’m the only politician in Edo that has spent billions of monies on people without doing government contract or holding any political position. This is why I’m confident that Edo people want me to come and rescue them from their predicament position of abject poverty, homelessness and joblessness that has become a daily meal for our people.