Aborisade: The protest is a wake-up call for govt   Comrade Femi Aborisade, a lawyer and human rights activist, is the pioneer National Secretary of the National Conscience Party (NCP)   The #RevolutionNow# protest is nothing but advocacy for “good governance.” In other words, the call for revolution is nothing but a wake-up call, a challenge to the masses, an encouragement that the masses should stand up and demand that those governing them should be more responsive to their welfare needs.   Hence, the advocates of #RevolutionNow# protests predicate the protests on some key demands such as payment of the new statutory N30,000 national minimum wage, end to insecurity, nondiscriminatory fight against corruption and job creation primarily by the governments at all tiers.   Others are an economy that works in meeting the basic needs of the masses, rather than in meeting the greed of the rulers, that the remuneration of elected public officers should be within the framework of the salary structure of appointed career public officers, that legislative work should be on part time basis rather than on a full time basis in order to save costs and have resources to attend to the basic needs of the masses as well as reversal of all past privatisations that were fraudulently done, among others.   All of the demands being made by the advocates of #RevolutionNow# are demands realisable within the framework of the existing capitalist economic framework.   The proper meaning of revolution is a change in the social order, from capitalism to socialism. The demands of the partakers in #RevolutionNow# do not include a demand for socialist transformation of society. The #RevolutionNow# protests therefore mean nothing but an attempt to give the existing capitalist system a human face.   The only problem is that the state and conditions of living of ordinary people are so bad that in the context of Nigeria, to have “good governance”, to give capitalism a human face, in terms of merely having social security schemes as in Europe, would actually involve a “revolution-like” struggle, which does not necessarily mean a fundamental change in social order.   Revolution (change in social order, from capitalism to socialism) is not an event that is decreed or declared for instant actualisation, within a timeframe. The actualisation is not mathematically determined. It arises as a byproduct of struggles from below by ordinary people for improvement in the material lives of the people. The masses do not fight for ideas such as revolution in the heads of any activist. The masses only fight for issues that bring about improvements in their living conditions.   In the process, capitalist regimes that are unable to meet the needs of the masses may collapse or be weakened that another party takes over electorally at the next phase of electoral contestations, as it happened in 2015 consequent upon the 2012 nationwide strikes and protests. But the collapse or weakness of an incumbent political party controlling power in the process of mass protests may not necessarily mean the introduction of a new system or the actualisation of a new social order, which is what “revolution” denotes.   The President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration is jittery of the #Revolution Now# of Coalition for Revolution (CORE) only because the administration realises that the masses have been pushed to the limits in terms of unprecedented poverty and insecurity and would vote for a revolutionary change if they are not restrained by the coercive apparatus of government.   Yes, the major ruling political parties cannot take Nigeria forward. The “progressive” wing of the Nigerian ruling class, the APC, has only been able to deepen poverty, insecurity and divisions along primordial lines of ethnicity, regionalism and religion. Only revolution, otherwise called the festival of the masses on the streets, can save Nigeria.   But revolution can only occur based on a socialist programme, existence of socialist parties that are rooted in the whole of Nigeria, seeking a better world for humanity located in Nigeria, regardless of differences in race, ethnicity, tongue and religion.