In the wake of President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to stop providing foreign exchange (forex) for importation of food, members of the organised private sector say the initiative is a welcome development since it is in line with government’s resource-based industrialisation agenda. Taiwo Hassan reports  No doubt, the recent pronouncement by President Muhammadu Buhari ordering the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to stop forex allocation to importers of food is generating mixed feelings among operators in the manufacturing and agricultural sectors even as they agree that it is tailored towards achieving self-sufficiency in food production, and to develop sustainable value chains in key sectors of the economy.
However, the snag in the directive, according to the private sector operators, will be the spate of illicit smuggling following the country’s porous borders. MAN’s stance
One of the key voices in the OPS group, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), disclosed that it was in support of the directive.
Speaking on the association’s position in Lagos recently, MAN’s Director General, Segun Ajayi-Kadir, explained that the directive was aimed at consolidating the progress made so far in food sufficiency, foreign exchange conservation and also to encourage consumption of locally produced food.
He said to achieving sustainable self-sufficiency in the country, local producers ought to be incentivized, otherwise government may be inviting barrage of smuggling activities into the country.
Ajayi-Kadir said: “As you are aware, MAN actively supports resource-based industrialisation, and this is based on our position that we should significantly improve our local sourcing of raw materials and develop sustainable value chains. “We believe that value addition to products creates more jobs and wealth for the Nation. Our mantra is clearly harped on patronage of made in Nigeria products as we believe the country can only experience development when we buy what we produce and produce what we consume.
“On several occasions, we have engaged the government to provide support for local manufacturers who have embraced backward integration in the course of manufacturing with records revealing the positive impact on the agricultural sector.
“Without mincing words, MAN is for local sourcing of raw materials and production, patronage of locally produced goods and the general growth and development of the manufacturing sector of the country.”
The MAN director-general stated further that a close examination of the directive revealed that it was broad and would have to be both specific and targeted.
He noted that there should also be strategic implementation to achieve the purpose intended by government, adding that for instance, “we need to know what type of food, finished and ready to eat or as input for further processing? In the case of the latter (in particular), we need to know the local capacity available compared to national demand and if not adequate, creditably determine what time and resources are needed to ramp up capacity and production. It is pertinent to pre-determine these suggestions as part of the implementation strategy.” NASME’s position
Similarly, the Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME) stated that the Federal Government decision was favourable to the association and manufacturers in the country.
Chairman, Lagos State Chapter of NASME, Solomon Aderoju, who stated this in Lagos, explained that the policy statement would help in strengthening the country’s currency, adding that the forex restriction would help conserve Nigeria’s foreign earnings.
Commending the government for the decision, he said this was the only way MSMEs would grow, adding that more jobs would be created if well implemented.
According to the Vice President, S/W, NASME, Oladipo Jemi-Alade, the government pronouncement is a new opportunity for the members and other manufacturers in the country to explore the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCTA), saying that the round table was apt.
He said, “Now that AfCTA is open unto us, we have to be prepared for the next level. We want to be in a position to compete favourably with our foreign counterparts. For this reason, we are upgrading our skills, and we have embarked on membership training nationwide to build skills and capacity.” ONICCIMA’s views
Director-General, Onitsha Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ONICCIMA), Stanley Anyadufu, also explained that the chamber supported the Federal Government’s directive to the CBN, stressing that the move was in line with government’s pursuit towards achieving self-sufficiency in food production.
Anyadufu said: “We note that 35 per cent of business ventures in Nigeria are into food and food value chain. It is estimated that about 541,000 food related businesses, accounting for over 3.5 million jobs will be negatively affected by this policy if implemented. What is more, about $1.5 billion worth of ongoing food related transactions that are already at risk due to the policy with consequence of looses and possible shutdown.” Implication of current policy
The private sector operators, however, explained that the current policy was capable of leading to spontaneous high cost of food items with consequence on inflation rate, lead to increase in smuggling of food items due to porous borders in the country and proliferation of poor quality food items especially those that the country lacks adequate production capacity on at the moment. OPS recommendations
In view of the directive, the private sector operators recommend that CBN come up with a clarifying circular on HS Code of the foods affected by this policy in other to remove the inherent ambiguity.
They also demand that government must conduct a phased implementation of the policy across the food value chain and also specify the time line for the policy considering that various food related import transactions that are currently in progress.
Government should ensure availability of adequate infrastructure to enable local investors gain grounds before such policies take effect. There should be wider consultations with relevant stakeholders before such directives should be in place. Last line
On the matter at hand, what the OPS is demanding is clarity as the apex bank should weigh the options before embarking on such a far-reaching policy.