A former Cross River State Security Adviser, Mr Jude Ngaji, has advised the Federal Government to set up joint service camps within a radius of 30 kilometres apart along troubled roads.   Ngaji, who said this while speaking with Sunday Telegraph, added that regular patrols along the identified routes would help stem criminal activities.   He gave this advice following the rising spate of kidnappings and killings along the Benin-Sagamu, Ibadan-Ife, Lagos-Ibadan and Abuja-Kaduna roads.   Ngaji, a certified security manager of the Dubai Police Academy and Chief of Staff to former Governor Liyel Imoke of Cross River State, however, warned security agencies against making their strategies known publicly, adding that the bandits were as informed as the security agents.   He also urged security agencies to engage the services of traditional institutions in order to curtail criminal activities.   He said: “Traditional institutions should be involved in the fight and when I suggested the appointment of security assistance in the zones; it provides opportunities for all security stakeholders’ participation and information dissemination of the challenges in their communities and afford the government to proactive rather than reactive.   “Government should have data of all traditional rulers in the country and cause a quarterly meeting with service commanders in their zones for onward transmission to the National Security Adviser.   “For the highways, for instance the Abuja-Kaduna, Lagos-Sagamu, Ibadan- Ife and other flashpoints, joint service camps should be established at about 30 kilometres apart to be complemented with hourly patrols.   “Security experts should speak about less because the strategy they try to give will fall into the ears of the bandits. They are as technologically equipped like the security agencies. Intelligence gives room for precision, in terms of strikes, both air and land.   “The fight must be and all-inclusive thing. State governments must make deliberate efforts to complements the Federal Government in the fight against crimes and criminal activities. The Federal Government should also encourage security subunits in the six geo-political zones that will encourage the contribution of traditional institutions, women leaders, youth leaders and religious leaders.”