…as Fayemi names ex-ASUU chair EKSU VC   The Lagos State House of Assembly yesterday confirmed Justice Kazeem Olanrewaju Alogba as the Chief Judge of the state.  Speaker of the House, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa said that the Chief Judge had proven to be capable of the office, hence, his appearance before the House was a mere formality for confirmation.   Alogba had been serving as the Acting Chief Judge of the state for some months.   Speaker Obasa subsequently asked Justice Alogba to explain why the executive always defeat the legislature whenever there was any court case between them.   Justice Alogba, however, replied that it should not be the norm for a particular party to always win in the court, but that it depends on the facts being presented and who was marshaling the case.   The House confirmed Alogba as the Chief Judge of the state through a voice vote supervised by the Speaker.   Alogba, who was born in 1960, attended Holy Trinity Primary School and spent four years in the school before proceeding to Ikorodu High School.   He later proceeded to Baptist Academy for HSC and then went to the University of Lagos, where he read law and graduated in 1981.   He started working at the Federal Ministry of Justice in 1982 before he left for private service and worked in law firms as before joining the service of the Lagos State Government as a judge.   Also, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi yesterday approved the appointment of  a former Zonal Chairman of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Prof Edward  Olanipekun as the new Vice-Chancellor of Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti.   Olanipekun, a Professor of Chemistry was a former Dean, School of Post Graduate Studies of the University.   The appointment, according to a statement on yesterday by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Yinka  Oyebode, was with immediate effect.   Olanipekun, a native of Ado-Ekiti was the former Chairman, Ilorin Zone of ASUU.   Olanipekun replaced Prof. Olubunmi Ajayi, who had acted since December 2019.   Ajayi came into office following the sack of a Professor of Educational Evaluation, Sam Oye Bandele by Governor Kayode Fayemi.   Bandele was sacked following a recommendation of a visitation panel led by a former Vice-Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Prof. Bamitale Omole on a fact-finding mission to the institution.  