P resident Muhammadu Buhari yesterday disclosed that all memos demanding his attention will be handled by the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha.   The president stated this at the end of a two-day retreat for ministers-designate and top government officials held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.   While the SGF will handle all memos regarding ministries, agencies and departments (MDAs) of government and those of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), the Chief of Staff is responsible for other correspondences about the Presidency.   He said: “In terms of coordination, kindly ensure that all submissions for my attention or meeting requests be channelled through the Chief of Staff, while all FEC matters be coordinated through the SGF.” Buhari told the ministers-designate who will be sworn in today that he has given them a rear privilege to serve Nigeria.   He said the responsibility as leaders is to meet the basic needs of Nigerians.   According to him, public service is not easy work and, at times, can be thankless. “So, I am therefore charging you all to see this opportunity to serve as an honour, to give your best to deliver on this mandate, for a more prosperous Nigeria, not for some, but for all Nigerians.   “Majority of our people are poor and are anxiously hoping for a better life. A Nigeria in which they do not have to worry about what they will eat, where they will live or if they can afford to pay for their children’s education or healthcare,” Buhari said.   President Buhari explained that although his government has made progress in the last four years, the challenges ahead are significant and require hard work.   “Whilst we have obvious successes to celebrate, the challenges ahead are significant as you would have observed in detail over these two days. Nevertheless, from the quality of the deliberations, it is clear that solutions to our problems are well researched and have been well articulated.   “We have discussed solutions relating to addressing insecurity; macroeconomic stability; agriculture and food security; energy security for petroleum products and electricity; transportation and critical infrastructure; industrialization and SME development; human capital development; social inclusion; anti-corruption; housing financing and consumer credit,” he added.   In his remarks, the SGF said the Federal Government will institute a monitoring and evaluation framework to track the performance of each ministry as an integral measure to ensure the delivery on government’s programmes of action.   He acknowledged that there will be both anticipated and non-envisaged challenges that will be encountered in the course of discharging government functions, urging the ministers-designate not to be discouraged.   As public servants, Mustapha said the incoming ministers are not only expected to deliver results that improve the lives of fellow citizens and transform the country, but also to reflect in examples of what the nation stands for – hard work, honour, integrity, ingenuity and the relentless belief that in Nigeria all things are possible.    He said the ministers-designate have leading roles in framing issues within their policy domain and developing, implementing and tracking policies and in communicating the impacts and results.   Some outcome of the retreat are to consolidate and accelerate on the agricultural agenda to achieve full food sufficiency, increase revenue, implement measures to reduce leakages and drive cost optimisation to ensure effective coordination between monetary and fiscal policy.   Others are to invest in human capital development with strong focus on early education and health insurance; facilitate investment in oil and gas sector by ensuring speedy passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill and Deep Offshore Oil and Exploration & Production Bill; and to resolve the liquidity challenge in the power sector and facilitate private sector investment.   “Furthermore, it was emphasised that we need to work effectively with all other arms of government such as state government, National Assembly etc. for major high impact initiatives such as provision of large scale land for agriculture and food security, passage of critical legislations, among others,’’ he said.   President Buhari will inaugurate the ministers-designate today at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.  