 A uthorities of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA), Ondo State, yesterday asked the military to relocate the checkpoint at Ikare-Akoko in Akoko Northeast to other part of the Ondo North zone.   Already, the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Akure, has arrested five soldiers who were said to be involved in the alleged rape of a female student of the AAUA   The victim, said to be a 300-level student of the Department of Religious and African Studies of the university, was allegedly gang-raped by some soldiers at a checkpoint in Ikare-Akoko, on Wednesday last week.   The student was allegedly forced to alight from a commercial bus, by one of the soldiers, said to be a lance corporal.   The Brigade Commander of the brigade, Brig. Gen. Zakari Abubakar, confirmed the arrest of the soldiers. He said the brigade had commenced investigation into the matter.   But the Registrar of the institution, Mr. Opeoluwa Akinfemiwa, in a statement made available to journalists yesterday, condemned the sexual assault on the student.   Akinfemiwa said the university, after its preliminary investigation, noted with concern that a soldier, whose duty, among others “is to protect lives of the citizens can turn round to exhibit such reprobate tendencies”.   He said: “The university, while commending the swift action taken so far by the Brigade Commander on this inhuman and brazen assault on a defenceless and innocent student, calls on the authorities of the Nigerian Army to deal decisively with the perpetrator(s) of the act against humanity.   “While we are not unaware of the security situation in the country, we strongly request that the checkpoint be dismantled and the soldiers moved to between Oba-Akoko and Ose where kidnappings and robberies occur, almost, on a daily basis.   “The university calls for calm and wish to assure the students that we will continue to ensure that adequate security measures are put in place to enable them continue to pursue their academic activities without molestation.”