It is back to basics for the governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, who yesterday, won the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 16 governorship election in the state, FELIX NWANERI reports   After months of intrigues and political horse-trading, Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, yesterday, won the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 16 governorship election in the state. He emerged the party’s flag bearer after defeating the likes of Hadiza Ibrahim, Yahaya Audu, Sani Abdullahi, Abubakar Bashir, Danlami Mohammed, Yakubu Mohammed, Hassan Abdullahi, Blessing Ekele and Babatunde Irukera. Bello was elected governor for the first term in 2015, following his party’s defeat of the incumbent governor, Capt. Idris Wada, in an election that served as the first test of might between the APC and PDP after the 2015 general elections. Popularly called Fair Plus, Bello made history then as the first governor from the minority ethnic groups in the state to occupy the historic Lugard House as Kogi State government house is known. He is Ebira of Kogi Central Senatorial District. Before then, the Igala people of Kogi East Senatorial District have had enough of power, having ruled the state since it was created in 1991 by the General Ibrahim Babangida regime. But, Bello’s emergence as governor would not have been possible if not for the demise of his party’s candidate in the November 21, 2015 poll – Prince Abubakar Audu. The former two-time governor of the state (1992 to 1993 and 1999 to 2003) was coasting to victory in the poll, when he passed on. This unfortunate incident almost triggered a constitutional crisis as the then constitution did not envisage such situation. The impasse over the incident was however resolved, when the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) directed the APC to nominate another candidate as Audu’s substitution for the December 5, supplementary poll in the 91 polling units, where elections were cancelled. The electoral body had declared the election inconclusive midway during collation and announcement of results, following the cancellation of results in the affected polling units due to incidences of violence, ballot boxes snatching, over voting, among others. Late Audu was at the time leading his closest rival and incumbent governor, Wada by 41, 000 votes, whereas the total number of registered voters in the 91 polling units was 49,953, a figure, the commission explained was higher than the margin between the top contenders. The window to substitute Audu, rather than serve as a relief to the APC, sparked off another round of crisis as the deputy governorship candidate, Hon. James Faleke, wrote to INEC that he should be declared winner on the ground that the supplementary poll was needless as the number of eligible voters in the affected areas stood at 25, 000 and so will not make any impact in the overall result. The PDP, on its part, urged the electoral body to declare its candidate, Wada, winner of the election as the votes garnered by Audu were not transferable. The party further argued that Audu’s votes died with him. However, INEC insisted on going ahead with the supplementary poll and the APC was left with no other option than to nominate the first runner up in its governorship primary election, Bello, as Audu’s substitution. As expected, Bello was declared winner of the poll after the supplementary election. His party, APC, garnered 6, 885 votes to bring its total votes to 247,752, having polled 240,857 in the November 21 election. The PDP candidate (Wada), scored 5,363 to take his total votes to 204,877 votes. He had earlier garnered 199, 514 votes. Despite INEC’s declaration of Bello as Governor-elect, the Audu/Faleke campaign organisation described the supplementary election that produced him as “unnecessary and a complete waste of tax payers’ money’’ and headed for the tribunal to challenge it. Faleke, in a petition he filed before the Kogi State Election Petitions Tribunal, sitting in Lokoja, insisted that the election had already been won and lost before the supplementary poll, praying the tribunal to declare him winner. Wada also challenged the outcome of the election and return of Bello, joining APC and INEC as respondents. Wada, who prayed the court to declare him winner of the election and also urged the tribunal to stop Bello’s inauguration. But ruling on the two motions praying it to halt the inauguration, the tribunal said though it had jurisdiction to hear the case contrary to insinuations, the motions were not contained in the original petitions as it was merely a motion on notice. With that, Bello mounted the stage today as the youngest elected governor in Nigeria’s political history. He was 40 years old then. Among the strategies he rolled out then was reorganisation of the state’s civil service to make it more efficient and productive. He also promised to immediately ensure massive industrialization to create employment for Kogites and to harness the mineral potentials across the state in order to improve the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the state and its economy. But, more than three years down the line, most indigenes of state believe that Bello’s lofty dream of taking Kogi to the next level has remained a mirage. From one crisis to another, the state to many, has become a study in leadership failure. The catalogue of crisis that has rocked Kogi State in the last four years started barely a month after Bello’s administration was inaugurated, when five out of the 20 members of the Kogi State House of Assembly impeached the then speaker, Hon. Jimoh Momoh-Lawal. Following the impeachment, crisis erupted in the House, thereby compelling Hon. Sunday Steve Karimi to sponsor a motion on the floor of the House of Representatives on February 23, 2016. The motion was unanimously adopted with a 10-man committee headed by the deputy chief whip, Hon. Pally Iriase, to investigate the matter. The committee subsequently visited Lokoja, the Kogi State capital and met with the governor, members of the state Assembly and heads of the relevant security agencies in the state. After the meeting, the committee found out that House of Assembly has not been able to perform its legislative functions since the suspension of plenary on February 15, 2016, as none of the factions has held any meeting in the hallowed chambers of the State House of Assembly. It also found out that there was an understanding to change the leadership of the Assembly in order to comply with Section 14 (3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) to avoid lopsidedness in the distribution of power between the major tribes in the state since Bello and Lawal are coincidentally from the same local government area. While the governor maintained then that he had no hand in the Assembly crisis as he never tried to influence the decision of the House given that he was then new in office and does not have any prior relationship with the legislators other than to work for the good of the entire state in line with his oath of office, Jimoh-Lawal’s group accused him of a subtle plot to install his choice candidate, Hon. Umar Imam as speaker. The suspicion was later confirmed, when Imam emerged as speaker of the Assembly on July 26, 2016, following Jimoh-Lawal’s resignation. Many had thought that crisis would be over given that the governor had his way, but that was not to be as Imam equally bowed out like his predecessor on August 3, 2017 after another round of crisis. In his stead, Mathew Kolawole, the member representing Kaba/Bunu state constituency was elected as speaker. Besides the state Assembly crisis, Bello also had a long running battle with the lawmaker representing Kogi West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Dino Melaye. Interestingly, both men were allies before they suddenly fell apart. It has also been a running battle between Bello and the state’s civil servants as well as the various labour unions, following workers’ verification exercise embarked upon by the state government. Bello’s deputy, Simon Achuba, is also not left out in the running battles. Just recently, the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Nasiru Ajanah, inaugurated a seven-member panel to investigate allegations of gross misconduct against him. The state House of Assembly had earlier asked the Chief Judge to investigate allegations of gross misconduct against Achuba over his claims that Governor Bello withheld his allowances since 2017. While Governor Bello has persistently admonished those he described as detractors to allow his government to focus on its goal of a better Kogi for its citizens, analysts kept reminding him that the deterioration of any administration begins with the decay of the principle on which it was founded. Echoes of that counsel are reverberating in the Confluence State as Bello seeks reelection for a second term though the governor said his declaration for a second term came after consultations with the leadership of his party both at the national and state levels and pressure from the people of the state on him to seek re-election. No doubt, it is Bello’s constitutional right to aspire for a second term as governor of Kogi State, but the fact remains that his personality and antecedent, not party structure or financial strength, will determine whether his dream would be realized or not. Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has advised an All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in the state, Professor Seidu Ogah Mohammed to banish from his thoughts the hope of ever clinching the party’s ticket “no matter the level of his hallucination”. Mohammed, who is the newest entrant into the… In "News Around Nigeria" The November 16 gubernatorial election as scheduled by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in Kogi State, has once again brought the Confluence State into a political spotlight, especially now that the APC-led government in the state is said to have performed below average, writes MOHAMMED BASHIR   Unarguably, the… In "Politics" The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) late last night cleared the Director General, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, Mr. Babatunde Irukera to contest for the APC primary election for the governorship seat in Kogi State today. Irukera was initially cleared by the party’s Appeal Panel but… In "News"