…promises to intensify investment in infrastructure  President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday met with Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State, where he condemned those killing innocent persons in the name of Islam. The president, while sympathizing with the IDPs, assured all victims of banditry attacks that the Federal Government will deploy security measures and strengthen operations to safeguard lives and property. Buhari said that bandits who have been killing people should not claim to be Muslims. He said: “Islam did not give individuals the right to kill others without following the due process in the court of law.” Buhari, during the visit, warned that perpetrators of such dastardly acts will not go unpunished. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, in a statement, noted that the IDPs visited by Buhari were drawn from seven local governments that were affected in Katsina at Basari council secretariat. The president explained that the Federal Government was fully aware of the plight of citizens and will remain focused on delivering on its mandate of securing the lives of Nigerians. He said: “I am very sad that the consequences of these actions have brought hardship and affected the socio-economic life of our people in the localities. Agriculture, which is the mainstay of the economy and source of livelihood, is worse affected. “I would like to assure you that the Federal Government is fully aware of your situation as I receive daily reports from security agencies and the governor, Aminu Bello Masari, who personally visited and briefed me on the killings and wanton destruction by the armed bandits, not only in Katsina, but in other states as well. “Let me assure all and sundry that the protection of lives and property of the citizenry is the prime essence of government. We shall be focused and determined to protect our citizens.” Buhari said insecurity had reached a disturbing dimension globally, noting that only local, sub-regional and regional alliances will curb the spread of violence. The president said he had earlier sent a top military assessment team based on the reports on the security situation in the state and had directed massive deployment of security personnel and military hardware, urging citizens to support the security agencies. While commending the government of Katsina State for supporting security agencies and facilitating some of their operations, Buhari said he had directed service chiefs in a meeting, last week, to completely re-strategize operations and reposition for optimum results. He appreciated the interventions of the First Lady, Aisha Buhari and her foundation in providing succour to those affected by banditry attacks. He also commended Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Alhaji Dahiru Mangal and Stanbic IBTC, National Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons and other philanthropic organisations for helping the IDPs. The president directed the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to act fast and extend support to the victims in the affected frontline local councils. Buhari, who called for more patience and forbearance, went round to condole with IDPs. In his remark, Governor Masari expressed appreciation for the president’s visit and the quick response of the military in providing reinforcement that had drastically reduced incidents of theft, kidnapping, banditry and cattle rustling. He said some attacks were still recorded because of the vastness of the Rugu forest that provides cover for criminals. The Emir of Katsina, Dr. Abdulmumini Kabir Usman, advised citizens against reprisals which could lead to anarchy. Meanwhile, the president has declared that his administration will intensify investment in infrastructure across critical sectors of the economy to improve the lives of Nigerians. The president stated this on Wednesday at the commissioning of the reconstructed Shinkafi-Yandaki-Gafiya-Abdallawa-Dankaba road in Katsina, as part of activities during his visit to the state. He said: “Infrastructure is vital to economic development. As you are aware, this administration has given special attention to infrastructural transformation of our country. “This is in consonance with the change philosophy of the administration. Such projects and programmes form part of our contribution to national development, which are tangible for all to see.” According to Buhari, the administration’s investment in infrastructure like rails, roads, bridges and waterways have started yielding positive results with tangible evidence for all to see. He commended the strategy by the Masari’s administration to make roads motorable throughout the year for citizens.