At least 15 people lost their lives while more than 40 others were missing after a boat capsized in Borgu Local Government Area of Niger State. A witness said the victims were returning from Warrah Market, a border community in Ngaski Local Government Area of Kebbi State, to Sabo Yumu in Borgu, when the accident occurred in on Tuesday evening. “The accident was as a result of poor visibility due to bad weather. It made the boat to run into a tree stump on River Malale midway into their journey. As I speak with you, 15 bodies have been recovered and already buried, while two others were rescued even as many are still missing. “I am not certain about the number of passengers on the boat, but the boat was big and has capacity for over 50. Also, because it is a market day, there is the tendency that it might be overloaded,” the witness, who did not want his name mentioned, said. The Director-General (DG) of the Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Alhaji Ibrahim Inga, confirmed the incident yesterday. He said: “The boat was carrying over 50 passengers; some survivors were rescued, while divers are still searching for the remaining persons whether dead or alive. But many are still missing.” Inga said government was working towards putting in place, a regulatory framework to check the activities of boat operators and also to address impediments that hamper their activities. The DG disclosed that government was looking at the possibility of providing lifejackets to reduce the high casualties often recorded during accidents. Accidents on River Malale and others, across Niger State, through Yawuri have become a recurring decimal during the peak of the raining season. Over 40 still missing   No fewer than 15 people have been confirmed dead while as many as 40 others are missing after a boat mishap in Borgu Local Government Area of Niger State. Incidentally accidents on River Malale and others across the state through Yawuri have become a recurring… In "Metro and Crime" No fewer than 99 persons died in six  boat mishaps that occurred in Kebbi, Niger and Lagos States between April and September, according to a survey by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). The survey was conducted in Kebbi, Niger and Lagos States. Two boat mishaps each were recorded on… In "News" At least six people were confirmed dead while 15 missing when a passenger boat conveying 73 passengers collided with another boat conveying onions and five occupants to a local market along the tributary of the River Niger in Gebe village of Shanga Local Government Area of Kebbi State. Also, 60… In "Metro and Crime"