A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Lanre Razak, has urged Nigerians to double their support for President Muhammadu Buhari with a view to assisting him to consolidate and improve on his first term satisfactory performance.  Razak made the appeal at a media chat in Lagos where he expressed confidence that, “the Next Level mantra of the President is real and not an empty slogan,” pointing out that, “some steps Buhari have taken are clear testimony that he is all out to meet the needs and aspirations of the citizenry.”  The astute politician said his belief that Buhari would move the country more forward is reinforced by the friendly 9th National Assembly which he stated would not hold the whole country hostage and thereby deny the nation of economic progress and development like the 8th National Assembly.   Citing an example of Buhari’s determination to steer the ship of the country to a successful end, the elder statesman reminded that the President has taken concrete steps to rid the country of all forms of criminalities ranging from banditry, kidnapping, robbery and all forms of insurgence like boko haram and cultism.  “Having realised that the security challenges in the country have external connection and foreign backers, Mr. President has globe trotted to meet with all the Heads of neighbouring countries with the sole aim of squeezing life out of the insurgents from all angles,” Razak disclosed.  According to him, that step was in addition to the meetings with all the stakeholders in the country like the religious leaders, ethnic nationalities leaders, security agencies and other leaders of thoughts, saying, “this all inclusive policy of Buhari has shown him as a leader that has the interest of the country at heart.  “Nigerians should continue to appreciate God for giving us Buhari at a time the country needed a Messiah badly,” appealing that, “we should therefore double our supports for him so that he could be encouraged to continue the good work he has started four years ago.”  The APC stalwart also appealed to the citizenry to desist from any act that can distract the President from being focussed, reminding that leaders can only perform well when having the right mood in a peaceful environment since no development can take place in a rancorous and chaotic atmosphere.  The former Lagos State Commissioner for Public Transportation expressed delight that Buhari’s foundation- laying first term has got the country out of the 16 years of mess of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), assuring that, he would fulfil his promise of moving the country to the next level.  “I mean next level in education, next level in good infrastructure, next level of good healthcare programme, next level of good agricultural development and programmes for Nigerians and next level of economic buoyancy,” Razak enthused. On the ministers designate, the elder statesman express enthusiasm that, the President has walked his talk that he would pick those he knows can do the job to move the country to the enviable height in the comity of nations, saying, “the team he has put together is peopled by tested and trusted hands who knows their onions.”  On the crises bedevilling the APC in some states in the country, Razak submitted unequivocally that, the party has an effective crises resolution that would smoothen all the rough edges in the party reminding that, the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the man with Midas touch would rally all the stakeholders round to make sure that normalcy returns to all the affected area.  According to him, with Tinubu’s quantum selfless services to humanity and nation building vis a vis restoration of full democracy to the country, he would not allow the party he was strongly involved in building to collapse.