 The Head of the Nigeria National Office (HNO) of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC), Mr. Olu Adenipekun has allayed the fears of parents and candidates whose results are still being withheld that the Council will speed investigations on the various cases in order to make the fate of the affected candidates known. In the 2019 May/June West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) results released last week, no fewer than 180, 205 candidates, representing 11.33 per cent of the total number of candidates that sat for the examination according to the Council, had their results withheld in connection with various reported cases of examination malpractice. According to him, the Committee set up by the Council on such cases is already working on the cases and the recommendations would in the next eight weeks be submitted for appropriate action. The NHO, who noted that cases are of two types, said there were some of the candidates, whose results were being investigated that will be released in the next few weeks, while those  found culpable of involvement in examination malpractice, depending on the recommendations of the committee would be appropriately sanctioned. He said the sanctions range from partial cancellation of some subjects, outright cancellation of the entire results; barring of the candidate from sitting for WAEC examinations; barring the school from presenting candidates for WAEC examinations to appropriate punishment for the supervisor, if found culpable of involving, abetting and aiding malpractice in the examination. Adenipekun said: “We are concerned about the well-being of our candidates in terms of their admission; hence we are doing everything humanly possible through the committee to get the results of the innocent candidates released as soon as possible.  The committee is already begun on the investigations and we want to assure parents and the candidates that the committee would do a thorough job.” “The cases are being investigated and reports of the investigations will be presented to the appropriate Committee of the Council in due course. The Committee’s decision will be communicated to the affected candidates through their various schools.” In a related development the HNO said that the policy makers, scholars, examination experts across the world would converge on Abuja between August 5 and 9 for the 37th Annual Conference of the Association for Educational Assessment in Africa (AEAA) being hosted by the Council at the Congress Hall of Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. The conference, which according to him, which would attract delegates and scholars from Africa, Europe, America and other parts of the world, would also feature about 96 papers to be presented by scholars across the globe. Adenipekun, who said experts would deliberate on how to deploy new ideas, technology and innovation in the delivery and conduct of examination, hinted that WAEC had already bidden for Magic Scanner 1,000 machine to be deployed in the conduct of its examinations. He said the Association for Educational Assessment in Africa is a non-profitable making organisation established in 1982 to promote cooperation among examining and assessment bodies in Africa. “Since the rights to host the 37th 3edition of the conference was given to WAEC, Nigeria in Uganda in August 2017, preparations for the conference have been in top gear as the Local Organisating C9ommittee for the conference swung into action to ensure that the delegates have an eventful workshop,” he said. He, however, noted that the association vision was the harmonization of educational assessments on the African continent, saying part of the objective is also to encourage relevant examining and assessment activities among members; to share experience and knowledge on issues of evaluation and assessment; sponsor international participation in the field of educational testing and assessment within the individual member countries among other objectives. According to Adenipekun, the association was borne as the outcome of what was then known as the sub-regional conference of Heads of Institutions responsible for educational assessment in Eastern and Southern African. Expected to be declared opened by the Minister of Education or his representatives, the HNO said security arrangement had been put in place to ensure the safety of the delegates. Specifically, he noted that the association is intervening in the critical areas of test and measurement, saying the 96 papers to be presented in the five-day conference would be developed into a book, while a communique that would form a framework for examination bodies and other relevant organisations, government and institutions would be issued for their use.