Justice Nicholas Oweibo of a Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday ordered that Uyiekpen Giwa-Osagie, a lawyer to former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar and his brother, Erhunse Giwa-Osagie, be remand in custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged laundering of $2 million in the build-up to the 2019 general election. The judge also made similar order against one Abdullahi Babalele, a son-in-law to Atiku, alleged to have engaged in the laundering of $140,000 in the build-up to this year’s polls. The court’s order was as a sequel to the arraignment of the trio on separate charges bordering on money laundering by the anti-graft agency. While Giwa-Osagie brothers were arraigned on a three-count charge by EFCC, Babalele was docked on two counts, all bordering on alleged money laundering. They however denied all the counts. After the defendants’ arraignment, their lawyers drew the court’s attention to their bail motions, which they said have been served on the prosecution. The lawyers, however, urged the court to remand their clients in EFCC’s custody pending when they will receive the anti-graft agency’s response to the bail motions. Responding, EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Oyedepo, promised to serve his response to the motions on the defence lawyers on Wednesday. He was also opposed to the defence lawyers’ request for the remand of the defendants in EFCC’s custody. He said the Commission’s facility is overstretched. However, in a Bench ruling, Justice Oweibo overruled Oyedepo’s objection and ordered that the defendants be remanded in EFCC’s custody till today when their bail motions will be heard. In the charge against Babalele, EFCC accused him of procuring one Bashir Mohammed to make cash payment of the sum of $140,000 without going through any financial institution. The offence was said to be contrary to Section 18(c) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 16(2)(b) of the same Act. The charge against Giwa-Osagie brothers however reads: “That you Uyiekpen Giwa-Osagie and Erhunse Giwa-Osagie, sometimes in February, 2019, in Nigeria, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, conspired to commit an offence to wit: making cash payment of the sum of $2 million without going through financial institution, which sum exceeded the amount authorised by law and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Sections 18(a) and 1(a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 16(2)(b) of the same Act. “That you Uyiekpen Giwa-Osagie on or before the 12th day of February, 2019, in Nigeria, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, procured Erhunse Giwa-Osagie to make cash payment of the sum of $2 million without going through financial institution, which sum exceeded the amount authorized by law and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18(c) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 16 (2) (b) of the same Act. “That you Erhunse Giwa-Osagie sometimes in February 2019 in Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court made cash payment of the sum of $2 million without going through financial institution, which sum exceeded the amount authorized by law and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Sections 1(a) and 16(1) (d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (As Amended) and punishable under section 16 (2) of the Same Act.”