In view of the continued farmer/herder conflicts in the North Central (Middle Belt) and other parts of Nigeria, some experts recently gathered in Abuja to brainstorm on the way out. REGINA OTOKPA was there  The workshop was focused on the  Socio-Ecological Analysis of Farmer-Herder Conflict in Nigeria and the Sahel. It was organised by the Forum on Farmer and Herder Relations in Nigeria (FFARN), otherwise known as  Search for Common Ground (SFCG) in Abuja. For some years now, FFARN has been working with key stakeholders  to find a  permanent solution to the violent conflicts between farmers and herders in the Middle Belt region of Nigeria. The recent stakeholders’ conference was convened on the heels of the suspension of the Ruga Settlements Programme floated by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) and the controversies trailing the policy. Project Leader, FFARN, Ms. Olubukola Ademola-Adelehin, who addressed discussants at the opening session, identified that part of the controversy that the Ruga Settlement Programme generated was due to poor or inadequate communication. She stressed that the Federal Government needed to communicate its policies aimed at addressing the herders and farmers conflict clearly and in a way that people listening could understand it. Ademola-Adelehin said that for a policy to gain acceptance, the citizens must be made to also see the benefits they could derive  at the personal level, community level and even to the country as a whole. She said that a permanent solution to the conflict would require an economic and developmental plan that is able to integrate the interest of the farmers and herders.   According to her, any proposal from government must be in a way that it’s integrating the livelihood of farmers and pastoralists because when  these are separated and treated in isolation, there would be suspicion of exclusion and marginalization by certain stakeholders. She further explained that the essence of the workshop was to identify key issues  driving the farmer-herder conflict and  the parties involved in the conflict. The discussions from the workshop, she said,  would guide policy makers at  the local, state , national and even international levels to  have a  holistic view of the conflict  in order to make  appropriate interventions. “This forum is very unique as it brings in together experts from academia, from practitioners and policy to look critically and analysis on policies that can inspire government to look at these issues holistically and want to put in peace structures to ensure that the issues are addressed,” she said Executive Director, West African Network for Peace building (WANEP), Chukwuemeka Eze, noted that the Ruga policy was introduced within the context of divergence of opinion, multicultural background, and more importantly within a context of trust deficit. Eze, who is the co-lead Facilitator,  stressed that it was important that before policies were  introduced, the education that goes into the content of the policy and the workability of the policy should  be made clear to everybody from the moment of policy  design. “In so doing, people understand the processes and people are able to make inputs, so that when it gets to the public domain, those who are supposed to challenge it or the beneficiaries will be  on the same page,” he said. Eze also advocated that government should also work to see the inclusion of women in discussions ahead of  policies aimed at addressing the conflict. “The process of inclusivity means that nobody should be left behind. Women constitute over 50 per cent of the world population and  anybody under the illusion that they should be left out of the peace building process in any community  is actually making the process itself difficult. The impact of conflict on men and women are different and when talking about  gender based peace building approach, everybody is important,” he said. Peace Building and  Developmany  Adviser to the United Nations (UN) in Nigeria, Mr. Zebulon Takwa, regretted that the ongoing clashes has caused the Federal Government billions of Naira which could have been deployed to key sectors of the economy. Takwa observed that the farmer/herder conflict in Nigeria was avoidable but lamented   that the investments on  peace building  in Nigeria and Africa as a whole has been rather too little. He said that there is a strong need to work harder within the limits of the available resources to prevent future conflicts. In charting a new way out of the mess, Takwa recommended the use of  the Socio-Ecoligical Analysis, which has been missing in most of the recommendations for a sustainable solution to the farmers and herders relations. “Prevention can come during conflicts. Government should prevent further killings, the toxic discussions between communities around it should be prevented. Government should engage inclusive discussions to get workable solutions,” he said. Takwa also called on all Nigerians to be part of the peace-building processes. According  to him, a peaceful society is the responsibility of all. “When we have the spirit of inclusivity, the spirit of accepting one another, we will begin to look at things differently.” At the end of the three-day programme,  FFARN briefed journalists on the contents of the four policy briefs through which it recommended key solutions to the protracted farmers and herders conflict. The policy briefs, which encourages seeking  a common ground in the  Farmers and Herders Relations in Nigeria include: ‘Past is Prologue: Criminality and Reprisal Attacks’; ‘The Implications of the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law on Farmer-Herder Relations in the Middle Belt Region of Nigeria’;  ‘Responses to Conflict between Farmers and Herders in in the Middle belt of Nigeria: Mapping Past Efforts and Opportunity for Violence Prevention’; and ‘Seeking Security and Stability: An Analysis of Security Responses to Farmer-Herder conflict in the Middle Belt Region of Nigeria’. There were heated debates on the policy documents, particularly on aspects that tended to hold the media partly liable for the perennial conflict. The media was blamed largely for allegedly giving the conflict an ethno-religious colouration. Media practitioners were accused of consistently profiling the Fulani herdsmen as the aggressors and the crop farmers as  victims. However, the media acquitted itself at the roundtable with facts, figures and empirical evidence that most newspaper houses as well as radio and television stations have been reporting the conflict with due regards to upholding truth and social responsibility.