S ome salient essentials of a retreat are that it provides one with the opportunity to learn new things, familiarize deeply with others, refresh on existing knowledge, and develop a new perspective about life and issues. Organisers of the recent Presidential R etreat for ministers now sworn-in by President Muhammadu Buhari for his second term, may have also had clear set objectives when they put together the two-day event at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Those coming into the cabinet need to understand the policy direction of the government in the next four years.   In the views of the Secretary the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, participants during the retreat succeeded in laying a critical foundation needed to accomplish significant targets set by the government in the second term. Nigerians indeed waited for two months for appointments of the ministers, with fears that prolong delays could again, snowball into an economic crisis for the country. When the President finally sent the list of ministerial nominees to the Senate for confirmation, it received mix reactions. First, was condemnation for failure on the part of the President to dispatch the list without assigning portfolios for each of the ministerial nominees, to aide members of the red chamber in the screening process, at least, in avoiding square pegs in round holes. It was, however, not a hindrance, as the lawmakers cleared all 43 ministerial nominees who have since assumed duty.   Many people have always argued that for the country to make significant progress, competence and not sentiment must be the yardstick for the appointment of individuals into public office. It is on this basis too that critics have since described the composition of the Buhari’s second term cabinet as political patronage.  One can vividly recall how the President assured that only those tested and capable of delivering on assigned mandates would make the ministerial list. In his first meeting with the leadership of the 9th National Assembly at the presidential villa, Buhari said, “I worked with them (returning ministers) for three and a half years at least – meeting twice or two weeks in a month. So I know them. But, this time around, I’m going to be quiet me – me in the sense that I will pick people I personally know.” Apart from the old ministers that have retained their previous portfolios, one of the best appointments made by the President in the new arrangement is for the ministry of communication. He assigned the portfolio to a Professor of Computer Information System and former Director-General of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), who has vast experience in the sector.   Among the greenhorn ministers, whose assigned portfolio also fit their educational background, is Clement Ikanade Agba from Edo State and Major General Bashir Magashi (rtd), from Kano State. While Agba who holds a degree in Economics and a Masters in Business Administration with vast experience in a related field has been appointed minister of State Budget and National Planning, General Magashi is the Minister of Defence.   The fact remains that most of the new ministers are stepping in with complete naivety regarding the intricacies in the sectors they are required to manage. Imagine the comments by the former governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola who has since admitted that he knows nothing about the interior ministry yet; he is appointed as the minister. “I don’t really know much about the operations or policies of the ministry apart from stories about the ministry on the pages of newspapers. My relationship with the ministry is distant. What I know about the ministry is what I read in the newspapers,” Aregbesola told ministry staff on his first day in office.   Given the current insecurity crisis in the country including; banditry, kidnapping, insurgency in the northeast, and the Fulani herdsmen/farmers conflict, it becomes worrisome to  comprehend how someone without the requisite knowledge of a ministry, which mandate is to foster the maintenance of internal security and citizenship integrity for the promotion of good governance could be deployed there.   Aregbesola’s confession, only confirms some of the issues which the two-day ministerial retreat in Aso Rock failed to address. Firstly, there was no point for President Buhari to have kept secret his decision to unbundle some of the existing ministries until the day of inauguration.   It was also sad listening to the SGF during the inauguration that he would be sending out ministerial mandates, to all the ministers for review within two weeks, a document that will be used for tracking of their performances. The statement sounds like a contradiction of Buhari’s comment, revealing that the retreat agreed on appropriate KPIs and deliverables to be achieved in the road map on government priorities from 2019 to 2023. Also approved was key sector performance indicators (KPIs), and measurement of success for each initiative across the respective ministries departments and agencies (MDAs) of the government.   People expect that the documents earlier distributed to the ministers before the retreat by the SGF should have spelled out, the mandates of the respective ministries, in line with the roadmap for deliberations at the retreat. It appears that the retreat only took broad approach in discussing the administration’s policy direction and not specific action plans as most of the new ministers will now spend part of the next four years learning the robes.   With Buhari’s present ambitious plan to lift millions of Nigerians out of poverty, and speed up execution of people-oriented projects in order to change the existing poor infrastructure narrative, the ministers must know that they have no time to waste. After all, their principal and Commander-In-Chief believe strongly that the government has no option but to deliver in the second term.