The proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) yesterday faulted the announcement made by the Governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, that the soldier who allegedly killed a motorcyclist, Chimaobi Nwaorgu Uzoukwa, has been arrested. Ikpeazu had during his visit to the family of the deceased on Thursday disclosed the arrest of the soldier whom he said was currently in custody.  But IPOB in a statement described the arrest as a huge lie, given the issuance of a statement by the 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Enugu, denying their involvement in the killing of the deceased. The Pro-Biafra group in the statement made available to Saturday Telegraph by its spokesman, Mr. Emma Powerful, said: “There is no iota of truth in the widely circulated lie that the soldier responsible for the death of Chimaobi is under custody.” The statement reads in part: “It is unbelievable that Okezie Ikpeazu, his handlers and the Police Commissioner in Abia   announced the arrest of the killer-soldier involved in the death of Chimaobi Nwaorgu. “Nobody has ever seen any picture or video of the murder as is customary with Nigeria Police anytime they arrest suspects in high profile cases.  “No news conference where the full name, rank and division the soldier is serving in the army were made public. The pattern of covering up for the worst excesses of terror-soldiers has continued in Igboland. “What we are demanding is very simple, pictorial or video evidence that those that shot and killed Chimaobi are in custody. Their names must be made public and a commitment extracted from the army to vacate every checkpoint in Biafraland.  “The hurried and clearly orchestrated announcement by Okezie Ikpeazu and his commissioner of police in Abia State is nothing more than a mere announcement. It means nothing and solves nothing. “We reiterate our demand that those responsible must be arrested and prosecuted else Okezie Ikpeazu is merely embarking on an exercise in futility. “The death of Chimaobi represents a watershed and no amount of photoopportunity or public relations will diminish the fact.”