Stakeholders in the grain storage sub-sector of the economy yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to, as a matter of urgency, sign the Warehouse Bill into law, saying that farmers have continued to lose up to 30 per cent of agricultural produce due to poor warehousing system in the country. One of the stakeholders, Chief Eric Ozongwu, said with the comparative advantage Nigeria had in producing some staple crops, a good warehousing system would not only boost the economy of farmers, but the entire GDP of the country. Ozongwu, the national chairman of Grain Storage Practitioners of Nigeria, said the warehouse bill, when signed into law, would also serve as collateral for farmers to secure loans from banks and pay back when they sell their grains. He said: “Because of poor warehousing system in Nigeria, it is affecting the quality of our grains, and we lose more than 30 per cent of what we produce every year because of poor storage. “When we have certified warehouses, we can use it as collateral to secure loan, banks can use your warehouse certificate to give loan so that as a farmer, you can go back to farm, and the price relatively goes high, you can sell it, service your loan and have some money left.” Ozongwu added that government had not lived up to the stakeholders’ expectation regarding the country’s strategic reserve. According to him, this year alone, government was expected to mop up grains in the market and store in the reserves, because it was relatively low, and use such to stabilise the market whenever the price go high. “The government have not been doing anything about our strategic reserves, and this year, price of grains are relatively low, and this is the time government mop up the excess in the market and store them, so that when the supply goes down and the demand goes up, they can use it to cushion the effect of the price. “When the price is so low, farmers are not motivated to go to far, and there must be an equilibrium between the prices, so that the prices will not be too low and the prices will not be too high that people can afford so that people can afford to buy the grains in the market. “And when we have marketing boards, they were able to stabilise these prices, but now, everybody is on his own,” he added.