The Fidelity Bank Plc’s ongoing promo to reward customers has produced another batch of beneficiaries in Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, thereby bringing the total number of beneficiaries to 6,000 across the country. The bank said N2.6 billion cash had been expended on  its  savings promo across Nigeria. Mrs. Ugonaya Okoro, representing Divisional Head of Retail Bank, Richard Maduebu, confirmed the details yesterday at Dei- Dei market, Abuja, where bank rewarded seven customers with cash ranging from N500,000 each to N150,000. “It’s just to reward our customers. You know we say the customer is a king; they are the reason we are still in business.  Without the customer, we can’t be in business today. So we just want to show them appreciation; that we are grateful for having them on our platform,” she said, adding that the promo was a continuation of an exercise that began four years ago. “It’s been on for more than four years. We have done more than N2.6 billion across Nigeria. We have rewarded over 6,000 customers. For the northern region, we are rewarding about 190 customers; I think about 130 for the Fidelity savings account and then about 60 for the children’s account, which we call the school fees support. Total in cash, all of them is about N74 million that we have rewarded. “For Dei-dei market, we have about nine beneficiaries, we have about three children’s account for N150,000 each and the rest six are N500,000 each,” Mrs. Okoro explained. On how winners are selected, she said:  “We just throw into the pool, select numbers across all our regional banks.  The truth is everybody will be rewarded but we can’t reward everybody in a month. So every month, we just take a pool from across all the regional banks  and we move from place to place to go and reward them; so it’s going to be continuous  programme as long as Fidelity bank stands.” Speaking to New Telegraph, Mr. Mohammed Aliyu,    a representative  of  Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities , a beneficiary of  N500,000, expressed joy, describing the bank’s gesture as “a promise made and fulfilled. We are happy about it.”