CHUKWU DAVID reports how the Ninth Senate is making desperate efforts to court the attention and friendship of President Muhammadu Buhari, apparently to reduce the age-long acrimony between the Senate and Presidency   The Ninth Senate was inaugurated on June 11, 2019. The inauguration was carried out under a very peaceful atmosphere, even though there was palpable apprehension in the camp of Ahmad Lawan, who eventually emerged the President of the Senate and Ovie Omo-Agege, the Deputy President of the Senate. The apprehension in Lawan’s camp and indeed in the camp of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), stemmed from the fact that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), publicly declared support for Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South), who defied the choice of Lawan by the APC leadership and President Buhari, to contest for the position of Senate President. However, at the end of the day, the wishes of the party and the President came to stay as Lawan beat Ndume, while Omo-Agege defeated the former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu. Meanwhile, Lawan has been trying to convince Nigerians and the entire world, that the Senate under his leadership will not be a rubber stamp assembly. While stressing that his administration would strive to assert the independence of the National Assembly, he has also promised to ensure that the Senate is on the same page with the presidency. Many Nigerians have been wondering how the Senate can manage such relationship where it asserts its independence and at the same time, please the presidency in a country that the executive arm always wants to subjugate the legislature and the judiciary, and be the lord. Analysts have pointed out that it would be near impossibility for absolute harmony to be achieved between the two rival arms without serious compromise on the part of the Senate. These analysts are of the opinion that the Senate can succeed in minimizing the constant quarrels between it and the executive, but cannot totally have absolute peace with the latter if it must safeguard its constitutional powers and freedom. Already, there have been signs on the part of the Senate, indicating that the present Assembly won’t be able to keep to the words of Lawan that the Upper Chamber can assert its independence while romancing with the Presidency. The state of the country’s democratic development is such that the executive always wants to control the other two arms of government, and attempts to resist such dominance have always been the reason for the bickering between the executive and the legislature in particular. Apart from the unprecedented crackdown on some highly placed judicial officers in the first four years of Buhari’s administration, the judiciary is not always conspicuous in warring with either the executive or the legislature. Since the return of the country to civil rule in 1999, the National Assembly had always had frosty relationship with the presidency, but the situation got messier in the Eighth Assembly, under Bukola Saraki as the President of the Senate and Ike Ekweremadu as the Deputy President of the Senate. This was because Saraki and Ekweremadu emerged as presiding officer of the apex Assembly, contrary to the choice of the leadership of the APC and President Buhari, who actually preferred Lawan for the post of President of the Senate in 2015. Following the controversial circumstance under which Saraki and his deputy emerged, they faced unending battles till the end of their tenure, leading to the defection of Saraki to the PDP on July 31, 2018. However, not willing to face that kind of battle in the present dispensation, Lawan and Omo-Agege, are now making frantic efforts, convenient or otherwise, to make President Buhari happy in order to enjoy his friendship and support in the next four years. Accordingly, the two presiding officers have separately visited the President in his country home, Daura, in Katsina State. They recently paid him independent visits with some other stakeholders in the Senate and the APC. For instance, the leadership of the Senate led by Lawan, last Friday, visited President Buhari in Daura. In the entourage of the President of the Senate were Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi; Deputy Senate Leader, Ajayi Borrofice; Deputy Whip, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi; Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, and the Minority Whip, Philip Aduda. Others were Deputy Minority Whip, Sahabi Alhaji Ya’u; senator representing Katsina South, Bello Mandiya; senator representing Katsina North, Ahmad Babba Kaita and senator representing Katsina Central, Abdullahi Barkiya. Earlier on Wednesday last week, the Deputy President of the Senate, Omo-Agege, also visited Daura, alongside other APC chieftains including governors to pay homage to Buhari during the Sallah celebration. While in Daura, the Deputy President of the Senate assured Nigerians that the 9th National Assembly will provide an enabling environment for the implementation of the Next Level agenda of President Buhari for the benefit of all Nigerians. He called on Nigerians to continue to work for the peace, unity and progress of the country, pointing out that he went to Daura to represent the President of the Senate, who was in Saudi Arabia to perform the hajji. His words: “We felt it was right since the Senate President is far away in Saudi Arabia, offering prayers for this country and the National Assembly leadership, for us to come in here representing him and the Senate to express felicitations with Mr. President as he celebrates this feast. “You know it has not been very easy for us as a country in terms of the challenges we faced but this notwithstanding, Mr. President has managed to steer the ship of state very successfully; so, we decided on visiting him at home, to felicitate with him and congratulate him. “It is also to reassure him that going forward, the National Assembly is ready to provide the enabling environment for the contents of the Next Level agenda to be implemented.” Some analysts, who have commented on the development, are of the view that the romance of the Senate leadership with the Presidency is the panacea to the long standing rift between the two arms of government. However, others have reservations that such relationship, if not controlled, is the shortest way to compromise the independence of the parliament and make it a rubber stamp or an appendage of the executive. Whatever the ongoing “honey moon” between the Ninth Senate and the presidency will result in, Nigerians are waiting to see a relationship that will translate to mutual respect between the two arms, without any of them encroaching on the constitutional powers of the other, with delivery of good governance to the people as the ultimate goal.