TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on Mrs. Aramide Adeyoye, an engineer, who recently broke the gender jinx, following her appointment as the first female Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure in Lagos State since 1999   Since the commencement of the present political dispensation on May 29, 1999, Lagos State has never had a woman in charge of its Ministry of Works and Infrastructure. But the 20 years jinx was broken last Tuesday when Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu appointed a certified Civil Engineer and Construction Practitioner with 32 years of professional experience, Engr. (Mrs.) Aramide Adeyoye, as Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure. Adeyoye’s appointment is no doubt a positive development and a plus in the quest by Nigerian women for gender balance and inclusiveness in politics and governance. The 35-man Lagos cabinet has 12 women, which is line with Governor Sanwo-Olu’s campaign promise to give over 30 per cent slots to women. Out of the 12 women that made it to Sanwo-Olu’s cabinet, eight were appointed as commissioners. They are Engr. Adeyoye (Works and Infrastructure); a principal consultant/CEO at Leading Learning Limited, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo (Education); former Vice-Chairman of Apapa Local Gove r nment Area, Mrs. Bolaji Dada (Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation); an accomplished Consultant and Organisational Psychologi s t , Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle (Establishment, Training and Pension), and a pharmacist and the immediate past Lagos State Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf (Home Affairs). Others are former Chairman of Agboyi-Ketu Local Council Development Area, Hon. Yetunde Arobieke (Local Government and Community Affairs); a former Deputy Chief Whip of Lagos State of Assembly and the immediate past Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Mrs. Lola Akande (Commerce and Industry) and a management consultant, Mrs. Olufunke Adebolu (Tourism, Arts and Culture). The four female special advisers are a former management staff at Olam International, Ms Ruth Bisola Olusanya (Agriculture); a one-time freelance journalist and founder of Remindales Healthcare Agency, Princess Aderemi Adebowale (Office of Civic Engagement); a legal practitioner and former Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Assistant Legal Adviser, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka (Housing) and Co-Founder of Impact Hub Lagos, Mrs. Solape Hammond (Sustainable Development Goals). The Secretary to the Lagos State Government (SSG), Mrs. Folashade Jaji is also one of the top women in Sanwo-Olu’s cabinet. Engr. Adeyoye’s emergence as the first female Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure has been commended by stakeholders across the state, considering that the four previous occupiers of the position were male. They are former Osun State governor, Rauf Aregbesola, who head the ministry between 1999 and 2007 before going to run for the governorship of Osun State on the platform of the then Action Congress (AC) in 2007; Dr. Obafemi Hamzat (2011 to 2015) as well as Engr. Ganiyu Johnson and Engr. Adebowale Akinsanya, who were commissioners for Works and Infrastructure between 2015 and 2019. Adeyoye joined the league last Tuesday by the virtue of the decision of Governor Sanwo-Olu to hand over the challenge of leading the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure to her. With her wealth of experience and laudable achievements in the private sector, Engr. Adeyoye emergence as Lagos State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure can be regarded as a square peg in a square hole considering her track records and past experiences. This explains the belief that she will use her new office to play major roles in ensuring that the Sanwo-Olu led APC government fulfills its campaign promises of providing infrastructure for Lagosians, especially in term of road construction and other capital projects in the Centre of Excellence. A technocrat who has distinguished herself in her chosen profession with about 32 years of professional experience, Engr. Adeyoye was born on May 8, 1967. She hails from Owu-Ikosi in Ikosi Ejinrin Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Epe area of Lagos State She attended Methodist Girls High School, Lagos. She obtained a Bachelor of Science degree (B.Sc) with Second Class Upper from the University of Lagos in 1987. She also attended the Lagos Business School, where she bagged a Master of Business Administration (MBA) in 2005. She also attended the Georgetown University Law Center Law for Investment Arbitration Programme. She began her career with Obi Obembe & Associates as an Industrial Trainee and later worked in several capacities with Julius Berger Nigeria Plc. Her professional competencies include Project Coordinator for Julius Berger Nigeria Plc covering Apapa CBD, Iganmu Bridge, Lekki Ikoyi, construction of Bourdillon Road, Adeola Odeku Road, Pedestrian bridges, new Carter Bridge, West ramp and the Third Mainland Bridge, among others.