 The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has berated the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for allegedly foisting hunger, insecurity and economic hardship on Nigerians. Secondus, who declared that Nigerians have been fooled by APC, said the nation’s economy has collapsed and citizens more divided under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari. He spoke on Tuesday night at the unification meeting of Ogun State chapter of PDP held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL), Abeokuta. The meeting was attended by supporters of Senator Buruji Kashamu and former House of Representatives member, Oladipupo Adebutu, who had hitherto been battling over the structures of the party in the state. At the event, which was also attended by returnees from some political parties, Secondus disclosed that PDP would conduct congresses next year at the ward, local and state levels for a completely new structure in the state chapter. The PDP national chairman noted that Nigeria’s image had been battered as a result of poor governance of the Buhari-led administration. According to him, there is so much hunger and insecurity never witnessed in the land before. Secondus, however, charged his party members to eschew divisiveness and unite in the bid to rescue the country from the ruling party. He said: “For how long can we be oppressed? For how long can we be intimidated? For how long can we continue to kill ourselves? There is so much hunger and killing in the land that we have never witnessed such before. “The number of people that have been killed since the inception of this APC government is so much that you can’t place the record. Every day you wake up to hear the killings in Zamfara, Taraba, Benue, Enugu and across the border because of bad governance. There is no state in Nigeria, which there has not been killings and suicide. “We must rise and unite ourselves because we are all democrats. The entire world is watching. The will of God must be done. Nigerians have been fooled by APC. Economy has collapsed. Nigeria is divided and we are being disgraced outside the country. “Nigerian people are also watching. Election was conducted in February and March. You are all aware of results. That result is subject today in the law court. We are not allowed to talk about it, but the country is watching it. The will of God must be done. If you like, delay it. If you like, intimidate the people or do anything you want to do.” Secondus, who recalled that lack of unity and infighting cost PDP the governorship election in Ogun State, expressed satisfaction with the latest reconciliation drive of party members in the state. He said as part of measures to bring lasting peace to the state chapter, the national leadership would hold fresh congresses to put in place new set of leaders. Speaking at the event, Adebutu stated that the unification meeting was convened to heal the wounds caused by factional crisis that rocked the party ahead of the 2019 elections. The former lawmaker urged party members to put their grievances behind and work together to build a formidable platform to wrest power in 2023.