Abimbola Adekoya, an indigene of Ijebu-East Local Government of Ogun State, was called to Bar on 13th December, 2017. in this encounter, she shares her experience in the noble profession with JOHN CHIKEZIE   Background  My name is Abimbola Adekoya. I am from Ogun State, Ijebu-East Local Government Area. I had my elementary school at Tifedayo International School Alagbado, Lagos and Owen Thomas College, Alagbado, Lagos for my secondary school education. I obtained a Bachelor of Law Degree (LL.B) from the Lagos State University in 2016. I thereafter proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Enugu Campus, where I finished with a First Class (Honours). I was called to the Nigerian Bar on 13th December, 2017. Choice of career  As a cliché as it sounds, my desire to study law and to be a legal practitioner was borne out of my passion for fairness, equity and justice for the voiceless and oppressed.  I remember back in secondary school, I was always in trouble for standing up for people and fighting other people’s battle. In fact, I became so notorious that one of my teachers used to call me a ‘Human Rights Activist’. Law seems to be the perfect profession for me to express my passion and love for equity, fairness and justice.  Also, with years of legal education, I realized that the legal profession is all about training people to be problem solvers. So wherever I find myself, I am expected to proffer solutions to difficult issues and give life to hopeless situations, whether I am  advising a  business entity or representing a person whose fundamental right has been breached, I believe I am solving a problem in my own way and law has given me a platform to do so.  International, human rights and criminal law  I love International law, Human Rights Law and Criminal law but I have recently developed an interest in Corporate Commercial law, Energy law and Labour law.  Business is the heart of the economy, and I have come to appreciate the vital role the law plays in ensuring the success of businesses and companies. I find Corporate Commercial law particularly interesting because it is one area of law that is dynamic and challenging. This area of law allows for creativity and resourcefulness in providing pragmatic solutions to complex legal issues.  Law school experience  I had one of my best learning experiences at the Nigerian Law School. I met awesome and intelligent people from across the country and I was exposed to the practical aspect of law during the Court and Chambers Attachment.   Contrary to dreadful popular opinion, law school is not as bad, sacred or mighty as people think. I think law school is one of the best learning institutions in Nigeria. Compared to most Law faculties in Nigeria, the Nigerian Law School is more structured and organized. Students know what to expect in every lecture and they have compulsory study group meetings to prepare adequately for the class. Also, there are unending learning resources available to students beforehand.  Reforms in the Nigerian Law School, including Law Faculties in Nigeria  The only issue I have with law school is the volume of work. Students are expected to absorb so much information within a very short time. This accounts for the high failure rate in law school. I suggest that the duration of study in law school be increased to 18 months to 2 years. This will provide students with more time to learn and undergo pupilage before the Bar Exams. I honestly feel that the 5 years period of study for Bachelor of laws Degree (LL.B) should be reduced to 4 years. We need to spend more time teaching the technical side of the law.   The Nigerian Law faculties also need to do better in terms of the method of teaching, structure and organization as the teaching method adopted by most Nigerian universities are outdated. Nigerian Law Faculties should embrace the use of technology to make learning easier. Teaching should be student focused and not lecturer focused. Also, Nigerian Law Faculties should encourage and make Internship programme compulsory for Law Undergraduates. This will go a long way in preparing students for the Nigerian Law School and practice.   Embarrassing moments  I can’t remember having an embarrassing first time court experience. But I had an embarrassing and memorable first time meeting experience with a client. I was instructed to attend a negotiation meeting with a client a few hours before the meeting. I knew next to nothing about the case, I was scared and confused because I was barely 3 months at the Bar at the time. The client was disappointed when she found out I was going to represent her at the meeting. At the end I made it through the meeting and all our propositions were accepted by the other party. I sincerely can’t explain how that happened.   Evaluation of justice system   The Nigerian Legal system which includes the laws, courts, personnel of law and the administration of justice system in Nigeria has not recorded much development compared to the Legal system in western countries.   The stunted growth experienced by the Nigerian Legal System can be attributed to the extant laws in Nigeria. Most of our laws are obsolete and are no longer relevant to the needs of the 21st Century Nigerian Citizen. For example, the Land Use Act 1978, the Companies and Allied Matters Act 1990, the Criminal Code etc. Isn’t it surprising that the statutes of general application such as the Sales of Goods Act 1893, Partnership Act 1890 and the Bill of Exchange Act 1882 which were in force in England on January 1, 1900 are still the extant laws in Nigeria even when some of these laws have been re-enacted in England.   Also, another problem facing our Legal system is the will power to implement the laws enacted. The Administration of justice system in Nigeria has made enforcement of laws difficult. As long as we don’t enforce our laws, the Nigerian Legal System will not develop even if we make the best laws.   It is pertinent to state that the Superior Courts in Nigeria have also not helped in the development of our jurisprudence in recent years. There are conflicting decisions of the superior courts particularly the Court of Appeal due to the unnecessary focus on technicality rather than seeking to do substantial justice.  In recent times, the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court hardly give judgment on the substance or merit of the cases before them instead most cases are decided or dismissed based on non-compliance with procedural laws. For instance the recent Supreme Court’s judgement on the election petition appeal in Osun state.   Insecurity   I consider the idea of using licensed vigilante Fulani herdsmen as security agents across the country demeaning and an affront to Nigeria’s security apparatus. It is indeed disappointing that we are considering the idea of resorting to non-state actors in securing lives and properties when the motion to introduce state policing was vehemently opposed.   What is the aim and objective of establishing and licensing Fulani Vigilante Group? Is it for the purpose of providing support to the security agencies in the states or to protect Fulani Herdsmen from reprisal attacks from members of the host community? The underlying motive for the implementation of Licensed Fulani Vigilante Group by the government is tainted with folly as it seeks to advance sectional or vested interests as against the common interest of all the citizen.   First, the Federal Government has in time past made efforts to ban and disarm local Vigilante Groups across the Country, licensing Fulani Vigilante group in the states where local vigilante groups have been disarmed would mean that the government is acting in the interest of the fulani herdsmen.   Secondly, some Fulani Herdsmen have been a threat to the security of communities in the Northern Part of the country, licensing them to act as security agents in the states could lead to a monumental national tragedy seeing that they have been empowered by the government, they can take laws into their own hands, engage in extra judicial killing and dispense justice as they see fit.   Also, using untrained groups as security agents is detrimental to the security of any state as they could evolve into an ethnic militia or be used to promote political agenda.   In the interest of the public, the federal government and the state government should not in any way adopt this proposition as in the short to long term, will do more harm than good to the peaceful existence of citizens across the country and National Security as a whole.