Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu is a former deputy governor of Lagos State. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, she speaks on the Muhammadu Buhari administration, the composition of the federal cabinet and rising insecurity in the country  What is your take on the 43-man ministerial list by President Muhammadu Buhari? If we want Nigeria to be the Nigeria of our dream, we need Buhari and Buhari needs us. In the first place, the ministerial list has shown us a lot about the depth at which Nigeria has gone politically and corruption wise. President Buhari will not bring people from the space; he will bring people within Nigeria. Unfortunately, the polity is already corrupted. Buhari may not know the antecedents of some those he has nominated; he may not know them as deeply as he thinks he knows them. So, this is the time Buhari needs us to assist him by pointing out why we are not happy with this list of people. I won’t go into naming names, but I can refer to some of the things that have been written about some of these people. Somebody said recently that some buildings are currently under construction and that some of the ministers are waiting to go back; buildings that are excessively luxurious in the choicest places of Nigeria. That they are waiting to be called back into the cabinet for them to be able to complete them. If this is the feeling of the people, it means people are not going there to serve the nation. It means that all projects are going to be compromised either through inflation of cost or substandard delivery. What specifically should Nigerians do to help the President? This is the time Buhari needs whistle blowers to come out and say what they know. We should not keep quiet although it is not good for anybody to say somebody is corrupt if that person is not corrupt. If we are not happy with the list, it is either because we have not seen some of them perform before or that they cannot perform now. Cabinet is not an experimental ground. It is a place where you are going to show the stuff, which you are made of. That is why we need to come in and assist Buhari because he means well for this nation and I will stand up and say that anywhere. He wants a clean Nigeria, but he cannot do it alone because he cannot go and bring people out of Nigeria. He won’t bring British or Americans to come and serve him in the cabinet; he will take people from among us. And since he has taken from among us and we are not with happy with some of them; then this is the time for us to speak out. Having waited for about five months after the general elections and almost two months after being sworn-in, many people were surprised that the ministerial list is made up of those described as “recycled politicians.” What is your take on that? It means that Buhari’s circle of friends is limited and since it is limited, he can only pick from people who have access to him and those that have access to him offered themselves or offered people that they know. Unfortunately, those who offered themselves and offered people they know are the kind of people Nigerians are now complaining about as having been in the corridor of power and their performances leave no one in doubt that these are not the people who will turn this economy round. But there is nothing God cannot do; maybe they will perform beyond our expectations. We are happy for some of them like Otunba Niyi Adebayo. I know that he is cool-headed and sound. I don’t know which portfolio they are going to give to him, but he is focused and he will perform. Babatunde Fashola was saddled with three ministries in the last administration. If he is allowed to handle one, maybe, power, we might see light at the end of the tunnel. As the first female deputy governor in Nigeria, how do you feel that there are only seven women on the ministerial list? It is not as if women are not showing political interest. We have shown interest in governance and we have been in the vanguard of the campaign for Mr. President and we are qualified. I don’t know the criteria for the choice of the ministerial nominees. It showed that Mr. President is not comfortable working with women and if he is not comfortable working with women; there is no way we can get anything more than what we have gotten. What will be your advice to President Buhari in terms of ensuring that more women are given opportunity to serve in his government… I will plead that he should readdress the situation and put more women in key positions. At present, Nigerians are worried over rising insecurity, considering the activities of Boko Haram, herdsmen, bandits and other criminal elements? What do you make of all these? I have a feeling that it is the fallout of post-election drama. It is like people who are angry that they lost out are trying to cause upheaval here and there.  But people on the ground know that this is more rampant than that assumption. The fact that a lot of people are out of job and they don’t see any hope of making ends meet, has also contributed to the insecurity. That is the more reason why the government needs to put in place infrastructure that will allow people to go into industrial activities and also revive some of the companies that are labour intensive in other to absolve more of the jobless people all over the place. We have a lot of qualified but jobless people and I believe this is the time to take statistics to know whether it is an exaggeration or not. These are smart people and everyday, they think of new ways to make ends meet. So, the insecurity is becoming very sophisticated. You have people who are wearing suits, robbing people on Third Mainland Bridge. What is your take on the Fulani herdsmen menace? Everybody knows about Fulani people. Fulani people from time immemorial don’t carry weapons, they only have their sticks. That we now have Fulani people carrying AK 47, calls for concern. There have been many theories put up that these are people who were displaced in Libya and somehow they came into Nigeria due to the fact that our borders are porous. They say Fulani people have been displaced in Central Mali and they are looking for settlements and land where they can settle. Nigeria has land, but the land belongs to some people. Some people are first settlers, so you can’t just come in and occupy the land. I am praying it is not so that these people are not around to take from people what belongs to them traditionally through war. We know that it is not everybody that sees the beginning of a war that usually sees the end. So, my take is that herdsmen should be disarmed. If they are proper herdsmen, they know how to fight with their knives. Fulani has knives and they know how to attack people who rustle their cattle, not with AK47. And this issue of telling everybody to go and drop arms when these people are around in the bush with AK47 is not the right policy. It should be said that everybody should come and license their guns. Don’t tell people to go and drop their weapons, when some people you don’t know are armed in their neighbourhood. Why has it been difficult for the government to address the issue of security as expected considering that one of the campaign promises of President Buhari is security? I think the cry of not handling it is more than what is really on the ground. I think they are putting in their best. From what I can see, the manpower is not as much as you think they have. They are overstretched. North-East has its problem. The North-Central and South-South also have their problems. So, the security apparel is overstretched. And this is why the issue of community policing is coming in at the right time and they need to recruit more men and fund it adequately. I listened to Boris Johnson when he was addressing people after he became Prime Minister of Britain and he was giving out his job description. He said his job is to make sure that people are okay. That old people have home and that the aged will not lose their homes in their old age. He listed a lot of things; that everybody can go about with their business without fear of molestation and that job situation will improve. Our President too is on a tripod; security, economy and anti-corruption war. But unfortunately he is encumbered by an environment that Johnson is not encumbered with. Our people come on board with a lot of garbage. Johnson’s job is clearly spelt out in an environment, where job description is clearly defined for cabinet members, who come onboard without garbage of godfathers and hidden agenda of looting the state to complete mansions. Johnson will have a cabinet that is focused; that knows what they want to do; that has not gone there to enrich themselves, only to serve the nation. Already, everything is in place for them. Buses are moving only that they want it to move better. Maybe bus delay at station is about 15 minutes; they now want it to be five minutes. In Nigeria, those things that should make life comfortable are not there. So, many people go into public office to do what government should do for them and that is why they steal. It is very sad that after almost 60 years of nationhood we are still in this situation. But, we are happy that we have a president who says he want it clean. So, we should assist him to give us that cleanness in the sense that if he doesn’t see and we see, we should speak out. We are lucky that he is not the kind of president who will shut it up; who will say no, it is a no-go-area. If something is dirty and you bring it out, you have the confidence that he will look at it; whereas if it is a president who is dirty and supports dirt, you dare not bring out anything against anybody.