Hundreds of traders and travellers without valid documents were stranded yesterday at Seme border post following restriction of movement around the country’s frontier with Benin Republic. The exercise, code-named ‘Ex-Swift Response’, was being jointly conducted by the Customs, Immigration, Police and military personnel and coordinated by the Office of the National Security Adviser at the nation’s borders. The Seme border, which is between Nigeria and Benin, is the major West African commerce corridor. The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said that the decision of government to tackle terrorism, armed banditry and smuggling informed the security control at the nation’s land borders. Most of the affected people were foreign traders returning to their countries. Customs source at the border said that only people with valid documents were allowed to move out or come into the country after proper checks. Also, he said that some transit cargoes, which were not prohibited by government, were allowed to enter Nigeria after proper examination by the Customs. The source, however, said that the scrutiny of both travellers and transit cargoes had brought hardship and inconvenience to Nigerians and nationals of neighbouring countries, who were returning to their countries after business transactions. A freight forwarder, Mr. John Akinwale, told our correspondent that nobody could ascertain whether the borders were closed or not because there had been partial movement of people and vehicles. He explained that Customs and Immigration officials did not explain why they were conducting checks. Akinwale said that those who arrived at the border on Wednesday were still finding it difficult to cross. “This is against ECOWAS protocol,” he said. “Yesterday, both importers and travellers were apprehensive over government’s decision.” Also, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)’s correspondent who visited Seme reports that incoming travellers and vehicles were thoroughly searched by the additional security officials drafted to the border, causing long delays. Many commercial vehicles conveying passengers into the country were ordered to pull over at the new border post for several hours while hundreds of Nigeria-bound trucks were parked across the border. Mr. Christopher Lawal, a passenger on Chisco Bus Transport, told NAN that their vehicle had been stopped for inspection for several hours. “We don’t know what is happening. Our bus was stopped for inspection since 12 noon, they just asked us to wait. We have spent close to three hours now and nobody is telling us what is happening. “We are not aware of the restriction, we went on excursion to Ghana and coming back to the country, they just asked the driver to wait,” he said. Mr. Daniel Avoseh, a coconut trader, said that his four trucks of coconut coming from Ghana were stuck at border post since the exercise started on Tuesday. “Up till now, they did not allow the trucks to pass. I am not aware of any restriction before I went to buy coconut in Ghana,” he said. Customs spokesman, Joseph Attah, had, in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, said that the joint border security exercise would be conducted in 25 states across the South-South, South-West, North-Central and North-West zones and urged the public to cooperate with the officials.