The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is facing more crisis, as the Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman has blamed him for the diminishing fortunes of the party.
In a letter entitled “APC: Appeal for Reconciliation,” dated August 6, 2019 and addressed to the APC National Chairman, Lukman said: “As a loyal party member, I have difficulty reconciling the absence of meetings of superior organs given all the challenges the party is going through, warranting the suspension of three serving governors (two of them now Senators) and two members of NWC.”
Not too long ago, the APC Deputy National Chairman, Senator Lawal Shuaibu had asked Oshiomhole resign because of the poor outing of the APC in the last elections.
However, Lukuman, assessing Oshiomhole’s leadership, declared: “My distant observation is that there is hardly any difference between your approach in managing the party and the way Chief Oyegun had managed it during his tenure. Instead, things have really got worse and painfully, it would appear, you are in denial of this reality.”
Also referring to earlier efforts he made to draw the party chairman’s attention to the growing problems in the party, Lukman said: “Kindly recall that sometime in June this year (2019). I sent what I called a ‘Private Memo’ on the issues of reported disciplinary actions against Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State by the National Working Committee (NWC).
“Of course, the Memo noted that before the 2019 elections, the NWC had similarly suspended former Governors Rochas Okorocha and lbikunle Amosun of Imo and Ogun states respectively. Between June and now, Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, APC Deputy National Chairman, North and Alh. Inuwa Abdulkadir, APC Vice National Chairman, North West have also been similarly suspended.”
The DG note that: “It would appear that the leadership problems facing the party are getting deeper and in the circumstances the business of building the party will be sacrificed.”
He lamented: “We had challenges that deprived our party the opportunity to contest 2019 election in Rivers, stripped our party of electoral victory in Zamfara, engendered highest levels of leadership animosities in Imo, Ogun, Adamawa, Bauchi, Kano, Ondo, Oyo, etc. Today, with Kogi and Edo elections approaching similar leadership animosities are defining political life of the party in those states.
“Since emerging as the National Chairman of our party, I have had cause to review decisions and actions you have taken as the National Chairman and often I have difficulty reconciling many of the decisions and actions you took with the leadership standards you upheld.”