 Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) in the country are currently in fear over the status of their registered Subscribers Identity Module (SIM) cards, New Telegraph has learnt. This came as the telecoms regulator, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), is set to begin another compliance audit of SIM registration databases of MTN, Globacom, Airtel, 9Mobile, Ntel and other operators offering SIM-based services. Recall that the first SIM registration audit compliance carried out by the regulator in 2015 led to the imposition of N1.04 trillion fine on MTN. The telco was fined for not disconnecting 5.1 million improperly registered and unregistered lines from its network as prescribed by the regulatory agency. The total sum, which was later negotiated to N350 billion, was based on a fine of N200,000 for each unregistered line. To avoid another regulatory hammer, the MNOs, from the beginning of this month, have embarked on another round of ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)’ exercise, which is aimed at correcting any irregularity on their SIM registration database. The telcos, it was gathered, are aggressively pushing subscribers for the update as they have been sending messages urging subscribers to come for KYC before the end of this month. A message from one of the operators to subscribers read: “Dear customer, kindly visit any of our approved KYC Centre to update your KYC details before 31stAugust 2019… go along with a valid means of identification (driving license, international passport, voter’s card or National ID. Kindly ignore if you have updated within the last 48 hours. Please hurry to avoid line disconnection.” With the impending regulatory audit, the MNOs may be forced to disconnect improperly registered lines by the end of this month as the message suggested. In recent times, the telcos have had brushes with the regulator over improper registration of SIMs by their agents who aggressively push out the cards to people on the road and hurriedly registered them. This prompted the regulator to come up with a recent directive that SIMs should no longer be registered in open areas. But that has not stopped. Announcing the flag off of the audit, NCC said the exercise would be the second to be carried out across all the mobile networks since SIM registration began in 2011. According to the regulator, the audit was initiated specifically to monitor operators’ strict adherence to the technical and other specifications for subscribers’ registration. The specifications are prescribed in the Telephone Subscribers Registration Regulations and the Technical Standards and Specifications issued by the Commission in 2011. The Commission, however, said the audit was without prejudice to the on-going “backend verification and scrubbing” of SIM registration data already submitted to the it by telecom operators The Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said in a recent statement that NCC considers the latest audit as “very sensitive” in view of the importance of the information to security and law enforcement in the country. “The Subscriber Registration Database is a veritable tool being used by security and law enforcement agencies in the detection and apprehension of criminal elements involved in heinous crimes like kidnapping, financial crimes, armed robberies, banditry, cattle rustling and other crimes. “The security operatives can leverage on easy access to the national telecoms network. As such, we (NCC) are determined to continue to ensure all SIM cards are traceable to their real owners with the least effort,” the NCC boss said. Also, the EVC said the verification exercise is a continuation of NCC’s regulatory interventions to ensure a clean and credible SIM registration database. According to him, the exercise began with the enactment of the Subscriber Registration Regulations and registration specifications in 2011. At the moment, NCC said the verification and scrubbing of SIM Registration data are on-going. SIM scrubbing refers to the process of verifying biometric and personal information submitted by all operators in respect of each of their subscribers. The exercise is to ensure the integrity of data submitted to NIMC by the telecom operators, before feeding the cleaned-up data to the central database warehoused by the national identity agency. “The audit is a natural next step to ensure that not only is the data already submitted fully compliant but that operators maintain the highest standards of registration practices across all their touch-points so that the subscriber data they are collecting continues to serve the national security and other interests for which subscriber registration was mandated,” Danbatta said.