The Olu of Warri, Ogiamen Ikenwoli, yesterday led a delegation of traditional rulers in Delta State to a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. At the meeting, Ogiamen sought President Buhari’s intervention to facilitate the revival of the $20 billion Ogidigben Gas Revolution Industrial Park (GRIP). It will be recalled that former President Goodluck Jonathan had inau-gurated the $20 billion project aimed at generating 250,000 direct and indirect jobs. Speaking to State House Correspondents after the meeting, the traditional ruler urged the Buhari administration to cause the opening up of ports facilities in the Southern and Eastern corridors to aid the decongestion as well as remove pressure wielded on the Lagos Port. He noted that efforts by former Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu, to attract developers failed after a consortium had pooled over $10 billion for the project. “If the project and the ports in the Southern parts of the country are revived, the issue of unemployment, kidnapping and insecurity will be a thing of the past. “The over 2,700 hectares park is designed for fertilizer, methanol, petrochemicals, and aluminium plants,” he said. The Olu of Warri said they were at the Presidential Villa to congratulate the President on his election victory and as a sign of solidarity with the President. Speaking on the idle ports in the Southern parts of the country, the Warri monarch stated that the ports located at Warri, Sapele, Burutu, Onitsha and Calabar had served as a major source of job creation and social stabilization. “We are talking of how to create jobs. We all know that issues of youth restiveness, crimes and kidnapping were at their minimal levels when these ports were operational,” he said. The monarch stated that the visit also afforded him the opportunity to share his thoughts with the President on the current security challenges besetting the country, adding that “we will continue to assist in our domain to counsel our youths.”