Access Bank in conjunction with CSR-in-Action’s College of Sustainable Citizenship, have concluded plans to host the 9th Civil Society Organisation Professionalism, Effectiveness and Therapy (CSO-CPET) workshop. The biannual programme is slated for Wednesday, August 21, 2019 at the Access Bank Head Office on Victoria Island, Lagos. The workshop themed: ‘Governance and Decision-Making’ will feature participants from different civil society organisations and non-profits numbering over 50, while Soji Apampa and Oluseyi Oyebisi will be the facilitators for the training. Soji Apampa is founder and consultant executive director of convention on business integrity. His areas of expertise cut across corporate governance, political economy analysis and anti-corruption research while Seyi Oyebisi is the Coordinator, UNICEF Rural Voices of Youth. He is a civil society strengthening and development expert. Speaking on the upcoming training, Bekeme Masade-Olowola, Chief Executive, CSR-in-Action, said: “Good governance is at the heart of any successful organisation as it is essential for a company or organisation to achieve its objectives, drive improvement, and maintain successful relations. “Governance in decision-making is not an exclusive concern for large companies, but for any business or organisation of any shape and size including civil society organisations because it can be a deal maker or breaker. It is for this reason that we commend our partners, Access Bank, for their longstanding commitment to supporting the C-PET project and advancing sustainable development.’’ Access Bank’s Head of Sustainability, Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, reiterated the bank’s commitment to building the value chain of businesses and the nation through facilitating shared value. She said: “At Access Bank, environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) performance is at the top of our corporate agenda. This is because we are aware that effective corporate governance is essential to the sustainable growth of the bank.” “We understand that our positive social and environmental impact will establish us as good corporate citizens in the communities we serve. Sound corporate governance practice, which includes excellent risk management processes, is the basis for our outstanding business performance now and in the long-term,” she added.