To resolve challenges of affordability mismatch resulting to unsold and unoccupied developed houses in major Nigerian cities, government and real estate developers have been urged to embrace paradigm shift that encourages provision of houses to those who really need them. Such paradigm shift, housing experts said, should move from market driven pricing system to end user pricing to ensure affordability. As part of resolutions at the end of Abuja Housing Show, they called on government to encourage the establishment of functional and structured housing cooperatives that could serve as financial model for provision of low income houses in the country. Besides, the experts canvassed the creation of  enabling policies around land title documentations, with government playing a larger role in assisting investors and supporting local building industries and materials to reduce cost. The practitioners want  institutionalisation of collaborations and partnerships between large scale industry players to enhance mass housing provision and affordability. “There should be integration of different building materials from across locations within the country to fit into the available local resources and materials for affordable housing,” they said, urging the need to support and encourage manufacturers of local building materials in the development of local content that would promote affordable housing. According to them, there is  need to create database for Africa to collate data, identify data gaps, integrate, optimise and expand knowledge set to meet current  housing demands. The industry experts called for the creation of a verifiable listing/directory of made in Nigeria construction materials to be highlighted within the housing and construction industry with a view to harnessing their acceptability and use in order to reduce costs of construction. They noted that Nigeria had one of the lowest home ownership rates at 25 per cent and that the national housing output was below 30,000 annually despite a projected 17 million deficit. According to them, no country is yet to resolve its affordable housing crisis with the major factor hinged on cost, adding that disposable income, cost of land and building materials were key to affordability. They observed low scale accessibility to finance for housing development by real estate companies and low penetration of market reach especially to low income segments. The housing stakeholders tasked government to create support systems for small scale developers to thrive, as a driver of growth in the sector. They also urged government and finance providers on the need to appropriate harmonisation of informal sector into the mortgage system to ensure access to mobilization of idle funds in the informal sector for housing development. The industry practitioners called for adoption of high impact training that supports research and data generation by major stakeholders within the industry, stressing for mass educational promotions of people-centric solutions, initiatives and programmes that inform the masses on home ownership. Other resolution by the stakeholders was on the need to build the right skill ecosystem through job-driven training programmes spearheaded by private sector industry participation for adoption of trainees. They canvassed the formation and inauguration of Nigeria Housing Expert Forum involving all key stakeholders to follow up implementation of resolutions. Besides,  they urged mass educational promotions of people-centric solutions, initiatives and programmes that inform the masses on home ownership. The stakeholders comprised President of Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria (REDAN), Mr. Ugochukwu Chime,Chief Promoter,  Abuja International Housing Show, Mr. Festus Adebayo; Managing Director, Eximia Realty, Mr.  Hakeem Oguniran;  Chairman, Innovative Risk and Investment Solutions, Prof. Charles Inyangete; former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Obadiah Mailafia; International Housing Finance Consultant, Mr Kunle Faleti; Managing Director, Debra L. Erb, Managing Director; Managing Director, Shelter Afrique Kenya, Mr. Andrew Chimphondah; and  policy makers, among others.