G ynecologists and obstetricians operating in some health institutions across the South West have called for the inclusion of infertility treatment in the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). The health practitioners said the inclusion would make treatment of fertility-related issues more affordable for Nigerians. They made the call in Abeokuta, Ogun State during a workshop for doctors in the South West region on fertility treatment procedure known as Intrauterine Insemination (IUI). It was organized by the Nordica Fertility Centre in conjunction with Society of Gynaecology and Obstetrics of Nigeria (SOGON). One of the resource persons and a gynaecologist with University College Hospital, Ibadan, Dr Olayinka Ogunbode, stressed the need for government to assist fertility centres towards making treatment affordable for the people. Ogunbode, who is the SOGON Secretary, expressed concern over the huge cost of setting up medical facilities. He said: “The availability of IVF centres in Nigeria is encouraging, but many of these centres are too costly to set up. They take loans to set up many of these centres. “So, I think if government could partner these centres in order to make fertility treatments affordable and accessible to the people, it would be beneficial.” The resource person also appealed to the government to help poor people with fertility problems to access treatment by revamping hospitals and training health practitioners. “As a matter of necessity, the government should help the average Nigerian access fertility treatment by focusing on equipping hospitals and constantly training health practitioners to be able to diagnose and treat people with fertility cases,” he added. On his part, a specialist with the Nordica Fertility Centre, Dr Ifeoluwa Oyetunji, said there was need to create awareness about treatment of fertility issues in the country. She stated that though intrauterine insemination remains the most rudimentary form of assisted conception, it could be quite expensive, especially for the average Nigerian. Oyetunji, who is also a gynecologist, however, urged couples seeking children of their own not to lose hope as there are centres in the country making giant strides in fertility treatment. She said, “For fertility treatments in Nigeria, generally, there is room for improvement compared to other advanced countries of the world. We need lots of awareness because the populace themselves need to know what is available. “Apart from knowing what is available, they also need to know what is their own role because they need to know what they need to do and where to get the services. Even, the practitioners need to be ready to make available what they need. “But, we have facilities in Nigeria and we are now telling our people that there is really no need to go abroad for fertility treatments.”