 Leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, has expressed discomfort over the security cordon around him and his wife, Zeenat, at the Medeenat Hospital, India. The Shi’ites leader was flown to India on Monday following an order of a Kaduna High Court, which granted him leave to seek medical care outside Nigeria. However, El-Zakzaky in an audio tape that went viral on social media, yesterday, decried the condition at the Indian hospital and sought for a return to Nigeria. He said the condition at the Indian hospital he was taken to is worse than that of Nigeria. The Shi’ites leader had requested to be allowed to travel to India for advanced medical treatment, following the deterioration of his health and that of his wife, while in detention in Nigeria. But, he disclosed in the audio message that on arrival in India, they were taken to an Indian security outfit whose facilities were even more sophisticated than the detention facility, where they were kept in Nigeria. His words: “All what we have seen here, have shown us that there is no trust, they just brought us here for another detention. I have been in detention for about four years, but I’ve never seen this kind of security that I’m seeing here, even at the door of my hospital room, there are many security personnel waiting, heavily armed. “They didn’t even allow me to go to the next room. I started asking myself, all this while I’ve been in detention, I’ve never seen this type. Even if I’m in the cell, they usually lock us up at about 9p.m. and open the cell at about 7a.m and they allow us to go anywhere we want in the area we are. “Even Kirikiri Prison will not affect me psychologically like this one. It will not be possible for us to come out of detention just to get medical attention and now find ourselves in another form of detention.” El-Zakzaky, who also expressed dissatisfaction with the arrangements made for his treatment at the hospital, rejected the first team of doctors, insisting that he would not submit himself to doctors whom he cannot trust. He said: “Right now, we are in the city of Delhi in India. Like you all know, we came here for medical treatment due to some ailments that I and my wife, Zeenat, have been suffering from. “There is a bullet in Zeenat’s body and there is also the need for her to get her two knee caps replaced amongst other ailments. On my own part, there are also particles of bullets that were broken into pieces in my eyes, hands and thighs, which have been poisonous to my body. I think what they are supposed to do first of all is to extract these bullets which I know the surgery cannot be done in Nigeria hence the reason for my referral abroad. “Second, the poison needs to be extracted from my body, some of it they said is in my bones and they said the surgery will take some time. I also have problems with my eyes. Since after the second surgery, my eyes have been weak, which I was also advised to travel to India for surgery. “We are happy and we know that by coming here, we’ll get a befitting hospital that will perform the surgery. The medical advice to come to this hospital, which they call Mendata was given to us by some foreign doctors that visited us in Nigeria and that was why we requested we should be brought to this hospital. “While in Nigeria, we got information that the United States Embassy had given an instruction that we shouldn’t be accepted in this hospital, when we arrive. We also heard that they obeyed the order and said they won’t accept us so we were even thinking of going elsewhere in India, but later on, we were informed that that order had been lifted. “We then proceeded to India. On our arrival, we were received by the hospital staff from the airport and they escorted us down to the hospital. While driving from the airport to the hospital in an ambulance, the staff of the hospital were narrating how some people besieged the airport just to see us before proceeding to the hospital, but they (the hospital) tricked them by keeping two ambulances at the location where my supporters were waiting and drove us out in another ambulance at a different location. “They also said another set of people besieged the hospital just to see our arrival, but they decided to use an alternative entrance to the hospital because they were trying to avert any stampede. When we got here, an official of the Nigerian Embassy told us that they already assembled with the staff of this hospital and security operatives discussing on what to do when we arrive. “Back home in Nigeria, they agreed that nobody should take us to any other hospital aside the hospital of our choice, but we got to realize that the doctors they brought to us were there just to give advice. We then told them we won’t allow any other doctor aside our trusted doctors to attend to us, so that they don’t do to us what they couldn’t do with their bullets in Nigeria.” New Telegraph gathered that owing to his complaints about the situation at the hospital and the suspicions arising therefrom, the Indian government has given him the option of either accepting treatment at the hospital or returning to Nigeria. El-Zakzaky had toyed with the idea of exploring offers from other hospitals in Malaysia, Indonesia and Turkey. It was gathered that the management of the Indian hospital later agreed to the request by El-Zakzaky to use known and appointed doctors for his treatment. Meanwhile, IMN yesterday raised the alarm over the safety of El-Zakzaky and his wife at the Indian hospital, alleging that there was a grand plot to eliminate them. The Shi’ittes alleged that the Nigerian government and some foreign interests were working to frustrate the efforts of a team of medical doctors chosen to resuscitate the lives of their leader and his wife. At a press conference in Abuja, the IMN said that the Federal Government was using its security operatives that escorted its leader to India to disrupt arrangements earlier made by El-Zakzaky and some of his foreign doctors ahead of the trip. Secretary General, Academic Forum of IMN, Abdullahi Musa, who spoke at press conference, said that El-Zakzaky and his wife are no longer safe in Madenta Hospital, India, following the overbearing presence of strange doctors and security agents. He said: “It is mandatory for the Nigerian Government to immediately do the needful and allow Sheik Zakzaky to see his doctors and shun all interests that do not care for the wellbeing of Nigeria and humanity as large. “We are also calling on the international community and people of conscience and humanity, especially those that facilitated the travelling of the Sheik to India for treatment to prevail on the Nigerian Government and its western masters to stop playing with the life of the innocent leader.”