A Bauchi based Non-Governmental Organisation Leadtots Human Development Services, has lamented the non inclusion of young people and thirty five percent women in ministerial appointees by President Muhammadu  Buhari. This was contained in a Media statement signed and made available to newsmen by the Senior Program Officer, Leadtots Human Development Services, Seun Onarinde. He said that there is no doubt that young people below the ages of 35 and women played a crucial role in the emergence of the elected officials in the last general elections in Nigeria, especially for the offices of the President, Governors and legislators and yet they have limited influence in national political institutions. Onarinde said that: “The Nigerian youths seek more active involvement in the elected offices and increased number of youths occupying political offices, cabinet positions, political appointments and improved engagement in governance issues that affects the country. “But it is quite unfortunate that young people and women were systemically eliminated out of the 43 Ministerial nominees of the President Muhammadu Buhari despite the relentless effort of the same group of people.” He stated that the rising demand for increased youth participation in Nigeria’s political atmosphere has gone beyond mere engagement in political rallies and numbers during elections. He recalled that in the 1970s and 80s National Leaders and Reformists like Shehu Shagari – Federal Legislator at 30, M.T.  Mbu – Minister at 25, Richard Akinjide – Minister of Education at 32, Maitama Sule – Oil Minister at 29, Yakubu Gowon – Head of State at 32 and many others, were produced. He lamented that in Nigeria today, youth political participation is low compared to the past. “There is strong evidence that the participation of young people and women in formal, institutional political processes is relatively low when compared to older citizens and male counterparts in previous Political administrations in the State. “This challenges the representativeness of the political system and leads to the disenfranchisement of young people and women,” he said. He therefore, stressed that there is a need for political inclusion, to translate resources from young people and women’s strength, ideas, and aspiration into tangible wealth. He pointed out that: “Indeed, this group of active Nigerian citizens makes the strongest physical investment during political activities but receive the least return on their faithful investments, their expectations of stable political and governance structures, improved economy and steady power supply has proved to be on a constant definite illusion.” Parliament: Youths take leadership roles   Felix Nwaneri reports on how the Not Too Young to Run Law that came into effect ahead of the 2019 general elections has helped open the political space for Nigerian youths as some of them, who seized the opportunity offered by the law, to… In "Politics" There is no doubt that the recent passage of the ‘Not too young to run Bill’ by the National Assembly in the ongoing constitution amendment process is a welcome development given the belief that it will afford more young Nigerians the opportunity to stand for elections. With the Bill’s passage,… In "Editorial" There is no doubt that the recent passage of the ‘Not too young to run Bill’ by the National Assembly in the on-going constitution amendment process is a welcome development given the belief that it will afford more young Nigerians the opportunity to stand for elections. With the Bill’s passage,… In "Editorial"