Aspirants seeking to fly the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) flag in the November 16 governorship election in Kogi and Bayelsa states have expressed confidence in the party’s screening panel. The aspirants, who were screened yesterday in Abuja, described the exercise as satisfactory, thorough and professional. Former Kogi State Governor, Idris Wada, said he was satisfied with the process, adding, “I have confidence in the panel. I have a very positive disposition to what they have done.” Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Rear Admiral John Jonah (rtd) also expressed satisfaction with the calibre of members of the screening committee, saying that they would do a good job. “I have the confidence that they will deliver. I am sure of clinching the ticket,” he said. A former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Timi Alaibe, however, called on the delegates to choose wisely. “They (the delegates) should be clear in the decision to ensure that they vote for those they understand what they want to implement for our people. Those who have experience, those who have capacity,” he advised. Lawmaker representing Kogi West, Senator Dino Melaye, said he has all the qualities required to make a successful governor. “The committee was very professional and I met all the requirements by the screening committee and the party,’’ Dino stated. Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, is the chairman of Kogi panel while his Oyo State counterpart, Seyi Makinde, heads the Bayelsa State committee. Makinde said that the party has no preference for any aspirant in the election, assuring the contestants  that only accredited delegates would determine the fate of all aspirants. “The PDP has no preferred candidate for the forthcoming governorship election in Bayelsa State. “We don’t want a situation whereby our party will go into the election with a divided house. We want to go into the election as one big family that we are, with a view to retaining the states,” he assured.