C ult members have hacked to death a 36-year-old man, Bolaji AbdulSalam, for reporting them to the police in Ilorin, Kwara State.   AbdulSalam incurred the wrath of the cultists, after he found them smoking Indian hemp in front of his family house at Alfa Yahaya area of Ita-Amon in Ilorin township.   The cult members returned for retaliation, barged into AbdulSalam’s room at night while he was in bed with his wife. They attacked him with machetes and killed him in the presence of his wife and daughter.   A witness said: “When Bolaji challenged the cultists for smoking Indian hemp in front of his family’s house, their response to him was not too good. He therefore went to Adewole Police Station, which was the nearest station and reported the incident. Police went to the venue and arrested seven among the smokers.   “The following day, one of the boys escaped from police detention. He came to the disputed place and started smoking Indian hemp again; this time in broad daylight. Bolaji challenged him again.   “Bolaji and the boy started fighting. The boy brought out a pistol and shot Bolaji, but the bullets did not penetrate his body. Bolaji, however, overpowered the boy, collected the pistol and in the process, the boy ran away.   “Bolaji took the pistol to Adewole Police Station to alert them of the new development. Police launched a manhunt for the cultist, they couldn’t locate him.”   It was also learnt that the cultists later came on Saturday, about 3.30a.m., to attack AbdulSalam in his house. They broke the flat’s gate and his room door, where he, his wife and daughter were asleep and killed him by inflicting machete cuts on him.   A neighbour said he heard noise of a door breaking and came out to find out what was going on. He said that he had to run away after he saw the cultists all dressed in black. The remains of Bolaji have been interred according to Islamic rites.   A family member of the deceased, who wished to remain anonymous, said that they had left everything to God and the police to unmask the faces of Bolaji’s killers and bring them to justice.   The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Ajayi Okasanmi, said that the case had been transferred to the state headquarters for proper investigation.   The PPRO disclosed that some members of the cult group had been arrested and detectives had commenced manhunt for other members at large.   He said: “Investigation is still on to apprehend other members of the group and justice will be done to all of them. We are also appealing to members of the public who have more information about the group to visit our headquarters to assist the police.”