Prof. Maurice Iwu, a former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), is presently facing trial over alleged fraud and money laundering. ONYEKACHI EZE examines his travails in and out of office   The first time Nigerians heard of him after he was relieved of his appointment as Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on June 13, 2010, was in 2014, at the heat of Ebola virus scourge in the country. Prof. Maurice Iwu, a trained pharmacist, at the 16th International Botanical Congress in St Louis in the United States of America (U.S.), announced that he had discovered a compound, developed from Garcinia kola plant (popularly known as bitter kola), to be used to halt Ebola virus. The virus, which started in 1976 in Zaire, Democratic Republic of Congo, and has claimed many lives across countries in West Africa, had defied all known medical cures. But, Iwu, who heads Bioresources Development and Conservation Programme, after 10 years of research on solution to Ebola scourge, described his finding as “a very exciting discovery.” He said that “the same forest that yields the dreaded Ebola virus could be a source of the cure.” This had boosted his credibility after what many believed was a controversial tenure in INEC. Iwu served as the commission’s chairman between 2005 and 2010. However, Iwu was in the news again recently. This time, instead of the accolades that trailed his discovery of a cure of Ebola virus, Iwu is facing some charges in court over offences allegedly committed in 2015; five years after he left office. Sometime in February this year, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) arrested him in Owerri, Imo State and took him to Lagos to answer some charges in connection to an alleged N1.2 billion fraud and money laundering. Civil Society Network Against Corruption, an umbrella body of over 150 anti-corruption groups, had earlier asked the EFCC to investigate and prosecute Iwu, some Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) and Administrative Secretaries of INEC, who allegedly took bribes during the 2015 general election. On August 8, the former INEC chairman was arraigned before Justice Chuka Obiozor of the Federal High Court, Lagos, on a four-count charge of conspiracy and money laundering. He was accused of aiding and concealing the sum of N1.203 billion, “which was said to be proceed of unlawful act,” an offence, which was said to have been committed in the build-up to the 2015 general election. In addition, Iwu was said to had, between December 2015 and March 27, 2017, used his company, Bioresources Institute of Nigeria (BION) Ltd to launder the money. The EFCC further alleged that Iwu and a lawyer, Victor Chukwuani, retained the sum of N407 million, said to be proceed of unlawful act, in Bioresources Institute of Nigeria (BION) Ltd. The four-count charge against him read in part: “That you, Prof. Maurice Mmaduakolam Iwu,  between December 2014 and March 27, 2015, in Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this honourable court aided the concealment of the total sum of N1, 20300,000.00 ( One Billion, Two Hundred and Three Million Naira) in Bioresources Institute of Nigeria, (BION) Limited’s account, which sum you reasonably ought to have known forms part  of proceeds of unlawful act to wit: fraud and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Sections 18(a), 15(2) (a) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 15 ( 3) of the same Act. “That you, Prof. Maurice Mmaduakolam Iwu, between December 2014 and March 27, 2015, in Nigeria, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, procured Bioresources Institute of Nigeria(BION) Ltd to retain the aggregate sum of N1, 20300,000.00 ( One Billion, Two Hundred and Three Million Naira) in Bioresources Institute of Nigeria, (BION) Ltd account, which sum you reasonably ought to have known forms parts of proceeds of unlawful act to wit fraud and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Sections 18 (c), 15(2) (c) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act , 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 15 (3) of the same Act.” Counsel to EFCC, Rotimi Oyedepo, told the court that the offences are contrary to sections 18(a),15(2) (a) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act, 2011 as amended, and punishable under Section 15 ( 3) of the same Act. Expectedly, Iwu pleaded not guilty to the charges. His lawyer, Ahmed Raji (SAN), applied for bail, which was granted on August 9 with the sum of N1 billion. Why the matter is still pending in court, the big question is, why is Prof. Iwu facing charges over offences that were not committed during his tenure as INEC chairman but alleged to have been committed five years after and what influence does he wield in the commission five years after he left office? While his lawyers are in a better position to argue this in court, some analysts said it is interesting that Iwu would be dragged to court over issues that allegedly occurred five years after he left as INEC chairman, when none of his actions while in office is subject to any litigation. Iwu left office on April 28, 2010, two months before the expiration of his tenure. Many still believe that he remains is one of the most controversial electoral umpires in the nation’s history, but that is subject to debate. The former INEC chairman had attracted the attention of Nigerians and international community, when, shortly after assuming office, he announced that foreign monitors would not be allowed during elections. This decision which was widely condemned by politicians and civil society groups who called for his immediate removal from office. There were also calls for Iwu’s sack,following the criticisms, which trailed the conduct of the 2007 presidential election that he conducted. Even late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, who was declared winner of the presidential election, admitted that the election was less than transparent and promised to reform the nation’s electoral process. But despite these controversies, Iwu was not taken to court or his tenure investigated. He said this much in a statement he issued immediately after he was granted bail by the court. “It is noteworthy that none of the charges against me has to do with my tenure as Chairman of INEC,” he said. Iwu traced his problem to the February 23 presidential election, when he was denied from performing his civic responsibility as a result of EFCC investigation. The rumour making the rounds then was that Iwu was in possession of fake result the All Progressives Congress (APC) was allegedly planning to input in the INEC system to rig the presidential election in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari. According to the report, some people prepared some election figures and handed them to the IT department of INEC to input in the commission’s system. It was further alleged that Iwu got a copy of the fake result through his loyalists in the commission and passed the copies over to leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The party leaders in turn, handed them to the international community and election observers to put them on notice. This was said to have unsettled the APC. Consequently, Iwu was arrested on February 26, three days after the presidential election. Another version said Iwu incurred the wrath of powers that be because he leaked the information about the existence of INEC server to PDP and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. The former vice president is challenging President Buhari’s victory at the tribunal. But, INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, has persistently denied the existence of INEC server. Iwu is said to be a consultant to the PDP and might have divulged information about the server to the party and its presidential candidate. Though there are others who hold the view that Iwu’s relationship with some leaders of the PDP might not be the reason for his Iwu’s arrest, his trail will certainly unveil the main reason even as Iwu in his statement, told Nigerians to be patient as the trial will give him the opportunity to tell his own side of the story.