 The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday ordered the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to appear before it on Friday over legal issues relating to the assets and properties of former Zamfara State Governor, Abdulazeez Yari. The defendants are to give reason why the court should not restrained them, from among other actions, freezing the bank accounts and or confiscating his immovable properties anywhere in Nigeria pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit. The trial judge, Justice N. Maha, made the order after listening to an ex parte application filed and argued by counsel to the ex-governor, Mahmud Magaji (SAN). The motion ex parte marked FHC/ABJ/CS/948/2019 was brought pursuant to section 46(1) and (3) of the 1999 Constitution and Order 4 rules 3 and 4 of the fundamental rights (enforcement procedure) rules 2009. Justice Maha equally ordered that the respondents be served with the court processes within 48 hours and adjourned further proceedings to Friday this week. Rspondents in the suit are the AGF and EFCC. Yari, in the suit supported by a 17-paragraph affidavit, specifically accused the respondents of persecuting him and members of his family over the turnout of political events in Zamfara State. The affidavit deposed to by one Affis Matanmi, traced the genesis of the case against Yari to the political events within the Zamfara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that eventually led to the party losing out the leadership of the state to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) by the judgement of the Supreme Court. He averred “that after the decision of the Supreme Court, some aggrieved individuals, who are very powerful, decided to use agents of the 1st and 2nd respondents against the applicant. “These individuals thus decided to carry out a vendetta and revenge against the applicant, including instigating the respondents against the applicant, upon their spurious conclusion without evidence that he was guilty of corrupt practices as Governor of Zamfara State and was in breach of the Code of Conduct Act.”