Founder of Igbo Youth Movement (IYM) and Deputy Secretary of the Prof. Ben Nwabueze-led Igbo Leaders of Thought (ILT), Elliot Uko, in this interview with FELIX NWANERI, speaks on the state of the nation and the way forward  The nation seems to be tottering and tension is high across the land over insecurity. What is your take on all these? Point of correction, we don’t have a nation yet. I don’t want to repeat myself. Everybody knows the solution to our problem, but for some strange reasons, they kept the solution in the archives to gather dust. I will be playing to the gallery if I speak every day. For decades, I screamed myself hoarse to authorities on the need to reconstruct our polity through a new peoples’ constitution that will enthrone true federalism, devolution of powers and equity. Ninety-five of our troubles flow from the unworkable unitary constitution inspired by the military. You talked about the need to restructure Nigeria, but the current administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari seems not believe in it… That is unfortunate, but his stand cannot change the truth. If we do not restructure our polity, our problems will only get worse. So, it is unfortunate if Mr. President has chosen to address the symptoms instead of the root cause of our malaise. Our problems are beyond constitutional amendment by the National Assembly. Our problem is that the framework of our constitution as designed by the military cannot move the country forward in unity and cannot also engender economic and political growth of any country. We are only surviving as a country purely as a result of the oil money shared by all tiers of government. The day the oil stops flowing and cash stops coming in, Nigeria will disintegrate. Our structure is crazy, strange and funny at the same time. The regions and states can only develop when they source their own resources and manage them to develop their region to the envy of other regions. The healthy rivalry between regions will engender competition like it did in the First Republic, forcing each region to look inwards, think outside the box, explore their mineral resources as well as discourage sleaze and waste. It is impossible for one man to effectively run a population of aboutn200 million people from Abuja. It is also impossible to force down the same rules, style, format and system on the people of Sokoto and Akwa Ibom at the same time or on the people of Borno and Bayelsa. So, Nigeria will only experience growth and peace, when the various regions are allowed to develop at their own pace. We have tried this unitary structure for decades, but we have failed woefully. So, why do we find it difficult to face the truth and restructure Nigeria without further delay? Where did we get it wrong? Through the militarily inspired constitution! It all began in the late 1960s, when General Yakubu Gowon unilaterally created 12 states through a decree, thereby destroying the regions and burying the 1963 Constitution. He also set up the Chief Dina Committee that advised the central government to annex all revenues and grant allocations to states according to their needs. This made Nigeria’s head of state the most powerful in the world. There was a civil war going on and everybody thought that was okay to enable the Federal Government prosecute the war effectively, especially since General Gowon had not borrowed money externally to prosecute the war. Most Nigerians do not know that for the first year Gowon ruled Nigeria; the revenue formula of 1963 still applied; that each region kept a certain percentage of its earning and contributed a certain percentage as enshrined in the 1963 Constitution to the centre; that the military governors shared, received and distributed the revenues and earnings of each region strictly according to the dictate of the 1963 Constitution. Hassan Kastina, Adeyinka Adebayo and others ran the governments of their respective regions according to the revenue sharing formula of the 1963 Constitution. Most Nigerians do not know that it was General Gowon and not General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi, who unified and centralized all the revenues in order to prosecute the war. Ironsi’s decree 34 of May 1966 merely changed the nomenclature from regions to group of provinces. Ironsi never altered the revenue sharing formula. After Gowon centralized all the resources at the centre, the victorious cabals at the end of the war, who now saw that power was so sweet, especially with oil boom, decided that it will be difficult for any other region to ever take power out of their hands. They therefore preferred centralizing all the resources and the revenues only to be dispensed by whoever was in charge at the centre. They decided at the end of the war to inspire and influence a new constitution that will centralize power because they believed they will always be in charge and control of central power in Nigeria. Both the 1979 and 1999 constitutions were influenced, inspired and manipulated by this line of thought of the victors of the war. For them the East has been pacified through military force, the West has been co-opted and settled, the minorities were so excited that they all are now being empowered by the total exclusion of Ndigbo. During the heady days of the 1970s, nobody saw that this unitary structure will only make Nigeria the poverty capital of the world 50 years later; where states cannot pay salaries, where a huge unemployment rate has turned kidnapping into a profitable business venture and lotto betting as the only pass time, as the hope in winning bet actually helps in reducing suicide rate. Nobody knew that 50 years later, the fierce struggle for central power in Nigeria will deepen our ethnic and religious fault lines to the point where hatred, division and acrimony rule the land. Nobody knew that this structure would ironically make the region that has produced 80 per cent of the rulers of Nigeria the poorest region. So, the mistake of 50 years ago that inspired the post-civil war constitution brought us where we are today. Everybody made mistakes, but some are so proud to accept their mistakes. For instance, the delegation led by Okoi Arikpo after their meeting with Chief Obafemi Awolowo borrowed Awolowo’s telephone to call General Gowon to give him the good news that the Chief has finally agreed to join the government. General Gowon was so elated that he gave instructions for the news to be announced immediately. How would you react to agitation for secession in some quarters in the South-East? I have said all I have to say on the rejection of Nigeria as presently constituted by the younger generation in the South-East. There is nothing new to add except, may be, to repeat myself or play to the gallery by making noise everyday. I don’t want to do both. I am on record as having warned past governments that the younger generation of Ndigbo will not accept the continued humiliation and maltreatment. Right from the Ibrahim Babangida to Sani Abacha and Olusegun Obasanjo governments till date, I have remained consistent through God’s grace. My message has always been simple and direct. Restructure Nigeria, devolve powers back to the region and enthrone equity by giving everybody a fair sense of belonging. The younger generation will not accept this continuous oppression of Ndigbo. They will resist it. If you don’t believe me, time will tell. I screamed from the mountain to the roof tops for decades. I have nothing new to say or add except that delay is dangerous, the earlier we restructure the better for everybody. No region benefits in real terms from this unwieldy unitary structure, whereas every region will definitely gain from a restructured Nigeria. So far, how would you assess the Buhari-led government? I don’t want to talk about Buhari’s government. It wasn’t the Chinese or Mexicans, who brought in this government. It was Nigerians, who brought him. Those who brought him should enjoy him. I humbly suggest that Nigerians should amend this sick constitution to make him life president. Those who brought him must enjoy him to the full. Moreover, I am not going to criticize Buhari’s government when it is obvious to everybody that the opposition party leaders are all mute, crawling discreetly at night to the same APC government to ask for favour and protection. I will not do the job of opposition for Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders, who are hiding under their bed in fear. Let them enjoy Buhari. The entire political class on both divides are selfish, ruthless, uncaring and blinded by greed.