A group, Social Integrity Network (SINET), yesterday, accused Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) of frustrating President President Muhammadu Buhari’s fight against insurgency and corruption in the country. The National Co-coordinator of the Group, Mallam Ibrahim Isah, who made the accusation at a press briefing in Abuja, said that the cancellation of pre-shipment inspection by the NCS was responsible for persistence of insurgency in the country. Isah pointed out that the escalation of insurgency in the country began immediately after the cancellation of Pre-Shipment Inspection by NCS, noting also that the action had led to negation of Buhari’s anti-corruption policy, by giving room to high level of tax evasion in the country. Expressing the displeasure of SINET over the decision of the Customs to cancel the exercise, Isah noted that the cancellation was done during the tenure of the former Comptroller-General, Alhaji Dikko Inde Abdullahi. He posited that restoration of the policy by Customs, would to a very large extent, help in curbing illegal shipment of firearms into the country by crimes magnates. His words: “With the benefit of hindsight, the escalation of insurgency began immediately after the cancellation of Pre-Shipment Inspection by the Nigeria Customs Service during the tenure of the former Comptroller General, Alhaji Dikko Inde Abdullahi. “Therefore, a quick win to countermand insurgency is the restoration of Pre-Shipment Inspection services to forestall many containers which are supposedly to be carrying legal items/goods of different kinds being loaded with dangerous weapons and brought into the country without adequate attention”. He further alleged that as at present, little or no inspection was carried out on containers at the points of loading, thereby, subjecting the lives of Nigerians to serious threats and uncertainty. Apart from illegal weapons allegedly being shipped into the country without required interception by Customs, Isah also accused operatives of the agency and their counterparts, the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), of negligence in curbing smuggling of all manner of substandard products into the country. “The conspiracy being perpetrated by officers of the Nigeria Customs Service and personnel of Standard Organization of Nigeria, (SON) with smugglers at the various ports across the country is creating serious economic threat to local manufacturers, who have invested their lives through bank loans and workers’ salaries commitments to mention a few. “Many local industries have in the recent time shut down their operations while other existing ones are in the process of laying off over 20,000 workforce as released by the umbrella body of industrialists nationwide. “In addition, the unpatriotic acts of smuggling have proven to be responsible for the unending war against insurgency as smugglers import undisclosed items into the country unchecked at the premier ports and the private jetties. “All these are attempts to frustrate His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR’s efforts to restore probity into the nation because the carnage has led to high level of tax evasion in Nigeria.”