  The administration of Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State yesterday ordered the arrest of former governor of the state, Senator Rochas Okorocha, for alleged assault on a government official, Mr. Jasper Ndubuaku. The Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Uche Onyeaguocha, gave the order after the Chairman of the Recovery of Government Properties, Ndubuaku, was allegedly assaulted at Okorocha’s residence in Owerri, the state capital. Onyeaguocha said that the state had also placed Okorocha on security watch and urged Imo State citizens to arrest him and alert the government whenever they found him in the state. Earlier yesterday, thugs attacked members of the Committee on Recovery of Movable Government Assets at Okorocha’s house. The committee had gone to the former governor’s house to recover 20 security and protocol vehicles, four speedboats donated to the state by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the only serviceable crane owned by the state used to install and repair street lights, over 100 streetlight poles, among other things. Unfortunately for the committee members, they walked into an ambush. The thugs stationed on the premises stripped the head of the recovery team and Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Security Matters, JNdubuaku, and pushed him into the gutter where they flogged him. Some passers-by received the beating of their lives. A trending video shows Ndubuaku being flogged by the arm-bearing thugs inside the gutter. It was learnt that members of the committee had gone to the Spibat home of Okorocha in Owerri to recover some of the government properties still kept on the premises. On getting to the place, members of the committee met the security operatives made up of the military and police guarding the house, who requested to know why they had come. A witness told New Telegraph that Ndubuaku brandished a warrant from the court and equally gave the security men the list of things they were coming to collect. Trouble, however, started when the security men told Ndubuaku to go across the road and wait for them to confirm whether or not the properties were still inside the compound. As Ndubuaku and his committee members waited across the road, more than 50 youths mostly armed allegedly came out of Okorocha’s house and attacked the committee members. Many members of the committee fled, leaving their chairman behind. The rampaging thugs pounced on Ndubuaku who fell into the gutter. Speaking with journalists after the incident, Ndubuaku said he and his committee members had gone to the former governor’s house with a court order to retrieve the items that were still kept in his house. The chairman said the security men at the gate cooperated with him and asked him to stay aside while they were checking things out. He said: “I saw over 50 boys inside the premises all bearing arms. But I wasn’t afraid because I was on a genuine course. But one thing I noticed is that those boys didn’t look local. “As we stepped aside, the boys numbering more than 50 stormed out and charged at us. They started shooting at me and when that didn’t work, they stabbed me but could not cut me. So they tore my clothes while I was still inside the gutter.” The chairman said from what he witnessed, some people wanted to plunge the state into anarchy. Ndubuaku, however, vowed not to give up, insisting that those properties must be recovered. However, Okorocha’s media aide, Mr. Sam Onwuemeodo, dismissed Ndubuaku’s claims as untrue, saying the former governor had not been in Owerri for days now. According to him, Ndubuaku had wanted to invade the private residence of Okorocha before he was stopped He said: “They were about to surge into the Sipbat residence of the former governor when the information came and youths with sympathy for the former governor rushed to the place to stop them.” But the state Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo, and SSG confirmed the attack to journalists at a joint news briefing in Owerri. They announced that a citizen’s arrest had been declared on Okorocha over the incident. They claimed that Okorocha hired thugs to attack Ndubuaku. They said that the Senator representing Imo West would be arrested and prosecuted anytime he entered the state. The incident came barely 24 hours after traditional rulers in the state issued a stern warning to Okorocha against disrupting the activities of the recovery team. The commissioner of police said that police would investigate the senator’s involvement in the matter.