The Chairman of Mkpat Enin Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Ekanem Brown, has ensured that security is beefed up and the cordon-off of the boundaries of the council area, saying the action had become necessary following incessant attacks on local farmers by the herdsmen. Herdsmen had last week invaded the Ikot Obio Nso community in Mkpat Enin Local Government Area, killing one of the local farmers, while three others, who are currently receiving treatment in the hospital, were wounded. While addressing newsmen yesterday in Uyo, the state capital, the Council boss, who denied having prior knowledge of the attack, said he had ordered immediate prohibition of movement of herders and their animals within Mkpat Enin communities. He, however, disclosed that after security meeting with security agencies, policing of the local government area had been intensified to forestall further security infractions by the herdsmen. “I support the Rural Grazing Areas (RUGA),” the Council chair, who picked holes in the entire process, said, noting: “What I do not like is the style and strategy of its implementation.” Brown, who disclosed that he had visited the family of the dead and the injured farmers, however, advised the youths against taking the laws into their own hands, assuring the people that adequate security measures had already been put in place to check re-occurrence of such security breaches by armed herdsmen in the council. Similarly, the Leader of the Ikpa Ibom Progressive Association (IPA), a socio-cultural group committed to defending the integrity of the communities, Dr. Anietie Essien, lamented the invasion of the area by herdsmen and called on government to come to the aid of the victims. He said: “We want to commend the state government for its prompt response through the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem. In fact, it was shocking to experience such unprovoked attack by herdsmen in our community.” According to him, the deceased’s family of seven children has been under severe problems since the death of their benefactor and bread winner. He, therefore, urged the government should intervene in order to cushioning the effects of the loss through provision of financial assistance and other forms of aids to the family.