The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) yesterday said the implementation of roadmap agreement between Nigerian government and Siemens bordering on resolving power supply challenge would commence end of this year. BPE’s Director General, Mr. Alex A. Okoh, represented by BPE’s Director, Energy Department, Mr. Yunana Malo, gave the update on the agreement signed recently by President, Muhammadu Buhari at a workshop in Abuja.  The roadmap is one of several efforts by government directed at resolving bottlenecks stifling improved power supply. It is geared towards tackling existing challenges in the power sector and expanding capacity for future power needs in Nigeria.  The two-day workshop titled: “Meter Data Management Solution,” which commenced on August 6 was facilitated by the BPE to provide a forum for Siemens to interface with Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOS), Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), with the aim of getting all parties acquainted with the implementation plan as well as ensuring that the peculiarities of every party are addressed in the roadmap implementation.  Speaking at the workshop, Sales Support Professional, Smart Metering, Siemens South Africa, Mr. Martin Kuhlmann, stated that the implementation of the roadmap is designed to eradicate estimated billing system and encourage metering across the country, including Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs) of Government. With this, he expressed confidence that some of the gaps currently existing in the power sector would be sufficiently addressed.  The key areas featured in the workshop are the basic principles of meter data management, assessment of existing meters and the advantages of the solutions being proposed by Siemens. It would be recalled that BPE, on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria, signed the implementation agreement with Siemens for the unveiling of a roadmap for the resolution of challenges in the power sector with specific attention to priority projects on July 22, at State House, Abuja, with Buhari presiding.