The House of Representatives is currently investigating the failure of the Federal Government to maximize potentials of five eastern and southern ports. PHILIP NYAM reports the proceedings  About a week ago, the House of Representatives commenced investigations into the reasons responsible for the inability of the five Eastern and Southern ports of Warri, Port Harcourt, Calabar, Onne and Onitsha inland complexes to optimally utilise their facilities. The probe was consequent upon a resolution of House on July 18, 2019, wherein it constituted an ad hoc committee led by chairman of the committee on Foreign Affairs, Hon. Yusuf Buba Yakub (APC, Adamawa). Following the submissions made by some of the stakeholders who appeared before the committee, it consequently summoned the Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Engr. Mele Kolo Kyari; the Director-General of the Department of the State Service (DSS), Mallam Yusuf Bichi; the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele; the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Col HameedAli (rtd) and the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas. The submissions: While testifying before the committee, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Alhaji Sabiu Zakari attributed the non performance of these ports to the activities of sea pirates, kidnappers and armed robbers. He said these crimes coupled with multiple taxes imposed even by states and local governments were chasing away potential operators at the ports. “Piracy, kidnapping, armed robbery are responsible for the non utilisation of the ports”, he stated. According to Zakari, “lack of synergy and cooperation among the government agencies operating at the ports is also affecting the smooth running of these ports. NIMASA (Nigerian Maritime Administration Safety Agency), NPA (Nigerian Port Authority), the Navy and freight forwarders are not working together.” He added that “There is no cooperation and we are one government and I don’t see why there should be conflict among these agencies. We need legislative support and backing of the National Assembly.” Collaborating with the submission of the ministry, the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas agreed insecurity was a major factor militating against the ports but added that the Navy was working round the clock to apprehend all criminal activities. Represented by the Director of Training, Rear Admiral Abraham Adaji, the Chief of Naval Staff also lamented that the channels of the Eastern ports were arrow and unmarked and this affects the operations. “Our channels are very narrow and largely unmarked. The surface of the underwater is very small,” he stated. He said the problem poor infrastructure and evacuation of good was also responsible for the optimal performance of the ports, adding that the roads linking the ports were in deplorable shape. Similarly, the Managing Director of NPA, Hajia Hadiza Bala Usman also agreed that insecurity and poor infrastructure was being responsible for the problem. Represented by Prof. Idris Abubakar, the NPA boss said she has drawn the attention of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing to deplorable state of the roads linking the ports. Similarly, NIMASA noted that the issue of insecurity was seriously weighing in on the operations of the concerned ports. Represented by the Capt. Sunday Umoren, the Director-General of NIMASA, Hon. Dakuku Peterside also noted that there was absolute need for all the agencies to work together in the interest of the nation. Speaker’s charge: While declaring the public hearing open, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, said both the Apapa and Tin Can Island ports complex in Lagos were “overwhelmed and attained breaking points.” He charged the ad hoc committee to “redeliver” a policy framework and make substantive proposals for legislative and executive action to drive the increased utilisation at these ports for the socio-economic benefit of the Nigerians people. Gbajabiamila, who was represented by the Deputy House Leader, Hon. Peter Akpatason lamented that the Nigerian maritime sector regrettably remains one of the great untapped economic reserves stressing that “operating and maintaining efficient and functional ports in the country will help to develop the economic potential of the communities where these ports are located, and even farther afield.” He explained that “This ad hoc committee has been constituted with a very specific mandate to investigate the reasons why these ports are not being used to maximum effect especially at this time when the Apapa and Tin Can Ports are so overwhelmed and are verily at their breaking points. Following from that, it is the responsibility of this Committee to deliver a policy framework and make substantive proposals for legislative and executive action to drive the increased utilisation at these ports for the socio-economic benefit of the Nigerian people. According to him, “The Nigerian maritime sector regrettably remains one of our great untapped economic reserves. Operating and maintaining efficient and functional ports in the country will help to develop the economic potential of the communities where these ports are located, and even farther afield. Also, as importantly, getting these ports working at capacity says to the world; to potential investors and trading partners that we are open and ready for business. Gbajabiamila allayed fears of stakeholders that the exercise was not a witch hunt but was geared towards finding a lasting solution to the problems militating against the full operations of the ports. “There is no punitive agenda behind the appointment and mandate of this Committee. That is not to say that if in the course of this committee’s activities, malfeasance or corruption is identified, we would ignore it or overlook it. To do that will be an unconscionable betrayal of the trust of the Nigerian people. Nonetheless, our priority is to get these ports working at their absolute best, creating jobs, facilitating trade, attracting investment and contributing to the steady growth of our country’s GDP.” The speaker therefore invited all “the Nigerian people and stakeholders in the industry to assist the Committee in the execution of this urgent national assignment. It is from the collation and analysis of your various ideas and contributions, perspectives and expertise that the Committee will be able to make the right recommendations, and guide this House of Representatives in our efforts to support the full utilisation of these very important national assets and the actualisation of the very high ambitions we hold for our national economy.” The opening: In his welcome address, chairman of the ad hoc committee, Hon Yusuf Buba Yakub, said the committee is out to query and determine why some of the ports have been operating below expected capacity. He said the committee was also interested in unraveling why the port situation has remained unpleasant in spite of the many efforts of government over the years at making the Nigerian ports virile. Such efforts he noted to be by way of building more port complexes, granting more concessions, including encouraging active involvement of the private sector in some aspects of operations in the maritime sector. “This exercise is organised to query and to determine why some of our port complexes have continued to operate below their setting-up capacities. It also seeks to question why, in spite of the many efforts of government over the years, which have come by way of building more port complexes, concessioning and the complete involvement of the private sector in some aspects of operations in our nation’s maritime sub-sector, the congestion in the Lagos port complexes in Apapa and Tin can Island still persists. “What this means is that about five inland port complexes in Warri, Calabar, Onitsha, Port Harcourt and Onne have all failed to provide alternative or even consummate services to aid decongestion of two Lagos Ports Complexes,” he regretted. The chairman noted that it is utmost belief of the committee that if the House would succeed, all stakeholders needed to make inputs and proffer solutions “to what has not only become a dangerous reality of everyday life in the commercial capital city of Lagos, but has also become a national embarrassment for international visitors and users of Lagos port complexes.” He queried, “or how else does one describe a situation that has defied the efforts of a state like Lagos and has the capacity to lock down the commercial city completely, while encouraging the activities of criminal elements and touts and compelling, ultimately, the attention of the nation’s president, who had responded by setting up a presidential task team” With the expected appearance of the management team of the NNPC, CBN, DSS, Nigerian Navy and Nigerian Customs Service this week, perhaps a solution to the intractable traffic grid lock in Apapa and Tin can Island may be in the offing.