Foremost prison reforms advocate and Executive Director of Prisoners’ Rehabilitation and Welfare Action (PRAWA), Dr. Uju Agomoh has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the Nigerian Correctional Service Bill into law, describing it as “a very progressive piece of legislation that will change the face of Nigerian prisons for the better.”   In a statement at the weekend, Agomoh, who played a crucial role in facilitating passage of the Bill, also hailed the Controller General of the renamed Nigerian Custodial Service, Mr. Ja’afaru Ahmed and the 8th National Assembly especially the leadership and members of the Committees on Interior “for their commitment in seeing to the historic passage of the Nigerian Correctional Service Bill.”   Highlighting benefits of the new law, the prison reform activist said it “aims to achieve many set objectives including compliance with international human rights standards and good correctional practices.”   “It provides an enabling platform for the implementation of non-custodial measures, enhances the focus on corrections, rehabilitation and reintegration of offenders, and establishes institutional and sustainable mechanisms to tackle high rate of awaiting trial persons in the prisons.” According to Agomoh, the Nigerian Correctional Service Act 2019 would tackle detention of petty offenders in prisons by channeling such offenders through non-custodial service.   He said PRAWA would provid the technical support to both houses of the National Assembly in harmonizing the eight original members’ Bills in both houses into a single Bill and hold technical workshops for the lawmakers with the support of Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption (RoLAC) Programme of the British Council funded under the 11th European Development Fund.   Agomoh said: “The new provision will save funds for the government and avoid these petty and low-risk offenders being socialized into the criminal culture by hardened criminals.   “It will also help fast-track implementation of the non-custodial provisions of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015 and the Administration of Criminal Justice Laws of various States by providing the needed support in terms of manpower for the supervision of non-custodial sentences across the States and the FCT. This will encourage the courts to issue non-custodial sentences in deserving cases.   “The new law will make the correctional service take a more active role in helping manage prison overcrowding by having them trigger an early warning system of alerting the judiciary, Ministry of Justice and other key stakeholders on impending prison congestion.   “Coupled with the establishment of Mental Health Review Board to assess cases of inmates with mental disability and provision of incentives to encourage inmates’ participation in training and vocational workshops towards their reintegration into the society, these initiatives will ensure that Nigeria benchmarks global standards in treatment of offenders.   “It is important that all stakeholders work towards supporting and advocating for speedy and effective implementation of the new law. There is need for training and sensitization of all key stakeholders on the law so that they can better understand it and the rationale for each provision. This will also highlight their respective roles in facilitating effective implementation of the law.”