Fidelity Bank Plc has disbursed a total of N9.6 billion to beneficiaries under the Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN)’s fund for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) loan scheme. The Managing Director of the bank, Nnamdi Okonkwo, disclosed this while speaking at SME funding connect forum in Lagos yesterday. He said the bank has access to about N25 billion of the loan scheme. Development Bank of Nigeria exists to alleviate financing constraints faced by Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigeria through providing financing, partial credit guarantees and technical assistance to eligible financial intermediaries on a market-conforming and fully financially sustainable basis. He noted that DBN, which commenced operation few years ago are partnering with the bank to empower and encourage MSMEs in the country with mostly single digit interest rate credit facilities. Okonkwo, noted that the Bank came up with the initiative of the forum tagged ‘Entrepreneurship meets capital’ to deepen the conversation around funding, which remains the biggest headache of SMEs. He said, “Fidelity Bank is an SME-friendly bank and we deemed it necessary to do something that directly affects our base as a bank. “We have a lot of SMEs customers whom we have worked with and some that we are still working with and a lot of us know that the SMEs are the engine of any economy that is growing and as we know from the statistics of SMEDAN, we have over 40 million registered SMEs in Nigeria and we know that SMEs contribute 80 per cent of the workforce in Nigeria and cannot ignore them. “Fidelity Bank Plc partnered with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to kick-start the SME funding connects initiative to help address the issues surrounding funding for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria. The Chairman of the Bank Mr. Ernest Ebi who commended the management team for the initiative, noted that what the lender is doing is significant for the growth of SMEs in the country. “The issue of SMEs is very important to the country’s growth, that’s why the bank is trying to lead others to promote it. We want the government to create enabling environment to ensure that basic infrastructures are available to encourage entrepreneurs,” he said. The Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat commended the bank for the initiative, adding that the importance of SMEs cannot be overemphasized, as they contribute to labour, poverty alleviation and revenue generation. “What Fidelity Bank is doing is to create the access for capital, which is the biggest threat to SMEs,” he said. “ It is advisable that programmes like this that will assist entrepreneurs to get capital should be emulated by other financial institutions. We are ready to create enabling environment for the SMEs to thrive.”