*Society of Nigerian Artists mourns, pays tributes  Tony Okuyeme  Iconic Nigerian artist, David Herbert Dale, renowned for his major contributions to global and historical narratives of modern art in Nigeria, has passed on. He was 72 years old. He died on Tuesday morning, about 4 am, at the Military Hospital, Yaba, Lagos. He is best known for his dexterity and versatility in 23 different media, majorly stained glass through which he explored the energy and variety of urban life in Lagos. Tributes have continued to flow for the late artist. In his reaction, the president of the Society of Nigerian Artists (SNA), Mr. Oliver Enwonwu, in a statement sent to New Telegraph, described the late Dale as an iconic artist who would be greatly missed not only by the artists’ community but also by Nigeria as a nation. “Today, we celebrate iconic Nigerian artist David Herbert Dale for his major contributions to global and historical narratives of modern art in Nigeria. “A Fellow of the Society of Nigerian Artists, he is best known for his dexterity and versatility in 23 different media, majorly stained glass through which he explored the energy and variety of urban life in Lagos,” the statement reads in part. According to the SNA President, in a hugely successful career spanning over four decades, Dale’s mastery is also clearly evident in his many oils, watercolours, bead paintings, gouaches, wrought iron, etchings, mosaics and lino prints. “His legacy is hinged not only on his technical proficiency but also on his bold and economical line, which at once unites his diverse media by eliminating the superfluous to create a visceral connection to his audience. “David Dale will be greatly missed by the Society of Nigerian Artists and members of the broader Nigerian art community.” Dale was born in 1947 in Nigeria from a British father and a Nigerian mother. He moved to The United Kingdom to live with an Aunt at age two and would remain there for nearly two decades, returning to Nigeria to finish his secondary education at St. Gregory’s College, Lagos. He would meet Bruce Onobrakpeya, then the art teacher at the college who would encourage his interest in art.