Comrade Mohammed Sabo is a former Senior Special Assistant to the immediate past governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar. In this interview, the ex-House of Representatives candidate in the 2019 election, speaks on the state of the nation, the Bauchi State House of Assembly crisis and the defeat of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. ALI GARBA reports   What is your take on the appointment of two ministers from Bauchi State by President Muhammadu Buhari?
The move is well commended and the people of Bauchi State appreciate the President for that. The truth is that President Buhari has been so magnanimous to Bauchi State and the North-East as well and this is taking into cognisance the key appointments he has given to the North-East and Bauchi State as well. From North-East, we have two service chiefs, chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), TetFund Secretary, Chairman Niger-Delta Holding Company and others.
President Buhari has given our illustrious sons and daughters, who have distinguished themselves in their chosen careers opportunities to serve the country. They include Mallam Adamu Adamu, a chartered accountant and an accomplished journalist as well as Hajiya Mariam Yalwaji Katagum, a proven administrator, who has distinguished herself in both her local and international career. Their pedigree is why we have so many expectations from them to unite the state and uphold the good virtues they have internalised all along. We expect them to work assiduously with President Buhari in taking the country to the next level. But some people in Bauchi are complaining that the two ministers are from the same zone and local government area?
That is to tell you that the country is growing. We are moving democratically and heading towards development because the fact of the matter is that they are from Bauchi and nobody will dispute that both did not merited their nomination. Bauchi State belongs to all of us. I am from Bauchi South Senatorial district and if we are to take the statistics of appointments given to Bauchi South and Bauchi Emirate, then the other two senatorial districts would have protested.
We should take into consideration that INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu is from Bauchi South from Bauchi Emirate; TetFund Secretary, Prof. Suleiman Elias Bogoro is from Bauchi South in Bogoro Local Government Area; Customs boss, Hamid Ali is from Dass from Bauchi South; Chairman Social Investment Programme, Manir is from Bauchi Local Government in Bauchi South; Chairman, National Commission for Colleges of Education, Prof. Ali is from Alkaleri Local Government Area in Bauchi Emirate. For long it has been like that. If you also look at our political history, we have produced four governors from 1999 to date. Ahmed Adamu Mu’azu, Bauchi South and Bauchi Emirate; Isa Yuguda, Bauchi South and Bauchi Emirate; Mohammed Abubakar is from Bauchi Local Government Area in Bauchi South and so also Senator Bala Mohammed from Alkaleri Local Government Area in Bauchi Emirate of Bauchi South.
But this people were very magnanimous and they did not complain, You should know that our people also look for the appointment but God in his own way gave appointment to this people and that is why we have to rally round to support them to ensure that they support the President to take the country to the next level by using their office to further unite us as one people, one state and working in the best interest of our state. So there is nothing wrong in that. We have applauded the President. We should go beyond looking at people from their own local government, region or senatorial district, but we should look at the people best on their merit and what they can offer for the best of our people and the best of the nation. Adamu Adamu served for four years during the first term of President Buhari as Minister of Education. What are your expectations from him in his second tenure as minister?
I have said it in many fora that Adamu Adamu as a human being may have made mistakes, but you can see unity in the state as our three senators supported Mallam Adamu and Ambassador Katagum. Our members of House of Representatives also supported them and we were unanimous; even our leader, former Governor Abubaka, supported them to ensure that they scale through. So, what we are expecting from Adamu Adamu is that he should take the fatherly role now and he should unite Bauchi State irrespective of political affiliation or regional inclination. Bauchi State is one and we should unanimously work towards development of Bauchi State. I know he is a humble person and God fearing; he has not disappointed the President, so he will not disappoint the people of Bauchi State in his second coming. What is your take on the Bauchi State House of Assembly leadership crisis?
We have submitted our memorandum to the committee and the position of the party and stakeholders are very clear, but one thing you see in politics is a spirit of give and take. Sometimes you would take a very hard decision, but after consultation and some alignment, you begin to take a compromise position and I think the overall interest of all of us is Bauchi State. Now that critical stakeholders, traditional and religious leaders have involved themselves in this issue, we believe they would be able to resolve it. We are happy that they would come down to the table and do the needful.
We are saying that the deputy speaker belongs to All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which is the minority, should allow us to produce the deputy speaker because the speaker is from APC, irrespective of whether he is totally APC. He won election under the APC, so we have to give him that benefit of doubt. We are very critical to the supremacy of the party and the deputy speaker should be from APC family because PDP succeeded in having eight members of the state Assembly out of 31 members of the Assembly. We have the majority – 22 members; so nobody on earth, if we are to play politics, would deprive APC from having the speaker and the deputy speaker and I think we are working towards that amicably to see that the issue is resolve and then we work in the best interest of the state. Don’t you see that affecting governance in the state as the governor is a member of the PDP?
The constitution of Nigeria is very clear. There are three arms of government; executive, legislative and judiciary. So, everybody should be allowed to play within the ambit of the law. If this is allowed, then the state belongs to all of us. The executive is a different arm; they should find a way for working harmoniously for the development of the state. What is your take on the recent call for revolution over the state of the nation?
That is unacceptable at a time when the President is working to unite the country; when the President working to combat insecurity; when the President is working to curtail kidnapping and banditry. Whoever is talking of revolution is a mediocre. If you are bringing radical changes, then you have to contest election. Nobody can doubt that our democracy has been deepened, APC lost Zamfara to the PDP in court; that has never happened in the history of democratic experienced in this country.
The President is working round the clock to ensure that he carries all and sundry along for the unity and progress of the country. Therefore, the call for revolution is deceptive one to cause unnecessary tension. If you look at even the reactions of majority of Nigerians, they are totally against Omoyele Sowore’s action. So, we are not in support of what he has done, knowing fully that he is a partisan person, a presidential candidate. He should have channeled his grievances through the legitimate way as Atiku Abubakar is pursuing his case through the legitimate way. If you are causing chaos to the country nobody would supported that at this critical time. APC lost Bauchi State to the PDP during the last governorship election. Is there any plan or move by your party to unseat the governor?
We are in court. We are pursuing our legitimate case in court and we are hopeful. I said it and let me re-echo it again that by the grace of Almighty God, APC is going to be victorious in court and when this happens, it means that the flag bearer of the party, who is our leader, Mohammed Abubakar will come back as a governor. As an individual, he must have made some mistakes, but his return will allow him to correct the mistakes.
Secondly, that would even give the opportunity of APC to further consolidate on the good things that the APC government started. While we are in court, we ensure that our people work with the government. I call him a transition governor because he is subject to the verdict of the court. By the time we are done, then will now look at the way forward for the state. What are your expectations from the Bala Mohammed administration though you are from the other side of the divide?
I think I am not in a better position to answer your question. First, his victory is been challenged in court, so you should wait until when the case is over. But now, we will pray that there should be peace; let there be peaceful co-existence, let there be separation of power, let us work in unity because that is our concern. One area our former governor was outstanding was the issue of security of lives and property of the good people of Bauchi State. Let this government emulate same and work with the diverse interest groups for the unity and progress of Bauchi State.