   Imo State Governor, Emeka Ihedioha and his predecessor, Senator Rochas Okorocha are enmeshed in a battle and all the gloves are off. With weeks of allegations and counter-allegations, Governor Ihedioha has described the administration of Okorocha in the state as a “wicked heist.” Ihedioha, yesterday, alleged that Okorocha stole over N1 trillion from the state coffers. The governor said this while reacting to allegations by Okorocha, claiming that the Imo State government under Ihedioha was spending about N2.8 billion on monthly sanitation exercise. Ihedioha described the allegation as mischievous, baseless and unfounded. A statement by the Special Adviser, Media, to the Governor, Mr. Steve Osuji, described Okorocha’s claim as unfortunate, explaining that only about N25 million was used for the monthly sanitation exercise in the state. According to him, “the administration of Emeka Ihedioha is very prudent and sensitive to the plights of the people of Imo State, unlike Okorocha who was notorious for unbridled fiscal recklessness in his time. He diverted billions monthly on phony projects, including sanitation, but left Imo in very dirty and miserable situation. “Available records show that in eight years, former Governor Okorocha mismanaged about N1 trillion belonging to Imo State. We are taking our time in unveiling the numerous atrocities of the last administration and, certainly, he must answer for all the evil he did against the people of Imo State.” Ihedioha expressed dismay that a person of the stature of Okorocha could resort to juvenile pranks to score wrongly perceived political points. His words: “It is very strange that a former governor could sit and concoct lies. How could Governor Ihedioha spend N2.8 billion on sanitation? What was it used for? Okorocha’s problem is that he is so used to lies that he no longer knows the difference between lies and the truth. “The state spends only about N25 million on sanitation and the bulk of the funds come from support from corporate organizations as part of their corporate social responsibility. “Okorocha also alleged that Governor Ihedioha has, within two months in office, built a hotel in Abuja and new houses in Owerri and his village. This further shows that the man, Okorocha is sick. As at today, Governor Ihedioha operates from his private residence in Owerri, following the pillage and vandalism of Government House by former Governor Okorocha and his cronies. How could he say the governor is building new houses, when he owns a palatial residence in Owerri, where he operates from and mansions in his village, built many years ago? “The question is: are houses built in two months? Only Okorocha can build a house in two months and it collapses after a short while. Imo people already know that Okorocha is a habitual liar and should not be taken seriously.” The governor maintained that his predecessor wrecked Imo State and that all he is doing is to divert the attention of Imo people. On Okorocha’s claim that Ihedioha did not win the last election, he said: “He cannot get over the fact that his puppet in-law failed; he is also in pains that he has not been able to extend his dynasty in Imo. “But no amount of falsehood will deter the people’s governor, Ihedioha, from fulfilling his electoral promise of rebuilding Imo State. The present administration shall remain on course in its efforts to recover Imo people’s funds and property looted by Rochas Okorocha and his cronies.” Okorocha had accused Ihedioha of being in a hurry to steal because “he didn’t win the governorship election.” The former governor stated that he spent N200 million on clean-up exercise, on which Ihedioha is allegedly spending N2.8 billion. “The governor in just three months is building his own houses in Owerri and in his village. He is also building a hotel, but has not done anything for the state. They should work for the people of Imo State. “All the bad politicians I retired in the state have all been brought back. And kidnapping, ritual killings, armed robbery, missing of people have all come back. “The clean-up exercise I was doing with less than N200 million, they are today using N2.8 billion to do that. The government is in a hurry to steal because they know that they never won election,” Okorocha had said.