MTN Nigeria has launched its super-agent network named ‘MoMo Agent’ to offer financial services. The telco will be delivering its mobile money services through its subsidiary, Y’ello Digital Financial Services (YDFS). Announcing the launch at an event in Abuja yesterday, MTN said the extensive network of MoMo Agents will immediately begin providing safe and accessible money transfer services to under-banked and unbanked people across Nigeria. With this, the company joins ongoing efforts to accelerate the Central Bank of Nigeria’s drive for financial inclusion. Speaking at the launch, the Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria, Ferdi Moolman, said: “I am excited by the possibilities. We are fortunate to be part of the telecoms industry which underpins the digital economy and is critical to inclusive development and the future economic growth of this great nation. “The launch of the YDFS MoMo Agent is especially significant to us. It further demonstrates our commitment to remain focused on enhancing Nigerian’s access to financial services, and in so doing, connects them to what is most important to them. “The MoMo agent network compliments existing banking services by extending access to simple money transfer services and other financial services nationwide.” The MoMo Agent Network compliments existing banking services by extending access to simple money transfer services and other financial services nationwide. YDFS Director, Usoro Usoro, noted that: “Our MoMo Agent network opens up a host of opportunities, creating employment and facilitating business in rural and urban areas. Leveraging MTN’s extensive distribution network and capabilities, we are putting financial services within easy reach. “Going forward, anyone, anywhere in Nigeria can send and receive money through a MoMo Agent in their neighbourhood. We intend to expand the range of financial services offered once the Central Bank grants approval for a Payment Banking license.” Usoro sheds lights on measures put in place to avert perpetuation of financial fraud, malpractices in Momo agent. He clarified that every fund transfer attracts transfer charge of 100 regardless of amount. He said YDFS planned to rollout about 500,000 agents spread across all states and the Federal Capital Territory.