The management of New Telegraph newspapers has expressed its readiness to support micro-finance banks (MFBs) in the country in promoting financial inclusion. Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, made this pledge yesterday when the new executives of the National Association of Micro-Finance Banks, Lagos State chapter, paid a courtesy call to New Telegraph’s headquarters in Lagos. Egbemode, who is also the President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE), advised MFBs to focus on improving their relationship with the media in order to effectively carry out their primary mandate of extending financial services to micro, small and medium enterprises. According to her, many people don’t have the correct perception of the MFBs sub-sector and the critical role it plays in promoting financial inclusion. She said: “The media is mentioned in the constitution. There is no way you can change people’s perception unless you engage with the media. You need to push out information about your activities. We are willing partner with you through our platform.” Egbemode assured the MFBs executives of the organisation’s support. Earlier, the Chairman of the Lagos chapter of the National Association of Micro-Finance Banks, Mojisola Garber, thanked the management of New Telegraph for receiving her and other members of the association’s executive. Garber said the visit was part of the new executive’s strategy to enlist the media’s help in promoting its agenda. Also, the vice chairman of the association, Mr. Obinna Onunkwo, noted that with 200 MFBs operating in Lagos, the state’s chapter of the national association of MFBs recognised the fact that advocacy was key to enabling it promote its agenda. According to him, although MFBs are key to promoting financial inclusion, there were some misconceptions that the public has about the subsector that needed to be corrected. He disclosed that as part of efforts to accelerate financial inclusion, MFBs were partnering on a shared services platform. Also, general secretary of the association, Mr. Adenrele Oni, stated that the mandate of the new executive was to correct misconceptions about MFB sub-sector. He noted that despite facing the challenges of high cost of funds, MFBs were making a positive impact on the economy and did better than commercial banks in terms of unit of loans disbursed last year. Immediate past chairman of the association, Mr. Omololu Fatunbi, said that despite the challenges faced by MFBs such as high cost of funds, the subsector continues to creditably perform its expected role in the economy. Also, the association’s Zonal Treasurer, Mrs. Bimpe Ogunleye, said that contrary to the misconception that the major role of MFBs is only to disburse loans, the lenders were also playing a key role in helping to promote micro-pension as well as the micro-insurance.