Suspect: Soldiers shot policemen, cut my handcuffs   F leeing kidnap kingpin, Alhaji Hamisu Bala aka Wadume, has been re-arrested two weeks after he was reportedly liberated by soldiers.   Sources told New Telegraph that Wadume was re-arrested in his uncle’s Kano residence, at Layin Mai Allo Hotoro area of Kano State, where the kidnap suspect went to hide.   The police have so far recovered 13 cars from him. It has been discovered that he has over 20 houses in Taraba and Nasarawa states.   It was also learnt that a few minutes after he was arrested on August 6, one of Wadume’s men quickly removed five of his AK47 rifles in his house and disappeared.   He had also been discovered to have many cows and sheep in the bush.   According to police investigation, Wadume has three gangs, each one with a leader, while he is the overall leader. The first gang is headed by Babaruns, the second led by Nasiru, while the third gang is led by Shehu.   But after his re-arrest, Wadume yesterday made shocking revelation of how soldiers shot and killed operatives of the IGP Intelligence Response Team (IRT) on August 6, shortly after arresting him at Ibi in Taraba State.   The suspect made the confession in a less-than-a-minute video posted on the verified Twitter handle of the Nigeria Police.   On August 6, Wadume was allegedly set free by soldiers of 93 Battalion stationed at a checkpoint within the Ibi general area, as the operatives made their way to Taraba State Police Command Headquarters in Jalingo.   In the short video made in Hausa language, the suspected kidnapper further claimed that after his release, soldiers took him to their “headquarters,” where his handcuffs were cut.   He added: “I am Hamisu Bala Wadume. The police came to Ibi and arrested me. When they arrested me, Army (soldiers) chased after them and opened fire. In the process, some policemen lost their lives. From there, they (soldiers) took me to their headquarters, and cut off my handcuffs and I ran away.  “Since I ran away, I have been hiding until now when the police arrested me.”   After his initial arrest, Wadume was allegedly set free by soldiers of 93 Battalion, who had attacked the Special Forces on their way to the State Police Command Headquarters in Jalingo, leading to the killing of three of the police operatives and two civilians.   Those killed, the police said, were Inspector Mark Ediale, Sergeant Usman Danzumi and Sergeant Dahiru Musa, as well as a civilian identified as Mr. Olajide Owolabi.   The Nigerian Army, whose troops were accused of killing the police officers and the two civilians, had swiftly defended its men, saying the circumstances had presented the officers as “suspected kidnappers”.   Consequently, President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered the Defence Headquarters to set up a panel of investigation, to unravel the circumstances surrounding the ugly development.   In compliance with the presidential directive, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Gabriel Olonisakin, had constituted a seven-man panel headed by Rear Admiral I. T. Olaiya.   The panel, according to the DHQ, had membership drawn from the Army, Nigerian Navy, Nigerian Air Force, Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA), Police, as well as the Department of State Services (DSS).   Irked by the killing, the IG, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, had caused a separate enquiry, which was headed by the DIG in charge of Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (FCIID), Mr. Mike Ogbizi. The Ogbizi panel, which has since submitted its report, according to findings, carried through despite the presidential directive to the DHQ for a comprehensive probe.   Announcing the re-arrest in a statement yesterday, the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, said the fugitive kidnap suspect was smoked out of his hideout at Layin Mai Allo Hotoro area of Kano State.   Mba said Wadume’s re-arrest elicited commendation from the IG, who also thanked the public for condemning the killing of his men.   He said: “The operatives of the Nigeria Police have re-arrested the notorious kidnap kingpin, Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume. He was re-arrested in the late hours of yesterday, 19th August, 2019 in his hideout at Layin Mai Allo Hotoro area of Kano State.   “The police had been on the massive manhunt for the suspect… since 6th August, 2019 following the unfortunate incident in Ibi, Taraba State, which resulted in the brutal murder of three police officers and two civilians, and injury to five others.   “The suspect, who was appropriately restrained at the time of the incident, was subsequently released by his ‘rescuers’ after they had destroyed the restraining handcuffs.   “Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police, while commending the police operatives for their perseverance and painstaking efforts, has expressed his profound gratitude to all Nigerians for their unparalleled show of love and empathy to the Force and the families of the officers and patriotic civilians who paid the supreme price in the service of their fatherland.   “It is his belief that the re-arrest of the suspect, Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume, will no doubt, help in bringing answers to the numerous but hitherto unanswered questions touching on the incident and the larger criminal enterprise of the suspect.”   Indications of a strained relationship between the Army and Police, occasioned by the tragic incident, emerged when the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, issued a circular directing troops on internal security (IS) operations to adopt “circumspection” in the face of likely provocation, even as he had urged soldiers on pass to travel in mufti.   Buratai also accused the police authority of incitement, which he feared, could provoke aggression towards soldiers by the Force’s rank and file.   At press time, New Telegraph learnt that Wadume was being held at a fortified detention facility in Abuja.