Justice Chuka Obiozor of a Federal High Court in Lagos has ordered the freezing of three bank accounts belonging to Lagos State government over an alleged N9.9 billion fraud. The order was as a sequel to the granting of an ex-parte motion filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) seeking the attachment of the accounts pending final conclusion of investigations over the alleged fraud. The three bank accounts said to have been domiciled in First City Monument Bank, Access Bank and Zenith Bank are numbered 5617984012, 0060949275 and 1011691254, respectively. Arguing the ex-parte motion, EFCC’s lawyer, Mohammed Abbas, prayed the judge to freeze the accounts pending the conclusion of investigation and possible prosecution of the Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Chief of Staff to the Governor of Lagos State, Adewale Adesanya. He said: “There have been concerted efforts and attempts to dissipate the contents of the accounts listed in the schedule to this application. “Without freezing the nominated accounts and temporarily forfeiting the money to the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, there is no way the fraud being perpetrated using the scheduled accounts can be stopped.” After listening to the lawyer’s submission, Justice Obiozor granted the motion and adjourned the matter to August 9, 2019. In an affidavit in support of the ex-parte motion deposed to by a member of EFCC’s investigating team, Kungmi Daniel, the anti-graft agency said it discovered “a huge inflow of N9,927,714,443.29” from the state accounts into an FCMB bank account opened on September 17, 2018, during the administration of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and operated by Adesanya. The deponent said the schedule of the FCMB account showed how Adesanya and other signatories to the account made fraudulent transfer from the accounts of the Lagos State government and dissipated the funds housed in the said accounts. “The trend in the account is that the account always witnessed huge inflow from Lagos State government in the above scheduled accounts managed by the respondent (Adesanya),” the deponent said.