The Enpower Free Trade, the brainchild of former President Goodluck Jonathan, is yet to attain its potential six years on, reports KENNETH OFOMA   The birth of Enugu Free Trade zone, otherwise known as Enpower Free Trade Zone, in May 2013, was heralded with much hope and enthusiasm even though it was relatively young, compared to other free trade zones that are yet to be operational. Being the first in the region and with the rising profile of the state as a budding industrial hub, it was hoped that the development of the trade zone would be accelerated. That has not been the case. The free zone was expected to boost foreign direct investment and increase socio-economic activities in the state and region. From what the promoters said, Enpower-FTZ offers investors the benefits of huge business opportunities from a potential market of 1.033 billion people on the African continent, the second-largest and second most populous continent on earth with 54 recognised sovereign states and countries, nine territories and two de-facto independent states. Also, Enpower-FTZ gives access to markets covered by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the thriving Nigerian market, (the largest economy in Africa) and a direct unparalleled connection to the untapped industrial heartland of South-Eastern Nigeria, home to the Onitsha, Nnewi and Aba industrial centres. The Enpower Free Trade Zone in Enugu State is expected to attract up to $500 million (N240 billion) worth of foreign direct investments from leading global manufacturing companies. Also, the activities of the industrial clusters hosted in the free zone are expected to create over 20,000 jobs across three major regions in the country. But all that hope and great expectations had long gone cold as the new free trade zone seemingly became a lame dock. And nobody had envisaged that it would take that long to operationalise the zone. The free trade zone became entangled in bureaucratic bottlenecks just as its fate became intertwined with the capricious and not-so impressive stories surrounding the development of Akanu Ibiam International Airport. Incidentally, it was during the visit of former President Goodluck Jonathan to perform the foundation laying ceremony for the terminal building/runway of the airport in 2013 that he announced the approval for the free trade zone. “The opening of this airport is one of the key requests I received from my brothers and sisters from the South-East during my campaign for the election as President in 2011,” Jonathan had said. The former President, who noted that a free trade zone would only be operational where there was an international airport or a functional seaport, said the facility had been over-due in the zone. The then Governor, Sullivan Chime, commended Jonathan for his transformation agenda and called on the Ministry of Aviation not to relent until the Akanu Ibiam International Airport became fully operational. Also speaking on the occasion, the then Minister of Aviation, Princess Stella Oduah, said the airport terminal would be completed within 15 months. However, just as the development of the international wing of the airport has suffered many ups and downs with the project yet to be realised more than six years after the turning of the sod,  the free trade zone which is complementary and an integral part of the airport has also been mired in controversy. On August 25, 2013 the first international commercial passenger flight touched down at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. The historic flight was made by the Ethiopian Airlines which became the first international carrier to operate from Enugu. However, flight to the airport has continued to operate on the domestic wing which itself has not been in the best state and cannot operate night flight owing to lack of landing lights among other things. To worsen the situation, even the operational domestic wing of the airport being used for domestic and international operations has come under constant threat of closure by the Federal Government. First, it was on May 17, that the Federal Government announced plans to downgrade the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu or shut it down for runway rehabilitation. The then Minister of State for Aviation, who has now been elevated to substantive Minister, Hadi Sirika, who issued the threat at the 2019 Stakeholders’ Forum, in Lagos, said the decision was taken to enable the Federal Government to work on the airport runway to avoid any major incident. Sirika had listed the terrible runway, a nearby market and abattoir, presence of free trade zone and a radio mask close by as reasons for the intended closure. He said: “At the end of the runway, you have the government establishing a free trade zone at the centre. Enugu is to the East what Kaduna is to the North. When the government wanted to expand the runway to 60 metres long and 71 metres wide, there were few houses there and we were promised that they would be demolished and the owners compensated so we can have the improvement but now they have built more houses. Enugu would have to be closed down; that is the honest truth.” A temporary reprieve was secured by the state Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, as he swung into action and within days took care of the concerns raised by the minister. Following the safety concerns raised by Sirika and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the Enugu State government issued a statement the same day, detailing steps it had taken to address all the issues raised. The governor directed immediate closure of Orie Emene Market (abattoir inclusive). The relocation of the state Broadcast Mast on the approach of the runway to Okpatu Hill (Ugwu Rerenkwu) in Udi Local Government Area was also given accelerated attention. All these made the Federal Government to change her mind on the closure of the airport then. Like a bad dream and postponement of the evil day, the Federal Government again on August 17 issued fresh threat to shut down the airport for runway maintenance. According to the General Manager, Corporate Affairs of FAAN, Henrietta Yakubu, the FAAN announced its intention to close down the runway of Akanu Ibiam International Airport runway on Saturday, August 24, to effect maintenance that will enhance safety operations. She said: “This move is aimed at resolving the existing safety/security concerns to flight operations.” Yakubu added that the date of the re-opening would be communicated in due course. Again like before, this latest move by FAAN sparked off gale of protests. The South-East governors sent a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari urging him to delay the closure of the airport, and act against insecurity in the region. The letter was signed by the Chairman of the South-East Governors Forum and Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi. The letter said the postponement of the closure of the Enugu airport would allow adequate arrangements to be made for travellers. But the governors said the closure was prompt and would not give them any time to make security arrangement for the convenience of the people, and visitors to the region who would be travelling long distances to alternative airports where flights would be diverted to. The governors called on the President to direct aviation authorities to provide immediate palliatives in form of transportation with armed escorts and helicopter services to prospective passengers from alternative airports that connect the zone. The governors said the Federal Ministry of Works in collaboration with the South-East Governors’ Forum should carry out repairs on major roads leading to the alternative airports as well as clear all the bushes along the routes for better view of road users. They asked that 24-hour joint security patrol be provided for the safety of the people and visitors to the South-East who will be using the roads day and night through the alternative airports. Again, with the fate of the airport hanging in the balance, the ray of hope which seemed to be emerging at the end of the tunnel with regard to the development of the Free Trade Zone has been dashed. The Chairman, Enpower Free Trade Zone, Enugu, Emeka Ene, who spoke to New Telegraph when the earlier threat to downgrade or shut down the airport was lifted, had expressed the hope that the zone would begin operation without much further delay. He had expressed enthusiasm that the cog in FTZ’s wheel of progress had been removed. Like other export processing zones in the country, Enpower processing zone is under the supervision and management of Nigeria Export Processing Zone Authority (NEPZA). NEPZA establishes, licenses, regulates and operates the free zones by providing a highly competitive incentive scheme, excellent support facilities and service for the purpose of creating an enabling environment for export manufacturing and other commercial activities. “Enpower is a free trade zone in the South-East, the first and only because there is no other one. There are 35 free trade zones in Nigeria and Lagos has something like 12 or even 17 free zones; we have free zones in Port Harcourt, we have free zones in Kano, everywhere but in the South-East, and I mean the five states of the South-East, there is only one free trade zone which is Enpower Free Trade Zone. It was licensed by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2015. “So now, it is designed to encourage manufacturing of products for export into the region. And it has attracted companies from India, companies from Germany, companies from Canada, a Nigerian company trying to export to China; these are companies we have attracted. It has also attracted a Swiss-Italian Company involved in aviation parts and maintenance. “Unfortunately there was a bureaucratic hitch between FAAN and Enpower and the (Enugu) State government over encroachment on land, conflict over where boundary starts and where boundary stops. “So this caused a lot of delay. The resolution of these problems caused a lot of delay and that is why most of these companies did not start; we have to call them off. Now this was only resolved two weeks ago by the governor’s intervention which the new MD of FAAN, Enpower and then NEPZA, Ministry of Investment; everybody came to the airport and resolved it finally,” Ene said. The presence of the free trade zone was listed by Sirika then as factors militating against the development and safety status of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport. The minister had cited the closeness of the free trade zone to the airport as a threat. But the chairman of Enpower free trade zone Enugu said that dragging the zone into the mix was misplaced and showed that the minister was not fully briefed. “Let me say that he (Sirika) was not properly briefed. There was an assumption that was made. However, I think that we have been in touch; like I said, this zone was approved by the President it has nothing to do with the state as alluded by the minister. The state has nothing to do with this; the state has already handed over the piece of land to the Federal Government. The President (Muhammadu Buhari) himself, not anybody else, the President himself signed the approval for that free zone, it’s a PPP arrangement,” Ene said. Giving further insight into the creation of the free trade zone, Ene said, “Former President Jonathan gave the initial approval, but the President (Buhari) ratified it around December 2015. We started the processing of this zone in the dying tenure of former President Olusegun Obasanjo; it took seven and half years, so it has nothing to do with individual president. It started with Obasanjo, it went through Ya’Adua, from Ya’Adua it went to Jonathan and then finally to President Buhari. “There was elaborate process that went on, so obviously the minister was not fully briefed, he just assumed that it was a state government thing, but it was not. Anyway, we have been working with FAAN for the last two years, obviously because free zones at the airport are essential for the stimulation of the growth of the airports. “One of the largest free zones in the world is the Dubai Airport Free Zone Authority. If you arrive at the Lagos Airport, NAHCO (Nigerian Aviation Handling Company) has a free zone at the Lagos Airport, Johannesburg Airport has a free zone, so this is not new; Shannon free zone is world’s first free zone in Ireland, opened up in the ’50s, right at the airport. “What is important is that Enpower complied with all the aviation regulations which is what the minister was harping about and we have been in touch and discussing with FAAN for the last two years and NCAA (Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority) team has gone there to inspect it and make sure that we have provided enough clearance, so there is no way there is any safety issue, which has been verified independently. And the MD of FAAN in front of the governor confirmed it, it was in the news. “That was when the (minister) gave the clearance that the state government has met with all the demands, and he specifically mentioned the free zone and talked about it, even when the governor’s people were completely surprised and they were telling him ‘are you sure, are you sure?’ “They have discussed with Enpower, we have looked at the safety, we have all agreed, we have an agreement and everybody is okay; they went to the site, they looked at it and it’s in compliance, we have even exceeded the requirement by International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO), so on that basis we can now move forward.” The Enpower chairman also spoke on encroachment to the free trade zone by private developers and acknowledged that Enpower had had challenges in that regard. He said: “That has been a very big challenge because while we were trying to resolve the issue with FAAN, of course it means that development can’t take place, if people don’t see development, they will come there and start selling the land. So we have had to deal with that on several occasions, trying to manage the process. “However, now that we have the full clearance, we are not wasting any time in being able to secure the place properly and have the projects kicked off.” Ene disclosed that while some foreign companies that had earlier indicated interest to invest in the free zone had left due to the delay, many others had been waiting patiently. He added: “The zone has two parts; one part at 9th Mile Corner, at Nsude; and then the other one is right at the airport which is causing the controversy. “The free zone is going to give life to the airport because right now people just import things, nothing is being exported; zero is being exported. But now as a free zone, as planes are coming in, cargo planes will be coming in too, both import and export products into West African markets, into sub-Saharan African markets and even one of the people that want to export to the EU and South Africa once they meet the requirement. “The bottom line is that Enpower provides an enabling environment for industrialisation of Enugu and Nigeria.” Asked whether it will be right to raise so much hope about the free zone coming into operation soon whereas the construction of the  international terminal/ runway of the airport is being inexplicably delayed, Ene stated that there has been an assurance from the relevant quarters that the airport would soon be completed. He said: “The MD of FAAN reiterated the importance of free zone at the airport; I think that’s something that has been missing in all the dialogue so far – that fact that the free zone was seen as an impediment to the development of the airport. “In fact, the opposite is the case, it’s actually complementary, the zone is a stimulus to the development of an airport and that is how it should have been seen by all well-meaning Nigerians. And we believe that at this point in time there is an alignment; it’s a Federal Government supported project, it’s a Federal Government programme.” Meanwhile, with the persistent hiccups in the development of the international wing of the airport as well as poor facilities at the domestic wing (necessitating closure), the hope of early take off of Enugu Free Trade Zone appears further deemed.