 …seek Buhari’s intervention S tudents and workers of the Federal University of Wukari (FUW), Taraba State, who are of Tiv extraction, have fled their home state, Benue State.   The students and workers were forced to flee Taraba State because of the intractable Jukun/Tiv crisis which has spilt over to the university.   Several lives have been lost due to the age-long conflict between the two ethnic groups.   The forum of Tiv staff, which also comprises of students yesterday cried out to President Mohammadu Buhari to intervene in the matter and bring the crisis to a permanent end.   The Chairman of the forum, Mr. Patrick Tion, and Secretary, Mr. Ikyer Godwin, made the appeal at a news briefing in Makurdi, Benue State. The said if urgent steps were not taken to address the lingering problem, it would lead to a “war”.   “The true position, devoid of sentiments, is that there exists serious security breach at the Federal University Wukari and a serious war is raging between the Jukun and Tiv in Wukari where the university is situated.   “This tribal war started since April 2019 and is still ongoing and the Jukun youths in Wukari normally block all roads leading to Wukari including the federal highway leading to and from the university where Tiv people are forcibly removed from vehicles by Jukun youths and killed,” the chairman said.   Tion described the murder of two students and a worker of the institution, all Tiv, as “barbaric, uncalled for and highly condemnable”.   He appealed to the management of the university to stay action on the resumption of academic activities due to begin today, pending when adequate security measures would be put in place to forestall future occurrences. The chairman denied involvement of staff and students of Tiv extraction in the crisis and power tussle between Jukun and Tiv in Wukari Local Government Area and Taraba State in general.   Tion appealed to the Federal Government to order immediate investigation into the crisis, and bring perpetrators of the dastardly act to book in the interest of peace and development of the university and the state.