The Debt Management Office (DMO) has disclosed that the Federal Government savings bond raked in a total of N13.44 billion investment since its debut in March 2017. According to a presentation by DMO at a Retail Bond Workshop organised by the NSE in collaboration with DMO and Stanbic IBTC Stockbrokers, the breakdown of investment showed that 431 corporate investors put in N1.75 billion while 15,822 individuals invested N11.75 billion, which brings the total amount of investment recorded to N13.44 billion. The Head, Market Development, DMO, Mr Monday Usiade, said though individual investors accounted for 87.06 per cent of the total investment, the figure was far from satisfactory, adding that a lot needsto be done to attract more investors. Usiade, who was represented by Ms Bose Olafisoye, said that 77 per cent of the investors were from the South-West. Giving further details about the geographical distribution of investors, he added that eight per cent of investors were from the Federal Capital Territory and South-South, four per cent from South-East and foreign investors, and three per cent from North-East and North Central. Usiade added that Jigawa and Yobe states recorded zero subscriptions, while Lagos, FCT, Oyo and Ogun contributed 75.54 per cent of the total investment. He said: “Eleven distribution agents have not remitted any amount to the DMO from inception. Such DAs that are yet to submit subscriptions in all the auctions as well as other DAs with marginal returns till the end of the year may be de-registered. “Given the analysis of the performance of the DAs, there is need for them to improve on their performance in order to meet stated objectives.” Usiade added that though modest progress had been made, the FGN savings bond was far from achieving its stated objectives. The Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, while speaking at the Retail Bond Workshop, said since its retail bond debut issuance of N2.067 billion, retail investors from across the six geo-political zones and the diaspora had invested in the FGN Savings Bond with the DMO raising over N13 billion from two-year and three-year bond maturities as at July 2019. Onyema said:  “Our partnership with the DMO towards creating investment opportunities for retail investors in the debt market dates to the launch of the NSE Retail Bond Market in 2012, when the DMO appointed a government stockbroker to provide liquidity in FGN bonds on our bourse. “With the launch of the NSE Retail Bond Market, the exchange sought to promote financial inclusion, while stimulating retail investor participation in the Nigerian debt market. Prior to that time, investing in listed debt instruments had been dominated by institutional investors trading in wholesale denominations. “In March 2017, the exchange, in collaboration with the DMO, launched the FGN Savings Bond, having recognised the opportunity presented by the Nigerian demographic to diversify government’s funding sources as well as enhance national savings culture.” He noted that despite these teeming efforts, only about three per cent of Nigeria’s adult population currently participate in the Nigerian capital market; an indication that there is need for increased collaborative efforts in promoting higher level of financial inclusion in Nigeria.