The recent resignation of the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Cross River State, Dr. Frankland Briyai, has generated dust over the integrity of some officials of the electoral umpire. WALE ELEGBEDE reports   Although the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Cross River State, Dr. Frankland Briyai made the announcement of his decision to join partisan politics last week and even expressed his interest in the November governorship election in Bayelsa State at the same declaration, the journey to his new turf, however, has been on the scale for actualization. Incidentally, the Cross River State REC’s decision to join the murky water of politics came barely one week after the immediate past Chairman of INEC Prof. Attahiru Jega, joined the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). Jega, who is presently teaching Political Science at Bayero University, Kano, joined the party to chair the committee of its Strength, Weakness, Opportunities and Threat Analysis. Briyai became a REC on June 30, 2017 after the then Acting President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, approved his appointments alongside 14 others. The appointees were first confirmed by the Senate. Prior to his appointment as the Cross River REC, Briyai, a doctorate degree holder, was a senior lecturer in the Biological Sciences Department of the Niger Delta University, Amassoma, Bayelsa State. Few months back, Briyai, who is an indigene of Bayelsa State, said there has been much pressure on him from his people to throw his hat into the ring for the state’s plum job. Speaking at his office in Calabar, when the Commonwealth Students/Youth Federation for Peace paid him a courtesy call, he said the pressure from his people may not be unconnected with the “meritorious services I have rendered to the people and the nation at large in various capacities.” A follow-up to that disclosure by the REC was a solidarity march held on the streets of Yenagoa, the state capital, by hundreds of stakeholders under the auspices of Bayelsa Grassroots Development Initiative (BDGI), calling on Briyai to join the November 16 gubernatorial race. The BDGI, led by Prof. Emiemokumo, Augustine-Neto Adakaigbe, Tamaranebi M. Richard and Gilbert Inesei, appealed to Briyal to return to his state as a matter of urgency to contest the election. Inesei assured the REC that their group was spread across the eight local government areas in Bayelsa and would help him mobilise to win the election. “With respect to Dr. Frankland Oyins Briyai’s generosity, his outstanding administrative and military pedigree and performance, and the resultant accolades from Bayelsans and Nigeria at large, we hereby unequivocally endorse and once again call on him to publicly declare  his acceptance to run for the guber race 2019,” the group said. Either by design or default, Briyai, eventually bowed to bouts of pressure from his kinsmen on August 8, by resigning his appointment to enable him to contest the governorship poll in Bayelsa State. He announced his resignation and governorship bid at the headquarters of the INEC in Calabar just before a valedictory party organised in his honour. Briyai told journalists that he had to resign to heed the call of the people of Bayelsa State, the youth groups in Niger Delta, Northern and Eastern Nigeria, the Economic Community of West African States, Africa and the Commonwealth to contest the governorship election. His words: “I have critically considered their demand and dilemma. I have heard their call to selfless service that had always been my lifestyle. For the sake of the very important call to rescuing the kind, peace loving and great people of Bayelsa State, I have resigned my appointment as a Resident Electoral Commissioner in the Independent National Electoral Commission of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with effect from Thursday, the 8th of August, 2019.” He added that the successful conduct of elections in the state since he took over in 2017 as the REC, his integrity and hard work, which had made him won several awards, had confirmed what the people are saying. On why he chose the All Progressives Congress (APC) to run as governor, he said: “As a progressive, I will identify with the very best of the progressive political parties – the All Progressives Congress.” Briyai appealed to the people of Bayelsa State not sell their votes and urged the youths not to allow themselves to be used as political thugs during and after the governorship election. The Chairman, Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP) in the state, Sunday Michael, said: “When Briyai was appointed the REC, he told us that he was going to work with stakeholders. This is the only REC that has carried every political party along from start to finish.” With the report of Briyai’s resignation to contest election permeating the media space with the corresponding reactions, his employer, INEC, in a statement signed by its  chairman of Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said the REC violated the commission’s Code of Conduct and the Nigerian constitution, hence his sack. Okoye reprimanded Briyai for using INEC’s Cross River State headquarters to announce his political ambition in violation of INEC’s laid down rules against partisanship. “The Commission strongly frowns at the REC’s expression of partisan interest. We note that the Constitution precludes National and Resident Electoral Commissioners from belonging to political parties. “Also, the use of INEC premises and facilities for such declaration or for any political purpose is unlawful and contrary to the Code of Conduct subscribed to by all INEC officials,” the statement read. Okoye said Briyai failed to follow the laid down procedure for resignation as REC, noting that his resignation doesn’t take effect until it has been received by the office of the country’s president who’s the appointing authority. “The commission has not received any resignation letter as he claimed,” he said. The commission went on to withdraw all powers and functions delegated to Briyai as REC and directed the administrative secretary of INEC in Cross River State to take over such functions until further notice. But, faulting INEC’s hierarchy on its stance about Briyai, a group known as the National Coalition for Progressive Change, described the commission’s decision as not only unconstitutional, but a calculated attempt to tarnish the image and integrity of the former REC, who they said, followed due process before resigning from office. According to the South-South Coordinator of the group, Comrade Sampson Effiom, Dr. Briyai had sent his resignation letter dated August 5, 2019 to the commission and wondered why they claimed they did not get it. “INEC decision is unconstitutional and cannot stand because the Section 306 (2) which they quoted does not give them powers to sack a senior appointee such as REC,” he said. Regardless of the defence put up for Briyai, most Nigerians believe that issues around his resignation and subsequent joining of a political party is one of the many issues around the electoral commission and the question of its neutrality. Speaking on the development, a member of INEC Election Monitoring Board 2009/ 2010, Mr. Olufemi Aduwo, said: “Section 156 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, stipulated  that nobody shall be qualified  for appointment as member of INEC  as a Chairman, National or Resident Commissioner if he is not qualified  as a member  of House of Reps…and one of the qualifications  is membership  of a political  party. “The Supreme Court ruled in 2003 that civil servants can be members of political parties of their choice as provided for by the 1999 Constitution. The issue therefore is of morality, is it fair for an umpire  who just conducted  a controversial  general election and in less than six months decided  to contest for the office of the governor  under the ruling  party? l think for somebody  who have conscience, he  would not embark on such inglorious  political journey. Moreso, joining APC puts question marks on his decision. If he wins the party primary, whatever the outcome of poll, his victory would be a suspect.” Querying the position of the Cross River REC further, Aduwo who is the Chairman of Rights Monitoring Group (RMG) said: “When and where did he join APC? Did APC give him a waiver? Has he been attending political party meetings with them? Where is he going to get the monetary backing to fund his campaign? Seriously, the media need to interrogate the relationship between the APC and the former Cross River REC, especially before and during the general elections because an lNEC official in any part of the country can manipulate the poll anywhere.” Briyai conducted the 2019 general elections in Cross River state as REC. The APC won a House of Representatives seat in the state. Born in 1963 in Bayelsa State, Briyai obtained his Primary School Certificate from St Stephens Primary School, Amassoma, Bayelsa State. In 1982, he got his West African School Certificate from Government Technical College, Tombia, Rivers State. His Bachelor of Science Degree was obtained from University of Port Harcourt while his M.Sc. is from Bayero University and his PhD obtained from University of Port Harcourt. He also served in various capacity which include the Nigerian Air      Force (Warrant Officer), Officer-in-charge (O-i-C) Armament and Safety Workshop 303 Flying Training School, Nigerian Air Force, Kano; Associate Dean of Student Affairs, Niger Delta University, Bayelsa State and Senior Lecturer in the same institution before his last appointment as REC.