Researchers in the United States (US) said stressful experiences in middle age were associated with greater memory loss among women later in life. According to the findings of a new study published recently in the ‘International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry,’ the link between middle age stressful experiences and memory loss was not found in men. Study author, Cynthia Munro, who is an associate Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioural Sciences at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore, United States (US), said: “We can’t get rid of stressors, but we might adjust the way we respond to stress, and have a real effect on brain function as we age.” Munro further explained that the findings shed further light on the effects of stress response on the brain with potential application to both men and women. The research team highlighted that if future research showed that stress response played a role in memory loss and related medical condition, then finding ways to control the body’s chemical reactions to stress may prevent or delay mental decline. Stress is the body’s reaction to any change that requires an adjustment or response. The body reacts to these changes with physical, mental, and emotional responses. The current study involved over 900 adults who were assessed twice in the early 1980s; once between 1993 and 1996 and once between 2003 and 2004. The average age of the participants was 47 at their third visit in the 1990s. The ‘Newsmax’ reported that during that visit, about 47 per cent of men and 50 per cent of women said they’d had at least one stressful experience during the past year. Such stressful event included marriage, divorce, birth of a child, death of a loved one, job loss, severe injury or sickness, a child moving out, or retirement, among others. At the third and fourth visits, participants’ mental skills were tested. To measure their memory, they were asked to recall 20 words spoken aloud immediately after hearing them and again 20 minutes later. At the third visit, they recalled an average of eight words immediately and six words later. At the fourth visit, the numbers were seven and six, respectively. Participants were also asked to identify words spoken to them from a written list of 40. During the third visit, participants correctly identified an average 15 words, compared to about 14 at the fourth visit. At the fourth visit, word memory among women who’d had at least one stressful midlife event declined by an average of one word — twice the level of others. At the fourth visit, the ability to recognise words also fell by an average of 1.7 words for women with at least one stressful mid-life event, compared with a 1.2-word decline for others. Men who reported stressful midlife events did not experience a similar decline in memory loss. The findings added to evidence that stress hormones affect brain health of women and men differently, according to the researchers. They said previous research found that the effect of age on the stress response was three times greater in women than in men, and that stressful life events could cause temporary memory and thinking problems.