Researchers in the United States (US) said taking certain antibiotics, especially multiple times or for long courses may put affected persons at risk for colon cancer. Their report was published online in the journal ‘Gut’. The researchers found that as people’s antibiotic use increased, their odds of being diagnosed with colon cancer increased. According to the findings, patients who had received antibiotics prescriptions were at slightly higher risk of colon cancer – nine per cent higher if they had been on antibiotics for a total of two weeks, versus no prescription. Similarly, people who were on the medications for more than 60 days total had a 17 per cent higher risk. Specifically, the risk was tied to antibiotics that kill anaerobic bacteria — which include common drugs like penicillins and cephalosporins such as Keflex. Previous studies also showed a link between antibiotics and colon cancer. According to Senior Researcher, Dr. Cynthia Sears, who is a Professor of Medicine at Johns Hopkins University, in Baltimore, antibiotics affect colon cancer risk through its effects on the gut microbiome. This is the vast collection of bacteria and other microbes that naturally populate the colon. Recent research suggests that the balance of microbes may have broad effects on health such that disruptions in the gut microbiome could make way for the growth of bacteria with cancer-promoting potential. Research has suggested that certain bacteria, such as E. coli, might contribute to colon cancer in some cases. Against this background, the research team advocated for judicious antibiotic use. “Antibiotic overuse is a problem, and education is needed on both the patient and doctor’s side,” said Sears. That means not taking antibiotics for viral infections like the common cold. (Antibiotics target bacteria, not viruses, Sears pointed out.) And long courses of antibiotic treatment should be avoided whenever possible, she added. The study results are based on over 166,000 middle-aged and older primary care patients whose information was collected between 1989 and 2012. Nearly 29,000 were diagnosed with colon or rectal cancer at some point; each of those patients was compared with up to five others who remained free of the cancers,” the ‘Newsmax reported. The researchers looked at any antibiotic prescription patients received from the time they enrolled in the study, up until a year before a colon cancer diagnosis. The researchers advised that antibiotics should be used for a valid medical reason, but urged individuals to engage in regular exercise, maintain a healthy weight, avoid smoking, limit alcohol, and eat a diet rich in fruits, vegetables and fiber-rich grains. In addition, Sears recommended colon cancer screenings.