T he National Convener, Project774ForAtiku2019, Dr. Sani Adamu, has expressed confidence that the nation’s judiciary will ensure justice to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal.   This is just as the Director General of the Atiku Abubakar Democratic Institute, Dr. Adetokunbo Pearse and the Secretary General, Movement for NigerianRestructuring, Barrister Fred Nzeako said the country’s judiciary is now focus of attention of the whole world and, therefore, the need for it to rise above the board and deliver a credible judgement without bias.   Dr. Pearse described the case now before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal as a litmus test, urging Nigerians, democrats and all advocates of rule of law the world over to pay close attention.   Addressing a World Press Conference in Lagos State, Dr. Adamu, who is the convener of the group, hailed well-meaning Nigerians for maintaining peace and remaining hopeful that their mandate would be returned to them soon, recalling the exploit of the PDP/Atiku legal team and the steadfastness of the witnesses and technical experts, which  he described as convincing.   “Most Nigerians have witnessed our efforts at the tribunal. The brilliance shown by our legal team and the steadfastness of our witnesses and technical experts have indeed convinced us beyond reasonable doubt that Atiku is coming,” he said.   Adamu, in his lecture titled: “Stolen mandate will never yield any good for Nigeria,” equally said the whole world had focused on the nation’s judiciary, looking forward to how the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal would deliver justice without fear or favour.   He expressed oncern over the arrest and continued detention of Sahara Reporters publisher,  Mr. Omoyele Sowore and other Nigerians for planning a simple civil disobedience, saying this act to forcefully suppress any opposing view, portend a looming danger in the country.   “This press conference will be incomplete if we do not speak out against the looming anarchy in the country as a result of the president’s actions to forcefully suppress any opposing view, which is guaranteed by our constitution. I am referring to the unlawful arrest and detention of Mr Omoyele Sowore and other Nigerians for planning a simple civil disobedience,” he said.   Lamenting that the police and Army had become government’s instruments of suppression and unconstitutional actions against lawful protest, Adamu urged the government to unconditionally release Sowore without further delay.   “I call on the government to unconditionally release Mr. Sowore without further delay. The government must guarantee his safety and well-being and those of his comrades. Enough of these unconstitutional behavior,” he said.