Lawmakers from the Bauchi State House of Assembly elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja where they reversed their decision for settlement. The Bauchi State Assembly has been enmeshed in a crisis resulting to the emergence of factional leadership. The lawmakers, who presented themselves for inauguration earlier after a proclamation by Governor Bala Mohammed told reporters yesterday that the status quo on the crisis remains. Specifically, 17 members of the assembly had rejected what they described as an imposition of minority over the majority. They proceeded to form a parallel leadership, but few days ago, the members made a u-turn and agreed to be inaugurated. The factional Speaker, Kawuwa Damina, had led the remaining 16 members to take their oath of office and oath of allegiance, a development that was seen as a move that would stop the crisis in the house. Speaking to State House Correspondents, Damina said the APC members have rescinded their earlier decision, and reverted to their position of not allowing minority rule over the majority. He said the faction wants the right thing to be done in the state hallowed chamber. According to him, after their meeting yesterday, President Buhari offered to brief incoming Attorney General of the Federation and the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to wade into the matter. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari, in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, expressed readiness to work with relevant constitutional bodies to resolve the crises rocking the Houses of Assembly in Bauchi and Edo states. “I am aware of the problem in Edo and Bauchi states and I try to appreciate my position as the President, the political situation vis a vis the constitution of our country, the role of the commissioners of police and the party. I always like to be on the side of the constitution,” President Buhari said. He promised to liaise with the Minister of Justice when sworn in, and the Inspector General of Police, to ensure that the rights of the constituencies and individuals were not abused in any form.