Benin Princess, Eki Igbinedion, for a long time has adopted a low profile life such that she is rarely sighted at public functions or on the social radar generally. Just like her husband, Lucky, her appearances in public places is almost limited to the yearly elaborate birthday ceremony of her father in-law, the Esama of Benin Kingdom, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion. It’s however on record that as better half of the former governor of Edo State, Lucky Igbinedion, Eki once held sway and occupied the centre stage while she lasted as the First lady of the state.   For the fact that her choice of evading the limelight has not eroded her status as a member of the high society and the fact that it is the season of her birthday anniversary, 60th at that, many had expected the woman, with the support of her husband would roll out drums to celebrate but from what has been noticed, the beautiful woman has decided to go for a rather low profile celebration.   Eki few days ago hit the milestone age of 60 and expectedly, this has been a source of excitement and happiness for her family members, friends and associates who have been reaching out to her with best of wishes at such a beautiful time of her life. Even though no big bash has been thrown, the birthday girl has been at the receiving end of love and beautiful tributes from her husband, children and everyone who cherishes her kind nature as a compassionate mother to all and a great philanthropist. Those who should know however revealed the woman may not have rolled out drums to celebrate due to the loss she recorded not too long ago. The former First Edo couple, Lucky and Eki, it will be recalled lost their son to a ghastly auto accident in faraway United States of America not too long ago.   Princess (Mrs.) Eki was born into the royal family of Prince and Princess Oyemarense in the ancient Benin Kingdom. The hardworking and amiable woman attended several schools, both home and abroad. She later graduated with a Master’s degree in Economics and Statistics.