Against global practice, the birth of over 1,433,896 under-5 children in Lagos State was not registered.
This was unveiled at a 2-Day Media workshop on the need to scale up birth registration in Lagos State.
The event, which was organised by UNICEF in collaboration with the National Orientation Agency (NOA), Lagos State, kicked off in Ibadan, Oyo State on Thursday.
The data of 1,433,896 unregistered children, sourced from the RapidsmsNigeria.org, represents 31 per cent of children in the state.
The Director of NOA in Lagos State, Prince Waheed Ishola said the NOA in collaboration with the National Population Commission (NPopC) and UNICEF was engaging traditional rulers and other stakeholders on the need to scale up the registration of all births and deaths in the state. He urged the media to prioritise the importance of birth registration in their reportage.
According to him, the target was to register up to one million children in Lagos State before the end of this year.
Providing an insight into how lack of birth registration could impact the future of the children negatively, Deputy Director/Head of Department, Vital Registration Department (VRD),  NPopC, Nwachukwu Elias Ikechukwu said  children whose birth were not registered did not have any official record of their existence.
“When such children are abused, nothing can be done about the situation, considering that nobody knows about their existence,” he explained.
Furthermore, he stressed that birth registration helped governments to plan.
Other challenges are the infiltration of touts in the registration exercise, who register births illegally while providing clients with fake birth certificates.
Communication Officer at UNICEF, Blessing Ejiofor urged the media to write stories around birth registration, and attention concerned stakeholders with a view to drive inter-agency/cross sector collaboration to improve service delivery for birth registration.
“We need increased reporting of birth registration,” added Ejiofor.
On her part, Sharon Oladiji, UNICEF Child Protection Specialist, said it had become imperative to register the birth of every child, based on the document, Child Right Convention (CRC) assented to by 193 world countries, which clearly stated that the day a child was born, its birth must be registered.