With a history of recovered assets gone missing, Nigerians have started keeping an eagle eye on the utilisation of recovered stolen funds to prevent a re-looting of the assets. WALE ELEGBEDE reports   With a benefit of retrospection, the corruption anecdote of late General Sani Abacha is perhaps one of the trendiest graft stories in the chequered history of the primitive looting of Africa’s biggest economy beyond grasp. The late dictator was Nigeria’s 10th Head of State and he served as the de facto President of Nigeria from November 17, 1993 till June 8, 1998 when he passed on at the presidential villa in Abuja. However, 21 years after his demise, billions of dollars traced to the late dictator have either being repatriated or still waiting in the wings for recovery. The journey to what has become an endless recovery for Nigeria started after a successful transition to democratic rule in 1999 when the country launched a high-profile campaign aimed at securing the repatriation of looted public funds being held in foreign banks. With the President at the time, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo leading the campaign throughout his eight-year tenure, an estimated $2billion was believed to have been recovered by the time he left office in May 29, 2007. Speaking in London in November 2006, the former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, said: “Abacha took over $6 billion from Nigeria.” He confirmed that $2 billion has been recovered, adding that: “The rest is still hanging there outside and we’re trying to get it.” At page 495 of the second volume of his book entitled “My Watch” former President Obasanjo stated that “…by the time I left office in May 2009 (sic), over $2 billion and £100 million had been recovered from the Abacha family abroad, and well as N10 billion in cash and properties locally.” However, his administration faced domestic and external challenges in its efforts. On the home front, the lack of transparency and inadequate legal and accounting skills hampered its efforts while insufficient political will at the international stage also limited Obasanjo’s campaign to retrieve the stolen funds. Just like Obasanjo, successive administrations in Nigeria have made it a mantra that recovered funds from Abacha would be used to alleviate the plight of citizens in sectors like Power, Works, Health, Education, Economic Empowerment, Job Creation and Water Resources. Under the Goodluck Jonathan Administration between 2010 and 2015, the recovery efforts continued and more of the loot was recovered. According to the government, its efforts led to the recovery of $226.3 million from Liechtenstein in addition to the 7.5 Million that was recovered from an associated company of the Abacha’s in Liechtenstein. The Federal Government also recovered and repatriated the sum of £22.5 million confiscated from an associate of the Abacha family by the Authorities of the Island of Jersey. But for a country where institutions of accountability is not working well or corrupt in their discharge of duties, such government pronouncement only comes as a mere statement without due diligence. Hence, the secondary plundering of the resources meant to actually benefit the real victims of corruption – the ordinary people whose state finances were plundered. With these severe plundering leading to the inability of the recovered funds difficult to track, Switzerland and other countries harbouring Nigeria’s stolen funds controversially attach conditions to the repatriation of new sets of tranches of Abacha loot, including third party oversight – including the World Bank now monitoring the distribution of the funds. To stem this tide of wanton re-looting of repatriated funds regardless of the third oversight on the distribution of the funds, civil society organisations, decided to take ownership monitoring of the accountability process of subsequent repatriated funds to the country. Of course, their stance was enhanced by the transparency posture of the President Muhammadu Buhari Administration which clearly gave a handout on how the recovered money will be spent- Nigeria National Social Safety Net Program (NAASP) which helps poor families. As part of measures to ensure that the Buhari administration is held accountable on the receipt and disbursement of the recovered Abacha loot, the Human Environment Development Agenda (HEDA) recently convoked a one-day conference on Agenda Setting for Citizens’ Interaction with Stolen Assets Recovery: Abacha Loot Recovery and Utilization as Case Study in Abuja. The conference was one in a series of programmes HEDA initiated in the campaign against corruption with specific focus on tracking noxious funds and ensuring utilisation of recovered assets for public good. The focal point of the conference was on late General Sanni Abacha’s loot recovery and utilisation as a case study. The one-day conference was attended by high-profile stakeholders including but not restricted to human rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), who was the Keynote Speaker; Coordinator, Social Intervention Program, Mrs Mariam Uwais; Co-founder, Cornerhouse, Mr. Nicholas Hildyard; Co-founder, GlobalWitness, Mr. Simon Taylor; Rev. David Ugolor, and many civil society organisations involved in cross-border collaboration for the recovery of stolen assets recovery. The Chairman of the Conference was the Executive Secretary, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Prof. Sadiq Isah Raddah. In his statement of objective, HEDA chairman, Mr. Olanrewaju Suraju, said the anti-graft group has been in the works for years with other organisations to reverse the process of illicit financial flow and how to recover stolen assets back into the country for national development. Suraju said: “The fight against corruption is a holistic fight that involves not only the law enforcement agencies but also the citizens as well as the media. Until we all decide to imbibe the culture of fighting and resisting corruption in our own enclaves, it would remain a major challenge for the law enforcement agencies to succeed in fighting corruption.” He noted further that HEDA sees the importance of engaging with citizens and set the template to engage the law enforcement agencies, the government as a whole and intervention programmes like the NSIP to ensure that the looted funds recovered are not re-looted but ultimately used for the benefit of victims of corruption and other forms of economic crimes of public and private persons and entities. In his opening address, the conference chairman, Prof. Raddah, observed that since the inception of the present government, the fight against corruption has kept many government officials quite busy. He added that as the fight progresses, more discoveries and insights are revealed both within and outside the country, stating that of particular importance to Nigeria is the issue of asset tracing, recovery, confiscation, return, and utilisation. “The judicial system is extremely slow, so much so, that cases are not decided on in good time, let alone the state of recovered of assets. This gives the possibility that a lot of assets will be recovered without proper utilisation of same. Thus, the issue of asset recovery is work in progress. The transparency of what is recovered, how it is managed and the effective utilisation of same are all areas of concern,” he said. In his keynote address, Falana lamented the looting and alleged mismanagement of huge sums of money belonging to Nigeria, adding that if the monies were recovered, there would be no need for Nigeria to borrow money from abroad. He stated that western countries, including their banks that colluded with some Nigerians to loot the country, should be made to pay for their unlawful action. His words: “We need to have an account of the money recovered so far. It is not only General Abacha, but there are also other recoveries that are being done. We must expand our search. We cannot be limited to 1993.” In her address titled “Utilisation of Recovered Assets for Public Good; Social Investment Program in Focus,” Mrs. Mariam Uwais spoke on the Social Intervention Program of the current administration, stating that  the transparency and accountability in utilising recovered funds is evidence that the funds are being disbursed towards improving the standard of living of all Nigerians. She noted that at May 2019 payment cycle, over $50 million has been disbursed to a total of 394,430 Poor and Vulnerable Households (PVHH) across 25 states around the country, adding that “The impact these Cash Transfers have made on improving household consumption and sustainable livelihoods cannot be overemphasised. Children are going back to school; small trades and livelihoods are springing up; confidence and self-esteem slowly growing.” She stated further that “even as we know that poverty cannot be eradicated overnight, there are success stories emerging from around the country on a daily basis from this initiative. With the alarming statistics of poverty in the country, at least 5-10 years of consistent effort would be needed to make an appreciable dent on poverty. “A law has been drafted to institutionalise the process, and a road map developed, for the next five years. All the states are currently on board, building the NSR, as a foundation for the cash transfer programme. The impact of adopting social safety net programmes to address poverty has continued to facilitate economic growth in Africa, leading to buoyant commodity prices and better macro-economic management.” On his part, Mr. Hildyard of Cornerhouse, who spoke on the theme: “All Hat and No Cattle; The Scandal of the West’s Anti-money Laundering Regulations,” said the harsh reality is that Nigeria can request from the United States and United Kingdom for the hundreds of billions of looted dollars held in the West to be returned, but nothing will come home without a fight. For Mr. Taylor of Global Witness, CSO’s should not take no for an answer in their investigations and quest for tracing, advocacy and recovery of looted assets, adding that, “It is important that they rise up as the voice of the voiceless citizens who have been deprived of their basic needs because of the greed of selected persons in privileged positions.” From the interactions, it is clear that citizens must come together to fight as a collective unit to demand information and accountability from their leaders. Hence, the subject-matter of asset tracing, confiscation, recovery, management, and utilisation must always be at the frontal discussion in Nigeria. Until citizens take the bull by the horn and give no room for complacency and assumption, the much-expected sanity in governance may just be a fairy tale.