The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has delisted the entire issued share capital of First Aluminum Nigeria Plc from daily official list. The bourse in a statement signed by Godstime Iwenekhai, Head, Listings Regulation Department, said: “Further to our market bulletin of 13 May 2019, notifying dealing members of the suspension of trading in the shares of First Aluminum Nigeria Plc in preparation for the voluntary delisting of the issued share capital of the Company from the daily official list of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, please be informed that the entire issued share capital of the First Aluminum Nigeria Plc were delisted from the Daily Official List of the Exchange on 31 July 2019. “ First Aluminum had recently issued explanatory statement on its proposed delisting from the main board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The explanatory statement is agreed to resolution of the board of directors duly passed at the meeting of the directors of the company, which held on 8 August 2018. The board of directors approved and resolved to recommend to the shareholders of the company the delisting of all the ordinary issued share capital, 2,110,359,242 units from the Daily Official List and from trading on the Main Board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. According to the statement, the delisting will afford the company to carry-out an imminent corporate restructuring exercise to take advantage of emerging opportunities and may consider relisting the company in the future if the market conditions are favorable. “The voluntary delisting will not occasion the loss of business opportunities as there are similar unlisted aluminum companies that are commanding significant shares of the aluminum market. “Also, minority shareholders will not lose their shares because of voluntary delisting and such shareholders may retain their membership in the unlisted company. “However, through the voluntary delisting process, the minority shareholders, who do not wish to be members of an unlisted company, will have an opportunity to exit the company in accordance with the rules of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. “The shareholders of the company at its annual general meeting, which held last year, approved the proposal for voluntarily delisting via a poll vote supported by 99.87 per cent of members present and voting. “The voluntary delisting will thus become effective upon the obtainment of the written approval of the Nigerian Stock Exchange,” the company said. On effect of the delisting, the company explained that upon the delisting of First Aluminum Nigeria Plc, the shares of the company would no longer be available for trading on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. It is envisaged that the company would continue its operations as an unlisted public company. “The operations of the company will continue to be domiciled in the present locations in Lagos and Port Harcourt Nigeria. “As part of the requirements of the NSE for voluntary delisting, the board of directors is required to provide an exit opportunity for the shareholders of First Aluminum Nigeria Plc, who desire to exit the company ahead of the delisting.”