Babs: I am tired of life. I am tired of everything. In fact, I feel like taking my own life. Depression and frustration are the food I now eat on a daily a daily basis. Suicidal thoughts are not far from me… Kunle: Hmmmmm!  Babs: It’s been four years since I lost my job, I mean four whole years. I don beg beg beg, toh beg gan don tire me sef. Friends have neglected me; family members are no longer looking at my end. No one wants to identify with me anymore.  Kunle: Hmmmmmm!  Babs: Kunle, tell me, what is the essence of my being alive? Why am I still living sef? Sincerely, I think I would rather prefer to die than to keep living with this shame. I am tired. I am sincerely tired of life. Kunle: Hmmmmm  Babs: The other day, I told Richard to lend me 2k. Instead of him to tell me he doesn’t have, he began to tell me the stories of my life – how I need to seek spiritual help, how I need to go beg the people I’ve offended and ask for forgiveness. Sincerely, the things he told me that day made me regretted ever going to meet him to lend me money. At the end, he asked me to check back in two months’ time – for 2k ooo. I wished the ground would open up and swallow me. Kunle:Hmmmmmm!  Babs:Me of all people. I, who used to give out bags of rice to families; I, who used to pay other children’s school fees. I, who used to help people pay for other’s accommodation…So why me? Why me Kunle? Kunle: Babs, sincerely, I understood all you’ve said but can I ask you some questions? Babs: Go ahead  Kunle: How is your present situation different from mine some few years back? Can you remember how I lost everything aside my life? I mean how I moved from having almost everything to having nothing – from job, money, accommodation, assets, then, family, all gone before one could say ‘jack…’. I’m glad we’re alive during this period. If we were to do some comparisons between my situation then and yours, now, whose case is more miserable?  Babs: Hmmmmm! Kunle: Babs, if I could survive then, then, you will definitely survive this too. In life, there comes a time where all seems dark. A time when there’s a sudden stoppage to almost everything good around you. A time when you can’t explain why and how you got into an unpleasant situation you found yourself. There comes a point when people blame you for the calamity that has befallen you, and everyone wants to assume the role of a teacher and instructor in your life. This time, you might experience total rejection and an unexplainable betrayal from people you trusted most and many more.  Now, note, this is the logic – this is when you decide to join either the league of people who scaled through fire in life or the league of failure.  The only time the game is over is when you give up. But as long as you are still in, irrespective of how life has messed you up or how you’ve been knocked down by circumstances, once you make up your mind not to throw in the towel, it is just a matter of time, the tide will definitely change for good.  Two things I did then, let me share with you today:  1.   I believed I would make it: I never gave up on myself even when everything else said otherwise. My belief was so strong that failure wasn’t an option. I was already down, so my next option was to go UP. 2.   My words changed: Rather than keep complaining, I started saying positive words. I later discovered that you can change things through your words; and this has worked for me.  3.   Make moves: Don’t just sit, take action, and don’t get tired trying. It is better to die trying than to die doing nothing. Babs, you sure know that though I am not where I want to be, but I am definitely not where I used to be. Today, I can boldly say my sun is shining again. I had since recovered all I lost and even gone farther than the great heights I had attained Dear reader, particularly those in a messy situation now; one charge for you – GIVING UP SHOULDN’T BE IN YOUR AGENDA. Irrespective of how messy the situation is, your mess will soon become a great message. Your sun will shine again.