First batch athletes jet out Thursday   P ermanent Secretary in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mr. Adesola Olusade, has told the Team Nigeria’s athletes to this year’s African Games in Morocco to consider the country first before money.   Olusade told the athletes to remember the ethics of patriotism and nationalism which he said must be the centre-point of their actions during the games.   He said the Federal Government would continue to meet the demands of the athletes pointing out that they can only get to stardom by representing the country.   Olusade said that no one can rule out the essence of monetary incentives in modern day sports, but stressed that financial gain must not be the central focus for any of the athletes during the games in Morocco.   The permanent secretary disclosed that many of the 2019 contingent members have already been uplifted with grants and other welfare packages, which he said stopped them from making any further agitations, but admitted that more still has to be done by the ministry.   Olusade said: “We have continued trying to make them happy, and some of them have been assisted financially, which is why they are not complaining, but more will still be done before they go to Morocco.   He also stated that the athletes should not just think of what they want from the government, but they should think mostly of what they can do for their country.   Meanwhile, the first batch of Nigeria’s contingent to the 24th African Games will depart the country on Thursday for Rabat, Morocco, venue of the games.   The contingent scheduled to leave on Wednesday (today) had the departure shelved to Thursday as most the contingent observed the just Eid Kabir holiday.   The team is expected to depart aboard a chartered aircraft from Lagos as all arrangements has been concluded by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development.   Just yesterday, the team was handed over to the Nigeria Olympic Committee NOC by the officials of the Sports Ministry.   The second batch according to the Ministry officials will leave at the weekend for the opening ceremony of the game slated for August 17th.   The last batch will be leaving on August 21 and the contingent return to the country on September 21st.   Speaking to journalists on the preparation, Dr. Ademola Are disclosed that the athletes were in high spirits and good health as all their allowances have been cleared.   He said the government has released the funds needed for the games and everything including the required equipment needed by the athletes for the games proper have been procured.