Parents have been urged on the need to build the right influence and good character in their children. According to most of the speakers and panelists at the National Character Parenting Summit, parents have duty to nurture their children and help them to develop positive influence and good character. The forum themed: ‘Parental Influence and Character Development: where to draw the line,’ was held in Lagos. While challenging participants, comprising parents, teachers and school children, among others, Executive Chairman, Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos State, Mr.  Jelili Sulaimon, who stated  that  one of the major issues affecting the  country was lack of good parenting. He pointed out that most parents have neglected their responsibilities on their children as they took their businesses and careers more important. As a result of this misplaced priority, he said the society was full of untrained children. “No wonder we have children who have turned vagabonds and hoodlums in the society today,” he said. To correct this, the chairman reminded parents that they were care givers and not caretakers, saying that they have major obligations to nurture their children physically, spiritually, academically and mentally, being heritage of God. Sulaimo challenged participants to rise to the occasion, while advising children to also listen to their parents’ instructions. He lauded the Convener of the forum  and Chief Executive Officer of 1st Royal Character and Values Limited, Mrs Bose Olusola -Obasa, for her doggedness. Guest Speaker at the forum and former Commissioner of Work in Ogun State, Dr.  (Mrs)  Doyin Ogunbiyi, said that good parental influence and character development were imperative in bringing up a child, especially at the present dispensation of moral decadence in the society According to her, integrity was essential in everything people do, adding that integrity would give someone good character. She lamented that the trend in the society called for sobering reflection, recalling her youthful years, when mothers disciplined their wards. “Today’s mothers are sleeping on duty. They don’t discipline children again. This is wrong.  “Then, mothers used to mold their children, unlike now when children are not being disciplined when they erred.” Supporting her claims with the scripture, “spare the rod and spoil the child,” she said it was divined for parents to correct their wards. Comparing modern day upbringing of children to her period, Ogunbiyi said it was unheard then  that  children talked back at their mothers. According to her, some children were rebellious from birth, hence the importance of discipline. She said: “Parents are careless nowadays as they encourage their children to misbehave. The society is the way it is now as a result of inadequacy on the part of parents. “Nowadays, children don’t challenge intellectually. What they know is about games, sex and fashion, etc.”  The former commissioner of work in Ogun State, called on parents to build moral qualities in their children. According to her, parents should follow God’s order, adding that they have a major role to play and that children have sub-major role to play also. She stated that bringing up a child was a process and a duty, which every parent must not be sentimental about. “We should be careful to monitor them; you must teach them how to be organised,” she said, adding that families determined the nation. “Our mothers know what to do to mold a child.  Mothers need to relate with their children well,” Ogunbiyi said. On whether there is a line between parental influence and character development,  a Character Coach and Pastor in Four Square Church, David Adegboyega, said that both were like pictures that control life. Adegboyega, a panelist stated that influence was about one’s life character. According to him, what children saw their parents doing and what was  going on around them have a way on influencing  and  shaping their characters. Director of Finance, Signal and System Limited, Mrs.  Susan Tayo, said that a lot of ills in the society could be traced to parenting, noting that influence was like a lifestyle. She said that three types of parenting existed namely : commandeering approach  coaching and counselling, pointing out that a parents should know when to apply  these approaches. According to Tayo, control of a child should be reduced as he/she grows, enjoining parents to sit-up and be prepared to answer any question posed to them by their children. Popular Anchor of Your Show on  TVC,  Mrs.  Morayo Afolabi -Brown, pointed out that every single child was different, explaining that there were kinetic, audio and visual children   To her, parents must understand their children and find the right parenting influence for them. She said what she had noticed was that most parents were lazy when it came to seeking knowledge. “Parents must learn how to respond to their teenagers,” she said. Head, Department of Education, Alimosho Local Government Area, Lagos, Mrs. Olajumoke Akinyemi, bemoaned moral decadence in the society, noting that it started from homes.  When talking about parental influence, she noted that children have a way of imitating their parents, calling on the latter to be of positive influence and character to their wards. She noted that most of the contemporary parents were not well parented. Popular Actress and Managing Director, moEmerald Production Concept Limited, Mrs.  Moyinoluwa Olutayo, differentiated between influence and control, adding that there should be a level of influence to be transferred to a child. She urged  parents that it has become a must for them to have oversight functions over their children  “Freedom has control. No matter the level of freedom a child wants, he or she needs control,” she said.