Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has appointed Mr. Babatope Okeowo of the New Telegraph newspaper as Deputy Chief Press Secretary in the Office of the Deputy Governor, Hon. Agboola Ajayi. Okeowo, whose appointment is with immediate effect, was the state correspondent of the New Telegraph newspaper before his appointment. The governor’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr. Segun Ajiboye, said in a statement that Okeowo’s appointment was in response to the rejig made to Government House Media Team of Akeredolu. In the rejig, Mr. Olorunleke Akeredolu, formerly Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor, is now re-designated Special Assistant to the Governor on Media Relations. Also, the Special Assistant on New Media, Governor’s Office, Allen Sowore, has been moved to the Office of the Deputy Governor to function in same position. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Ondo State Council, has lauded Akeredolu over Okeowo’s appointment. Describing the new Deputy CPS as a reliable and committed NUJ member, the state Secretary of the union, Leke Adegbite, said in a statement that the appointment was an attestation of the respect Akeredolu had for the media by working with core professionals in his administration. He said: “Okeowo, who is the Chairman of Ondo NUJ Social Committee and member of the 2019 Press Week Committee before his appointment, has been in the forefront of a vibrant journalism practice in the state and beyond. “We will not forget Okeowo’s bold, courageous and unparalleled determination in ensuring that there is a proud Ondo NUJ. “Ondo NUJ believes that Okeowo’s appointment and the recent appointment of Ojo Oyewamide as the Governor’s Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Media and Publicity, as well as other hardworking members of the Ondo State government’s Media Team will foster great relationship between the government and the public.” In the same vein, the Ondo State Correspondents’ Chapel has congratulated Okeowo on his appointment. The chapel, in a statement by its Vice Chairman, Bola Ojuola-Adeusi, assured Okeowo of support in his new office.