Head teacher of a private school in the Kuje Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, has been arrested for allegedly defiling his six-year-old pupil. The suspect, Shedrach Ozoemena Nwekeagu (30), was arrested by operatives of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP). The Head, Press and Public Relations Unit, NAPTIP, Stella Nezan, said that the victim’s father reported the matter to NAPTIP. The father dashed to NAPTIP after his little girl started complaining of stomach ache and he noticed bloodstains on her underwear after she returned from school. Nezan said: “Upon enquiry, she informed her parents that Nwekeagu had inserted his finger into her vagina the previous week, and a week later, he brutally raped her in the classroom after school hours while they waited to be picked up by their parents. “Some teachers in the school also informed NAPTIP that they had their suspicions about Nwekeagu sexually molesting pupils in the school, but were afraid of speaking out because the suspect is a relative of the proprietress of the school, and they were afraid they would lose their jobs.” The Director-General of NAPTIP, Dame Julie Okah-Donli, condemned the alleged rape, and assured members of the public that the suspect would be prosecuted under the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, 2015. The DG cautioned school proprietors to, “ensure they run a background check on the teacher they employ to teach the children, so as to avoid horrible incidents such as this.” She said: “It is quite unfortunate that the teacher, who is meant to guide and shield a pupil, is the one who ends up molesting the child.” The NAPTIP boss also encouraged members of the public to be vigilant and observe any lewd act being meted on any child, and not to hesitate in reporting such to the agency for investigations. Bursar drugs, impregnates 15-year-old girl   A n installation engineer, Festus (41), has been arrested for allegedly violating three girls of the same secondary school.   The suspect is being held by the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons and Other Related Matters (NAPTIP).   Festus, who is… In "Metro and Crime" Operatives of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) have arrested a 51-year-old civil engineer for impregnating his 15-year-old house help. The engineer, Oluwadare Adesanmi, based in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, was alleged to have sexually abused and impregnated his underage house help. The… In "Metro and Crime" Brutally snatching children’s innocence   From Lagos to Abuja, Gusau to Bida, Enugu to Port Harcourt, paedophiles are on the rampage. Annoyingly, these predators are teachers expected to provide care for these minors, reports JULIANA FRANCIS   In almost every private school in Nigeria, students and pupils are advised to… In "Insight"