T he National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has said that Nigeria needs divine intervention to succeed.   He noted that this year’s Sallah period came at a critical time to provide the citizens an opportunity to put aside every political, religious and ethnic sentiment and unite against their prevailing common challenges.   This is as the party’s vice presidential candidate in the 2019 election, Mr. Peter Obi, has urged Nigerians not to allow the prevailing hardship in the country and the needless bloodlettings affect their spirit of love, brotherliness and peaceful co-existence.   In their separate Sallah messages to Nigerian Muslims yesterday, the PDP leaders noted that only justice and fairness, the type only God gives, could rescue Nigeria from collapse.   Secondus, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ike Abonyi, regretted that the blood of innocent Nigerians were being wasted daily, and asked Nigerian Muslims to use the solemn period of Sallah to present Nigeria’s precarious situation to Allah for prompt intervention.   “It is a statement of fact that this is one of the worst times in our history as a country where lives are valueless and freedom denied to persons holding opposite views in a national discourse by an obviously intolerant political leadership.   “We know as a fact that this is not what Nigerians desire from democracy, especially given what happened on February 23, 2019.   “But a period like this solemn time provides the people an opportunity to ask Allah to allow the will of the people to prevail.   “I charged you not to allow the challenges of now make you lose your dignity and modesty as a people and miss the essence and meaning of Eid-el-Kabir festivity and the divine succour it brings, in assuring us that there is always light at the end of every tunnel,” Secondus stated.   Obi, on his part, said that Nigeria should be better than it is now, but for bad leadership.   He urged the Muslim faithful in Nigeria to use the solemn period of Eid el-Kabir celebration to pray God to beam searchlight on the country and revive it.   “We must all therefore return to God in deep supplication to save our country, and time like this provides huge opportunity for us to cry to God for justice and fair play in our land.   “Without justice and freedom, this society cannot blossom. Let us therefore in unison cry to God for mercy by providing people-conscious and God-fearing political leadership,” he demanded.   The former Anambra State governor also called on Nigerians to use this year’s Eid-El Kabir festivities to engender the spirit of oneness and re-dedicate themselves to the virtues of love, patriotism and unity for the desired national development. He advised those in government to relax the tensed situation in the country and seek a pragmatic solution to the security challenges facing the nation.  