…say NCS seizes tomatoes, pepper  Tomato farmers and traders in Ogun State yesterday staged a protest over indiscriminate seizure and alleged auctioning of their produce by officials of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). The protesters, who stormed the state Secretariat of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) at Oke-Ilewo, Abeokuta, bemoaned the new border policy of the Federal Government which has left thousands of people and vehicles stranded at both sides of Nigeria and Benin Republic border. Armed with leaves and placards bearing different inscriptions, the protesters, under the aegis of Yewa/Awori Farm Produce Traders and Farmers Association, said they had suffered huge losses in their business as a result of government’s recent decision. They alleged that they were being prevented from moving their produce into markets within the state and neighbouring Lagos by the Customs and Immigration personnel manning the border. Speaking with reporters, the Chairman of Fruits and Vegetable Growers and Marketers Association of Nigeria, Timothy Eweoba, said Customs men on Sunday night impounded eight trucks conveying their tomatoes and pepper at Ijoun in Yewa North Local Government Area of the state. He disclosed that each truck contained 250 baskets sold at N2,000 per basket. Eweoba wondered why the security agents would impound their produce which were grown locally and not imported into the country. The chairman alleged that upon seizing the goods, the Customs decided to auction each basket at between N50 and N200. Eweoba appealed to the Federal Government to intervene and come to the aid of the farmers and traders as most of them depended on bank loans to do businesses. Also, Matthew Ajibawo of the Yewa/Awori Farm Produce Traders and Farmers Association said the Customs informed the traders that the seizure of their produce was based on “orders from above.” He said: “Ijoun is about 60km to the border. The Customs searched our vehicles and no single rice or contraband was in our vehicles. We don’t know why they didn’t release the goods to us. “We have been to their office (in Abeokuta) and the Customs officer we met at their headquarters said the order is from the above. The government should please come to our aid.” When contacted yesterday, the National Public Relations Officer of NCS, John Attah, said the seizure was in the interest of national security. Attah, who is also the spokesman for the Joint Border Security Exercise, urged the protesters to prove their case if the goods were not contraband. He said: “The tomatoes were impounded at the border line. And if it is true as they claimed that it was locally produced, they should go there and prove it. “It is imperative for them to prove that the goods are local goods. It is not a rocket science. This is a joint exercise and it goes beyond the Customs. What we are doing is in the interest of national security.”