Nollywood actress, Eno Udo, has been in the Nigerian movie industry for more than a decade. Boasting beauty, talent and tenacity, the Akwa Ibom State indigene spoke to ADEDAYO ODULAJA on issues in the make-believe industry and how she plans to navigate her way in the industry.  Apart from being an actress, do you do anything else like many of your colleagues? Yes. I am also an event planner and caterer and I guess being involved in running other businesses as such make me a businesswoman. How are you able to manage the tasking job of acting which could take you away for days and weeks at times? Everything has to be scheduled, once I have a job, I tried to adjust to it. I have my team, if I have a job I may ask one of my team members to go. I may not go for other things apart acting, so I don’t work alone I have workers that work with me, so they will attend to others thing I could not attend to, but if it is the same thing I can do at the same time then I will do it Apart from Family Ties and Tears of a Mother, which other movies have you acted in due to your ability to act in both Yoruba and English movies? I have been acting in English movies for about a decade and half now. I have acted in drama series referred to as soaps such as Death Warrant, Family Ties, Moments and Life’s Secrets. I have also acted in movies like Dignity, Tears of a Mother of course and others that are not out yet. I am going into the Yoruba movie sector now and I have a Yoruba movie I am going to shoot very soon, which will be my first. The movie is also billed to feature a number of big names including actors like Antar Laniyan and some others whose names I cannot mention for now. The director that is going to work on the project, Oscar, is a popular figure known for having directed Funke Akindele’s movies. I was impressed with what I saw of him, the way he directs and his works, so, I see him as a very good director. The location will be right here in Lagos. So, I am looking forward to it all with excitement. This means you have not acted in any Yoruba before right? I have not, but I have acted with some of the Yoruba actors many times, like Yemi Fash-Lanso, Oga Bello, Eniola Badmus, Sukanmi Omobolanle, the son of Pappy Luwe. I have acted with all the popular actors in Adebayo family except Femi Adebayo. I have worked with Yewande Adekoya when she was acting in English movies before she switched to Yoruba movies. I started acting in 2006 with the likes of Damola Olatunji. In terms of taking it beyond being a hubby, when precisely did you start acting? I started professionally when I was in secondary school, precisely in SS2. It was very challenging for me, that was the year 2000, but I joined Yoruba sector in 2006. This is how I started but I had to go to Ilorin for my tertiary education. By the time I came back after my OND and HND in Business Administration, things have changed a lot but now I am back fully. So I started writing scripts in primary six but that was on an amateur level. We wanted to have a performance for a graduating set and I came up with a script and the entire school loved it. The headteacher later called my class teacher to commend who in turn told her I wrote the script and it started from there.  What’s the story behind your fluency in Yoruba although you are from Akwa Ibom? There is no big deal about that; I was born and bred in Lagos and that has helped me in my career. Could you mention some of the individuals you look up to in the industry? I like originality, kudos to the ogas at the top and of course Aunty Joke Silva. She is one person I have always prayed to work with, let me say she is a very natural actress and when it comes to originality, she is there. Ayo Mogaji is another actress I look up to and I will also like to act alongside her. When it comes to producers, I will love to work with Emem Isong, not because she is from Akwa Ibom but because her movies are good and they speak for themselves. I like her originality. In the Yoruba movie setting, Odunlade Adekola is famous for being original and we can’t but talk about Jide Kosoko, Anta Laniyan and others. How do you see the industry and what plans do you have to crack the top? The industry is very tough as you know, and I think in Nigeria we don’t respect people according to their talents. It is only when a producer knows you, that is when you can be given a role or thereabout but I am trying to bring my best in all the jobs I do and I pray and hope that somebody will see me for that. I am trying to work with producers that are talented that are well known in the industry that when I work with them once or twice I can be sighted. For now I don’t bring money to what I do, not that I don’t like money but because I want my hard work to speak for me so when they call me for location I don’t care how much they will pay, I dash off immediately because I know when I get to the top , it will all balance out. Would you say the sex-for-roles issue still happens in Nollywood or not? The truth is that it happens, I have to be very sincere. Some producers will demand your body or sleep with you before they will even give you a role but in some cases it is not. The truth about it is that everybody has matured. They might give you a role but as an adult then come for you for a date so it is left for you to either accept or reject. But some are stubborn, if you tell them no, that is where your career will end. On my own part, I have been fortunate to meet female producers. After I completed my Higher National Diploma, I came back to Lagos, the producers I have been meeting have been so pleasant, including my present producer. I have done more than twenty scenes with him and he has never acted towards that. It also depends on how you present yourself, if you look desperate and let them believe you have what you want to give to them as in your body they will collect it from you, but when you go to them and let them know you have this talent. But some of them want to be a star but they don’t have the talent, but when you have the talent, the charisma even the producer will not allow you to go because they knew you can be a brand for them.