Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is currently collating comprehensive data on the seventy-seven Nigerians arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the United States, for alleged conspiracy and money laundering. The Acting Chairman of EFCC, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, made the disclosure yesterday at a conference in Ibadan, Oyo State. Magu said the gathering of intelligence on the arrested suspects was part of “the collaborative activities between the EFCC and FBI to ensure that criminal elements are exposed and made to pay for their crimes”. The EFCC boss, who spoke through the Head of the Ibadan zonal office, Mr. Friday Ebelo, said the ongoing investigation was aimed at establishing the existence or otherwise of any form of relationship between the indicted individuals and Nigeria-based suspects, as well as how this could help in furthering the fight against economic and financial crimes in the country. In a statement, the Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, quoted Magu as saying that some of the details earlier collected had facilitated the arrest of many suspected internet fraudsters. This was as he noted that one of the kingpins, Ajayi Gbenga Festus, was apprehended during a recent raid in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State. Uwujaren said the suspected kingpin was found to be deeply involved in many internet-related frauds from which he had benefited up to N75 million in the last eight months. He said: “We were able to establish a number of illicit transactions through his Nigerian bank account amounting to over N223 million. Ajayi serves as conduit pipe through which proceeds of crime reach members of the syndicate.” Meanwhile, the EFCC said in the course of the year, the Ibadan zone arrested 263 suspects for cyber-related crimes, securing 111 convictions in the process. Apart from landed properties, vehicles, laptops and other valuables forfeited on the orders of court, huge sums of money in local and foreign currencies traced to internet fraud were also said to have been recovered. The EFCC boss said the commission had recovered from the suspects, huge sums of money in local and foreign currencies, among them $52,702, 2,400 Euros, 400 Canadian dollars, £60; as well as, N7,461,378.