i A Professor of Computer Aided Engineering   at the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, Prof Samuel Adejuyigbe, has said the introduction of   entrepreneurial  education in Nigerian higher institutions  has failed to curb the problem of unemployment due to poor funding and slow investment in technology. Adejuyigbe said poor financial commitment to the policy had slowed down implementation of entrepreneurship education curricular in many of the country’s citadel of learning. He, however, called on the federal government’s agencies saddled with the responsibilities of funding education to pay attention to entrepreneurship and technological education to afford students an opportunity of acquiring  the needed skills and vocations that would make them survive after their education. Adejuyigbe spoke at the Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti yesterday while delivering a Convocation  lecture entitled  ‘Exoloring Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Mechatronics World: The Place of Polytechnics in Entrepreneurial Educational Development in Nigeria’. The scholar craved for speedy introduction of Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Mechatronics in the country’s curriculum to complement the entrepreneurial prowess of the citizens by helping to proffer solutions to challenges bedeviling the country. Adejuyigbe said: “Artificial intelligence and robotics are transforming and evolving business landscape at an unprecedented speed. They are creating fertile grounds for technology innovations and entrepreneurial opportunities, so they are very relevant to create employment. “In the past, Polytechnic educational curriculum was regarded as a dysfunctional education that was devoid of entrepreneurial skill acquisition. The introduction of Entrepreneurship Development Education into Polytechnics curriculum and this can only manifest dividends if the students are encouraged  to establish small scale enterprises capable of yiekdi g income for them as well as create employment opportunities for others. “With the relevance of Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Mechatronics in an entrepreneurship environment, the Vice-Chancellors, Polytechnics, Colleges of Education and Technical schools should introduce as a matter of urgency to train more experts in the field and enrich our curriculum and to form part of the major reviews in our education policy.”