Ninety-year-old First Republic Minister for Aviation, Chief Mbazurike Amaechi is the only surviving member of the first cabinet in Nigeria. He spoke with Okey Maduforo at his country home in Ukpor, Nnewi South Local Government of Anambra State on the insecurity in the country and the fate of the people of the South East geopolitical zone. Excerpts:  The South East has been at the receiving end of the country’s insecurity occasioned by the activities of the herdsmen are you not worried?  Certainly I am not happy at all and nobody in the South East should be happy about the situation now. I must tell you that I am not impressed with the security situation neither do I feel that the government is interested in the security of the area. Government actions and inactions have to a large extent exasperated the insecurity situation in Igbo land.  Before in this part of the country we use to hear and experience cases of armed robbery and kidnapping but what we have now is the imposition of insecurity in Igbo land by the activities of the Northern Fulani Herdsmen and that of Boko Haram. This has been aided by the collusion, imbecility and myopic nature of the respective governments in the South East who have displayed docility and their nonchalance in matters that have to do with insecurity in our respective states, villages and communities.   As a result of this, we now have Northern soldiers who mount road blocks in the South East in a false chase of members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). They go about patrolling the area in the name of fighting insecurity which they claim is being caused by the members of IPOB accusing the Biafra prone organisation of security breach.  The governors perhaps are not doing their best and certainly their best is not good enough and they carry out so much grand standing and lip service about the cases of insecurity in their respective states. Similarly, the Christian religious leaders in the South East are not helping matters. They are more interested in money than speaking out where they should.  The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) is not speaking at all. The Catholic Church is also not speaking, only the Anglican Archbishop of Enugu, Bishop Chukwuma and Archbishop Okpala are those who have been talking and creating awareness on the consequences of insecurity in the South East.  The Pentecostal churches are only interested in collecting money and abusing the name of God to steal money from people who are ignorant of what they are doing.  Even the Christian Association of Nigeria in the South East which ordinarily has to be speaking out have remained mum without saying anything while evil and death have taken over our land, today only Cardinal John Onaiyekan of Abuja and Anthony Okogie of Lagos State are talking. The CAN in the South East should speak out and encourage the youths in the churches to show their unhappiness over the killings.  You can imagine how the Christian youths in the North organised a candle light demonstration over the plight of that little girl, Leah Sharibu who refused to renounce her Christian faith despite all the things that the Boko Haram did to make her become a Muslim. But here in Igbo land our leaders are interested in money and other material acquisitions.  They should know that injustice to one Christian anywhere should be injustice to Christians anywhere. This is the only way to make the rest of the world know what is happening in Igbo land. Should we continue like this we shall be in for dangerous times and it may be too late when we realize ourselves and by then the entire South East has been Islamized.  Recently the Shi’ites movement in Nigeria was outlawed by a Federal High Court in a matter brought before it by the Federal Government; what are your view?  They are a religious organisation like a sect in Islam. The mere fact that they have predominance from Iran should not necessarily mean that they should condemn the Shi’ites in Nigeria. As a religious organisation it should not be banned because it is different from the Islamic ruling class in Nigeria.  They should be given the freedom of religion as it is in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. But that does not mean that if anyone commits a crime against the laws of the land, he or she should not face the law and face the grave consequences. In respect of their leader (Ibrahim El Zakzaky), it is wrong for the Federal Government to continue to detain the man against the ruling of the court and the court has ordered that he should be released, be it for health reasons or whatever and unless the Federal Government wants to display illegality or lack of respect for the rule of law, which is indeed a show of rascality by not obeying the rule of law.  It is sad that, this was the way IPOB was proscribed and addressed as a terrorist group while the Boko Haram and the Fulani herdsmen continued to parade themselves across the country wasting the blood of innocent Nigerians, yet they were never regarded as terrorists. Recently the Fulani herdsmen were looking at the idea of forming their own vigilante group in the South East to protect their cattle? Our people display so much ignorance and naivety about the insecurity in the country.  They feel that all is well and that the entire situation is a Northern affair. They are yet to appreciate the fact that there is a plot to Islamic Nigeria and the South East is not left out in this scheme. Call it Boko Haram or Fulani herdsmen or having a vigilante from the North; they are all a whole plan for the Fulanis and the Islamic founder mentalists to take over Nigeria. When former President Olusegun Obasanjo was raising this alarm some people felt that he was trying to overheat the polity and they called it a mere political talk. This is a plot that started in 1840 called Jihad led by Usman dan Fodio and that is what is happening now in the North East part of Nigeria. This is plot that the Borno side of the North resisted in 1840 and that is why we do not have Emirs in those areas in Nigeria.  This conquest by them only met its end in Kwara State and had it been that they succeeded, we would have been telling a different story now. As it stands now, if they conquer Enugu, Umuahia, Abakaliki or Aguleri we shall have Emirs in those places and our people do not understand that.  The Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen are all related organisations aimed and positioned to conquer Nigeria just like it happened in Turkey where a European country became Islamic. The people of Nigeria should have the foresight of understanding what is about to happen and endeavour to stop it before it gets out of hand and that is if it is not getting out of hand already.  You are talking so much about the South East governors and the Christian Association of Nigeria; what about the Ohanaeze Ndigbo?   About a year now Ohanaeze Ndigbo has improved and they appear more and better focused on what its position should be. Sometime ago the body derailed when they supported the proscription of the Indigenous People of Biafra by the present Federal Government. Possibly this new focus of Ohanaeze may be connected with the current meetings between the body and the Afenifere – the apex Yoruba organisation – and I wish to commend the leadership for that, I also encourage the entire Igbo people to give the Ohanaeze Ndigbo the support since the body has chosen to speak and protect the interest of our people.  Our people should be aware of the new politico religious programme which the North wants to execute through the present government and it is called Ruga. What Ruga means is that they will colonize the South East area and take it as their home.   They will come with their young men and women. Imagine a place where twenty young men would marry up to three or four wives and they would produce children and very soon they would have a large population that would convert everyone to their religion. Our people do not know about this and our state governments are blind to what is about to happen.  I heard of a case of a family where cattle entered their compound and the woman asked the herdsman why he allowed the cattle to enter her compound and she was killed there and then.  When the husband came in they cut off his arm and the government concerned kept quiet and did nothing about it.  I learnt some people are talking about boycotting the Fulani cattle and I ask during Shehu Shagari, Tafawa Balewa, Ibrahim Babangida, Sani Abacha and the rest of them we had the Fulani cattle and we were eating cows and patronizing them.  But the South East Governors Forum appears to be doing its best in the present circumstance?   Unfortunately, the governors are afraid of losing what they have and that is why they are not doing what is expected of them.  The governors will always end up as senators, so they are being careful so that they do not lose out in the process. They end up as senators to protect themselves after leaving office. Very soon our senate would end up being full of ex-governors. By then the senate would be full of surrogates and will not have the needed voice to check mate the activities of the executive arm of government. The present Senate does not have that nationalist orientation and ideas that we had in the first republic.  All that they are after is money. You know that this is the product of the 38 years of military rule and they groomed and enthroned a set of Nigerians that do not know what our country needs and this is very sad. So when you say that our governors are doing the needful, I totally disagree with you.  Are you by what you are saying mean that the country’s democracy has lost focus?  You are old and knowledgeable enough to understand that. The concept of Nigeria by we the nationalists is different from what we have now. As I speak with you I am the only surviving member of the First Republic cabinet or executive. Others are no more and I am 90 years old now.  We were selfless and we were not after money. I remember when late Michael Okpara the then Premier of Eastern Nigeria wanted to come back, his wife told me that he had no house where he would stay and that there was no money to complete the building project. I had to meet, late Chief Christian Onoh and few others and told them the problem.  We all agreed and said we shall help to complete the house before Okpara comes home. We went to Nkalagu Cement Company now in Ebonyi State and the manager then said that we should do a letter for two trailer loads of cement. As at then, it cost N200 because a bag of cement was N10 per bag.  The manager of the cement company said how can Chief Michael Okpara be applying for cement to build his house when he was the one who founded the factory?   He increased the quantity of cement that we wanted and ordered the drivers to take the cement from Nkalagu to Umuahia over night so that it would get there before morning. When I came to Umuahia to inform Okpara’s wife about what we have done. I saw the trailers with the cement already parked in front of the old house. She told me that she prevented them from offloading the cement because she did not pay for them. It was then that I told her that they have been paid for. In fact Chief CC Onoh paid for the cement and Okpara’s house was completed.  Then the wife went for window shopping at a shop to look for furniture to furnish house and a young man met her and told the manager of the shop that any furniture she wants he would pay for it and he did. Okpara’s wife asked the man whom he was, but he refused to tell her his name. All he said was that whatever I am today it was your husband Michael Okpara did it and I will for ever be grateful and indebted to him.  That is what I call selfless service as a politician and as a great leader and not the type of politicians that we have now.