CHUKWU DAVID, in this report, chronicles the various reactions that trailed the attack on former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, in Nuremberg, Germany, two weeks ago  The news of the attack on former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, by members of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), in Nuremberg, Germany, first filtered into the Senate Press Corps (SPC) media platform at 5.09 pm on Saturday, August 17. At exactly 5.09 pm on that day, a member of the group drew the attention of other colleagues to a video trending on various online platforms in which the former Deputy Senate President was attacked by some people. The journalist, who was inquisitive to confirm the authenticity of the video, also sought to know if other journalists covering the Senate had seen it. The post read: “Please, there is a video of former Deputy President of the Senate being beaten out of an event in Germany…..who has seen it? I just saw it on Instablog.” Consequently, the Senate reporters went into frenzy, debating and verbally throwing punches on whether or not it was the Enugu West senator that suffered such pathetic and unprecedented humiliation in far away Europe. However, the contention drastically reduced when Uche Anichukwu, media aide to Ekweremadu was conducted for confirmation. Naturally, the aide wanted to deny the incident by passively saying that it was fake news, but he couldn’t advance further with that position, when clearer videos on the attack came out. This time, it became obvious that Ekweremadu was undeniably the person thoroughly humiliated to a point where he ran for safety, with little help coming for his rescue from the German police and some patriotic Nigerians resident there. As journalists mounted more pressure on the media aide, he said that he would confirm and revert to the Senate correspondents. At exactly 7.58 pm, Anichukwu issued a statement on the incident. The statement read: “Some members of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) in Nuremberg, Germany, yesterday, attacked the former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu. “The Senator, who gave the account of the event on his social media handle, @iamekweremdu, however, assured Ndigbo and his supporters across the nation that he was safe. “Narrating the incident, Ekweremadu said: I attended the Second Annual Cultural Festival and Convention organised by Ndi-Igbo Germany in Nurnberg today (yesterday), where I was billed to give a keynote address along with the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, who, however, could not make it eventually. “I was given a resounding welcome by Ndigbo in Germany and everything went smoothly until some men, who identified themselves as IPOB members stormed the venue and began to complain about the killings in the South East, stressing that there would be no Igbo event at the venue. “I tried to engage them but when they became unruly, I had to leave the venue. The organisers also invited the police and I was accompanied out of the venue. “Much as I am disappointed in their conduct, especially as I am one of the persons, who have spoken up on justice for Ndigbo, the Python Dance, judicial killings in Igbo land and elsewhere both on the floor of the Senate and in my written and personal engagements with the Presidency and the media as well as rallied the South East Senate Caucus to secure Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s release with Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, taking him on bail to douse tension in the South East, I nevertheless do not hold this to heart against them, for they know not what they do. “I have received thousands of solidarity calls and messages from well-meaning Ndigbo. I want to assure them that I am hail and hearty. I have also spoken with the Nigerian ambassador to Germany, Amb. Yusuf Tuggar”. Immediately it was established that Ekweremadu was truly attacked, torrents of reactions started pouring; some condemned the act of hooliganism displayed by the IPOB members and sincerely sympathised with the victim. Expectedly, some commentators unleashed mockery on the lawmaker, who broke the record of being the parliamentarian with the longest tenure as a principal officer, having served for twelve years as the Deputy President of the Senate. One of the reactions on Ekweremadu’s attack came from a former Minister of Aviation, Mr. Femi Fani-Kayode. His reaction was more of a warning and admonition rather than outright condemnation or mockery. Part of his comment, which he posted on his tweeter handle, read: “What happened to my friend and brother, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, in Nuremberg, Germany at the hands of IPOB is an eye-opener and a clear signal to every political leader in Southern Nigeria! The people of the South are getting angry and you either stand up and defend them or stand aside.” “It takes courage to stand for those that have been unjustly killed in Nigeria. It takes courage to say ‘no’ and to stand up against injustice in a jungle. It takes courage to identify and empathise with the enslaved, the oppressed, the poor, the vulnerable and the weak in a killing field and functional zoo. “Yet we must all do it or stop laying claim to being called leaders. When your people and kinsmen are being turned into worthless slaves with little hope for the future and when they are being slaughtered like flies simply because they are Southerners and Middle Belters or because of their faith and you say and do next to nothing then somewhere along the line a price has to be paid.” However, in his reaction, Senator Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South), condemned the attack on Ekweremadu, saying that the IPOB members in Nuremberg, attacked one of the greatest Nigerians. His words: “IPOB members in Nuremberg, Germany, went after their hero, Nigerian hero and they indeed attacked the wrong person. If they take recourse to immediate past, Ekweremadu is not the person they ought to attack, and indeed they have to stop such attack on anybody for that matter.” Another person, who reacted immediately the video was confirmed to be true, was the Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa. She described the incident as an embarrassment to Nigeria as a nation. She claimed that some of those who perpetrated the attack on Ekweremadu had been arrested in Germany, while also calling on the German government and law enforcement agencies to ensure that there are consequences for their actions. Her statement read: “The incident is an embarrassment to the country. According to reliable sources, some of the culprits, who perpetrated the act have been apprehended and we call on the German government and law enforcement agencies to ensure that there are consequences for their actions. “It is also shamefully pathetic that an event, which was nobly put together by the Igbo community in Germany whose members make up the majority of Nigerians living in Germany, to amongst other things provide a forum for the Diasporans and various stakeholders to network and to facilitate a better cooperation between German and Nigerian businesses, ended up in such a disgraceful manner. We appeal to Nigerians to be of good behaviour wherever they find themselves because such incidents tarnish the image of the country.” However, there were unconfirmed media reports, countering Dabiri-Erewa’s claim that some of the attackers were arrested by security operatives in Germany. In fact, there was a particular television interview with a purported German Police officer, who said that there was no arrest made and that there was no investigation being undertaken on the matter. On August 18 (the second day after the attack), the leadership of the Senate rose in unison and condemned the assault on their colleague and called on the German government to ensure that justice was done on the matter. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan and his deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege, in separate press statements, condemned the assault on Ekweremadu by IPOB members in Germany. Similarly, the Minority Leader of the Senate, Enyinnaya Abaribe and the Chief Whip of the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu, described the attack as reprehensible and utterly sacrilegious. The presiding and principal officers of the apex legislative assembly, urged the Embassy of Nigeria in Germany, the German government and relevant authorities to bring the perpetrators to book. Lawan, in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media, Ola Awoniyi, described Ekweremadu as an illustrious Igbo son, who in his political career, has consistently identified with and defended the cause of his people. While most Nigerians, especially in government, were in unison condemning the attack on Ekweremadu, some criticized them on the ground that  reactions were  attracted so much reactions from highly placed personalities in government while the daily deaths of helpless Nigerians in the hands of terrorists across the country, do not attract such attention.