Researchers from the United States (US) have disclosed that a chemical found in cannabis has demonstrated ‘significant therapy potential’ in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. In their study, published in the journal ‘Frontiers of Oncology,’ they said the specific drug, called FBL-03G, is a derivative of a cannabis ‘flavonoid’ — the name for a naturally-occurring compound found in plants, vegetables and fruits which, among other purposes, provides their vibrant colour. Flavonoids from cannabis have been found to have anti-inflammatory benefits. Cannabis flavonoids make up just 0.14 per cent of the plant, meaning that researchers would need entire fields of it to be grown in order to extract large enough quantities. But while scientists long suspected that cannabis flavonoids may have therapeutic potential, the fact that they make up just 0.14 per cent of the plant meant that researchers would need entire fields of it to be grown in order to extract large enough quantities. That changed recently when scientists found a way to genetically engineer cannabis flavonoids — making it possible to investigate their benefits. In the current study, researchers at the Harvard University’s Dana-Farber Cancer Institute decided to take the therapeutic potential of one of these flavonoids, FBL-03G, and test it on one of the deadliest cancers through a laboratory experiment. The results were “major,” according to Dr. Wilfred Ngwa, an assistant professor at Harvard. “The most significant conclusion is that tumour-targeted delivery of flavonoids, derived from cannabis, enabled both local and metastatic tumour cell kill, significantly increasing survival from pancreatic cancer,” Ngwa said. “This has major significance, given that pancreatic cancer is particularly refractory to current therapies,” Ngwa added. He said that the study was the first to demonstrate the potential new treatment for pancreatic cancer. But on top of successfully killing those cells, the scientist found FBL-03G capable of attacking other cancer cells which was startling even to them. “We were quite surprised that the drug could inhibit the growth of cancer cells in other parts of the body, representing metastasis, that were not targeted by the treatment,” said Ngwa. The significance of that result is that because pancreatic cancer was often diagnosed in later stages, once it has spread, and the flavonoids seem to be capable of killing other cancer cells, it may mean the life expectancy of those with the condition could increase. “If successfully translated clinically, this will have major impact in the treatment of pancreatic cancer,” said Ngwa. The ‘YAHOO LIFESTYLE’ reported that the next step for the Harvard researchers was to complete ongoing pre-clinical studies, which could be completed by the end of 2020, setting the stage for testing the new treatment in humans.