There are great expectations among Nigerians as the 43-man cabinet that will drive President Muhammadu Buhar-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration’s Next Level Agenda hits the ground running. Felix Nwaneri reports  T he 43 new ministers, who were sworn-in by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday last week, seem to be settling down with ease and gradually taking charge of their respective ministries, with some of them expressing optimism on delivering on their mandates. Some of them even reported at their duty posts immediately after they were sworn-in by the President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. Like in his first term, the President also reappointed himself as Minister of Petroleum Resources.  A breakdown of the portfolios of members of the new cabinet, who are expected to drive President Buhari’s Next Level Agenda between now and May 29, 2023, shows that there are 23 substantive ministers (senior ministers) and 17 ministers of state (junior ministers). The substantive ministers are Muhammad Bello (Federal Capital Territory), Godswill Akpabio (Niger Delta), Chris Ngige (Labour and Employment), Adamu Adamu (Education), George Akume (Special Duties), Ogbonnaya Onu (Science and Technology), Osagie Ehanire (Health), Adeniyi Adebayo (Industry, Trade and Investment), Geoffery Onyeama (Foreign Affairs), Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami (Communication) and Suleiman Adamu (Water Resources).  Others are Zainab Ahmed (Finance, Budget and National Planning), Mohammed Mahmoud (Environment), Sabo Nanono (Agriculture and Rural Development), Bashir Magashi (Defence), Hadi Sirika – Minister of Aviation), Lai Mohammed (Information and Culture), Babatunde Fashola (Works and Housing), Olamilekan Adegbite (Mines and Steel Development), Rauf Aregbesola (Interior), Sunday Dare (Sports and Youth Development), Pauline Tallen (Women Affairs), Rotimi Amaechi (Transportation), Mohammed Dangadi (Police Affairs), Saleh Mamman (Power) and Sadiya Umar Faruk (Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development).  The ministers of state are Uche Ogah (Mines and Steel Development), Mariam Katagum (Industry, Trade and Investment), Timipre Silva (Petroleum Resources), Mustapha Shehuri (Agriculture and Rural Development), Godwin Agba (Power), Festus Keyamo (Niger Delta), Emeka Nwajiuba (Education), Clement Agba (Budget and National Planning), Abubakar Malami – Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation), Ramatu Tijani (Federal Capital Territory), Gbemisola Saraki (Transportation), Adeleke Mamora (Health), Mohammed Abdullahi (Science and Technology), Zubairu Dada (Foreign Affairs), Tayo Alasoadura (Labour and Employment) and Abubakar Aliyu (Works and Housing).  While delivering his remarks after the ministers had taken oaths of office, Buhari appealed to the ministers to work diligently to improve security, grow a diversified economy and fight corruption. His words: “You were chosen from each of the 36 states of the federation and, most importantly, you share my commitment to working tirelessly for the people of this country and to achieving a future, where every Nigerian can reach his or her full potential.”  Godswill Akpabio (Niger Delta), Zainab Ahmed (Finance), Lai Mohammed (Information and Culture), Ogbonnaya Onu (Science and Technology), Suleiman Adamu (Water Resources), Sunday Dare (Youth and Sports Development) and Sabo Nanono (Agriculture). Others are Adamu Adamu (Education), Emeka Nwajiuba (Minister of State for Eductaion), Timipre Sylva (Minister of State for Petroleum), Paulen Tallen (Women Affairs), Muhammed Abubakar (Environment), Hadi Sirika (Aviation) and Clement Agba (Budget and National Planning). Undoubtedly, the 43-man cabinet is populated by politicians, but the President beat his own record as he constituted it barely three months after his inauguration unlike in his first term, when it took him almost six months. Again, unlike in his first temr, when he appointed only 36 ministers – one per state – he expanded the cabinet by giving one slot to each of the six geo-political zone, thereby bringing the total to 43. Among the ministers were 13 immediate past ministers, nine former governors and seven women. The returning ministers are Chris Ngige, Adamu Adamu, Ogbonnaya Onu, Osagie Enakhire, Geoffrey Onyeama, Zainab Ahmed, Lai Mohammed, Babatunde Fashola, Rotimi Amaechi, Hadi Sirika, Abubakar Malami, Suleiman Adamu and Mohammed Bello.Interestingly 13 of them returned to their former ministries.  The former governors are Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom), Chris Ngige (Anambra), Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa), George Akume (Benue), Ogbonnaya Onu (Abia), Babatunde Fashola (Lagos), Rauf Aregbesola (Osun), Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers) and Niyi Adebayo (Ekiti). The seven women, who made the federal cabinet are Pauline Tallen, Mariam Katagun, Sadiya Farouq, Sharon Ikeazor, Gbemi Saraki, Ramatu Tijani and Zainab Ahmed. However, the number failed to meet the expectation of Nigerian women, who have hoped that more of their own will make it this time.   But, again, the President by the figure, broke his own record given that only six females made the cabinet in his first term. The six “lucky” women then were Aisha Alhassan (Minister of Women Affairs), Amina Mohammed (Minister of Environment), Khadija Bukar Abba Ibrahim (Minister of State for Foreign Affairs), Zainab Ahmed (Minister of State for Budget and National Planning), Kemi Adeosun (Minister of Finance) and Aisha Abubakar (Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment). As expected, it has been kudos and knocks for the over not only the choices he made, but assignment of portfolios to them.   While it was commendation for the President in some quarters, especially over the return of some former ministers, who, in the view of some analysts, performed well in the first term, there are others, who believe that assignment of portfolios to the new faces in the cabinet gives little or no hope for the nation.   For instance, Aregbesola was quoted to have said shortly after his swearing-in that his knowledge of the Interior ministry does not transcend newspapers materials. “My relationship with the ministry is distant. What I know about the ministry is what I read in the newspapers. I will come to take over on Monday. I give the Permanent Secretary the grace to run the ministry till then. We will be ready by Monday to take on the huge assignment. I promise you a realistic, reasonable and commendable leadership,” the former governor of Osun State said.   Some analysts have also questioned the President’s acclaimed integrity, given the way some former governors, who still have their stewardship in their respective states being subjected to questioning, made their way into the cabinet. The arguments for and against the cabinet, Nigerians expect the new cabinet to focus on critical areas that will impact positively on their lives.