The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Gabriel Olonisakin, has constituted a panel of investigation on the alleged killing of three policemen by soldiers in Taraba State. The Police had alleged that threeof their men – an Inspector and two Sergeants – attached to the IGP Intelligence Response Team (IRT), and a civilian, had been killed by soldiers during an investigation operation that led to the arrest of a suspected kidnap kingpin, one Alh. Hamisu Wadum, within the Ibi general area.  The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, who made the allegation during the week, had said that after killing, the policemen, and leaving others with varying degrees of injuries, the kidnap-suspect, who was being taken to the Taraba State Police Command in Jalingo, had his handcuffs allegedly unlocked by the soldiers, and subsequently set free. Mba had further noted that the killing of the special forces along the Ibi –Jalingo Road, happened in the face of “sufficient proof” that they were law enforcement officers on legitimate duty. He had further added that the “high-profile kidnap” suspect, who is now on the run, had been on the Police’s wanted list for his alleged complicity in several high-profile kidnap cases. In response, the Nigerian Army had claimed that the operatives did not identify themselves, prompting soldiers to conclude they were “suspected kidnappers”.  Consequently, President Muhammadu Buhari has directed tbe Defence Headquarters (DHQ) to undertake a comprehensive investigation into the tragic incident, with a view to unravelling the attendant circumstances. A statement by the Acting Director of Defence Information (DDI), Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, said the CDS has since complied with the presidential directive, with the setting-up of a 7-man joint panel of investigation. According to Nwachukwu, the committee has membership drawn from the Armed Forces, and the Nigeria Police.  “In compliance with the presidential directive issued by the President, Commander- In- Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin has constituted a 7-man Joint Investigation Panel to unravel the circumstances that led to the unfortunate incident between the Nigerian Army and the Nigeria Police allegedly resulting in the killing of 3 personnel of the Nigeria Police and a civilian along Ibi – Wukari Road in Taraba State.  “The Joint Investigation panel is headed by Rear Admiral IT Olaiya and has a representative each from the Nigerian Army, Navy, Air Force the Nigeria Police, Department of State Service (DSS) and the Defence Intelligence Agency,” Nwachukwu said.