A ngered that a property under litigation was allegedly invaded and demolished by hoodlums, residents of Ashamu Estate, Elemu Bus stop in Isolo area of Lagos State have petitioned the police, asking them to intervene as their lives were also in danger.   According to them, the alleged invasion which may spark violence if not nipped in the bud required police intervention as masterminds were agents of mayhem.   The aggrieved residents also alleged that their lives were now in danger due to the menace constituted by the masterminds, expressing worry that the ugly trend was capable of breaching public peace in the area especially since July 21 when the masterminds allegedly descended on the innocent residents.   A residents and community leader, Alhaji Teslim Almaroof while condemning the alleged criminal act, said the community would do everything within the ambit of the law to resist further demolition of property and a breach of public peace in the area.   He, however, called on the police to ensure that there was a full-scale investigation into the matter, and in order to bring the culprits to book while urging the residents to remain calm and continue in their legitimate daily routine without fear or favour.   However, in a petition to Commissioner of Police, Lagos State by Andrias and Co, on behalf of Almaroof and the residents stated that the alleged perpetrators were residents of Omowunmi Street off Alafia Street in Mushin area.   The petition, which was signed by Olumide Oyewole, reads: “Our client is the accredited agent of the administrators of the estate of late Chief Emmanuel Oyedele Ashamu, having been sole appointed by virtue of the agency agreement dated September 26, 1995.   “The late Chief Ashamu is the owner of vast area of land situates at Ashamu Estate and covered under the judgment of the Supreme Court of Nigeria dated November 4, 1986 in appeal number SC43/1986. And the Court of Appeal judgment dated July 16, 1985 in appeal number CA/L/111/84.   “Since the demise of Chief Ashamu on August 20, 1992, the following people were appointed the legal administrators of his estate: Mrs. Mary Oyedoyin Bandoh, Miss Jadesola Ashamu and Miss Titi Ashamu, and therefore, entitled and permitted by law to take decisions on behalf of all the beneficiaries of the estate.   “Our client informed us that on July 21, some hoodlums from Mushin, moved on to the estate and began to demolish structures belonging to other people and threatened the lives of anyone who attempted to stop them. Our client also informed us that these elements promised to deal ruthlessly with him and his staff should they go near the land.   “Sir, there is a pandemonium in the community, and except the police wade in immediately, there is a likelihood of complete breakdown of law and order in the area.”