Notable Nollywood stars, last week stormed the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) in preparation for the celebration of Directors Guild of Nigeria ( DGN) 20th anniversary. The visit,  they said, was to seek for FCTA’s partnership to make the celebration a memorable event that would leave behind great memories and  worthy legacies. The President of DGN, Chief Fred Amata, said  the  entertainment industry in Nigeria  had  come of age and had contributed significantly to economic development in the country. Amata said the DGN and its retinue of directors could  boast responsibility for the biggest projects the industry started with, creating and nurturing the biggest actors, biggest structures, biggest engagements and creating the biggest icons the industry knows till date. He also commended the FCT Administration for always supporting the industry, particularly in the establishment of the Abuja Film Village International and the staging of the annual Abuja Carnival. Amata stressed the need for more interface between government and the Nollywood industry in order to move the industry to the desired level. The ace actor, who appealed to the government to create favourable policies for the industry, solicited the support of FCTA in the area of capacity building for artistes. “Government policies still need to be better articulated to address challenges in the industry. We know that government recently, through the CBN, released huge money to the industry as a loan but it should be more than that. We need grants for the film industry to make it national project to make Nollywood capable of producing contents that can increase revenue for the country,” he said. Receiving the stars, Permanent Secretary, Federal Capital Territory Administration, Mr. Christian  Ohaa, expressed willingness of FCT  to partner with them. Ohaa, while congratulating the DGN for its 20th anniversary, said the FCTA had all the necessary departments that could collaborate with the Directors Guild of Nigeria effectively in its quest to take the industry to greater heights. He said: “We have different departments like the   Abuja Film village, Centre for Arts and Culture, and even the FCT Archives that can collaborate with the Nollywood effectively. The Directors Guild of Nigeria can come to the FCT Archives to get a lot of information that they will use to add value to what they are doing. “We will create an enabling environment for the Nollywood industry to thrive in the FCT and the country at large. We are also going to collaborate with you to discuss with some private organisations that have relationship with FCTA to help sponsor some of your programmes. “You are making Nigeria proud in the world entertainment space. Virtually, most of you here are well known and a lot of Nigerians watch your films to ease the stress of living” Notable actors who accompanied Amata for the visit included Segun Arinze, Kanayo O. Kanayo, Kate Henshaw , Tony Akposheri and Francis Duru, amongst others.