The Chief Executive Officer of Kia Motors Nigeria, Mr. Jacky Hathiramani, has said that the Nigerian automotive industry has the potential for the diversification of the nation’s economy with value-driven supply chain and scalable backward integration for the economy.  He said at the event marking the launching of DFM in Nigeria that the local automotive companies are looking to Nigeria not only for its burgeoning consumer market but also as an efficient supplier base. He said the auto industry, which is rooted in advanced economies, is a major driver for job creation. He noted that in the US, the auto industry supports nearly 8 million American jobs, pays $500 billion in annual compensation, and generates $70 billion in personal tax revenue. The auto industry sits atop the industries with the top 10 Highest Job Multipliers in the States.  The auto industry has continued to remain a significant anchor of highvalue innovation, growth and inclusive prosperity for global economies. Following the auto policy, stakeholders have revitalized old plants and set up new facilities with innovative technologies in the production process of cars that are being introduced to the local market and in turn created jobs.  However, a developing trend in the industry following the unsigned auto policy bill and the continued taste for foreign and imported cars compounded by the influx of used cars through land borders had become a nightmarish experience for industry experts and investors in the industry. Hathiramani said this is posing daunting challenges to the development of the industry and this rather disturbing development has been considered as an Achilles heel to the trajectory of the industry in Nigeria in recent years.  Many major stakeholders have called for the government’s reevaluation if its decision to continue on the path of making Nigeria a consuming nation rather than a producing economy with viable employment opportunities for her teeming working population. To reecho this call and speaking on the need for the government to provide a veritable platform for the growth of the automobile industry, Hathiramani has joined other major stakeholders to call for the government’s support for the sustainable growth of the industry.  “With the establishment of many automobile assembling plants, heavily funded by private establishments, employment avenues are expanding in the fields of automotive technology and distribution of automobiles in the country.  Increase in the production of commercial vehicles/passengers’ cars, automobile sector can expect to have a wide range of opportunities both for wage paid and self-employment ventures in the coming years. In fact, the automobile industry is arguably positioned as the barometer of the economic and social transformation taking place in the country.  It is one of the major sources of employment and is likely to generate employment for thousands of new hands directly and indirectly, in the near future,” said Hathiramani.  Today, as a key contributor to the manufacturing sector of the economy, the auto industry together with other manufacturing companies’ annual contribution is 9.20 per cent to the country’s GDP. Hathiramani stressed that the automobile companies have opened up numerous opportunities for persons with an automobile engineering, mechanical engineering and technical diplomas in this area, not only technical there are lots of middle level and lowlevel workers also.  And for a country with an upsurge in the numbers of the unemployed working population, the auto industry has continued to help human capacity development and job creation.  He further said: “The automobile industry across the globe has always played a major role in strengthening the global economy by contributing immensely to the growth of the GDP and the creation of employment to teeming youths.  Nigeria, as a country, despite being a huge market in Africa with a booming population of over 170 million people, the country is yet to fully actualize the potentials of the automobile industry owing to the non-patronage of government agencies, the thirst of government officials for imported new cars and the overwhelming influx of imported used cars turning the country into a dumping ground and one of the leading collectors of junk aged cars. We’re sitting on a gold mine that can fill the void of unemployment and diversified economy.”  “When new cars are produced in Nigeria, the local production will grow and have a direct impact on the GDP. This will, in turn, provide large-scale employment, increase the internally generated revenue for the government and help in diversifying the economy amongst other gains.   The automobile industry has remained one of the highest contributors to the global economy and serves as a fulcrum for the industrialization of countries in the world over. Government’s support by way of patronage and sustainable policy framework will usher in a systemic and holistic structural development of the automobile industry in Nigeria.”