President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday in Abuja inaugurated his new cabinet, announcing that he would remain as the Minister of Petroleum Resources. Former Governor of Bayelsa State, Timipre Sylva, will serve as Minister of State for Petroleum, a position held by Dr. Ibe Kachikwu in the first tenure of Buhari. Majority of the re-appointed members of his first term cabinet retained their posts, while others had their responsibilities trimmed or increased in the new government. Alhaji Lai Mohammed returns to the Ministry of Information and Culture just as Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu returns to the Ministry of Science and Technology, while Dr. Chris Ngige remains as Minister of Labour and Employment. Unlike Mohammed who has no minister of state, Onu is to be assisted by Mr. Mohammed Abdullahi as Minister of State for Science and Technology. Others who retained their positions are Alhaji Muhammed Bello (Federal Capital Territory), Adamu Adamu (Education) and Geoffrey Onyeama (Foreign Affairs). Senator Hadi Sirika takes full charge as Minister of Aviation, while Mr. Rotimi Amaechi retains Transportation Ministry, without the aviation segment. Aviation was under the Ministry of Transport in the Buhari’s first term. Senator Gbemisola Saraki is the Minister of State for Transportation. Like Amaechi, former Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, keeps the Ministry of Works and Housing, without the power segment. Malam Suleiman Adamu returns to the Ministry of Water Resources, while Mrs. Zainab Ahmed is back to the Ministry of Finance, combining with Budget and National Planning, while Clement Agba is the Minister of State for Budget. Abubakar Malami (SAN) also retains his post as Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF). Suleiman Adamu retains the Water Resources Ministry. Announcing the portfolios of the new ministers, Buhari said Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite is the Minister of Mines and Steel Development while Dr. Ikechukwu Ogah will serve as Minister of State for Mines and Steel. Former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, is the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs with Festus Keyamo (SAN) as Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs. Former Governor of Benue State, Senator George Akume, will serve as Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs. The immediate past Minister of State for Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, is now the new Minister of Health while Dr. Adeleke Mamora is the Minister of State for Health. Former Governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola takes charge of the Interior Ministry, Mr. Sunday Dare oversees the Youth and Sports Ministry, while former deputy governor of Plateau State, Mrs. Paulen Talen, heads the Ministry of Women Affairs. Maigari Dingyadi is the minister in charge of the newly-created Ministry of Police Affairs while Sale Mamman heads the newly-created Power Ministry. Sadiya Umar Faruk is to serve as Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, a newly-created office. Muhammad Mahmood is to serve as Minister of Environment while Sharon Ikeazor is the Minister of State, Environment. Former Governor of Ekiti State and outgone Deputy National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, is Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment. Maryam Katagun is the minister of State for Industry. Other portfolio announced were for Dr. Ali Isa Pantami (Communications), Sabo Nanono (Agriculture), Maj.-Gen. Bashir S. Magashi (Defence) Other ministers of state are: Senator Tayo Alasoadura (Labour and Employment); Ramatu Tijjani (FCT); Emeka Nwajiuba (Education); Zubair Dada (Foreign Affairs); Mohammed Abdullahi (Science & Tech.); Abubakar D. Aliyu (Works & Housing); Mustapha Shehuri (Agriculture); and Goddy Jedy-Agba (Power).