 A fter several days of saying that the killer of a motorcyclist, Chimaobi Nwaorgu Uzoukwa at Umuokereke Ngwa, Obingwa Local Government Area of Abia State was a cultist, the Nigerian Army has finally confirmed the identity of the alleged killer as a soldier.   It will be recalled that the army on Thursday made a release that the killer of late Uzoukwa was a cultist on camouflage, a position that did not go down well with many residents and eyewitnesses who said the shooter was a soldier stationed at Ohanze military Checkpoint.   However, in another release, yesterday, by the Deputy Director Army Public Relations, 82 Division of Nigeria Army, Colonel Aliyu Yusuf, the army finally gave the name of the soldier as Lance Corporal Ajayi Johnson.   Yusuf said Johnson has been arrested, detained and that disciplinary procedure is in progress where he will be tried according to extant military law and if found culpable will be dismissed and handed over to the civil police for prosecution.   The release reads in part: “Reference to our earlier press release on the incident that led to the shooting of an innocent citizen Mr. Chimaobi Nwaogu of Umuokereke-Ngwa, in Obingwa LGA Abia State.   “Headquarters 82 Division Nigerian Army wishes to inform the general public that further investigation on the incident revealed that Lance Corporal Ajayi Johnson, one of the soldiers  deployed at Forward Operations  Base Ohanze for security duty absconded his duty location to an unknown destination and was reported to have been involved in a scuffle that led to the shooting and killing of the Okada rider Mr. Chimaobi on Wednesday 7 August 2019.   “The soldier was casually dressed in camouflage T-shirt which led to the initial suspected identity of the culprit as a cultist. The soldier, has, since, been arrested and detained. Disciplinary procedure is in progress.   “He will be tried according to extant military law and if found culpable will be dismissed and handed over to the Civil Police for prosecution. “The Nigerian Army deeply regrets this unfortunate incident and pray for the repose of the soul of the deceased. We also pray that the almighty God will strengthen his family, loved ones and the entire Abians for this irreparable loss.”