More than 200 young change makers from 65 countries including Nigeria have issued a call for a range of “systematic changes” in youth employment policies, noting that “business as usual is not working for youth.” They issued the recommendations at the end of the three-day ILO Global Youth Employment Forum. The event held in Abuja was attended by the ILO’s Director-General, Guy Ryder where it was resolved that the proposals would inform implementation of the ILO Call for Action on Youth Employment. The young delegates called for macro-economic and sectoral policies that target employment – rather than just economic growth – and build resilience to climate change. They also stressed the need for greater investment in access to quality education and skills development systems. This should be complemented by tailored approaches to lifelong learning and skills certification, which utilize technology and protect the rights of those in internships and apprenticeship schemes. Labour market policies should place more emphasis on job quality and targeting, so that the benefits reach young women, young people with disabilities, young migrants and refugees, young platform economy and informal sector workers, youth in the rural economy and in hazardous occupations, and those from indigenous and ethnic groups. More emphasis should be placed on the transition from low-quality, low-productivity self-employment to more productive, innovative, entrepreneurship. In particular, there is a need for policies and regulations that respect the rights of young workers in the platform economy. In addition, delegates called for gender equality and greater protection for youth labour rights and related issues, such as the right to time sovereignty, data privacy, internet access and the right to disconnect. Speaking at the event, the ILO Director-General stressed the important role that young women and men play in identifying solutions and fostering collaboration across sectors and continents. He reaffirmed the ILO’s commitment to work with and for youth and called upon all stakeholders to build a future that meets young people’s aims and aspirations. According to Ryder, “in my own experience as Director-General of the International Labour Organization, if I ask a Minister of Labour of any country what his or what her top priority is, nine times out of ten the answer is generating work for our young people. And for young people the priority is almost inevitably that of attaining a quality education and then the chance at a decent job. And I believe that there is no more important task than this before us all, in any part of the world, including Nigeria. This is the very task that we have set before this Global Youth Employment Forum, which meets on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the independence of this great country. Ladies and gentlemen, the ILO’s own commitment to young workers is, as it has been mentioned, 100 years old. Indeed the very first international labour standard that we adopted back in 1919, was for the protection of young workers. The reason here is that we have tried to step up our action. During the event, Ryder also launched the Knowledge Facility of the Global Initiative on Decent Jobs for Youth, a digital platform of tools, publications, databases and thematic resources to support action on youth employment. The youth change makers, representatives of governments, trade unions, employers’ organizations and civil society that attended the conference aimed to find ways to boost employment creation through structural transformation, particularly in emerging sectors such as the digital, green, creative, and care economies. The importance of partnerships was also underlined during discussions. The event was hosted by the Federal Government in Abuja last week.