T he Deeper Christian Life Ministry has announced its annual National Youth Success Camp (NYSC) 2019 with the theme, ‘Preparing for a Secure Future’. In a statement issued by National Coordinator of the youth arm of the church, Dr. Peter Elias said the Success Camp would feature “Complete transformation, developing excellence, digital awareness, success insight, empowerment discovery, heart talk, future skills and lots more”. Explaining the genesis of the programme, Elias said: “The Convener, Pastor (Dr.) William Folorunsho Kumuyi, General Superintendent of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry, more than thirty years ago, started Free Vacation School to assist students of secondary schools and colleges in Mathematics as a renowned expert in the field and to make the most of the holiday period through Godly transformation.” “Over the years, this event has evolved into an annual summer camping programme called ‘Success Camp’. As the name suggests, the overall goal is to unravel secrets of success to young people based on godly, scriptural values.” He further explained that the aim was to prepare youths for the jobs of the future. The National Coordinator also disclosed that this year’s programme would hold simultaneously in major cities of Nigeria and other countries in Africa from August 27 to 31, 2019 and that it would be residential. He urged the youth to “Join Pastor Kumuyi as he leads other anointed men of God, seasoned technocrats, reputable professionals and erudite teachers to unravel the key to the unbeatable life, success principles, life skills and leadership nuggets.” The organisers of the programme also said that among other resource persons and organisations that would impart knowledge in the participants is Konverge Media Limited, which would train the participants on Google Digital Skills leading to becoming a certified Google Digital Skill Personnel. “Interested participants should contact the nearest Deeper Life Bible Church in their neighbourhood for full details about the venue of the success camp nearest to them. Participation, including registration, accommodation, feeding and transportation to the venue is free. There is adequate arrangement for the safety and security of all participants,” Elias said. “Youths are invited to come, learn and secure a glorious future,” he added.