Two paedos allegedly raped and beheaded a three-year-old girl who was kidnapped while sleeping beside her mum at a railway station in India.
Government railway police said the toddler was decapitated with a sharp weapon after she started crying while being sexually assaulted.
While the girl’s torso has been recovered, and is currently undergoing a post-mortem, her head is still missing, say police.
After sharing CCTV footage of the girl’s abduction, cops arrested Rinku Sahu, 36, and Kailash Kumar, 38, for abduction, rape and murder, reports ‘Times of India’.
The little girl had been sleeping beside her mum at the Tatanagar railway station in Jharkhand last Thursday when she was carried away, unbeknown to her mother.
The child was taken to a fabrication yard a few miles from the station and gang-raped, before being beheaded. HEAD NOT FOUND Early the next morning, the decapitated body was placed in a bag and dumped near a wall.
Government railway police deputy superintendent Noor Mustafa Ansari said her torso has been recovered from shrubs near a water treatment plant, reports the ‘Hindustan Times’.
He said: “We arrested Sahu on Tuesday night following a tip-off after we shared CCTV footage of the abduction with the media and on social media.
“He led us to the place where he had dumped the body.”
The girl’s mum, 26, tried to identify the remains, but was unable to do so as she repeatedly fainted.
Although a sniffer dog squad has been used to try and find her head, “so far this has been to no avail”, said Ansari.
‘The Hindustan Times’ reports that police had a difficult time keeping an angry mob at bay when they returned to the murder scene.
Ansari told the paper that Sahu said he had not beheaded the girl, although he allegedly said that he had killed her when she started sobbing.
The cop said that Sahu had previously been found guilty of abducting a seven-year-old child in April, 2015.
Ansari added: “A local court convicted and sentenced him to a two-year-jail term in March 2018. He came out of jail a few weeks ago.”
*Courtesy: The Sun