The profound influence which the thoughts of French political philosopher, Baron de la Brede et de Montesquieu (1689 – 1755) as expressed in his seminal work, The Spirit of the Law (1748) had on political theory ignited revolutionary changes in the governance of political communities in Europe and America by way of change to the structure of government and legal framework. Montesquieu’s theory that government should be separated into three distinct branches (legislative, executive and judicial) to safeguard personal liberty and forestall autocracy was so profound that most revolutionary changes in government found their bearing from this thought. American revolutionary constitution had its anchorage on this thought. The doctrine of separation of powers is a pivot of modern democracy and structural balance of any legal order no matter its nomenclature. Nigeria shares from this normative order of modern humanity. Since Independence or before then, there has been separation of powers as in the legislature, executive and judiciary. Even during the long period of military autocracy that spanned 1966 to 1999, excepting the 2nd Republic era of 1979 – 1983, the judicial branch of government has been preserved even though the judicial power of that branch was seriously fettered with limitations such as the exclusion clauses in decrees that ousted the powers of the courts to adjudicate on certain matters. Also the judicial powers of the courts were further circumscribed by the removal of certain appellate jurisdiction on certain matters and transfer of same to the Supreme Military Council or such like body under military rule. Other than this, the doctrine of separation of powers was observed in Nigeria, and the Supreme Court of Nigeria was ironically at its best during the military interregnum which fact made Chief Gani Fawehinmi (SAN), one of Nigeria most activist lawyers to write a book aptly termed, “The Supreme Years.” This book chronicled the robust and activist stance taken by the Supreme Court of Nigeria in adjudication of cases vis-à-vis the interpretation of draconian military laws that fettered liberty and freedom. The Supreme Court or court of last resort of any country remains a veritable tool in securing democracy, rule of law, liberty and freedom of the people against the potential autocratic tendencies of the other two branches (legislature and executive) especially in immature democracies. The Supreme Court is not like any other ordinary courts as it retains the rare powers of being the interpreter of the Constitution and a mediator between the institutions of State especially the Executive and the Legislature, and inversely between the government and states of the federation. It is as an arbiter of disputes between principally the executive and the legislative branches and between the states and the Federation that the Supreme Court is regarded as the “storm Centre of political controversies.” This role and tag was given a juristic flavour by a former Supreme Court justice of the United States, Oliver Wendell Holmes. Professor David M. O’Brien of the Woodrow Wilson Department of Government at the University of Virginia, USA seized upon this tag to carry out an in-depth research on the role of the Supreme Court in the political and constitutional history of the United States. Prof. O’Brien’s research contained in the book, “Storm Center: The Role of Supreme Court in American Politics”, came to the conclusion that the Supreme Court is indeed a “storm center” where disputants come to resolve their political differences which would otherwise boil over and lead to insurrections if not resolved constitutionally and amicably. It is in the light of the foregoing that we hold that the Nigerian Supreme Court likewise serves as the authoritative arbiter of political controversies. This being the case, the screening of appointees into the judicial offices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria whether as Justice or Chief Justice of Nigeria ought to have been more rigorous than what Nigerians witnessed in the Senate screening of Justice Tanko Muhammad. This is so because as the interpreter of the constitution, the justices must be above board, fit and proper persons. That being so, it is only in the judicial branch of government that the Constitution and the Laws stipulate qualifications far above that of the executive and legislative branches in terms of academic and professional callings. Thus whereas a secondary school certificate holder or equivalent can become the president of Nigeria, the least judicial officer in the states and the Federation must be a university law graduate with at least 10 years postcall experience. The need to preserve the integrity of the Supreme Court of Nigeria and maintain its traditions that spanned decades of judicial activism starting with Adetokumbo Ademola, CJN’s led judgement in Lakanmi & Ors v. A.G., Federation up to the Supreme Court years of Justices Oputa, Nnaemeka Agu, Nnamani, Aniagolu, Karibi-whyte, Kayode Eso, Obaseki, Alfa Belgore, Olatanura, Uwais, etc. Against the backdrop of the sacking of Justice Walter Onnoghen as CJN and the subsequent appointment of Tanko Muhammad in replacement, the Senate should have conducted a rigorous screening to ensure that the person appointed is fit and proper for the office of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, especially given the background of the crisis that rocked that branch leading to the controversial sacking of the then Chief Justice, Onnoghen, on allegation of corruption. The subsequent appointment of Muhammad, JSC as he then was by the president acting on the controversial ruling by the chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal was a legal tangle that was not properly resolved until the subsequent appointments of acting Chief Justice and Chief Justice as the case may be. During the screening of the Chief Justice nominee, Senate was more concerned with the issue of corruption which the nominee answered correctly by declaring that judges are part of society and thus suffers the same debilitating incapacitation that has hobbled Nigeria and advised that all cases of corruption be treated alike. But the Senate would have been more concerned with the intellectual depth and ideological position of the nominee than the mundane issue of corruption. None of the interlocutors asked the nominee any fundamental questions. The Senate did not elicit information from the nominee on what his position on the attack on the judiciary contrary to the clear provisions of the 1999 Constitution especially Sections 153, 158(i), 292(i)(a)(b) and paragraph 21(i)(b)(g) of the 3rd Schedule to the Constitution. Having failed to elicit veritable information from the nominee, society lost the privilege of rare insight into the persona of their Chief Justice. To restore the Supreme Court’s integrity, it will be proper to properly screen potential candidates before their appointment and such screening should be rigorous enough to establish the rightness or otherwise of such appointment and where such appointment is unmerited the Senate has the power to reject and call for another nomination. This was the case in United States as witnessed in US Senate Judicial Committee screening of Clarence Thomas in 1991 which excited intense political interest or even the earlier cases of George William in 1873 and G. Harrold Carswell in 1970 whose nominations were rejected on grounds of mediocre judicial records and lack of professional certificates. Screening is legislative oversight doing it right cannot kill Nigeria. It will rather save whatever remains of the hard-won integrity of “the Supreme Court Years” by bolstering the independence and integrity of the Supreme Court of Nigeria as celebrated by Nigerian lawyers and citizenry for their courageous work under military rule.