V isionary leadership is the principal element, which ensures that government serves as a vehicle for the attainment of citizens’ socio-economic aspirations, but dearth of such in Nigeria has continued to raise questions over Nigeria’s leadership recruitment process.   With a few exceptions, Nigeria has been struck by a string of inept leaders at the various levels of governance, and who are gradually running the country aground, while less endowed nations that had independence the same time with her, have continued to make progress.   To most analysts, Nigeria’s problem had never been paucity of funds and resources. With an area of over 923,773 square kilometers, the largest single geographical unit along the west coast of Africa and the largest population in the continent, Nigeria has the most envious economic profile in Africa. The nation is the leading producer of crude oil and gas in Africa and 6th in the world.   But, close to 60 decades of self-rule, Nigeria remains a land of poverty despite her huge potential. This, many believe, was made possible, mainly by ineffective leadership, which has impeded development as it takes commitment and focus on the part of a leader to deliver good governance.   According to analysts, a critical look at countries that have made progress showed that they enjoyed visionary leadership at different points in their history. In the case of Nigeria, they put the blame on the process of emergence of her leaders.   Nigeria, they said, have witnessed more of accidental leaders going by the process of their emergence with attendant poor governance. This, perhaps, explains why Africa’s most populous country has continued to lag behind in an emerging world order that emphasises clear-headed and able leadership.   No doubt, the situation in the country is different from prepared and vision-driven leadership obtainable in other democracies of the world. It is against this backdrop that some stakeholders have continued to call for a review of the country’s leadership recruitment process.  They argued that with a population of over 180 million, comprising over 300 ethnic nationalities and a multiplicity of cultural and religious diversities, Nigeria cannot make do with incompetent leadership.   They further posited that a country without a visionary leader faces social and economic instability, as leaders with vision inspire citizens and mobilise them for nation building; employ wisdom, foresight, sense of purpose and commitment to galvanise them towards self-actualisation as well as propel the national spirit in them.