Mob attempts to burn police station F resh fact has emerged on how policemen from Anti-Kidnapping Unit, who were allegedly on illegal operation, killed a six-month pregnant woman at the Ijagemo area of Ijegun, Lagos State on Saturday.   The death of the woman forced youths in the community to revolt, leading to the lynching of an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP).   The pregnant woman, Mrs. Busayo Owoodun, otherwise known as Iyawo Alfa, was sewing in her shop, when a stray bullet from one of the anti-kidnapping policemen got her. She died instantly, leading to a bloody protest in the community.   During the protest, the angry mob attempted to burn down Isheri-Oshun Police Station, but was repelled by policemen from Operations Department in the command, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), the Rapid Response Unit (RRS) and Area ‘M’ Police Command.   It was learnt that two other policemen, one of them an ASP, were seriously injured and presently battling to stay alive in the hospital. The dead ASP was alleged to have led the Anti-Kidnapping Unit to the community on the illegal operation. As at Saturday night, two people were dead and two others injured.   According to sources, trouble started after the policemen from Anti-Kidnapping Unit allegedly got information that a suspected cyber-fraudster had just hit some millions and was celebrating richly at a bar in the community.   The policemen left their office, commandeered a mini-bus and ordered the driver to head towards Ijegun.   When the policemen got there, they made a beeline for the bar. When the suspect sighted them, he fled. The policemen pursued. When they realised that he was getting away from them, one of them opened fire. Rather, the bullet got Busayo, who died instantly.   A security agent said: “The operation was carried out by Anti-Kidnapping Unit. Whenever a police team goes to another jurisdiction for an operation, the right process is for them to book in at the area command and then nearest police station to where they were going. But this Anti-Kidnapping Unit didn’t book in at the Area M Police Command and didn’t book in at the Isheri-Oshun Police Station. This means they were on illegal operation.   “Aside from not booking at the appropriate stations, cyber fraud is not part of their job. When they killed the woman, youths in the community revolted and started chasing them. The police ran away, but took a wrong road. They started shooting at the people; soon, they ran out of bullets. The people attacked them. The ASP that led the team was seriously wounded and later died. Another ASP was wounded, with the civilian that took them there. The mob inflicted the driver with machete cuts. The policemen were stripped before being beaten. The mob dragged them to the front of the Oba’s palace and dumped them there.”   While the drama was unfolding, Area M Police Command and Police Headquarters, Ikeja, got information that policemen were under attack. The Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) in charge of Operations, Mohammed Ari, radioed for re-enforcement. Police from Operations Department, RRS, SARS, Area M Command and other divisions, raced to the scene.   Area M Commander, ACP Ifeanyi Ohuruzo, was the first to reach the scene. He tried begging the angry mob, attempting to make peace, but instead they tried to attack him.   “They refused to listen to the area commander until Baker, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), who is the deputy in charge of operations and SARS operation got to the scene and dispersed them,” said the source. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, claimed one ASP, two policemen were injured while a 30-year-old woman was hit by a stray bullet.   He said: “A team of policemen from the Anti-Kidnapping Unit attached to Area M Command Idimu tracked some kidnapping suspects to Ijegun-Isolo Road, Ijegun bus stop, but came under attack by members of the deadly gang. A stray bullet hit Busayo Owoodun. The gang, with the support of some notorious cultists in the area, attacked the police team and injured the team leader, ASP Victor Ugbegun and two others who are currently in critical condition at the Intensive Care Unit.   “Reinforcements from Operations Department, RRS, Task Force, and neighbouring divisions were able to contain the situation and evacuate the injured officers to hospital. The command has launched a manhunt for the assailants with a view of bringing them to justice. The corpse of the victim of the stray bullet was taken to hospital for autopsy. The Commissioner of Police has ordered an in-depth investigation into the case.”  