…device plot to move primaries to Abuja, PH  Some governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State including former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Chief Timi Alaibe and Dr. Chris Osaisai, among others, have become panicky as the September 3, 2019 primaries of the party draws closer. A group, Association of Concerned Bayelsa Professionals (ACBP), Chief Jasper Timiebi, said in a statement that the aspirants had devised a plot to cause premeditated violence and instability in the state with the intent to arm twist the national leadership of the PDP to move the primaries to Abuja or neighbouring Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Timiebi said security intelligence at the disposal of the group revealed that the aspirants were deploying their men to plant bombs, engage in sporadic shootings, to create a non-existent threat of violence to actualise their plot to move the primaries outside Bayelsa contrary to the stipulation of the law. He said the ACBP, a body of professionals across the eight local government areas of the state, was concerned about the increasing desperation occasion by blackmail and the evil plot to unleash mayhem and killings in Bayelsa just to achieve a satanic plot. He stressed that the aspirants behind the evil plot against Bayelsa and her people were worried about the influence of Governor Henry Seriake Dickson who have led the Restoration Team òf the PDP for almost eight years since 2012. Timiebi recalled that the said aspirants instigated and indeed sponsored litigations to frustrate the decision of the PDP led government to conduct the last local government elections without success. According to him, when the Government vacated all the cases numbering five that were instituted against the conduct of the polls in Abuja, Yenagoa and other cities, the aspirants decided to go opt for a second option to frustrate the participation of the elected council officials in the primaries. He insisted that the ACBP, which monitored the election in the state, observed that it went well, asserting also the massive influence of the governor in the state. Timiebi said the campaign organisation of one of the contestants, Osaisai, wrote a petition dated August 10, 2019, to the national chairman of the PDP; in which he claimed that there were threats to the peaceful conduct of the primaries in the state. According to him, the petition signed by Dr. Ebieri Jones, kicked against the inclusion of the elected chairmen and councillors as delegates in the primaries as provided for in the PDP constitution. He said the petition addressed to the PDP national chairman, was copied all members of the National Working Committee (NWC), the chairman and secretary of the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT). Timiebi said ACBP was motivated by a strong urge to ensure that the search for the next governor of the state was not tainted by underhand tactics and evil machinations by desperate politicians, who would stop at nothing to foist themselves on the state. He enjoined all aspirants to play by the rule and embrace the repeated slogan of former President Goodluck Jonathan that nobody’s ambition was worth the life of a single Bayelsa citizen. He urged the aspirants to talk to the delegates rather than yielding their campaigns to a desperation ignited by the fear of defeat, adding that only a candidate would emerge out of the 21 aspirants.