AFTERMATH OF SATURDAY TELEGRAPH’S STORY  Mixed reactions have trailed the exclusive report published last week by Saturday Telegraph on Afam Okeke, a 25-year-old hermaphrodite, who last week revealed her worries and experiences over her intersex condition. It was reported that the Enugu-born grew up as a man but gradually developed feminine traits at adulthood.  In our exclusive report last week, Okeke said: “My body wasn’t really male or female. I was born with mixed features; people didn’t believe when I told them. What I was raised up in/living in, isn’t really the gender I identified with. Everyone could see in my body language, mannerism, and even in my looks, I am more of a girl/lady.   As a result, I stopped going outside. As for my genitals, it is complicated. I hate it when people ask me “do you have this or that?” It’s derogatory and annoying.   “I hide myself, trying to conform to a male gender so no one could tell I was different and I don’t get discriminated, bullied or lynched by the ignorant society I live in. I was always covered in baggy male clothes to hide my body.  The reason why I continued living as a male even though I didn’t really conform was because switching over to the female side was going to be difficult for lot of ignorant people in the society I lived in to come to terms with or learn to accept my intersex transition. Finding out I was intersex, I went through lot of trauma, self-hate, isolation, depression and suicidal thoughts as well I contemplated suicide on several occasions just to end it all.   Last year, I took rodent poison due to depression. When I took it, I felt weak and managed to enter the kitchen to drink palm oil after thinking otherwise. For five hours, I was unconscious and when I woke up, I felt tired and weak. I drank plenty of water and milk. I guess because I took the palm oil early, it helped. I got better the third day but started stooling and vomiting. It was tough, close shave with death.  “I felt I was punishing myself for a condition I had no control over and I did not bring it on myself. I felt so odd and unwanted; I didn’t even feel human anymore. I had to cut ties with all friends and family because no one knew or understood what I was going through and I didn’t know how to explain this to anyone.” After the report, some boys around where Okeke stays who could link him with the story laid ambush for him and attacked him on Monday evening in the Garden City. About six of them ran after him and demanded to see all he had ‘under’ him.   He fell in the process and was lucky to escape as some other people who heard him screaming came to his rescue. Okeke narrated his ordeal: “I was attacked by some guys who have been suspicious of me, and the story they read gave them an idea of my intersex condition. I expect they should mind their business but rather, they ran after me and they were actually beating me; remember the time some guys attacked me on the road and trying to find out if I was a man or a woman. It was scary.  They even tried to pull down my trousers to see my genitals. I thought that could be my last day and so I fought for my life. Some people who heard me screaming emerged from nowhere and the guys disappeared. I had to move out of my friend’s place and I’m now in the custody of a Non-Governmental Organisation in Port Harcourt. After the incident, I could not report to the police because this could further aggravate the issue.  “And on Tuesday, I also witnessed a sad incident in the bank when I when to collect money via Western Union and the cashier was asking me what gender should he fill for me in the form. Male or female or what? I was so humiliated. This was not due to the report but I guess it was my look. Even when I go to market, everyone there will be staring at me laughing and wondering whether I am a male or a female.    The societal effect on my current situation is very annoying. I did not do this to myself and people look at me as if it is my fault. It is really frustrating. “I talk about the society, what about my uncle?  My own blood who forced me out of his house, saying I was a witch. He said I was possessed and banned me from coming to his house or seeing his kids. That was after he took me to churches and no pastor said anything negative about me. They only asked about my parents and my background.”    There are however positives for Okeke after the exclusive report last week. Some individuals have responded with the intention of assisting him to overcome the current situation. “They demanded my PayPal account which I do not have but will find a way round it. I pray I have more responses because I wish to sort this issue out quickly and move on with my life. It is really tough but I will be strong to pull through.  Many people are also talking to me through my Facebook page ‘Sherry Rai.’ Okeke stressed that there was serious need for education in Nigeria about hermaphrodites. She argued that it was a condition and not a disease.   “People have HIV Aids and walk around normally but people stigmatize hermaphrodites and call them all sorts of derogatory names instead of trying to help.   I belong to so many groups on the Internet and I have learnt so much, on my Facebook page, I try to educate people and some of them talk to me directly. “I was born a man and I developed feminine traits along the line. It can be corrected and all I need is to undergo the necessary tests and surgery, I will be fine,” Okeke said.  Dr. Bola Adeyemi, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, All Souls Hospital in Lagos, spoke on the way out for Okeke.   “There is need to determine many things through tests and investigation. Does the person have uterus, ovary and other feminine attributes?  “In this case, Okeke is comfortable as a female and so if she does not have vagina, she could go for Vagina Noplatic. It is being done at the University Hospital in Ibaban (UCH). With investigation, we should have other places in Nigeria. We have competent hands in the country to handle all medical cases but people do not respect doctors here. It is unfortunate.   “The case here is redeemable through several tests and surgery and the person will live a normal life,” Dr. Adeyemi explained Okeke is now considering to relocate to Lagos to avert further attacks and embarrassment. “I learnt Lagos is a free place where people mind their business no matter your condition.  Other places are not like that and it is sad,” he said. Interestingly, the hermaphrodite had a relationship with a white man who also has intersex condition. “   “He is white and we met in Abuja but somehow flashback from his past and some other personal issues affected our relationship. We were planning to get married but it did not work. I was the female in the relationship,” he said.