Senator Anthony Adefuye is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Secretary-General of Yoruba Unity Forum (YUF). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on the state of the nation, among other issues  How would you react to the 43-man ministerial list released by President Muhammadu Buhari on July 23? He has met the constitutional requirement of one minister per state, which is the normal constitutional requirement by picking a nominee from the 36 states of the country. He also picked one nominee each from the six geo-political zones and one from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, making a total of 43 ministerial nominees. So, he has made the constitutional requirements and most of them are those he has worked with before. I think he is in order. How about the belief in some quarters that the nominees are mostly recycled politicians? You know once you don’t find your name on the list, you are angry and you have various words to describe those who have been appointed. The fact is that all of us cannot be ministers. The President has chosen those he believes he can work with, so, there is nothing anybody can do. But some Nigerians are of the view that given the present state of the country, there should have been more of technocrats than politicians to turn the country around? Who is a technocrat? If you are technocrat, then go and contest election. If you want technocrats, then let them go and contest election and leave politicians alone. Don’t you find technocrats among politicians? Is it in the constitution that they must be technocrats? I think it is the way of idle minds trying to find their way into where they don’t belong. I don’t believe in technocrats being appointed as ministers. If you know you are a technocrat, go to the civil service; that is where your position is. I am a professional engineer for instance, am I not a technocrat? We have lawyers, doctors who are politicians, so which technocrat are you looking for; is it those who worked as labourers, train drivers and factory workers abroad who now come to Nigeria and overnight turn to technocrats because they have a degree? The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was doing so well when it was being supervised by Nigerians with high integrity such as Aliyu Mai-Bornu, Clement Isong, Adamu Ciroma, Ola Vincent, Abdulkabir Ahmed, Paul Ogwuma and Joseph Sanusi, but things changed when we brought in the so-called technocrat and since then the Central Bank of Nigeria has never recovered and the naira fell from N50 to a dollar to N350 to a dollar. Do you agree with the view that the President should always attach portfolio to ministerial list before sending it to the Senate, so that the nominees can be screened based on areas they are expected to serve? It is not necessary at all. Ministers are to supervise their ministries; just supervision of the ministry to make sure that whatever is in our manifesto is achieved. We don’t need to have a doctor as minister for Health. We don’t need to have an engineer as minster for Works. Babatunde Fashola is not an engineer, yet he was Minister for Power, Works and Housing in the first term of President Buhari and those ministries did well. The ministers are just to supervise and make sure that the party’s manifesto is achieved. When you put technocrats that is when trouble starts and they begin to imagine gigantic projects and contracts just for the benefit of it, so that they can say they are technocrats. What we need now is to put smiles on the faces of people. Technocrats can be appointed as special advisers or technocrats in the civil service. It is when politicians want to be mischievous that they go outside the party to include their friends, concubines, relations and family and label them as technocrats. Some critics have condemned some of the ministerial nominees on the ground that there are corruption cases hanging on their necks… There are so many frustrated politicians and they can say anything. Once your name is not on the list, then those one on the list are expired. Once their name is on the list, then they are technocrats. I think the screening at the Senate level is very simple. First, is to ensure that a nominee is a Nigerian. Second is to ensure that he or she is from that state and three, to ensure that he or she is someone who will do the bid of Nigerians and to make sure that he is sound both mentally and physically. If you find anybody who is not worthy, the Senate would have decided that and if they find anything important on why someone should not be confirmed as minister as a result of petition, they will not release his or her name until the President also investigates those petitions. But if the Senate had passed the nominees, it means they have done their own work and the people are fit and credible. During the 2015 and 2019 elections, many Yoruba prominent politicians and leaders worked tirelessly for the APC to ensure Buhari’s victory. But in recent time, some South-West leaders, especially chieftains of Afenifere have been criticising the South-West APC leaders for their continuous support for Buhari and the ruling party on the ground that they are not protecting Yoruba interest. How would you react to that? That is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) propaganda. When Goodluck Jonathan was president, at a point in the order of protocol, there was no Yoruba between number One and 27. We went to him twice to complain, but he did nothing. These are the same people who are now coming to say we are not thinking about the interest of the Yoruba people. In the order of protocol today, Yoruba is in number two (Vice President Yemi Osinbajo) and number four (Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila). We were not in number one to 27 when Jonathan was there. Our roads were not done; Lagos – Ibadan Expressway was not done. The rail station was started, but abandoned. Nothing was done in Yoruba land. I think journalists should investigate those Yoruba people who are saying so. What have they done for Yoruba people? All they can do is to criticise and do nothing. They want to be relevant when actually they are fighting for themselves. All they do is fight for themselves; they don’t fight for anybody. Yoruba people today are everywhere, but you will see them saying Yoruba is being colonised; there is Fulani colonisation. When Chief Olusegun Obasanjo was president, he had more northerners in his cabinet than southerners. When Jonathan was president, he had more Northerners in his cabinet than southerners. This is the first time that you have more southerners than northerners; yet they are complaining, saying there is Fulanisation. Journalists have the facts, but they are not talking. Somebody would be kidnapped; he knew definitely that militants from South-South or Yoruba land kidnapped him and he will come out and say it is Fulani that kidnapped him. How can we ever find who kidnapped him when he is lying? The argument of the Yoruba elders is that the South-West APC leaders are not pressurizing Buhari on the issue of restructuring… These PDP people who are complaining, why didn’t they restructure when Jonathan was there? Why didn’t they restructure when Obasanjo was there? Why must it be done now because the man at the helm of affairs is a Fulani? Which restructuring? We were in the National Conference in 2014; they were the first people to oppose restructuring; they even opposed local police, saying that politicians will use it against them. The media contributed to some of the problems we have in the country because some of them are corrupt and bias. You find most of the newspapers now writing whatever they want to write, not what is happening. You have kidnapping all over the place; instead of you to face the problem, you will say it is Fulani. You have the problem of herdsmen in the West today and those herdsmen are still there and their cows are still grazing and there is no problem. When you find somebody who is complaining, you will find it in PDP. When you find somebody who is complaining, you will find out that he is a frustrated politician. How many of them have farms to know that farmers are complaining? Can’t you see that some people are planning to disorganise this government and to make it ungovernable as they promised? I think the press should do more investigation. I have seen two people who were kidnapped and I interviewed them myself. They told me that they were kidnapped by South-South militants and as soon as they were kidnapped, they were ferry across the water. And where does kidnapping take place? It takes place in Ore and Ijebu waterside, where they are very close to the creeks. Once they kidnap them, they walk in the forest for about five kilometers and ferry them across. And when they release them, because they have warned them not to disclose their identity, they will say it is Fulani herdsmen that kidnapped them. There is clamour in the South-West for the zone to produce the next president in 2023. What is your view on that? What we are doing now is rotational presidency. If the North takes it for eight or four years, it becomes the turn of the South. Definitely, it is the turn of the South in 2023 and it is the turn of the Yoruba, a pure Yoruba president. Now the Igbo will say it is their turn; that they have never been president, but all the past presidents from the South are Igbo. It is either some people did bad history or they just want to be mischievous. But come 2023, it is a Yoruba person. But some leaders of Yoruba pan socio-cultural group, Afenifere have already declared that the South-East and not South-West should produce the president in 2023 based on justice, fairness and equity… And they say they are fighting for Yoruba people? You can see they are really fighting for Yoruba people! That is Igbo Afenifere for you. I won’t say more than that. Rising insecurity is a major challenge in all the parts of the country. Do you think government is doing enough to address the problem? In 2003, we were coming from Yobe State; kidnappers double-crossed our vehicle, killed the driver and took all our money. That was in Yobe then. During Obasanjo’s time if you remember, there was a time they were throwing rims between Ibadan and Sagamu at that time. Every time we have a new president, something happens. So, this is not new; it is just that it has been given propaganda more than ever before and there are reasons for it. It has been difficult to trace those kidnappers because every kidnapper is a Fulani herdsman. Quite a lot of people were living before on corruption money and corruption money is not flowing as usual. I am not saying it has completely stopped, but it is not flowing as usual. So, people look for other ways to make money, maybe kidnapping. Today, people are accusing Fulani herdsmen for the attacks and kidnapping in the country, when they actually know those who are behind the attacks and kidnappings. They talk of ranches. During Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s time, we had many ranches in the West. We also had many ranches across Nigeria. Ranches are just to produce cows and rather than bringing cows from the North; you develop your own cow and develop your own technology to rear your own cows. It is done everywhere across the world. But it has been politicised in Nigeria and some people say it is RUGA. If you ask many people, what is RUGA? They don’t know what it is, but they go about shouting no RUGA! No RUGA!! Why do you say no to what you don’t know? Can anybody explain to us, what RUGA is? Some are shouting it is Fulanilisation; even people who were former heads of state; people who are letter writers, but never allowed any letter writing during their time. If they pick him now, they will say it is because he is a leader and criticising government. A lot of our people are lying. Why telling lies? We should face reality so that we can move forward. Whether you like it or not, we have a president in power and who will be there for the next four years. There is nothing you can do. And don’t forget that those who beat the drums of war don’t survive war. How would you assess Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration in Lagos State after two months in office based on his campaign promises? So far, so good! When you assume office under a situation that your predecessor was uncooperative, when he handed over, there would be problem. Secondly it takes time to pick commissioners. You have to consult unless you have picked your cabinet before you even start campaigning. So, you must consult wisely. Even what you planned to do, you must still verify from the people that ‘yes, this is my plan.’ You must also confirm from true leaders who love you and want the state to progress. You still must persuade and plead with people who were not able to make your cabinet. The roads were in very bad shape when he came in. Won’t he do the roads? Yes, things are difficult to do when you don’t have a cabinet in place. The names of the commissioners and special advisers have been sent to the House of Assembly, I hope they will confirm them quickly, so that they can start real work. Governor Sanwo-Olu has done well so far; we hope and pray that he will not derail along the line.