 President of the Post Graduate Medical College of Nigeria, Ijanikin, Lagos, Prof O.B da Lilly Tariah has warned the 204 graduating diplomats of the College to uphold ethics of the medical profession.  This he said was necessary because the public is holding medical practitioners to higher levels of accountability.  Prof Tariah gave this charge at the 3rd Diplomats Graduation ceremony of the college on Thursday.  “In the course of doing your best for your patients, please remember the ethics of the profession. Remember also that the lawyers are befriending your patients for evidence of wrongdoing or things you didn’t do right”, he said.  The College President also reminded them that their success would be amplified when they apply all they have learned in their clinical practice adding that he has no doubt that the graduands have become better clinicians since they enrolled in the diploma programme. The Professor of Otolaryngology from University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital announced that the graduands are drawn from the Faculties of Anesthesia and Family Medicine out of which 189 are from Family Medicine while 15 are from the faculty of Anesthesia.  “The College takes a great pride in these diplomats because they fill a vital albeit neglected area of clinical service delivery in the country”  “We have heard heard loud arguments about the dearth of doctors and required skills in the primary and secondary tiers of medical practice, your presence here today is a response to fill that void, be it in public or private service”, he said.  He said the College also draws great pride and sense of accomplishments in running the programmes because it is an achievement in meeting its mandate of awarding other certificates besides the Fellowship.  Prof Tariah disclosed that the Senate has approved the request of the Facility of Radiology to run a diploma in Sonography programme for medically qualified doctors while the request by the Faculty of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery to run a Diploma in Audiology for medically qualified doctors is currently before the Docimology committee of the Senate for consideration.  He mentioned that other faculties are at various stages of developing diploma programmes for medically qualified doctors.  ” The emphasis on medically qualified doctors is deliberate especially considering our contemporary history in the healthcare sector. The question of manpower suitable for the primary and secondary levels of healthcare has continued to occupy the minds and debates of the College and well meaning Nigerians with the development of National Surgical Obstetrics, Anaesthesia and Nursing Plan (NSOASP) and need for development of a plan at acquiring the necessary skills at all levels of healthcare has become heightened”, he said.  The College president said the College is positioning itself to provide the necessary learning of skills and certification of doctors who are not in residency but require more than the routine skills of clerkship to manage patients they may be faced with outside the specialists or teaching hospitals in good time to make a referral.