Police have arrested a 24-year-old lady for locking her 10-year-old cousin, Chibike EziAmaka, in a dog kennel at the Aguda area of Lagos State. The lady, identified as Onyinye Mbadike, living at No 7, Trimnell Street, Aguda, was arrested by a team of detectives from the Gender Unit, Command Headquarters, Ikeja. Policemen started hunting for Mbadike after someone secretly filmed her hitting and kicking EziAmaka, after which she forcibly pushed him into the dog’s kennel and padlocked it. Whoever filmed the incident uploaded it on the internet and it soon went viral, attracting outrage. It also got to police domain, leading to investigations. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, disclosed that Mbadike was arrested on Wednesday for assault and child abuse. He said: “A team of detectives from the Gender Unit, Command’s Headquarters, Ikeja, arrested Onyinye Mbadike (24) of No 7 Trimnell Street, Aguda for assault and child abuse. This followed a viral video on the social media showing her torturing Chibike EziAmaka (10) of same address. The video also showed the lady locking EziAmaka up in a dog’s kennel, sharing space with dogs. The video was widely condemned by well-meaning Nigerians.” Elkana added that the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, ordered the Gender Unit of the command to identify the woman in the video, rescue the child and make Mbadike to face the full wrath of the law. The PPRO explained that the Domestic and Sexual Response Team (DSVRT), Alausa, Ikeja, also added its voice to the call for investigation with a petition addressed to Muazu to that effect. The Gender Unit traced Mbadike to Chumpe Liquor Store, Surulere and her residence at Aguda. “The 10 years old boy was rescued and taken to a secured shelter. Mbadike admitted that she was the one in the viral video flogging the child with belt. She, however, denied locking the boy in a cage with dogs. She said that she only locked him in an empty kennel, where bags were kept. She claimed to have locked up the boy for a few hours before bringing him out. “She further alleged that the boy took alcohol, which was in the refrigerator, drank it and started misbehaving. She said that the boy smashed the side mirror of her Toyota Camry car with a stone, which made her to detain him in the dog kennel,” the PPRO said. Elkana added that investigation had revealed that the boy lost his parents and was brought to Lagos in 2012 from Anambra State by Mbadike’s mother, along with his two siblings. Mbadike and EziAmaka are cousins. He said: “Mbadike’s mother is the elder sister of the boy’s father. The suspect will be charged to court. The command reiterated its commitment towards protecting the rights of children and other vulnerable members of the society from all forms of violence and abuses.” Police in Lagos have arrested a woman filmed abusing a child and then locking him in a caged kennel with dogs. It is not clear when the footage was shot, but it went viral on Twitter earlier this month. In the video clip, a woman is seen beating a boy,… In "Metro and Crime" Recently, cases of sexual abuse and domestic violence in Lagos State were brought to the front burner as revelations from the 2018 report by Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team (DSVRT) frightened not just a few. ISIOMA MADIKE looks at the issue which has become topical     A few… In "Features" Police in Ogun State have arrested a 52-year-old man, Emmanuel Ikhine, for allegedly having forceful and unlawful carnal knowledge of his 18-year-old daughter (name withheld). The victim was said to be the only female among Ikhine’s three children. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the… In "Metro and Crime"