F ormer Acting National President of the Ijaw National Congress, (INC), Chief Charles Ambaiowei has said politicians and government agencies should be held accountable to the people for the manner they deploy and utilise funds put in their trust if the nation must develop.   Ambaiowei, who is the Bayelsa State Chairman of the committee Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), projects sited in the state also called on the Commission to be more transparent in the execution of its developmental projects in the affected states and stop what he described as current bureaucracy that is inimical to success.   In an interview with the Sunday Telegraph, he lamented the near opaque manner the agency is discharging its duties, stating that all efforts to get it to furnish his committee with locations of the over 893 projects it claimed to be executing in Bayelsa State which has now been supposedly  increased to over 1,333,  have been fruitless.   “Under the leadership of the last NDDC Chairman, Mr. Nsima Ekere, who left to contest governorship election in Akwa Ibom on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), the Commission promised to release the information and even set up an inter-ministerial committee under the Project Monitoring Services Director to compile all the information and give to the Bayelsa State government’s team. We have been on this for the last two years yet they have not supplied us any of such.   “Even though we have supplied them with our own questionnaire template with which we are seeking the information, we have even moved further to make the Attorney-General of the state to write them officially that if they failed give us the information as promised, we will resort to the provision so the Freedom of Information Act, but it was as if we are pouring water on the feather of a fowl. Nothing has been done,”  Ambaiowei said.   He added: “Currently there is an Acting Managing Director whom the committee has made recourse to, and don’t forget he has been there, representing Bayelsa State on the Commission, but we have gone back to him that we have 893 projects you have cited in Bayelsa and promised to provide us with information about their locations and the stage of work, but up till now, we are yet to get anything from them.  “Since April 2018 when I made the preliminary report and he directed the Executive Director Project Monitoring Service to provide the information, till this minute, we have not been able to interact with him despite several visits there. Even when we managed to enter his office, he was not there, neither could we trace our letters to their office. The bureaucracy is frustrating and it seems they are aware of the intended outcome, hence the current rigmarole.”   He lamented that recent disclosure by the new NDDC Acting Chairman during a visit to Governor Seriake Dickson that NDDC now has 1,333 projects in Bayelsa State, did not even help matters, because the state has been unable to ascertain such. Ambaiowei, an engineer and former Commissioner of Works and Infrastructure in Bayelsa State during the tenure of then Governor Goodluck Jonathan, said the if all measures failed, the state may resort to legally activating some social methods of sealing off the NDDC Directorate Office in the state until the commission responded to the demands of the committee, “because there is a world of difference between NDDC allocating projects and executing them, verifying these projects is vital.”   He added that with the NDDC now run by the APC government but Bayelsa is controlled by a PDP government, it would pay the former better to work with the Bayelsa State Government’s Project verification efforts to provide update on the projects as a way of endearing themselves to the electorate in the state.