The annual Udiroko Festival is a celebration of the cultural essence of the Ado people dating back to the establishment of Ado Kingdom, says Oba Rufus Adeyemo Aladesami, the Ewi of Ado Ekiti. He also stressed that the Festival is a ritual free celebration predicated on history, culture, and traditions of Ado Ekiti.  The Monarch stated that during the festival which commenced on Monday and will end on August 20, at the Ewi Palace, Ado Ekiti, there would be no deity worshipping, idolatry and secret ceremonies.  The Ewi, who spoke in Lagos penultimate Wednesday, said ‘Udiroko Festival’ is purely the celebration of the cultural essence of the Ado people, and that it has nothing to do with rituals, fetishes and idolism. “I wish to emphatically state that the foregoing articulation of the historical pedigree of Udiroko Festival and its celebrations over the years in Ado Ekiti is for the purpose of further educating the public.  “Thus is done with a view to fostering its acceptability as one of the components that form the tripod history, culture and tradition) upon which has been so from the inception of the Ado Kingdom,” he said. He assured that the organising committee has put in place effective security measures to ensure smooth hosting of the festival.  He urged all sons and daughters of Ado Ekiti at home and in Diaspora to come home for the new year celebration of Udiroko Festival. “It is hoped that the Udiroko Festival would gain international recognition that would propel it amidst its cultural peers in other kingdoms and climes within and outside Nigeria,” he said.  Also, part of the activities at the festival is the provision of medical free checks for people. Director General Ekiti State Arts Council, Wale Ojo Lanre, said: “The council has the full mandate of the government of Dr. Kayode Fayemi to promote our culture as well as our core values in order to evolve a state that manifest the vision of its founding fathers; this explains the passion and commitment of the council towards a collaboration with communities to transform their festivals into prosperity instrument for the people.”  He noted that since it is within the purview of the council to inject critical innovation into the original manners of celebrating festivals in Ekiti, ‘we initiated the world press conference in furtherance of the strategic marketing of some Ekiti festivals.’  “We have noticed the energy and vigour with which the Ewi and the people of Ado prepare and celebrate Udiroko annually, hence our decision to partner Ado Ekiti people to rebrand the festival, globalised its celebrating, seek marketers for the festival so that it becomes self sustaining and involve Ado Ekiti indigenes in the diaspora as well as those outside the shores of Ekiti,” Ojo-Lanre said.