Investors in banks quoted on the main board and premium board of the nation’s stock market reported a cumulative loss of about N237 billion during the month of July 2019 following sustained sell off. The stocks recorded the loss despite impressive earnings results and dividends released by most lenders in the sector and also the listing of telecom giant, Airtel Africa Plc, which was expected to bring positive sentiments to the market. Checks by New Telegraph revealed that the stocks recorded a loss of N237 billion or 9.1 per cent to close at N2.366 trillion in market capitalisation on the last trading day of July 31 as against opening figure of N2.603 trillion at the beginning of trading on July 1. Market analysts believe bargain hunters especially foreign portfolio investors, who dominate the equity market, have continued to trade cautiously in the short to medium term, as selloffs persisted, amidst growing political and security tension arising from delay in constitution of new cabinet by the Federal Government. The delay by Mohammadu Buhari to inaugurate ministers and other officials, who should give clear policy direction of the economy after his inauguration, is believed to be crippling the equities market. Market watchers said investors, especially foreigners, were unlikely to make significant investment in the market, if any at all, until they have a clear picture of the policy direction of government. This, according them, is due to delay in the formation of a cabinet and lack of vital information about what the economy direction is going to look like, leaving investors uncertain about what policies the government would implement as regards socio-political and economic operating environment. The Managing Director, Cowry Asset Management Limited, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, reacting to the development, said that the policies of the government would determine the return of foreign investors and an upturn in investment in the capital market. Chukwu noted that the economic policies of the new government would make the capital market attractive or unattractive for investors, both local and international investors. He said: “If the government comes up with policies that make Nigerian instruments very attractive and then stabilises the exchange rate or the exchange rate is at a level where foreign investors believe it will not depreciate materially further, then you will see the return of foreign investors, which may up their share in the market.” Chukwu said to encourage more retail investors to come back to the market, the returns matrix must favour equities against fixed income. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had said that the major contributory factor to the current downward trend of the market was the outflow of foreign investment. Acting Director General of SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, who spoke while responding to questions from journalists recently, said the outflow had led to sell pressure accumulating into depressed prices. This, she said, was one of the reasons the commission is mapping out strategies to build confidence in the market and encourage more retail investors.