 A s a means of curbing the social vices and myriads of misdemeanors ravaging lives of adolescents in the country, over 100 Christian youths are currently in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, for a leadership training aimed at shaping their orientation for a better future. Under the umbrella of Catholic Youth Organisation of Nigeria (CYON), St. Denis Catholic Church, Bariga, Lagos, the 5-day conference holding at St. Theresa Minor Seminary, Oke Are, Ibadan, kicked off Friday. It has as its theme LEADS, an acronym for:  “Lead, Engage, Activate, Develop and Spiritualize”. The participants came from Catholic churches in Lagos State.   According to the organisers, the goals of the conference include: “Creating long-lasting friendship among youths, improving on their leadership and communication skills as well as deepening their faith in the Catholic.”   The elated participants, who have been engaged in excursions, games, evangelism and competitions, are between 18 and 30 years.   In an interview with Sunday Telegraph, the organiser of the conference, Linda Obi, a lawyer, a motivational speaker and teenager’s coach, said: “The aim of the conference is to gather youths from the Catholic and other churches to stand up and create long lasting friendships and relationships which would help in shaping their future and to live their purpose in life.  “We also aim at creating an enabling environment for youths with entrepreneurial skills. We are ready to make sure that our youths have a good communication network with each other so as to see the efficiency of networking and how they can use it to benefit their lives in future.   “We are also here to re-awake the sleeping Catholic youths from their slumber, in terms of their Catholic faith. Most youths in Catholic churches are somehow shy, and in this gathering we inculcate the spirit of friendship in them, and also the spirit of relating with each other, as this will go a long way to shape their future for better.   “We are just through with a session now, which is called the interactive session. It is an avenue for youths from different backgrounds and homes to interact with one another for about 30 minutes. They are free to relate with one another on different issues that are of interest to them.   “We have youths from the Redeemed Christian Church of God and other churches as well. We have sponsors but we still need more support from individuals, organizations or even government in order to sustain this program. Our youths need constant orientation, and spiritual sanitizing, to distance them from evil and demonic pressures.”