 Aprison stakeholder, Pastor Femi Fafowora, has called on the Federal Government to ensure speedy reforms in the Nigerian Prisons and justice system. Fafowora made this appeal at the 11th Annual Praise Festival, organised by the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) and others in Lagos. He said: “Maximum, Medium and other prisons were built for specific offenders, but regrettably, this is no longer the case. All inmates are now lumped together, no matter the weight of the offence, owing to explosion in the number of inmates. “We are begging the necessary authorities to see to the speedy reform in the prisons as well as the justice system. I know of an inmate, who has been on death row in a prison for 23 years. I wondered the rationale behind such a situation.” The cleric noted that religious bodies and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) had often collaborated with the prison authorities to train inmates on various skills and vocations. He said: “The prison is to correct and not merely to condemn. Inmates should be treated well. The prison authorities should ensure that justice is not only served, but served speedily as justice delayed is justice denied.” The Head of Kirikiri Medium Security Prison, Deputy Comptroller of Prisons (DCP), Ben Rabbi Freedman (Rev.), commended churches and NGOs on their impact towards correctional values brought into the prisons. He commended the management, staff of the Medium Security Prison and the inmates as well as all the clerics, partners and other stakeholders, who have continuously ensured that the praise festival continued to hold and has now held for 11 years. Freedman said that 99 per cent of the activities performed at the event were solely done by the inmates. He added: “Some of the inmates have written the General Certificate of Education (GCE) O’ Level and those who excelled had been granted admission into the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) to pursue various academic disciplines.” The guest minister, Emeka Eze, who spoke on, “Enter His Courts with praise,” said that the goal of the event was to rebrand and refocus the attention of young men and women from evil to total service and dependence on God, taking into cognisance the alarming rate of crime among youths as well as the high prison population. He called on all well-meaning Nigerians and churches to join hands by contributing bountifully towards this noble project. Another stakeholder, Pastor Audu Daniel, speaking on ‘Life after Prison,’ expressed worries about discriminations faced by inmates after they are released from prison. He said: “The whole essence of incarceration, rehabilitation programmes, church visits and ministration, counselling and mentoring in the prisons are aimed at reformation, remodelling and reintegration into the society.” A stakeholder at the event, Chaplain Darlington Ajitemisan, called on the authorities to build functional libraries in prisons. He said that the ongoing prison reforms should be fully implemented so that prisons would be decongested and classified effectively and efficiently. This, according to him, will ensure that those in prison for minor and civil offences are not lumped together with those serving capital offences or on death row. Ajitemisan called on the Federal Government to reform the Criminal Procedure Law (CPL) as there are many inmates who are not supposed to be in prison. The chaplain called on all and sundry to welcome former prisoners with open arms as stigmatising them might likely push them back into crime. He enjoined all partners and stakeholders to work harder to integrate them back into the society.