Wife of the Ondo State Governor, Mrs  Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu has raised alarm over the high rate of defilement of minor and rape of women in the state. Mrs. Akeredolu who led a walk against rape in Akure, the State capital also sent a distress call to all stake holders towards finding lasting solution to the worrisome cases of defilement and raping of minors which has become a reoccurring decimal in some part of the state. She called for legislations that would ensure stiffer penalties for rapists, child abusers and predators. The walk which started at the palace of Deji of Akure, Oba Ogunlade Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, terminated at Oke Eda area of the town. Similar walk against rape took place simultaneously in all other 17 local government areas of the state. Mrs Akeredolu had chaired a stakeholders’ meeting where she frowned on subjecting minors to trauma in the hands of rapists and solutions were proffered on how rape could be nipped in the bud. At the stakeholders meeting were Non Governmental Organisations NGOs, Commissioners, officials of Ministry of Women Affairs, Ministry of justice, representative of Police force, representative of NSCDC, NDLEA, and chairpersons of 18 Local Government Areas of the State. Her words: “The defilement of a-six year old girl at Ode-Irele and another seven years old at Owo area worrisome. I don’t have to keep quiet when I heard these cases; my heart was broken. We will break the bureaucratic bottle neck that has been responsible for the previous delay in such cases.” “After today, men will not do such thing because we are set to ensure that we get to the root of the matter. People often say that ladies wear trousers and spaghetti dresses and that was the reasons they are being rapped. Would you say that these children of six and seven year put on trousers and spaghetti dresses? This is evil that we must fight to a standstill.” During the walk against rape, the state Commissioner  for Woman Affairs,  Mrs. Titilayo Adeyemi, who represented the First Lady said that the women were in the palace to seek for monarch’s support and inform him that the menace has become worrisome to womenfolk. “Kabiyesi, we are here to inform the palace that the issue of rape is a great concern to everybody. We are tired of it and we are here to solicit the help of the palace. When a minor is raped, it may cause premature death, sickness and trauma. “There is high tendency for rape victims to develop unnecessary hatred to men, making such victims difficult to have good homes.” She added that rape menace should be condemned by all and sundry, asking traditional institution to expose suspected rapists for proper punishment. In his response, Oba Aladetoyinbo applauded Mrs Ayanwu-Akeredolu for taking the initiative to stop the menace of rape in the state. The monarch, who condemned the menace, advocated life punishment for rapists.  He added that all morally, human beings should support the initiative and contribute to it. Oba Aladetoyinbo asked the women to handover any suspect of rape to the palace for traditional oath-taking before being handed to police for legal action. According to him,  the palace is in support of the initiative, saying the  women should continue to protest until no rape case happens in the state. The wife of the state Commissioner for Natural Resources, Mrs Aderoju Oluwatuyi said that the essence of the walk was to propagate against rape in the state.  Mrs Oluwatuyi thanked the governor’s wife for her initiative to curb unnecessary sexual harassment to womenfolk in the state. She added that the trauma felt by rape victims, was killing, asking for stiffer punishment for rapists. The Erelu Iyaloja of Akure Kingdom, Chief Mercy Adekanye tasked parents to train their and rise up to their responsibility. Buttressing the point of the First Lady, Ms.Tobiloba  Fademi,  Chief Press Secretary to the governor’s wife,  said that rate of  rape was becoming alarming in the state.  According to her,  parents should monitor and protect their children,  tasking the society not to shield rape suspects but hand them to appropriate authorities. She added that more stringent measure against rapists, saying that only holistic approach would curb the menace.