…over non-inclusion of Abuja indigenes  The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday refused to grant an order seeking to stop President Muhammadu Buhari from inaugurating the newly appointed ministers. The president is billed to inaugurate the ministers tomorrow. The court, in a ruling on a motion ex parte application brought by aggrieved indigenes of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and legal practitioner, Musa Baba-Panya, declined to grant the order. The court, however, ordered that the respondents be put on notice. Baba-Panya had on behalf of himself and the indigenes of Abuja, sued President Buhari and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) to court for failing to appoint an indigene of the FCT into the Federal Executive Council (FEC). Respondents in the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/878/19, are President Buhari and the Attorney General of the Federation as 1st and 2nd respondents respectively. Out of the 43 ministerial nominees into the FEC of the current dispensation, none is from FCT. This development prompted the applicant to approach the court for an order stopping Buhari from going ahead with the planned inauguration pending the hearing and determination of the main suit challenging the non-inclusion of FCT representative in the cabinet. Delivering judgement, Justice Taiwo Taiwo held that the applicant was guilty of delay, since the names of the ministers have already been confirmed by the National Assembly. Justice Taiwo, in addition, said the court has no place to grant an injunction when the applicant has not established a legal right. While holding that the court is inclined to grant an accelerated hearing in the main suit than granting a restraining order, the judge, however, advised the plaintiff to serve the processes on the AGF alone, since it may be very difficult to personally serve Buhari with the suit. The court further held that the matter shall be placed on the court list after service is done personally on the respondents. Arguing the motion last week, Baba-panya, who is from Karu in the FCT, submitted that the President’s action was contrary to a Court of Appeal judgement delivered on March 15, 2018. Baba-Panya submitted that the Appeal Court’s ruling was a compelling order, which was served on the president through the AGF. In his originating summon dated August 7 and filed on August 8, the applicant argued that “the 43 confirmed ministerial appointees now awaiting swearing-in or inauguration as the Federal Executive Council is incomplete, illegal, unconstitutional, null, void and of no effect whatsoever.” He therefore prayed the court to grant an interim injunction restraining the president from inaugurating the ministers-designate pending the determination of the motion on notice. He said allowing the president to go on with his decision would mean that “he is going to constitute an illegal cabinet.” Meanwhile, indigenes of the FCT have threatened a showdown with the Buhari-led Federal Government, following their non-representation in FEC Speaking to journalists shortly after the court’s ruling on Monday in Abuja, spokesperson for the Coalition of FCT Indigenes, Ahmad Yusuf, warned that they would no longer tolerate acts of marginalisation. Yusuf, who accused the judiciary and the legislature of conniving with the executive to deprive Abuja indigenes of their rights, stressed that they have been pushed to the wall and have no other choice but to look for other alternatives to get justice.