 F rom the actions and speeches of Governor Seyi Makinde since he assumed office on May 29 as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) helmsman of the 43-year-old Pace Setter State of Oyo, people’s assessment of him is that of a man that has idiomatically come to cleanse the Augean Stable. The business mogul has inherited a lot of liabilities both financial, social, economic, and otherwise from his predecessor such that discoveries which are being unearthed on daily basis have put the two Ibadan political gladiators on edge in terms of relationship. Poised to see that he achieves his electoral promises of alleviating the masses’ suffering and depart from the culture of empty promises that many of his predecessors were notorious for, Makinde has within the 100 days of his administration, taken several intervention giant strides in the pursuit of rehabilitation and correction of the identified patent and latent dysfunctions bedeviling the smooth-running of his administration.  Among the contending issues Makinde has been unknotting are some questionable contract awards executed in the twilight of the past administration; the issue of official vehicles that were carted away by the ex-governor, his wife and some of his aides; the controversial issue of 48 High Chiefs and Baales, who were elevated and installed as Obas in Ibadan against the consenting approval of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogunguniso 1; among others. Some of these contending issues are still rupturing the political atmosphere of the state, chief among them, the Ibadan obaship which is still in the court and causing an unsavoury furore between the obas led by the Otun Olubadan, Oba Lekan Balogun (next in position to the Olubadan) and the monarch himself.  To ensure a lasting solution is found to the traditional imbroglio, Governor Makinde has even waded in through the Appeal Court to see that an out-of-court settlement is introduced to allow for peace in the city.  In his strive to reposition the ailing infrastructural and economic architecture of the administration and create conducive environment for businesses within, the state has planned to restore the glory of Bola Ige International Business Complex, Gbagi, Ibadan. The market, it was said would be returned to its original international standard as provided in its master plan. The market according to assessment by the government is currently in a state of disrepair owing to organisational deficit.  The plan to restore the market was contained in a communique issued after a stakeholders’ meeting held recently at the market between the market leaders and the task force committee set up by the governor to restructure the business complex. The Chairman of the task force committee, Sanitarian Olusoji Oyewole in his briefing, assured the market men and women that the state government remained committed to providing them the basic facilities that would promote the economic activities in the market. His words: “The Oyo State Government under the leadership of Engineer Seyi Makinde has deemed it fit to ensure that Bola Ige International Business Complex regains its lost age-long status as a major hub of wholesale textile materials, servicing both neighboring, far and distant states in Nigeria,” he said.  Harping on the intention of the administration in setting up the task force, Oyewole said “It is not to witch-hunt anyone in the market but rather towards seeking their cooperation and support for proper waste dumping of refuse, hygienic toilet facilities, large number of parking lots for convenience and easy access to the market, as well as, considerable open spaces in construction of approved buildings.” He, however, urged the market community to keep to the environmental laws and town planning regulations of the state, noting that the market stood to benefit if commercial activities were carried out in clean and serene environment.  In his remarks, the representative of the elders’ forum in the market, Chief Adebayo, expressed appreciation to the state government and further pledged support of the market community towards the actualisation of restoring the market to international standard.  Another sector of the state which needs urgent intervention, and which has brought migraine for the Makinde government is the management of some vital ministries, among them the Ministry of Information. Paucity of equipment is the bane of its operation. Conducting a tour of the ministry last week, the Oyo State Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun, lamented the deplorable condition of the Cultural Centre in the state, disclosing that his ministry has no single digital camera to work with. He described the condition of the ministry as pathetic, disturbing, and disappointing. To his assessment, the state printing press was still using old technology which was last operated over 20 years ago. Olatunbosun, who reeled out his modern programmes to drive information in the state and reverse the deplorable state, however, said he was very happy that the governor had people with latest experience in all the sectors of economy in his cabinet. “We have toured the agencies in our ministry but I can tell you that the condition is pathetic, disturbing, and disappointing. Nothing on ground to work with. As big as this ministry is, there is no single camera to work with. We have editing and television studios but there is nothing in those places. I was told that politicians went with some of the equipment they used during the 2015 general elections.  “As I am talking to you, the Commissioner does not have an official vehicle. On our cultural section, I can tell you that our Cultural Centre which is the hub of the culture department is in dilapidated condition. In fact, it is a death trap. It was neglected for the past ten years. “I think it is a deliberate attempt to neglect our culture. This kind of edifice (Cultural Centre) is in three locations in Nigeria. While other state governments are managing their own, the Oyo State government neglected its own for many years. “They used to have two generating sets in that place before now but politicians took the two away in a single day. They claimed that government wanted to use it and up till today, they didn’t return it. After that, we went to the state press centre, but do you know that they are still using Lord Lugard technology there?  The last time they printed in our press was four years ago. But we will resuscitate the ministry,” he nevertheless assured.   On what to do to improve the ministry, he said he had a blue print to reposition the ministry, and that he would ensure the governor enjoyed a good relationship with the people. In the judicial sector, the helmsman said the state was set to introduce parole system for rehabilitation of prisoners as a way of decongesting it and allow for quicker dispensation of justice and sanitisation of the society. The state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Oyelowo Oyewo disclosed this during an interactive session with journalists, shortly after an inaugural meeting with the management and staff of the ministry in Ibadan. The Commissioner stated  that there was need to create a viable platform for proper rehabilitation of prisoners who were released through prerogative of mercy for them to become a better person.  His words: “We are going to come up with policies that the judiciary will focus on. For instance, non-custodial sentences policy and parole system for prisoners rehabilitation. An effective parole system will be introduced so that prisoners that were given prerogative of mercy do not go back to prison. This will be done in conjunction with the religious leaders, civil society and charity organisations.” Before his assumption of office, payment of workers’ salaries was a cause for concern as no one could determine when within or outside the month, the salary would be paid. The welfarist governor promised to be paying workers’ salaries timely and they would be receiving it on the 25th of every month. This promise has continued unbroken, to the delight and admiration of the entire people of the state. Testifying, many workers said they can now plan their finances since they ow when credit alert will sound on their mobile phones. Many parents, who no longer pay tuition fees, however, small that the N3,000 is, have heaved a sigh of relief as the enrolment of many hitherto out-of-school children has been increasing both at the primary and secondary schools.  Aside from donating his salary to the Pension Fund scheme to alleviate the suffering of pensioners whose pension and gratuities were not paid for several months by the past administration, Makinde, who is committed to improving the education sector, recently announced payment of N500,000 bursary to each of the 120 students of the Law School who are Oyo State indigenes. The N60m million it will cost has won the governor another garland.  Attention of the governor has, however, been drawn to a perceived injustice smuggled into the process by some people who excluded a horde of qualified students, many who had even been processing the bursary before Senator Abiola Ajimobi left the office. The original list of those students sent to the Abuja headquarters of the Law School was allegedly sidelined while the list presented to the governor contained almost only names of Law graduates of the Lead City University, Ibadan. In their series of consultations and visits to officials of the state government, the Oyo State Indigene representatives from the six Law Schools in the country have continued to seek Governor Makinde’s understanding that his show of magnanimity should not be lopsided, but extended to all the qualified Oyo State indigenes in the Law School.  Many among such laudable plans are still being churned out by the government which is genuinely committed to making life more meaningful and worthy of living by the residents of the state. Should the humane trend continue, the orientation of the electorate is sure to change towards the right way to vote in the future.