Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing people with intellectual capacity and political dexterity to drive the next level agenda. Acknowledging the pedigree of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha and Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari, the former governor stressed that the executive, legislative and judiciary will work harmoniously for the sake of national wellbeing. Kalu, while congratulating the newly-appointed ministers, special advisers and other political appointees, charged the political class to live up to expectations. Speaking yesterday with a cross section of supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia North Senatorial District, the former governor urged Nigerians to sustain their support for President Muhammadu Buhari in his efforts to reposition the country. He called on the newly-inaugurated Federal Executive Council (FEC) members to emulate the president in discharging their national duties. Kalu said: “The appointments made thus far by President Buhari are impressive and remarkable. The president has appointed people with a verifiable track record in the private and public spheres of life. “The APC has a robust manifesto with emphasis on improving the welfare of Nigerians. With a quality team, President Buhari’s vision for Nigeria can be achieved. “The 9th National Assembly will work closely with the executive, judiciary and other stakeholders in advancing the cause of Nigeria. With the calibre of people appointed by the president, the country will move forward.” The chief whip of the Senate, while encouraging the newly sworn in ministers and heads of government agencies to present their budgets to the National Assembly in September, emphasized that the parliament was desirous of passing the 2020 budget before the end of the year. Kalu wished the new appointees success in their respective roles.