Analysts at ARM Research have predicted that the recovery in both the agriculture and manufacturing sectors witnessed in the first quarter of this year will propel Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth over 2019 by 20bps to 2.2 per cent compared with 1.8 per cent last year. The analysts, who stated this in a note obtained by New Telegraph yesterday, also cited the improved activity in the ICT subsector in Q1 19, to boost the country’s economic growth this year. According to them, “coming into 2019, our views on FX stability and expected calmness in the polity post-election had informed our stance of an improvement in economic growth over the year. Notably, we had stated that the growth will be anchored on stronger performance in the non-oil sector as the lower investment in the oil sector – save for the addition of the Egina oil field – amidst shut-ins at key oil exporting pipelines will result in slower growth in the oil sector and by extension a much slower contribution to overall GDP. “Notwithstanding, our optimism of stronger contribution from the non-oil sector, we had downplayed the impact of the innovative programmes by key industry players in the ICT on the overall subsector growth. Reflecting the improved activity in the ICT subsector in Q1 19, coupled with recovery in both the Agriculture and manufacturing sectors, we now expect a much robust growth in GDP over 2019 by 20bps to 2.2 per cent year-on-year (YoY) (FY 18: 1.9% YoY).” Specifically, the analysts said they expect the agric and manufacturing sectors to grow at 3.2 per cent   and 2.13 per cent respectively. However, despite recent Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) policies aimed at enhancing private sector lending, the analysts said they don’t see the financial services  really boosting  economic growth “as banks remain cautious in growing their risk assets.” It would be recalled that in its latest quarterly World Economic Outlook (WEO), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) revised upwards Nigeria’s GDP growth rate projection for 2019 to 2.3 per cent from its April estimate of 2.1 per cent. It also marginally revised the country’s growth rate projection for 2020 to 2.6 per cent from its previous forecast of 2.5 per cent. IMF said: “Higher, albeit volatile, oil prices have supported the outlook for Angola, Nigeria, and other oil-exporting countries in the region. But growth in South Africa is expected at a more subdued pace in 2019 than projected in the April WEO following a very weak first quarter, reflecting a larger-than-anticipated impact of strike activity and energy supply issues in mining and weak agricultural production.”