…as  Police rearrest kidnap kingpin in Kano Suspected kidnap kingpin, Mr. Hamisu Bala (alias Wadume), has made a shocking revelation of how soldiers allegedly shot and killed operatives of the IGP’s Intelligence Response Team (IRT), shortly after effecting his arrest in Ibi community of Taraba State.  Wadume made the alleged confession in a less-than-a-minute video posted on the verified Twitter handle of the Nigeria Police.  Wadume, who was arrested by IRT operatives on August 6, was allegedly set free by soldiers of the 93 Battalion stationed at a checkpoint within the Ibi general area, as the operatives made their way to the Taraba State Police Command Headquarters in Jalingo.  In the short video made in Hausa language, the suspected kidnapper had further claimed that after his release, soldiers allegedly took him to their “headquarters”, where his handcuffs were cut.  “Police came to arrest me, When they arrested me, army chased after them and opened fire.  “From there, they (soldiers) took me to their headquarters, and cut up my handcuffs.  “I went back to my house and Police came to re-arrest me…”, he claimed  in the video.  This came after operatives of the IGP Intelligence Response Team (IRT) rearrested Wadume 13 days after his controversial release.  It will be recalled that Madume was first arrested by IRT operatives in his Ibi community of Taraba State, on August 6.  He was, however, set free allegedly by soldiers of 93 Battalion, who had attacked the special forces on their way to the State Police Command Headquarters in Jalingo, leading to the death of three of the police operatives, and a civilian.  Those killed according to the  Police, were: Inspector Mark Ediale, Sergeants Usman Danzumi and Sergeant Dahiru Musa, as well as  the civilian, Mr. Olajide Owolabi.  The Nigerian Army, whose troops were accused of killing the police officers and civilian, had swiftly defended its men, saying the circumstance had presented the forced as “suspected kidnappers