Authorities of the Benue State University Makurdi yesterday said that they had transferred the National President of the National Union of Benue State Students (NUBESS), Comrade Smith Tyonor, to Abuja for further treatment. Tyonor was shot in the head at the school’s gate last Friday. The attack on the students’ leader elicited mild protest by the students who came out in their numbers with placards to protest. They also blocked all categories of staff from having access to their offices. The aggrieved students expressed anger over the manner doctors at the Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH) had abandoned their colleague to wallow in pains of gunshot attack without proper medical attention and threatened to shut down the institution if their leader was not flown overseas for medication. Some of the placards carried with inscriptions such as: “BSU Teaching Hospital must be well-equipped,” “NUBESS President must be treated abroad.” But briefing journalists in his office, the Dean of Students Affairs of the university, Prof Joseph Kerker, said that the authorities had transferred the NUBESS president to Abuja for further treatment. Kerker, who narrated how the incident occurred, said Smith was shot by gunmen who were riding on a motorcycle. He explained that the university acted based on the complaint lodged before it by the family of Smith and other leaders of NUBESS about the security, safety and well-being of their overall leader and son. The dean disclosed that Tyonor, a 400 Level Psychology student, was shot last Friday about 9p.m. outside the university premises and admitted at the BSUTH. He added: “Two persons came on a motorbike where they were holding a meeting opposite the university and a fracas ensued. The men inquired what was happening and then went a little distance and shot Smith on the head. “The next day (Saturday), I went to the hospital to see him but heard a lot of complaints from the students and family members requesting that he should be transferred to another hospital in Abuja. “I arranged for an ambulance from First Fertility Hospital even as we learnt that Governor Samuel Ortom had already released an undisclosed amount of money for his treatment. The hospital authorities, after conducting a test on Smith, said he passed 14 per cent over 15 per cent, indicating that he was in a stable condition. There was improvement on his condition when I visited again on Sunday. “On the same Sunday night, the students became agitated, complaining of poor treatment and security of the victim. So, we decided to transfer him to Abuja based on security and have even spent over N300,000 so far on his treatment as well as gave his parents another N100,000 for exigencies.”