R emains of slain Enugu Catholic priest, Rev Fr. Paul Offu, were yesterday laid to rest at Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu.   Thousands of Catholic faithful and dignitaries, including Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, were on hand to bid Offu, who was kidnapped and assassinated on August 1, 2019 by herdsmen, farewell. Offu’s body was brought to the church premises about 9a.m., where he was buried after church service, to give him last respect and to pray for peaceful repose of his soul.   Speaking before the service to bid Offu farewell, the Catholic Bishop of Enugu, Most Rev Bishop Calistus Onaga, said “the death of Fr Paul had sent a message not just to us, Enugu State, but to the whole of Nigeria and the world”.   He urged the faithful and the country to realise that the responsibility of security in the state and Nigeria was not just of those in power but everyone.   Commending the governor and security agencies on their effort so far to arrest the killer herdsmen, Onaga pointed out that God answered the prayers of Christians who prayed without ceasing.   Onaga, who urged the faithful to leave a holy life and believe in God the creator, prayed God to receive Offu’s soul.   Onaga, who commended Ugwuanyi for his commitment to tackle insecurity in the state, urged the priests to contribute their own quota to ensure that the menace was solved, and to avoid movement on the street after 6p.m.   He said: “Those who killed Fr Paul Offu have been caught. Not only that, those who killed Fr Clement have been caught as well. God is answering our prayer. Your Excellency (Ugwuanyi), thank you so much, we are praying for you too and we shall continue to work together.”   During a sermon, the Priest of Holy Innocent Parish, Amagunze, Nkanu East, Very Rev. Fr. Sylvester Nwodo, lamented the continued attacks on the priests, saying that the diocese had convened again within a short period of time to bid farewell to another priest.   He said the priest before his sudden death in the hands of Fulani herdsmen was “an active pastoral, a game changer, a charisma and a soul winner to God”.   In attendance were Bishop of Awgu Diocese, Bishop Ifeanyuchukwu John Okoye, who offered prayers for the peaceful repose of the soul of Fr Paul Offu, Bishop of Nsukka Diocese, Godfrey Onah and other bishops, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, his deputy, Hon Dennis Amadi and chairmen of the 17 local government areas of the state.   The state Commissioner of Police, Sulaiman Balarabe, a few days ago, named Ibrahim Adamu (25), from Taraba State and Idris Tobe, who claimed to be a Cameroonian but born and raised in Enugu, as being responsible for the murder of Offu.