Manchester United face a 6,000-mile round trip to play Astana in Kazakhstan in the Europa League. The 2017 winners will also take on Partizan Belgrade and AZ Alkmaar, while Wolves – playing in Europe for the first time since 1980 – face Besiktas, Braga and Slovan Bratislava Arsenal, who lost to Chelsea in last season’s final, have drawn Eintracht Frankfurt, Standard Liege and Vitoria. Celtic will face Lazio, while Rangers are in a tough group with Porto. It is a difficult assignment for both Scottish clubs, with Neil Lennon’s Celtic also taking on Romanian champions Cluj, who knocked them out of Champions League qualifying, and French top-flight side club Rennes. Rangers, managed by Steven Gerrard, have also been drawn against Dutch Eredivisie club Feyenoord and Swiss side Young Boys. Premier League side Manchester United have arguably one of the more testing draws, including a nine-hour-plus flight to play Astana. European football’s governing body UEFA has ordered Serbian club Partizan Belgrade to play two matches behind closed doors after their qualifying game against Turkish club Yeni Malatyaspor was marred by supporters’ “racist behaviour”. AZ Alkmaar, United’s third Group L opponents, saw part of the roof at had part of the roof collapse at their ground earlier in August. Arsenal face German top-flight opposition in Eintracht Frankfurt, who lost on penalties to Chelsea in the semi-finals last season. Wolves have already come through three ties just to reach the group stage, including beating Serie A side Torino 5-3 on aggregate in the play-offs, reports the BBC. Group stage draw in full: Group A: Sevilla, Apoel Nicosia, Qarabag, F91 Dudelange Group B: Dynamo Kiev, FC Copenhagen, Malmo, Lugano Group C: Basel, Krasnodar, Getafe, Trabzonspor Group D: Sporting Lisbon, PSV Eindhoven, Rosenborg, Lask Group E: Lazio, Celtic, Rennes, Cluj Group F: Arsenal, Eintracht Frankfurt, Standard Liege, Vitoria Group G: Porto, Young Boys, Feyenoord, Rangers Group H: CSKA, Moscow, Ludogorets, Espanyol, Ferencvaros Group I: Wolsfburg, Gent, Saint-Etienne, Olexandriya Group J: Roma, Borussia Monchengladbach, Istanbul Basaksehir, Wolfsberger AC Group K: Besiktas, Braga, Slovan Bratislava, Wolves Group L: Manchester United, FC Astana, Partizan Belgrade, AJ Alkmaar