Says music, colours relieve stress   M edical Director of the Federal Neuro a Hospital Yaba (FNPHY), Dr. Oluwayemi Ogun has alerted the populace on the need to address mental health challenges in children and adolescents, saying between 10 to 20 per cent of children in any population suffer severe mental health disorder.  According to Ogun, although it was not all affected children that get medical attention, it has become essential to effectively treat such mental health conditions so as to prevent them from developing into drug abuse and other forms of mental health disorders in later years.   While raising the alarm that cases of severe child mental health disorders were on the rise in the country, she stated that between 80 and 150 new cases were admitted every week at the Child And Adolescent Mental Health Services Centre (CAMHSC), Oshodi, Lagos, which is an annex of the FNPHY.  She spoke during the FNPHY celebration of 20 years of child and adolescent mental health services in Nigeria, which held at the CAMHSC, Oshodi annex.   “It’s the practice all over the world to a separate facility for the treatment of child mental health conditions,” she said.   Speaking further, Ogun lamented that part of the reason many parents and caregivers were reluctant bringing affected children for medical care was because of stigmatisation.   “We have pushed mental health challenges to the background as if it doesn’t affect us; until the issues of drug abuse and misuse begin to arise in adolescents, people feel less concerned,” she lamented. However, Ogun said: “Drug abuse is real.”  According to her, many cases of drug abuse victims were now being admitted at the FNPHY, adding that the prevalence of drug abuse in the society has gone up.   Highlighting some of the strategies being used to tackle child mental health disorders, Ogun said murals and music were used. “Music therapy and medicine go hand in hand. Many students listen to music while reading; it’s therapeutic and music has been recognised as therapeutic.   “Music has physical, emotional, cognitive and social links. Music is actually good for the soul.” For children that were still having problems with communications, she noted that they mimic what was being said, adding that music could help their social skills.   Speaking about the impact of murals, Ogun said it was about lives and colour. “When things are beautiful, the mind will have the best of inspiration from there.”