The fourth season of the hugely popular reality TV show, Big Brother Naija is back on our screens and fans are eager to see the housemate who will be propelled to instant stardom from this season. This year’s season is already generating a lot of excitement and frenzy among viewers who are anticipating the next star that will emerge from this competition in few months’ time.  BBNaija is a great talent factory where stars are made. Over the years we have seen ex-housemates who are thrust into stardom by just being on the show. It has helped a lot of ex-housemates achieve their career trajectories which would have taken years to achieve. The platform has indeed propelled some to heights unimagined and to gain fame and fortune that seemed impossible before entering the Big Brother house. From zero to unimaginable, here are ladies who used the BBNaija platform to make a success of their careers and achieve fame and lifelong dreams as VANESSA OKWARA reports  Cynthia Nwadiora aka Cee-C   Cynthia Nwadiora, a lawyer, worked as an outdoor advertising practitioner and was relatively unknown before going into the BBNaija house. Cee-C was unarguably the most controversial housemate ever to get in to the Big Brother house.  She was outspoken and didn’t care whose ox was gored as she made her views and opinions known on subject matters including picking issues with her fellow housemates.   Her fights with fellow housemate, Tobi Bakre during the season 3 was quite legendary and this earned her both foes and friends alike from across Africa.  She was dubbed the actual ‘Double Wahala’ which was the theme for that year. After 85 eventful days in the house, she came in second place  . Today, with 1.8million followers on Instagram, Cee-C has become a fashion influencer, award winning brand influencer and has worked with brands like Nairabet, Amstel Malta, Huawei Mobile and House of Lunettes. She recently launched her sportswear line, Cegar, which has so far been a major hit among her fan base. Hate her or love her, you cannot deny her presence on the social media influencer space.   She reportedly charges an average of N500, 000 to advertise for brands on social media. She is forever grateful to the platform BBNaija presented to her. Uriel Oputa   Uriel Oputa was an upcoming musician who needed the big platform that Big Brother Naija presented. During her time in the BBNaija season 2 ‘See Gobbe’, Uriel was popular for her melodramatic yet entertaining diary sessions. After finishing in 9th position, Uriel bagged several endorsements and hosting gigs for some big brands such as Maggi, PayPorte, Pedini – Bosch Nigeria, Peak Milk, Indomie etc.  Today, Uriel has a cooking TV show and her own food outfit, ‘UU Kitchen’.  During the visit of Anthony Joshua, the legendary boxer to Nigeria recently, she was contracted as the caterer for some of his projects for children living in the slum.  She currently has over one million followers on Instagram, a thriving wig business and is still a force to be reckoned with in the entertainment industry.   Bam Bam   Oluwabamike (BamBam) Olawunmi is a multi-talented young lady who was part of the BB Naija 2018. No one expected Bam Bam to become an overnight sensation after spending weeks at the Big Brother house. Well, her steamy and romantic relationship with fellow housemate, Teddy A kind of aided in showcasing the beautiful woman. That romance has progressed dramatically and today they are engaged to be married; therefore increasing her popularity and also the BBNaija platform as a place where stars and dreams are actualized.   Since leaving the BBNaija house, Bam Bam has been busy conquering the world with her beauty products and bagging several awards as well.   Ifu-Ennada   Ifu Ennada was already a rising star before going to the Big Brother Naija house. She was already a budding actress before entering the Big Brother House and since leaving the house, Ifu’s acting career has received tremendous boost and leaps and she’s acted in blockbusting movies and trends. She has been really busy trying to use her BBNaija experience to cash out. From hosting events to starting her own cosmetic line and hair wig business, she has indeed soared higher standing on the BBNaija platform.   Nina   Nina Chinonso Onyenobi practically rose from nothing to unimaginable stardom from the BBNaija season three. She was just an ordinary housemate fans didn’t think will make it past the first few weeks in in the Big Brother House but she surprised everyone  when she emerged 5th in that season. Her beautiful and passionate relationship with Miracle who won the competition endeared her to the hearts of many. She became one of the last women standing at the last edition of Big Brother Naija. She graduated from the Imo State University after leaving the Big Brother House and her fan base on social media has increased to 1.4 million followers.  Since then, it has been from one endorsement to another with different cosmetics and fashion brands. She also owns her own cosmetics, fashion and wig brand.   Alex Unusual   Asogwa Alexandra Amuche Sandra, popularly called Alex went unnoticed at the Big Brother house until the first Saturday at the house when it was time to party. We got to see a very bold and free-spirited young beautiful lady showcase her dance moves. She was also among the last five in the last season of the Big BrotherNaija. Since coming out of the show, she has used the platform to grow her fan base to an amazing 1.8 million followers.  This has earned her lots of brand endorsements worth millions. Today she is a known dancer, TV personality and event host. She recently joined the acting world as she was seen in a movie production with AY comedian.   Tboss   Tokunbo Idowu, popularly known as TBoss    was tagged the most controversial Big Brother Naija housemate and second runner-up of the Big Brother Naija season two.  Tboss is hard to forget once you see her. She brought spark and dynamism to the show as she generated both likes and dislikes from lots of fans across Africa. She has generated over 700, 000 fans base on her Instagram page.   She also caused a stir for her male fans by showing her breasts on live TV and fighting with almost everyone in the house.   Since she left the Big Brother Naija house, TBoss has hosted several shows including AFRIMA 2017 and Funny Bone Untamed.   The Edo State beauty has also signed ambassadorial deals with several brands and made her acting debut in several movies and TV series such as ‘AJoche’.   Believe it or not, she seems to be one of the most successful at least commercially from season two of the Big BrotherNaija show.   Bisola   Bisola Aiyeola was not a stranger to reality TV shows. She contested in the 2008 edition of Project Fame West Africa and she is very talented. Bisola became the first runner up of Big Brother Naija season 2 and has been tagged the most successful from that season. She acts as well as she sings; she used the Big Brother platform to showcase her acting and singing skills which endeared her to the hearts of many Nigerians.   She has dropped singles that made waves since leaving the Big Brother house. She is signed to Pan-African record label, Temple Music.   In 2018, she won the AMVCA Trailblazer Award at the 2018 Africa Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards.   The talented actress was one of the most popular housemates during the Big Brother season two, especially with her romantic relationship with a secretly married housemate, Thin Tall Tony.   Since she left the Big Brother Naija house, she has featured in movies and TV shows such as ‘Glimpse’, ‘Ovy’s Voice’, ‘Picture Perfect’, ‘Skinny Girl in Transit’ and so many others. She has also bagged so many awards and endorsements with top brands across the country. 