Benue State Police Command yesterday paraded four illegal arms’ manufacturers, one child trafficker and 10 other suspected criminals. The police also paraded an 18-year-old man, Terna Taga, for allegedly defiling a 10-year-old orphan who gave birth to a baby girl in Makurdi. The state Commissioner of Police, Mukaddas Garba, who paraded the suspects, said two arms’ manufacturers, Terhembafan Sevav and Vishi Avav, both of Vandeikya Local Government Area, were arrested following an investigation after his men had previously nabbed two suspects, Mkavter Shagbe and Terseer Makuna, with AK47 rifle loaded with 10 rounds of live ammunition. Garba said a careful search of the arms’ manufacturers led to the recovery of two more AK47 rifles, two single-barrelled pump action guns, two locally-made pistols, four magazines, one gas cylinder, assorted gun manufacturing tools and charms. He disclosed that the suspected child trafficker, Achogwu Daniel, of Otukpo town, was arrested for allegedly taking a pregnant minor to Aba in Abia State where the victim was delivered of a child who he sold to an unknown person. The commissioner also paraded a suspected kidnapper, Kpehe Terfa Godwin, whom he said had in July, called and threatened to kill his victim if he failed to pay N2 million. Garba said the suspect, who is also from Vandeikya Local Government Area, was apprehended in his hideout at Tsav village at Mbayongo, in the local government. The commissioner also paraded suspected cultists, armed robbers and extortionists including Oguniran Stephen, Daniel Igiho, Ada Ngbede and Ada Ofugocho, who claimed to be personnel of Nigerian Merchant Navy and were extorting money from motorists. The chief said the achievements recorded by his command indicated that members of the public and the police were demonstrating commitment towards securing the state. He said 15 suspects were paraded, while four locally-made pistols, seven rifles, 10 ammunition, one live cartridge and one expended cartridge were recovered from the suspects. Police in Zamfara State have arrested 13 suspected bandits and recovered two live rockets propelled grenades, seven operational AK47 rifles, nine magazines and 26 rounds of live ammunition. Parading the suspects alongside their arms at the state Police Command Headquarters, Gusau yesterday, the Commissioner of Police, Usman Belel, said the… In "Metro and Crime" Police said they arrested about 55 suspected criminals and recovered 437 arms and ammunition during the last Christmas and New Year celebrations in parts of Ogun State. The Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, who paraded the suspects at the state Command Headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, disclosed that the suspects were nabbed… In "Metro and Crime" Police in Ogun State have recovered 512 arms and ammunition from suspected armed robbers and kidnappers in the state within the last six months. The state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, disclosed this while parading 20 suspects at the police headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta. Iliyasu, who stated that the arms were… In "Metro and Crime"