Barrister Henry Idahagbon is a strong loyalist of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and one of the leading voices against the second term ambition of Governor Godwin Obaseki. He spoke with OJIEVA EHIOSUN on the raging crisis between the godfather and his embattled godson. Excerpts:  Do you do you agree with those who hold the views that the crisis in Edo APC has nothing to do with Adams Oshiomhole, but a matter between Governor Godwin Obaseki and some APC leaders in the state?   Of course, I agree in totality. The fight is not with Oshiomhole becuase he has no business in it.  The fight is between Obaseki and leaders of the party that made him governor.  What is the cause of the disagreement?  The reason for the fight is very simple. After we made him governor, he threatened that he would retire us from politics, and he went ahead to carry out the threat by retiring all of us from politics.  How did he retire you?  He relegated us from party affairs. He does not invite us for party meetings, he brought neophytes to be party leaders in our respective local government areas.  In my local government, he brought in people who are unknown to us party leaders.  When he fell out with the first person, he initially brought as leaders, he went to recruit people; one living in Canada, and the other one living in GRA in Benin City as party leaders.   So, he promised to retire us, and he has attempted to retire us. On our own part, he didn’t employ us in this business; this is not a public service vocation where you have an entry age and retirement age.  Chief Tony Anenih in his 90s was active in politics, it was death that retired him from politics. Once you are a politician, you remain a politician until you decide to voluntary relinquish your political actives or you are retired by nature, which is by death. So, he promised to retire us, and then he told us that he was not looking for second term.   We accepted our retirement under his rulership, and we were waiting for his four-year tenure to expire so that we can support somebody else who will not retire us, who will be a politician, someone that will give us our due respect while delivering good and quality governance to the state. But along the line, he changed his mind.  Doesn’t he have the right to change his mind and try his luck?  He changed his mind because of the huge amount given to him monthly as security vote. The amount was too sweet for him to leave, so that is why he wants the second term. And those of us that he threatened to retire are saying no to it.  He may want a second term, but it will not be with our supports and our sweat, because our supports and sweat catapulted him from a nobody to somebody.  Don’t you think he may win, this time around, without your support?  He may win as some people are saying that he has worked, the people can choose to vote for him, but it will not be with the vote of Idahagbon, not with the votes of members of Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) and those who are our supporters across the length and breadth of the state.  Since you agree that he may win, don’t you think the issue ought not to cause any crisis as the people will decide?  It ought not to cause any argument, it ought not to cause any crisis, tension, or quarrel, there ought to be no threat from these simple analyses. We supported you before, we are not supporting you again, period. So, it is totally right to say that the problem is not between Oshiomhole and Obaseki, but Obaseki and APC members.  Oshiomhole is not involved in this, but he is a brand, his brain falls like hot cake, they know that by the time they drag his name into it, of course the matter will be more interesting and that is why they have dragged him into it.  Was Oshiomhole aware when your group formed the EPM? No, we didn’t consult Oshiomhole, he was never put in the picture.  But let me tell you this; if Oshiomhole decides to support Obaseki today, we will fight both of them. So they should just allow the man to confine himself with managing the party’s affair which the former national party chairman almost destroyed.  The man is working day and night to reposition the party at the 36 states of the federation and Abuja. Since Oshiomhole vacated the governorship seat in Edo, he has never interfered with governance.  Each time people go to him to say something about Obaseki, he will tell them; ‘look I’m no longer the governor, Godwin is the governor’.  That was what he used to tell his people, nobody believed him, everybody believed he was interfering with Obaseki’s regime.  No .  What is your take on the rumour making the rounds that Obaseki is romancing PDP governors and may dump the APC as Plan B?  It would be the news making the headline. We will be very happy if that happens, it will be a fulfillment of one of the fundamental objectives of the EPM, that is, to deny Obaseki a second term ticket to government under the platform of the APC.  Don’t you think that may cause the APC to lose Edo to the opposition party?  It is not a novelty in Nigeria politics, very recently Governor Ortom of Benue State left the ruling APC to the PDP and he won.  The dynamics of the state favoured him and he won, so we would be very elated for Obaseki to leave and join the PDP.  But let me remind the PDP in Edo State that the political class will remain one.  Whether PDP or APC, we are all one, we know each other. I was a former national executive member of the PDP, so there is no PDP member in Edo that does not know me or I don’t know.  If he can threaten to retire us, then when he gets the PDP ticket and he wins, then he is going to take all the PDP members out of the party.  Look, with the antecedent of this governor, no politician will want to trust him anymore. So, we wish him all the best. But he should know that once he gets the ticket, it is for Edo people to vote.  The day he leaves for PDP, we will go to Ring Road and celebrate his exit. Is it true that the governor is threatening to chase his political enemies out of the state? He cannot pursue us from Edo State; he is not the owner of the state.  He does not have the legal right to do it. Edo State is not Obaseki Nigeria limited. Is it Obaseki’s family?  Let him go ahead and chase us out.  Does he think Oshiomhole is one senator he attempted to mess with at the airport?  The state belongs to all of us, I’m more of a citizen of Edo State than him. Obaseki can’t make a sentence in Benin language, he knows nothing about our culture, he is more comfortable with people from Delta.  His best friend is Uzukwu, is that an Edo man? Let him not allow us to talk, if he goes to another party and wins, good and fine.  We had governors in the past, they didn’t drive anybody out of the state. Lucky Igbinedion didn’t kill people. Prof. Osunbor was governor for a year and six months, he did not kill people.  Oshiomhole was governor for eight years, he didn’t stop his political opponent from coming to the state. Obaseki’s PA is not from the state, so let him go ahead and win election under different political party, four years is not forever.  We wish him the best of luck.  If Obaseki wins under a different party, won’t that be a dent on Oshiomhole and others like you?   What people don’t know is that APC has been in existence in Edo for the past 10 years and our political consciousness is on the high side.  They know that Obaseki has never been a good politician, nobody trust him, you can see the outcome in the last elections in the state. PDP almost claim the entire seat if not for the high fighting spirit of Oshiomhole in Edo North.  In Edo South, Obaseki was beaten black and blue by PDP candidates. For a sitting governor to lose his ward, that tells you the kind of politician he is. So if it happens like that, nobody will blame us or Oshiomhole. Of course, I know it will never happen.  Now we are reaching out to our people begging them to forgive us for bringing in Godwin Obaseki that we didn’t know.  By the time we are through with the structure we are putting on ground, they will know that we mean business.   By 2020, we will bring a governor that will erase all the bad things that Obaseki has done against them.  We will usher in a governor that will give due recognition to the political class in Edo State.  Obaseki’s government seems to exterminate the entire political class in Edo.  He would vacate the government house. Once again we apologise to our people.