Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Toby Okechukwu, has said that the security measures being put in place by Governor of Enugu State, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi would greatly address security challenges in Agwu and the adjoining Local Government Areas of the State. Okechukwu, who represented Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency, described the decision of the governor to personally lead security agencies to identify and comb suspected criminal hideouts in the area as bold and exemplary. In a statement, the lawmaker said “I must commend the governor on behalf of our constituency for taking the battle of sustaining Enugu’s position as one of the most secured States of the country to criminals’ hideouts.” He went on: “For decades, criminal elements have exploited the area as launch pads, escape routes, and hideouts for robberies, kidnappings, and other nefarious operations. But by taking the battle to their dens and making these hideouts inaccessible to criminals, one can boldly say that security challenges in this part of Enugu State will soon become a thing of the past. “Additionally, the creation of more checkpoints in that axis, ongoing recruitment of Forest Guards across the state as well as the manpower boosting and monthly stipends for the neighbourhood watch groups will further enhance security in the state. “As lawmakers, we interact with our colleagues from other states and can unequivocally assert that Enugu State rated as one of the foremost states where residents can gainfully engage in their socio-economic activities without let or hindrance.” “As a governor that leads from the front, our people are totally confident that we are all secure under his leadership. Our commitment as citizens is to complement and reinforce the measures, which he has rightly taken.” Meanwhile, the jubilant crowd received Ugwuanyi as he paid a second visit to Awgu in a week, this time into the heart of the forest notorious criminals had used as a hideout. Clarifying his recent statement on the status of caves the criminals had used as their haven, Ugwuanyi said there was no intention at any point to destroy the caves and other tourism and conservation assets within the forest. “I have no doubt that our tourism sector will benefit immensely from the caves and other tourism and cultural assets that the government activities in the forest will unravel,” the governor said.