Over 400 hundred residents of Oshodi and its environs benefitted from a medical outreach organised by the Redeemed Christian Church of God, The Calvary Parish, Lagos Province 27, in conjunction with Emzor Pharmaceutical/Chike Okoli Foundation and Pharmatex Nigeria Limited.  The medical outreach organised as part of activities to mark the church’s 22nd anniversary involved tests for blood sugar, blood pressure, body mass index, deworming for children, free medical counselling, consultation and administration of free drugs, among others. Speaking at the event, the Area Pastor of the church, Jeffery Aganbi, said the medical outreach was an annual programme which formed part of the church’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as envisioned by the General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adeboye. Aganbi said that it was one of the initiatives instituted by the church to impact the community and its environs. “The essence of the outreach is to reach out to our immediate community. “It is an annual programme where we bring in health professionals to provide free medical services to the community.  “The purpose of it is to make life better and make life more meaningful for people. “In the area of health, the accessibility and availability to many Ni-   gerians are very low, so we do this to bridge the gap. Some people, because of money, they do not have enough resources to go to the hospital or buy drugs. So, we bring in doctors and nurses to avoid the hassles of going to the hospital. “We advise that things like these should be done by more nongovernmental organisations and churches in order to reach out to the wider community and be a blessing to them. Regardless of whether they are Christians, Muslims or church members, it is about people having a part of Christ in them,” Aganbi said.  Also speaking, Mrs Beauty Alfred, the Programme Coordinator, Chike Okoli Foundation, the CSR arm of Emzor Pharmaceutical Ltd, said the foundation was pleased to partner the church in creating more awareness on the need for regular medical checkup. Alfred noted that it was the foundation’s second year of partnering the church to provide free medical checkup for the community.  “This is our second year of coming to this community for free checkup. This is to enable people to know the basis of regular checkup because this foundation was set up in memory of Chike Okoli Edward who died as a result of undetected coronary diseases.  As a result, his mother set up this foundation to create more awareness about the cause of Chike’s death,” she stated. Alfred said that the foundation had carried out free medical checkup for over 11 million people within Nigeria since inception. One of the volunteers, Dr. Stella Alagbe, said the outreach had helped in discovering illnesses in people before they would become complicated. She said, “I see a lot of people and communities that don’t have access to quality healthcare and they suffer due to simple conditions that can be taken care of easily. So I feel motivated to help and give back to the community. “One of the illnesses that I found to be prevalent, which I think that this kind of intervention is very helpful for, is hypertension.  Knowing that hypertension is usually described as a silent killer because it’s usually not symptomatic, a lot of people only discover that they are hypertensive at outreaches like this.” A beneficiary, Isiwat Rasheed, expressed excitement over the medical outreach, saying, “I was passing when I stopped by for checkup and drugs were administered after I saw a doctor; I am really thankful to the church.” Another beneficiary, Mrs Bose Adeyemi, said the goodwill of the church was an indication that there was still hope for the common man to have access to adequate healthcare.