President and Project Coordinator of Journalists For Christ (JFC), Lekan Otufodurin has urged journalists and media practitioners in the country to provide proper press coverage for activities at the Internally Displaced Persons camps (IDPs) dotted across the country. According to Otufodurin, it has become necessary to ensure that media practitioners who cover IDPs apply ethical principles as well as ensure that their reports were humane.   He made these known during the public presentation of ‘Muffled Voices’, which held recently at the International Press Centre, Ogba in Lagos State.   ‘Muffled Voices’ is the outcome of a two-month media survey of reports on IDPs in six newspapers and two online platforms under a project titled, ‘Monitoring of Media Reportage and Portrayal of Internally Displaced Persons in Africa.’   The report was put together by JFC International Outreach with support from the World Association for Christian Communication (WACC), Bread for The World, and Waldensian Church’s Otto Per Mille (OPM).   Although, there might be no pecuniary benefit for the media practitioners, Otufodurin said if practitioners adopted the compassion of Christ as journalists for Christ, it would be easy and convenient for them to do the in-depth reporting of the IDPs camps.   Before now, reporting of the IDP camps have been more of news stories, which lacked depth, but are based purely on releases got from government sources. In that light, JFC in collaboration with All Africa Conference of Churches in Kenya and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) recently launched the Nigeria part of the monitoring media reportage and Portrayal of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Africa.   The project titled ‘Muffled Voices’ was informed by the need to have empirical evidence on the pattern of coverage of the plight of thousands of Nigerians who have over the years been displaced from their homes due to continued conflict situations in the country, especially due to insurgency and terrorists’ attacks.   According to reports on the IDPs, mostly women and children have resorted to becoming refuges in concentrated camps, which were mainly un-used/abandoned school facilities or on open grounds with tents set up as shelters. There are usually few basic amenities, resulting in severe social and health related issues. Welfare, food, proper shelter and health needs were a significant concern while sanitary conditions have gone beyond poor.   More so, close to 60 per cent of these Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) are children. This according to the review calls for more concentrated media reportage.   Despite the various challenges they have to cope with, media coverage and reportage of IDPs revealed that information on the welfare and living conditions of the IDPs are usually restricted and not adequately reported. Institutional and humanitarian agencies rising to address the needs of IDPs were also inadequate.   According to the Project Coordinator, Otufodunrin, the ultimate aim of this project ‘muffled voices’, is that that IDP camps will not continue to be a permanent feature in the country.