Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State yesterday rented a flat for Mrs. Lucy Opkuru Mgboke of Agbaja Upnuhu community, Abakaliki Local Government Area following New Telegraph’s report. Umahi also took over the medical bills and welfare of Mgboke, a displaced woman, who gave birth to triplets at MCH, Azuiyiokwu, Abakaliki. She had given birth to five children before giving birth to the triplets on July 29. She was among thousands of those displaced in their homes at Agbaja Unuhu by the past administration in the state, which acquired the community for new city in Abakaliki known as Centenary City. The jobless woman and her five children as well as the husband were living in a one-room water-logged thatched house before the arrival of the triplets. The triplets compounded their woes as the family finds it very difficult to feed and carter for the babies. Mrs. Mgboke was hawking soft drinks in Abakaliki metropolis when she concieved the triplets. New Telegraph had reported her plight in its South-East Focus yesterday entitled: “Displaced, with triplets, in need,” making Umahi to come to her aid. After reading the report, the governor said, “I direct commissioner for women affairs and all the SAs on women to jointly look for the woman, hire a house for her, send them to hospital to evaluate the children and mother, give me all bills plus two years upkeep allowance to the mother and children. “I apologise to the woman on behalf of government. Even though it was not under my administration, governance is a continuous entity”. Umahi immediately sent the state Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs. Rebecca Ogbuewu, to visit the woman in the hospital and make some donations to her and ascertain her health conditions and that of the triplets. Ogbuewu: “I just got a call from the governor and wife that a woman put to bed triplets at MHC that I should rush and see her and know how they are doing. “Before coming here, the governor had already instructed that I find a good accommodation for the family, maybe he has their details before now. He said we should make sure that we make two years payment for now, ensure they are in good hospital if not we should pull them out from there to a good hospital. He said if they are not in good health we should ensure they are well taken care off. He said we should provide everything they need. In fact, as we leave here we will start looking for accommodation for them. And we will implement to the last the instruction of the governor.” On her part, the hospital Matron, Mrs. Elizabeth Oge, said the hospital had been taken care of the woman and her triplets the little it could do. Oge said the woman and her triplets were still in the hospital because of the condition of one of the triplets who weighed 1.4kg. The matron said the baby would have died if the hospital had discharged them. She said: “We have been taken care of them through the assistance of people. We bought a dozen of infant milk for the babies. We bought pampers from the money Dr. Adaeze Nwuzor brought. We also bought clothes for them. Another person sent N20,000 and we bought food item for the mother because she needs to feed well to be able to breastfeed her babies.” Mgboke, who shed tears during the visit, commended Umahi for coming to her aid. She said she had no hope until the governor came to her rescue. According to her, her other children have dropped out of school.