FMDQ Securities Exchange has said that following the approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the company has moved from ‘an OTC Market’ to a full-fledged ‘Securities Exchange.’ Consequent upon this, the erstwhile FMDQ OTC Plc, also previously known as FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange, has now changed its name to ‘FMDQ Securities Exchange Plc, according to a statement from the management. Furthermore, the exchange has activated and operationalised two wholly-owned subsidiaries – FMDQ Clear Limited and FMDQ Depository Limited, both positioned to provide efficient post-trade services, amongst others; making FMDQ a one-stop financial market infrastructure group and an integrated platform to execute, clear and settle financial market transactions. Accordingly, a new logo was unveiled yesterday for the FMDQ Entities, FMDQ Exchange, FMDQ Clear, and FMDQ Depository, replacing each of the individual identities. Commenting on the development, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of FMDQ Exchange, Mr. Bola Onadele Koko, said: “The development of the exchange over the last five years is reflective of the progressive and dedicated strategic leadership provided by its board of directors, as well as the company’s ever-intensifying commitment to proactively deliver value to its stakeholders. Having successfully consolidated past gains and taken on new frontiers through the operationalisation of a budding integrated FMI Group across the full value chain of the securities market – execute, clear and settle – the group is poised to enhance efficiencies in FMDQ’s markets to the benefit of market participants.” According to Koko, it is in view of the resolute affirmation of the FMDQ entities to influence and promote sustainable development in the Nigerian financial market, one which is in alignment with global standards, that a new identity is being unveiled today. The new FMDQ logo, whilst maintaining its vibrant colours – deep blue, depicting trust, confidence, depth and stability; bright gold, showing off passion, value, prestige, quality and prosperity; and a touch of cool grey, representing conservativeness, professionalism and sophistication, also reflects FMDQ’s drive to “consistently move forward” and replaces the individual identities of FMDQ Exchange and its wholly owned subsidiaries. He said: “As it commences its second lustrum, FMDQ as a one-stop FMI Group with a platform to execute, clear and settle transactions in the Nigerian financial markets, remains committed to collaboratively deliver innovative and forward-thinking solutions to the market. “Following continued collaboration with its varied stakeholders, including regulators and market participants, a resilient product and market development architecture, and a commitment to operational excellence, FMDQ Exchange has positively evolved despite market challenges and economic headwinds. “Attaining its first lustrum in November 2018, and closing the year with a market turnover of N182.86 trillion (from N103.57 trillion in 2014), FMDQ Exchange has assumed an expanded role beyond being a market organiser, to also becoming adviser to governments and regulators, catalyst for infrastructure capital and financial markets diplomat, aligning the domestic markets with its international counterparts and essentially, showcasing the potential of the Nigerian financial markets to the international community.”