S ix days after being held in captive, the Niger State Social Democratic Party (SDP) governorship candidate in the 2019 elections, Alhaji Mahmood Sani, has regained freedom from kidnappers.   Sani and his driver, Alhaji Banna, were kidnapped on the Kaduna-Abuja Road while travelling to Zamfara State on July 29 between 9p.m. and 10p.m.   New Telegraph learnt that family and friends had to raise the N4 million demanded by the kidnappers to secure his freedom on Sunday.   Narrating his ordeal in Minna, Sani said: “By the time we got to Dikko junction, it was already getting late but I told my driver to drive to Kaduna so that we could spend the night there and proceed to Zamfara the next day.   “A few kilometres to Kaduna, in-between two police checkpoints, some people waved at us to stop and when we did, we were dragged out of the car and then marched into the bush by gunmen   “The kidnappers are armed Fulani men; they abducted my driver and I on our way to Kaduna on Abuja-Kaduna Expressway on Monday, the 29th of July, 2019 about 10p.m.   “We spent about six days inside the bush before we were released after the payment of N4 million. The ransom was initially set at N400 million but after negotiation, it was reduced to N4 million which was raised by family, friends and well-wishers.”   Sani described his experience as very traumatic and unpalatable.   He added: “We were beaten; I still have bruises on my body now. The experience was not palatable at all; it was a very bitter experience that I do not wish anybody to experience.   “Imagine seeing people brandishing AK47 guns at all times, threatening to kill me if the ransom was not paid. The experience was very traumatic that I do not want to speak about it.”   Sani said he was currently receiving treatment from the beatings he received.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abubakar Muhammed, said he was not aware of such incident as the police were not informed that anything of such happened. He, however, promised to get back to our correspondent.   But Muhammed did not get back to our correspondent at press time.