T he plank exercise is a core strengthening move that works the transversus abdominis muscle. Because you cannot spot reduce body fat, you must work to lose fat throughout your entire body. The most effective way to do this is through diet, aerobic exercise and strength training.   Jokes aside, planks have received a lot of attention in the past few years, and for good reason. Their list of benefits is extensive and, surprisingly, includes more than just achieving a tight, toned core and six packs.   Unfortunately, many people don’t understand how much power planks have when it comes to building strong abs. That’s because they’ve tried them and haven’t seen results.   Which would obviously lead you to wonder, if planks are so amazing, why aren’t people seeing results?   The answer is simple: Incorrect form.   Form is everything when it comes to seeing results from planks, and if you don’t get perfect form down with the standard plank, you can forget about seeing results doing any of its variations.   Planks are one of those exercises everyone should be doing, regardless if you care about having a six-pack or not. The plank is one of the best exercises for a flat, toned stomach because it works all the muscles in your core, including the rectus abdominus (the ‘six-pack muscles’ you can see), transverse abdominus, internal and external oblique, hips, and back.   Why not just focus on the six-pack muscles? Strengthening your entire core is not only crucial for sculpting a flat stomach, but these muscles also provide support for the entire body in everyday movements, reduce back pain, and improve posture. Plus, planks burn more calories than sit-ups or crunches because they recruit muscles in the legs, arms, and rear too. It’s truly the ultimate total-body toner!   Here are some of favourite plank variations: Start with the first four, holding each exercise for 30 seconds (work up to 1-minute holds). Do each plank variation once and then repeat the entire series 2 more times (3 time’s total). When you feel comfortable with the first four planks, advance to incorporate the next three (No. 5-7), holding each one for 30-60 seconds. For a killer core workout, combine all seven into one routine.