A 16-man ad hoc committee set up by the Lagos State House of Assembly last week concluded the screening of the 25 nominees of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who will serve as commissioners and special advisers. WALE ELEGBEDE reports    Regarded as the Centre of Excellence, Lagos State is the country’s melting pot and successive administrations in the state have been a reference point of good governance for other states of the federation. Coming on board as the 15th governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu was bent on upholding that mark of excellence handed over to him and even do much more. To bring this to fruition, the governor, who took the mantle of leadership on May 29, decided to engage in a painstaking search to assemble a tested team that can deliver his administration’s vision of making Lagos a city-state that will rank among the topmost liveable cities in the world. Thus, after a frantic search, the governor, on July 14, released a list containing 25 names, who are to assume duty as commissioners and special advisers upon ratification by the legislature. He subsequently transmitted the list to Lagos State House of Assembly for screening and confirmation. The nominees’ list indicates that there are 17 men and eight women, who will be sworn-in as members of the State Executive Council. The nominees are mostly persons, who are in their early and mid-thirties. Upon receipt of the governor’s letter, the House of Assembly on July 22 read the list of the 25 nominees for appointments as commissioners and special advisers during plenary. The nominees are Rabiu Onaolapo, Folashade Adefisayo, Akin Abayomi, Idris Salako, Tunji Bello, Gbenga Omotoso, Toke Benson-Awoyinka, Bolaji Dada, Lere Odusote, Frederic Oladeinde, Gbolahan Lawal, Wale Ahmed, Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN), Hakeem Fahm and Ajibola Ponnle. Others are Aramide Adeyoye, Segun Dawodu, Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, Sam Egube, Ruth Olusanya, Aderemi Adebowale, Tunbosun Alake, Afolabi Ayantayo, Adekemi Ajayi-Bembe and Femi George. However, to ensure that it sticks to its rule of due diligence and aptly comply with the constitution, the Speaker of the Lagos State House Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, on July 29, constituted a 16-member ad hoc committee to screen the nominees. The ad hoc committee was headed by Rotimi Abiru, a fourth-term lawmaker, representing Somolu Constituency II and Chief Whip of the House. Other members of the screening committee are Jimi Mohammed (Ikeja I), Yinka Ogundimu (Agege II), Abiodun Tobun (Epe I), Setonji David (Badagry II), Victor Akande (Ojo I) Mosunmola Sangodara (Surulere II), Mojisola Alli-Macaulay (Amuwo-Odofin I), Rasheed Makinde (Ifako-Ijaiye II), Lanre Afinni (Lagos Island II), Noheem Adams (Eti-Osa II), Adedamola Kasunmu (Ikeja II), Suraju Tijani (Ojo II), Olusola Sokunle (Oshodi/Isolo I), Olumuyiwa Jimoh (Apapa II) and Abdulsobur Olawale (Mushin II). The Speaker directed the ad hoc committee to report to the House within seven days. Obasa also disclosed that the nominees will appear before the whole House for further screening and confirmation at the end of the committee’s screening. Upon its inauguration, the Abiru-led committee set sail by contacting all 25 nominees and requesting that they submit 60 copies of their curriculum vitae (CV) to the office of the Clerk of the Assembly in preparation for the screening. The committee eventually set between August 1 and 3 for the exercise. Day one (August 1) Devoid of fanfare that usually trails such exercise, the screening commenced on a staid note at the Lateef Jakande Auditorium in the Assembly complex. Notable among the few leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) present to witness the exacting screening was Senator Musiliu Obanikoro. Taking the first shot among Sanwo-Olu’s nominees was Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka, the Assistant Legal Adviser of the APC in the state. Toke Benson, who was a House of Representatives aspirant of the party in Ikeja Constituency in the 2019 general elections, promised to bring her experience as a lawyer for 30 years to bear if she was given an opportunity. The politician, who said she has been speaking against domestic violence and child abuse through the social media, stated that she spoke against Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo of COZA, when his alleged rape case against Busola Dakolo broke. Her words: “I have been speaking against all issues relating to domestic violence, rape and child abuse through the social media and other means. We need to teach our boys, who grow into men that when a girl says ‘no’ it is ‘no.’ We should make some scapegoats to put a stop to it. Though there is an awareness on rape,  the awareness is not enough. On child abuse, we have fathers sleeping with daughters and mothers sleeping with sons. “Lagos is the model state in Nigeria. If we don’t speak against rape and child abuse, we will be like India where a man will enter a bus and rape about 50 women. We should have laws in place that will take care of all these.” Toke-Benson also spoke about gender sensitivity, and revealed that she did not like to be regarded as a feminist and detest being pushed to the Ministry of Women Affairs all because she is a woman. Also screened was Princess Aderemi Adebowale, who said she was a foundation member of the ACN/APC, and a member of the support group of the party in Lagos State. Adebowale, who said that she was a presenter of a talk show that treats life issues on LTV 8, added that she is also a registered nurse. “I will emphasise the welfare of the workers if given the portfolio of Health commissioner in the state. Our doctors and nurses travel abroad because of the poor pay in the sector. If you go abroad, you will see that nurses are well taken care of. We can have facilities but maintenance and insurance are key,” she said. Adebowale added that she was a sole administrator of a local government in Victoria Island, and that she was able to build about six roads and did some other projects. “I believe in women empowerment. Also, primary healthcare cannot survive if we don’t have doctors and nurses that can man the hospitals. I will curb access to social media by youths to reduce drug abuse. “We were able to survive before internet came, so our children can survive without it. Some of the lyrics the children listen to are not okay,” she said. Answering questions from the committee members, another nominee and immediate past Secretary to the Lagos State Government (SSG), Mr. Tunji Bello, revealed that he had worked in several places and that he worked as speech writer for the late Chief MKO Abiola. The trained lawyer, journalist and former Commissioner for Environment in the state advised that Lagos must intensify efforts on waste management and conversion. His words: “There are a few areas you can set up dumpsite in Lagos State because the state is below the sea level. You cannot set up a dump site in Lagos Island, except in places like Agege, Abule Egba and others. “Up till the time the Babatunde Fashola administration ended in 2015, we had good waste management, good flooding and environmental programmes. It wasn’t that we are perfect; we believed it could be improved upon. “What happened during the last administration is what I will call poor comprehension of Lagos environmental project. And if I must say, I remember that in the first year of that administration, when I noticed that some of the systems we created during Fashola’s tenure, because I was the last Commissioner for Environment…..the last administration when they came, ignored that system, they wanted to create a new system entirely. “And I think I reminded the governor at that time (Akinwumi Ambode), and I said, I wasn’t against us creating a new system, but I think we should learn from what already existed at that time and we can make amendment as time goes on. That advice was ignored and gradually the system started crumbling.” His view was corroborated by the Chairman of the Committee, Hon. Abiru, who stated that everybody was concerned about environment in the state. Abiru advised Bello to impress it on the government that the state could not afford not to improve on the environment. Miss Adekemi Olanike Ajayi-Bembe, who was also screened, stated that she has worked in the finance and telecommunication sectors for many years, saying that this adequately prepared her for the task ahead. Ajayi-Bembe stressed that though Lagos State realised about N388 billion in 2018 as Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), the state could not rely on IGR alone. The nominee explained that everything can’t be fixed at once, and that the state must have priorities. She added that Direct Foreign Investment (DFI) can assist the state on development, but investors have to see what the state has on ground. The secretary of the APC in the state, Dr. Wale Ahmed was asked to take a bow by Hon. Rotimi Abiru as a former member of the Assembly, who left in 2003. “The party scored 100 per cent under the watch of the current executive members in the last general elections. It is a good thing that the party appointed you to be a commissioner in the state. “He was a member of the 4th Lagos State Assembly from 1999 to 2003. We will want him to take a bow and go because of this,” Abiru said and this was accepted by other members of the committee. Prof. Akinola Abayomi, the sixth nominee to be screened by the committee, said that free healthcare is not possible. He, however, backed the health insurance scheme of the state, saying with the initiative, the rich would pay for the healthcare of the poor. Another nominee, Gbenga Omotoso, who is Editor of The Nation Newspapers, decried that the Freedom of Information Law is not working, noted that when one writes to ask for information, there is always no response from the authorities concerned and “if you go to the Code of Conduct Bureau for assets declaration information of government officials, they will not give to you.” He added that even if you want to explore the court option by going to court to press for access to the required information, it is a long process. Talking about managing perception of Lagos, Omotoso said it is the duty of everybody, although he said it can be done through training of information officers, mobilising members of the public and dissemination of government actions and policies to all the nook and crannies of the state. Day Two (August 2) Continuing the screening on Friday, August 2, the first nominee that took her turn, Mrs. Abolaji Dada, a former Executive Secretary, Apapa Local Government, complained of not been able to get her West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) result. Dada, who claimed to have sat for her WAEC exam in 1984, asserted that no certificate was issued in the stated year. “I had my WAEC exam in a government school, so I felt it would not be difficult to access it, but I eventually made effort to retrieve my certificate, when the need arose, but was told that my school’s data was not captured. My claim can be verified. 1984 WAEC certificate for my school was not accessible,” she said. She said that if she is assigned to the Ministry of Education, she will work at “restoring civic education in the primary school curriculum, so as to make pupils patriotic, well behaved and well-mannered individuals in the society.” Another nominee, Mr. Moyosore Jubril Onigbanjo (SAN), former Chairman of Ibile Oil and Gas, said he was passionate about the progress of Lagos State on development and foreign investments. Onigbanjo stressed that the state needed to stop judges from using long hands to write, and that there were some laws in Lagos State that have not been reviewed since the 60s and “we need to check this.” He then promised to reform the judicial system if assigned to justice ministry and appealled to the government to improve infrastructure in the courts and decongest the prisons. Other nominees who were screened on the second day include Lere Odusote, Moyo Onigbanjo, Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, Segun Dawodu, Folashade Adefisayo, Ponnle Ajibola, Dr Rabiu Olowo, Olatunbosun Alake and Samuel Egube. Day Three (August 3) On Saturday, August 3, the committee screened the last batch of nominees made up of seven people. They are Dr. Idris Salako, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, Gbolahan Lawal, Aramide Adeyoye, Ruth Olusanya, Afolabi Ayantayo, and Femi George Speaking with House correspondents at the end of the exercise, chairman of the ad hoc committee, Abiru, said he was satisfied with the performance of the nominees. He added that they are all knowledgeable people, but that the committee will report back to the House, which will confirm the nominees or otherwise. He expressed satisfaction with the competence of the nominees in the way they responded to questions from members of the committee.