Thirty-seven officials of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and five of their suspected agents, have been arrested for allegedly extorting motorists. The officials were arrested by a joint inter-agency team, comprising the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), FRSC and Department of State Services (DSS), operating in Kaduna, Bauchi, Abia, Rivers, Kogi and Ogun states. The spokesperson for the ICPC, Mrs. Rasheedat Okoduwa, who made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, said the joint team was established following complaint of extortion made by FRSC’s management against officials. She said: “A joint inter-agency team, led by the ICPC, has arrested 37 officials of the FRSC for allegedly extorting money from motorists on Nigerian highways. “The team also arrested five persons, said to be agents of the corps officials, in a sting operation carried out simultaneously in the six geo-political zones. The team struck on 16th August, 2019, following the receipt of a complaint from the FRSC management of the massive extortion of money from motorists on the highways by its patrol teams. “The FRSC management had, in the complaint to the commission, observed that incidents of extortion were rife in the six states of Kaduna, Bauchi, Abia, Rivers, Kogi and Ogun. It was based on this that the ICPC-led team went into action and identified the notorious spots in each of the aforementioned states to include Aba in Abia State, Ahoada, Ajaokuta, Itori, Torro and Gwantu in Rivers, Kogi, Ogun, Bauchi and Kaduna states respectively. “At least 13 FRSC officials and two civilians were arrested in Aba in the South-East, while 24 other FRSC officials and three civilians were arrested from various spots on roads spread across the other geo-political zones. “Findings from the joint inter-agency team indicated that various sums of money were found on the suspects and they had since been taken into ICPC custody. However, all the officials arrested and three civilian accomplices have been granted administrative bail. They’ll be prosecuted by the commission at the conclusion of investigations.”