The youth in Bwari, headquarters of  Bwari Area Council in the Federal Capital Territory, recently embarked on a special  Walk for Peace. CALEB ONWE reports  Bwari,  a  semi-urban settlement is inhabited by  many ethnic groups,  aside  from the original inhabitants, who are of the  Gbagi ( Gwari)  and Koro ethnic stocks. In the last two years, the peaceful co- existence and good neighbourliness of  the community suddenly disappeared  due to a chieftaincy tussle. The rift over who should lead the people has led to a lot of violence and destruction of property. This has also split the youth, who hitherto lived and enjoyed good brotherliness. Apparently, the disagreement injected bad blood into ‘ the community to the extent that friendship took flight, giving way to enmity and animosity. In recent days, what has been uppermost in the minds of all stakeholders is how to mend the broken walls of human relations. The recent “Walk for Peace Campaign ” organised by youths within the area was one of such efforts geared towards re-uniting the people. It was not just applauded by good spirited residents, but seen as the needed solution to the festering conflict. The youth, who were once  aggrieved and  took to the streets and the market, burning shops  and destroying properties that have nothing to do with the parties involved in the tussle, have resolved to promote peace and unity in Bwari. Inside Abuja learnt that the rally for peace was an effort meant to restore the peaceful ambience among  the two major indigenous tribes, the Gbaygi and the Koro. These two tribes started locking horns over which tribe was more qualified to produce an heir to the first class traditional stool. While the Gbaygi who claim to be the original inhabitants has the “Etsu Bwari” chieftaincy stool, lower in the ranks of chiefs, the Koro, otherwise known as the Hausa/Fulani in the area, and also said to be settlers in Bwari chiefdom,  have the “Emir or Sarkin Bwari”, a first class chieftaincy stool. Inside Abuja‘s investigation also show that the Gbaygi, who were said to have slept over their rights in the Chieftaincy equation, wanted the perceived distortion of tradition to be addressed, after the death of the former Sarkin Bwari. They claimed that it was an abnormality for Bwari to have two opposite chieftaincy stools. Their  expectations of having the situation reversed and getting the government recognise the Etsu Bwari, a Gbaygi man , as the paramount traditional chief was dashed to pieces when the Federal Capital Territory Administration went ahead to replace the late Sarkin with his son, almost immediately. The peace rally One thing that has elicited joy and celebration in the ancient town of Bwari was the resolve of the youths never to allow politicians use them achieve their political points. Convener of the peace walk and one of the youth leaders, Nehemiah Zaka, said the  youths  unanimously resolved to walk round the town to show a sense of unity and love. He said the youths were tired of being used by selfish politicians to cause violence, destroy property and kill people. “Old things that have passed away” while pursuing peace for all, is the new interest that will outlast this present generation. “We  need peace. That is what has always brought us here. We want to be leaders of tomorrow irrespective of our religion, tribe or belief. God can’t be mocked for creating all of us together. “Where there is no peace,  there will not be development. All we need is peaceful coexistence among the citizens and also say no to those calling for RevolutionNow but let there be PeaceNow. The program is going round the Area Councils in Abuja and there will be a general peace summit when the new minister resumes. “We need peace in Bwari and promise to engage stakeholders to promote peace and also plead with stakeholders to stop sponsoring youths for personal and political interest”, Zaka added. The youth unanimously marched to the palaces of the two traditional rulers to establish their resolution and also demand for peace. At the palace of Esu Bwari, HRH Ibrahim Yaro, JP, while addressing the youth, he said he was appreciative that youths have finally discovered that they were being used to foment violence in the FCT, especially Bwari. The royal father, represented by the Dami Dami of Bwari, Chief Timothy Dakoyi, tasked the youths not to forget that they would be the ones leading the country in the future, advising them to stay away from drug abuse and cultism, reminding them of their responsibilities to their children and families when they have them. He said: “I thank God you now understand that you are the fathers and leaders of tomorrow and have decided to amend your tomorrow. Stay away from drug abuse and cultism. It will not help you” “When you become fathers and are behaving like this, how are you going to train and take care of your children tomorrow?” He therefore charged them to spread the message of peace across the territory and the nation, so that there would be the needed peace in the country for sustainable development. On his part, Sarkin Bwari, HRH Awwal Musa Ijakoro, also expressed gratitude to the youth for standing for peace in Bwari and Nigeria. The royal father, who was represented by Madakin Bwari, Alhaji Mohammed Danbaba Angola, corroborated the Esu, stating that the elders could not have any meaningful life without the youths who would also one day become elders. He pointed out that Nigeria belonged to all Nigerians irrespective of religious leaning. Ijakoro advised the youths to take advantage of their upcoming peace summit to sensitize themselves on the imperative of peace, even as he reminded them not to allow a repeat of experiences of the past years, when the city was unguided in crisis prior to festive periods. “Do not allow this your programme to crash. Let it move from strength to strength because it is a very essential programme that will keep the peace we currently enjoy in Bwari.”, he noted. Another youth leader, John Anyebe, stated that the youth were the pillar upon which the country was built, warning against destruction of youths in whatever form, for whatever purpose. Assuring the Esu and Sarkin of their commitment to peaceful coexistence in the FCT, Anyebe said: “As nation builders, we want to sustain the peace in the FCT. We do not want violence, because we cannot forget the two incidents of 2017 and 2018 when Bwari was brought to a halt because of violence, which unfortunately led to huge loss of property and lives.” Inside Abuja gathered that the Federal Capital Territory Administration ( FCTA ) demonstrated utmost joy over the development and sent a representative to identify with the  ‘ Peace Initiative ‘. Director, Youth Development, Federal Capital Territory Administration, Hajarat Titilayo Alayende, pledged continued support of her organization to every effort targeted at ensuring peace in the FCT and called on the residents, especially the youth to crave for peace instead of revolution. Alayende, who was represented by a Deputy Director, Youth Development, Kumsal Wuyep, also advised the youths to always work together and speak with one voice over national issues involving them.