Panic has gripped residents of Orile-Iganmu area of Lagos State, following the disappearance of two siblings. The children, Lateef Ibrahim (five) and Nimota Ibrahim (three), were believed to have been abducted. The siblings were stolen on August 25, about 7p.m., at Raimin Street, in a shop, located opposite a mosque. The children’s mother, Mrs. Rashidat Ibrahim, usually keep them with an elderly woman, whenever she is going to the market. When she returns in the evening, she would stop at the shop to pick them. On that fateful Sunday, the old woman left the siblings and her own grand children in her shop to pray in the mosque, she returned to find Lateef and Nimota missing. “This is not the first time I left the children with the elderly woman. When I was about going out that fateful day, I dropped them at the Arabic school. I asked them to stay with Mama when they were through with school. When I came back from the market to take my children, they were not in the woman’s shop. In fact, when I came, I saw the old woman praying in the mosque. “I thought some of our neighbours took them home. I rushed home only to be told that they were not there. I dashed back to the mosque and found the old woman, who was through with her prayers, screaming and searching for them. People in the mosque came to join in searching for the children. “Instead of the woman to take her grandchildren and my children to the mosque, she left them behind. To my surprise, the kidnappers didn’t abduct her grandchildren, only my children. I’m begging the police to rescue my children,” the distraught mother said. The children’s father, Mr. Amoo Ibrahim, said Rashidat was his second wife and that he was not living with them. He said: “The children live with their mother at Ekunjimi Street, Orile-Iganmu, where I rented an apartment for them. Whenever their mother is going to market, she would drop them at the old woman’s shop. The shop is in front of the mosque, where the woman sells fruits. The old woman’s grandchildren were also with them in that shop. “On the fateful day of the incident, I had visited them in the morning before going out.  I was yet to get home when I received a phone call from my wife that she returned from the market to pick our children, but couldn’t find them. I was surprised; I left everything I was doing and rushed down to Orile. Unfortunately, when I got to the mosque, a crowd had gathered. Everyone was searching for our children. The grandchildren of the old woman were not taken. I wasn’t comfortable; I asked the elderly woman why her grandchildren were not abducted, she said she left them all in the shop and went to the mosque to pray.” Amoo said that after searching the community, they went to the Amukoko Police Station to lodge a complaint. The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Amukoko Police Station promised to do everything possible to find and rescue the children. He added: “I have been to different spiritual homes to seek help in order to get them back. I have incurred a lot of debt. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police should come to our rescue.” When contacted yesterday, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, promised to get back to our correspondent. But as the time of filing in this report, he was yet to respond to our correspondent.