TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the return of the immediate past Lagos State Commissioner for Wealth Creation, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, to the state cabinet   Barring any last minute change of mind, Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu is expected to inaugurate the State Executive Council today. The governor in a statement issued at the weekend by his Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said the 38 commissioners and special advisers-designate screened by Lagos State House of Assembly, would be allocated their ministries during the inauguration ceremony. Among those who are expected to be part of Sanwo-Olu’s cabinet is the immediate past Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment in the state, Pharm. (Mrs.) Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf. She is among the four members of ex-Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s cabinet, who are returning to the state executive council. Others are Mr. Tunji Bello (Secretary to the Lagos State Government), Hon. Lola Akande (Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation) and Mr. Gbolahan Lawal (Commissioner for Housing). No doubt, Akinbile-Yusuf has distinguished herself in both private and public services, especially during her service as commissioner in Lagos State for four years. Between 2015 and 2019 under the Ambode administration, she held two different ministries. She was among the 23 commissioners and 13 special advisers, who were sworn-in by the then governor on October 19, 2015, at Adeyemi Bero Auditorium, Lagos Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja. She was first appointed as commissioner for Youth and Social Development and later redeployed to be commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment during a cabinet reshufflement by the governor on January 11, 2018. During her four years in the state cabinet, she worked passionately to add value to the administration by empowering the youth as well as helped many Lagos residents to create wealth for themselves through different programmes and trainings. Her account of stewardship in Lagos State was well captured in her new book titled “Duty Calls,” which was presented on June 18 as part of the celebration planned for her 45th birthday. Speaking on the 114-page book, Akinbile-Yusuf said: “The first section is about my trajectory in public service and commitment to excellent service delivery, especially youth and children as the commissioner for Youth and Social Development. “The second section captures my intervention in wealth creation and empowerment of Lagosians across all facets. In all, this book is not just a reflection of my commitment to duty and selfless service to the people of the state, but also a compendium of my activities in the last four years of taking up public appointments in two ministries as commissioner.” A pharmacist turned politician, Akinbile-Yusuf has distinguished herself in Lagos politics in the last 10 years, especially in her local government, Alimosho, where she is regarded as “Moremi.” Her commitment to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and passionate service to her constituents and Lagos at large has given her advantage to be one of those to be reckoned with in the state’s politics. This seemed to be one of reasons why Governor Sanwo-Olu returned her to the Lagos State Executive Council. Akinbile-Yusuf had her primary education at Ansar-Ud-Deen Primary School, Ile Ife, Osun State between 1980 and 1986. She had her secondary education at the Seventh Day Adventist Grammar School, Ile Ife between 1987 and 1992, and proceeded to University of Ibadan to obtain a degree in Biochemistry. But because of her passion to become a Pharmacist, which was her long-term dream, she returned to the class by going to University of Lagos and graduated with B.Pharm in 2006. Right from her undergraduate days, Akinbile-Yusuf has distinguished herself in business by building several ventures. She is a successful business woman who started early in life in Ile-Ife under the tutelage of her mother and today through hardwork, commitment, sacrifice and dedication, she owns a conglomerate consisting of Musaroq Petroleum and Musaroq Pharmaceuticals, among others. Having distinguished herself in business, Akinbile-Yusuf’s selfless nature and vision for genuine empowerment for people around her, led her into partisan politics. Princess as she is fondly called by some of her supporters and close associates, joined the progressive camp in Lagos State by pitching her tent with the then ruling Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and contested to represent Alimosho I Constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly in 2011 election, but lost the party’s ticket to Hon. Bisi Yusuf, who is currently representing the constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly. Based on her contribution and relevant to her party in Alimosho, which is the largest local government in Lagos State, Akinbile-Yusuf was appointed Supervisory Councillor, Agriculture, Rural and Social Development in Agbado/Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) between 2012 and 2014. While in office, she took positive advantage of her position to benefit different Community Development Associations (CDAs), sportsmen and women. As a philanthropist and passionate politician, she also used her good office to empower young people through free computer acquisition programmes, sponsorship of catering management programmes, distribution of free expanded umbrella to market business men and women and empowering a host of other indigent people through her goodwill project by giving out computers, printing machines, grinding machines and varying sums of cash donation to start businesses.