A frontline governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State, Prince Mohammed Abubakar Audu, has said that he would make the state the highest revenue generating state in the North Central, if elected governor. The aspirant, who was equally the first son of late governor of the state, Prince Abubakar Audu,  spoke on Monday during a media parley organised by the state Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) at the press centre in Lokoja. He said he would turn around the economy of the state by generating N4.5 billion monthly from internal sources.   Audu said with pragmatic leadership, supported with experience and exposure, he had the ability to develop abundant potentials in the state to generate between N4.5 billion and N6 billion monthly from internal sources.   He added that Kogi was presently heavily dependent on ‘Federal Government subvention,’ adding that his leadership, if given the opportunity, would bring about a shift in the unhealthy tradition of waiting for federal allocations to pay salaries and execute projects. Audu said the state under his leadership would create and generate 10,000 employment opportunities for the teeming unemployed youths in the state; adding also that agriculture would be vigorously pursued.  The state, Audu said had suffered  economic backwardness for long; adding that the last time Kogi witnessed any meaningful development was between 1999 and 2003; and that was the reason his father took it upon himself to seek re-election. He, however, noted that it was not a right for him as a son of the former governor, to contest for the governorship seat, saying that the process of election into the Government House gave no room for dynasty. “We are trying to manage a complete breakdown of the state as healthcare is in comatose; no quality drugs and no qualified personnel.   “Education is in disarray, school curriculum will have to be reviewed and no child should walk for more than one kilometre to get to school. Tertiary institutions would be given adequate funding,” he assured. The APC governorship aspirant assured workers and pensioners that the issue of non-payment of salary and pensions would be taken care off by his administration.   On infrastructure, he pledged that his government would embark on road rehabilitation and reconstruction of new and old roads across the three senatorial districts of the state. Audu said women would constitute substantial part of his government, adding that local industries would be established while funding would be provided them through local microfinance outposts as part of empowerment programmes by the state.