President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday in Abuja inaugurated his new cabinet with majority of the re-appointed members of his first term cabinet retaining their posts.   Some other members of the old team who returned either had their jobs trimmed or got a raise in their responsibilities.   Alhaji Lai Mohammed returns to the Ministry of Information and Culture as Dr Ogbonnaya Onu returns to the Ministry of Science and Technology but unlike Mohammed, Onu is to be assisted by a Minister of State, Mr Mohammed Abdullahi.   Others who retained their positions are Alhaji Muhammed Bello (Federal Capital Territory) Adamu Adamu (Education), Dr Chris Ngige Labour and Employment), Geoffrey Onyeama (Foreign Affairs).   Alhaji Hadi Sirika, takes full charge as Minister of Aviation, while Mr Chibuike Amaechi is in-charge of Minister of Aviation in the Ministry of Transportation without the Aviation segment.   Malam Suleiman Adamu returns to the Ministry of Water Resources, while Zainab Ahmed is back to the Ministry of Finance.   Abubakar Malami retains his post as Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation and Mr Babatunde Fashola keeps the Ministry of Works and Housing without the Power segment.   Dr Ikechukwu Ogah, a fresh hand, is Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development; Godswill Akpabio (Minister of Niger Delta Affairs) and Mr Festus Keyamo is Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs.   Mr Sabo Nanono is the Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources; retired Maj.-Gen. Bashir Salihi Magash (Minister of Defence) and Ramatu Tijjani (Minister of State, FCT.)   Mr Muhammed Madmud is Minister of Environment; Sharon Ikeazor (Minister of State, Environment) and Amb. Maryam Katagun is the Minister of State, Trade   Mr Timipre Sylva is the Minister of State, Petroleum, Mr George Akume is the Minister of Special Duties and International Affairs, while Mustapha Baba Shehuri is Minister of State, Agriculture and Natural Resources.   FULL LIST   President Mohammed Buhari – Substantive Minister of Petroleum 1) Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah – Abia, Mines and Steel Development, State  2) Muhammed Musa Bello – Adamawa, FCT  3) Sen. Godswill Obot Akpabio – Akwa Ibom, Niger Delta  4) Chris Ngige – Anambra, Labour & Employment   5) Sharon Ikeazor – Anambra, Environment, State   6) Adamu Adamu – Bauchi, Education   7) Amb Maryam Katagum – Bauchi, Industry, Trade and Investment, State  8) Timipre Silva – Bayelsa, Petroleum, State  9) Sen. George Akume – Benue, Special Duties   10) Mustapha Baba Shehuri – Borno, Agriculture, State   11) Godwin Jedi-Agba – Cross River, Power, State   12) Festus Keyamo – Delta, Niger Delta, State   13) Ogbonnaya Onu – Ebonyi, Science and Technology  14) Dr. Osagie Ehanire – Edo, Health  15) Clement Ikanade Agba – Edo, Budget and National Planning, State   16) Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo – Ekiti, Industry, Trade and Investment  17) Geoffrey Onyeama – Enugu, Foreign Affairs  18) Dr. Ali Isa Pantami – Gombe, Communication  19) Emeka Nwajuba – Imo, Education, State  20) Suleiman Adamu – Jigawa, Water Resources  21) Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed – Kaduna, Finance, Budget and National Planning  22) Dr. Mohammad Mahmoud – Kaduna, Environment  23) Mohammed Sabo Nanono – Kano, Agriculture  24) Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd) – Kano, Defence  25) Hadi Sirika – Katsina, Aviation  26) Abubakar Malami – Kebbi, HAGF and Minister of Justice  27) Ramatu Tijani Aliyu – Kogi, FCT, State  28) Lai Mohammed – Kwara, Information and Culture  29) Gbemisola Saraki – Kwara, Transportation, State  30) Babatunde Raji Fashola – Lagos, Works and Housing  31) Adeleke Mamora – Lagos, Health, State  32) Mohammed A. Abdullahi – Nasarawa, Science & Tech, State  33) Amb. Zubairu Dada – Niger, Foreign Affairs, State  34) Olamilekan Adegbite – Ogun, Mines & Steel Devpt  35) Sen. Omotayo Alasuadura – Ondo, Labour, State  36) Rauf Aregbesola – Osun, Interior  37) Sunday Dare – Oyo, Youth and Sports  38) Dame Pauline Tallen – Plateau, Women Affairs  39) Rotimi Amaechi – Rivers, Transportation  40) Mohammed Maigari Dangyadi – Sokoto, Police Affairs  41) Engr. Sale Mamman – Taraba, Power  42) Abubakar D. Aliyu – Yobe, Works and Housing, State  43) Sadiya Umar Faruk – Zamfara, Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development