Jones Udeogu, a co-accused of former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, in an alleged fraud charge, yesterday told Justice Mohammed Idris of a Federal High Court in Lagos, that it was only the Chief of Staff to the former governor, T. A. Orji, who determined who got what from the Government House account. Udeogu, a former Director of Finance in Abia State Government House, made the disclosure while opening his defence to prove his innocence of the allegations. While being examined by his lawyer, Chief Solo Akuma (SAN), the accused, who spoke from the witness box, said based on Civil Service Rules, he had no direct contact with the former governor or took orders from him, but from his Chief of Staff, who also managed Government House funds. “According to Civil Service Rules, nobody can bypass the Chief of Staff to see or take orders from the governor. All the directors take orders from the Chief of Staff, unit heads take orders from their various directors and it is only the Chief of Staff that can give approval for who gets what from the Government House bank accounts. “My duty then was just to work out release of funds in any forms either by cash or cheque from the accounts,” he said. He added that all the disbursements of funds in Abia State Government House were made pursuant to the approval of the Chief of Staff. Udeogu also denied partaking in payment of any money to the account of the third defendant (Slok Nigeria Ltd). “I did not partake in the payment of funds to the account of Slok Nigeria Ltd. as alleged in counts 34 to 38. I am also not a signatory to the account of Slok Nigeria Ltd. “Neither me nor any other staff of Government House paid any money into Slok account. We also did not receive any Board Resolution from Slok requesting for any money to be paid into Slok account,” he said. Udeogu was docked alongside Kalu and a company, Slok Nigeria Ltd., before the court on charges bordering on fraud by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), but the trio pleaded not guilty. Further hearing in the matter continues today.