The Independent Electoral Commission of Chad (CENI) has called on its Nigerian counterpart, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to come to its aid in conducting the long overdue parliamentary elections. CENI Vice Chairman, Mr. Adama Djibert, who led a delegation on a visit to INEC on Friday, said the electoral commission could not conduct the parliamentary election, which was long overdue since 2015, due to security and financial reasons. According to him, the Chadian National Assembly had finished its tenure since June 21, 2015, and had practically finished another tenure without going to the polls. “The tenure was four years. It is those circumstances that made the tenure of the assembly to prolong till this day. “Among those circumstances is the evil we are facing together, which is Boko Haram in Lake Chad Basin. Today, our armed forces are doing great work in the region of Lake Chad Basin. “Apart from the issue of Boko Haram, Chad has also come down to rescue Mali when they were facing some challenges also. Today my country Chad has closed down borders with Libya, Sudan (and) Central African Republic. “The government has declared state of emergency in all these borders. So you understand the difficulties that the country is closing now,” he disclosed. While acknowledging the previous supports of INEC to CENI, Djibert further requested the assistance of the commission, noting that Republic of Chad is yet to enjoy the support of any foreign donor agency. “We have considered Nigeria as a brother. That is why we still turn our face to you, and in this respect, to seek for your assistance for the conduct of elections in Chad. “I want to make it clear that none of the countries, not even organisation, has come to help the Republic of Chad. “We have received some promises from the European Union but up till now, there is nothing tangible thing from their promises,” he added. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, promised that the commission would render technical support to CENI in the conduct of its parliamentary elections.