Notable leaders and stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Ogun State have dumped their parties for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).  The defectors, under the aegis of ‘Gateway Movement’, at an elaborate meeting held in Abeokuta on Tuesday, declared their unflinching support to the administration of the state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun.  Led by a former Deputy Governor of the state, Alhaja Salmot Badru, the party bigwigs said the meeting served as the official declaration for the APC in the state.  The defectors once served in government under the PDP administration of a former governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel.  The APC Caretaker Chairman, Chief Yemi Sanusi, alongside the party’s Secretary, Engr Ayo Olubori; the governor’s Senior Special Adviser on Political Affairs, Hon. Tunji Egbetokun and Consultant on General Matters, Hon. Biyi Adeleye, was on ground to receive the new members into the party.  In her remarks, Badru disclosed that membership of the Gateway Movement spanned across the 236 wards in the 20 local government areas of the state.  She said the future of the state remains in capable hands under the leadership of Abiodun, adding that the members were ready to work with the governor to actualize his lofty plans for the state.  While welcoming the new members into APC, Sanusi said the party was at the point of repositioning itself and was prepared to work with progressive individuals, especially those who helped actualised its victory during the elections.  The caretaker chairman commended the defectors for taking a bold step, assuring them of equal opportunities and privileges with existing members of the party.  Also speaking, Egbetokun urged the new members to keep faith with Governor Abiodun as he tries to re-lay a very solid foundation for the development of the state. He noted that the condition under which the governor was working now “is quite peculiar having succeeded a very hostile predecessor.”  Egbetokun, who is a former House of Assembly Speaker, called for patience and understanding among the people, promising that the present administration will not take the support of the group for granted.  Leaders of the movement present at the declaration included former member, PDP Board of Trustees (BOT), Chief (Mrs) Iyabo Apampa; former state PDP Deputy Chairman, Chief Ibukun Ojosipe; former Director-General, Ladi Adebutu Democratic Organization, Hon. Waliu Taiwo; former National Executive Council member of PDP, Alhaji Bisiriyu Popoola; ADC chieftain, Chief Pegba Otemolu, and Engr Seni Ayorinde, among others.  Meanwhile, the members of the Gateway Movement have vowed to deploy all political machineries to support in the structure to support Abiodun’s administration and ensure maximum delivery of dividends of democracy to all nooks and crannies of the state.  In a communiqué after their meeting and made available to New Telegraph Tuesday, the members lauded ex-Governor Daniel for his support and acceptance to serve as the Grand Patron of the Gateway Movement and indeed the administration of the governor.  The communiqué was signed by Badru; Akogun Deji Kalejaiye and Comrade Ifekayode Akinbode, Secretary and Head of Media of the movement respectively.  It partly read: “Having done our due diligence on the state of our dear state vis-à-vis the resolve and direction of the current administration, we hereby declare our unflinching support to His Excellency, Prince Dapo Abiodun in his quest to totally develop Ogun State.  “We commend Prince Dapo Abiodun on his just, fair, equitable and inclusive efforts so far which basically centres on giving Ogun State a focused and qualitative governance while creating the enabling environment for a public private sector partnership, which is fundamental to the creation of an enduring economic development and individual prosperity of the people of Ogun State.  “We hereby enjoin all citizens of Ogun State to give maximum support to Prince Dapo Abiodun as he leads the state to greater heights.”