Nigerian youths have called for change in leadership values, especially in character, which they agree would help re-orientate and develop the nation’s value systems. The call was made during the recent Quality Leadership Value (QLV) seminar organised by the Ikeja chapter of the Junior Chamber International (JCI) with the theme: ‘Leadership Excellence in Today’s Culture.’ Speaking at the event, the JCI President, Amb. Gabriella Asisah, said the choice of this year’s theme reflects the leadership necessity for organisational success. According to her, the theme was chosen after careful deliberation, adding that: “A culture of leadership excellence is so critical to the success in the country and organisations”. She stated that there is need to know how to lead for excellence and create a culture of leadership excellence, especially at the period of country, where youths ascribed various values to leadership excellence. She said: “Leadership Excellence in Today’s Culture is a rich and meaningful word. It is a word that inspires us not just as young people but also as Nigerians to be at our best. It is a word we associate with those who have made the greatest difference in our lives, the country and the world. “The Quality Leadership and Value seminar is an annual leadership seminar organised in line with our core values of excellence, professionalism and camaraderie. The seminar aims to impact positively, the lives of aspiring and existing leaders by instilling important leadership qualities, thereby enhancing the drive in them to contribute immensely to nation building.” She explained that the annual seminar, which was initiated over two decades ago by a past President of the organisation, JCI Senator Olumide Ajomale, is part of continued effort at ensuring that Nigerian youths are enlightened about the state of the nation and what part they can play to get it repositioned for a better future. According to her, the seminar has since its inception been an impactful event to over 2000 young leaders, educating them on the right moral values and character for a better nation-building, and dissecting various germane issues that can help reposition the state of leadership in Nigeria. In his keynote speech, the Lead Speaker, Prof. Aderemi Raji-Oyelade, of the Department of English University of Ibadan, advised the youth present to imbibe positive leadership values and reiterated that the government cannot do it all alone. He stated that leadership culture in today’s world is a bit far from what is obtainable in Africa and indeed Nigeria.