 Abdullahi Babalele, the son-in-law to a former Vice-President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, currently standing trial over alleged money laundering offence has been released from the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) after perfecting his bail conditions.   New Telegraph learnt that he was released last week Friday after meeting the bail conditions imposed on him by Justice Nicholas Oweibo of a Federal High Court in Lagos following his arraignment on a 2-count charge of alleged laundering of $140, 000 by the EFCC.   However, Atiku’s lawyer, Barrister Uyiekpen Giwa-Osagie, a partner in the law firm of Africa Law Practice (ALP) and his brother, Erhunse Giwa-Osagie, who were also arraigned by the EFCC on a 3-count charge of alleged laundering of $2 million are yet to meet the bail terms imposed on them by the court.   The duo, who were released to their lawyers, Ahmed Raji (SAN) and Norrison Quakers (SAN) by the trial judge have up till next week Thursday to perfect their bail terms.   Justice Oweibo had admitted all the defendants to bail in the sum of N20 million each with one surety each in like sum.   According to the judge, the sureties must be residents of Lagos and must produce evidence of means through an affidavit.   In the charge against Babalele, the EFCC accused him of procuring one, Bashir Mohammed, to make cash payment of the sum of $140,000 without going through any financial institution.   The offence was said to be contrary to Section 18(c) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 16(2)(b) of the same Act.   The charge against Giwa-Osagie brothers however reads:   “That you UYIEKPEN GlWA-OSAGIE and ERHUNSE GlWA-OSAGIE, sometimes in February 2019 in Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court conspired to commit an offence to wit: making cash payment of the sum of $2,000,000.00 (Two Million United States Dollars) without going through financial institution which sum exceeded the  amount authorized by law and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18(a) and 1(a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 16(2)(b) of the same Act.”   “That you UYIEKPEN GIWA-OSAGIE on or before the 12th day of February, 2019 in Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, procured ERHUNSE GIWA-OSAGIE to make cash payment of the sum of $2,000,000.00 (Two Million United States Dollars) without going through financial institution, which sum exceeded the amount authorized by law and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18(c) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 16 (2) (b) of the same Act.