A first year student of the Ondo State College of Health Technology, Akure, has narrated how three male undergraduates gang-raped her. The victim, a student of the Environmental Health Technician Department of the government-owned college, said that she knew only one of the boys. According to her, after raping her, they threatened to upload a video of the incident, if she told anyone. She said: “I was in the room when the three of them forced their way in and pounced on me. When they entered into the room, I was shocked. They ordered me to remove my dress and lie on the bed. I begged them to leave me, but they refused. The others asked one to undress me. After that, they raped me. “They even threatened me that they had the recordings of the escapade, and would upload the videos on the social media if I told anyone about the incident. I couldn’t keep the incident to myself. I have to confide in one of my friends, who then reported the issue to the police. The boys were tracked and arrested. The name of the one I know is Eyitayo. He had once wooed me, but I rebuffed his advances.” The suspects, Aderoboye Damilola, Eyitayo Charles and Blessing Michael, allegedly committed the crime last Wednesday at the residence of the victim’s boyfriend, which is located outside the school campus. The Dean of Student Affairs (DSA), Abiola Ogunro, who confirmed the incident, said it was yet to be officially reported to the school authority. He said: “Although the case has not been reported to the school officially, it is true that some students of our school were arrested by the police. We are aware that the police have started their investigations and they promised to get back to us.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, while confirming the arrest of the suspects, said that investigation had commenced into the matter. He added: “We have commenced investigation into the matter, and after the investigation, the suspecs would be charged to court.” The incident came weeks after an undergraduate female student of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), was allegedly raped by a soldier.