CHUKWU DAVID examines the threat by the Senate two weeks ago to take over legislative functions of the Edo State House of Assembly if Governor Godwin Obaseki fails to issue a fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the Assembly within one week    T he Ninth Senate commenced sitting in a very harmonious atmosphere, unlike the Eighth Senate that started with crisis and remained rancorous till its expiration on July 11, 2019, when the current Assembly was inaugurated.   What made the difference was the way and manner the presiding officers of the apex legislative chamber emerged. The leadership of the Eighth Senate emerged out of “rebellion” to the whims and caprices of the leadership of the ruling party and the presidency.   In the emergence of the leadership of the present Senate, the powers that be had their way in determining who occupied the presiding and principal offices, a development that resulted in a rancor-free commencement of the new legislative session in the National Assembly.   However, this initial harmony was almost truncated two weeks ago, precisely on Tuesday July 30, when the Senate had its last plenary before embarking on its annual recess. That was the same day the Upper Chamber concluded the screening and confirmation of ministerial nominees by President Muhammadu Buhari.   The Chamber had smoothly completed the screening and confirmation of the 43 ministerial nominees, when a sharp division suddenly erupted among the senators, following the presentation and consideration of the report of the Senate ad hoc committee on the Edo State House of Assembly crisis.   The Chairman of the ad hoc committee and Senate Deputy Majority Leader, Senator Aliyu Sabi (APC, Niger North), had presented the report for consideration and adoption by the Red Chamber. The committee made three recommendations to the Senate, suggesting that Governor Godwin Obaseki should issue a fresh proclamation letter for the proper inauguration of the 7th Edo State House of Assembly.   It also recommended that the Clerk of the Edo Assembly should formally inform all the 24 members-elect of the new proclamation through media adverts in print and electronic media in conformity with parliamentary best practice.   The panel further recommended that, in the event that a new proclamation was not issued as recommended within the period of three weeks (later amended to one week), the National Assembly is at liberty to invoke Section 11(4) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended).   In adopting the recommendations, the Senate issued a one week ultimatum to Governor Obaseki, to issue a fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the Edo State House of Assemly, threatening to take over the functions of the Assembly if the governor failed to adhere to the directive.   Sections 11(4) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, empowers the National Assembly to take over the functions of any state House of Assembly in the country that is incapable of carrying out its functions as assigned to it by the laws of the land.   In the course of their contributions to the debate on the report, some senators supported the recommendations, while others saw it as undue interference in the state Assembly by the National Assembly. Senators mostly involved in the divisive argument, were mostly former state governors.   For instance, the former governor of Imo State, who represents Imo West Senatorial District on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Rochas Okorocha, kicked against the recommendations, describing the decision of the Senate as unnecessary meddling in the internal business of Edo State government.   While Senators Adamu Aliero and Sam Egwu, former governors of Kebbi and Ebonyi states, respectively, condemned Obaseki for not issuing a proclamation properly for the inauguration of the House of Assembly as specified by law, Okorocha indicted the Senate for demonstrating eagerness to hastily take over the affairs of the crisis ridden Assembly.   Egwu and Aliero urged the Senate to go ahead and approve the recommendations of the committee, but Okorocha placed a serious caution on the dangers of the National Assembly meddling in the affairs of Edo politics.   He argued that the National Assembly should leave Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and other stakeholders to sort out their differences and resolve their internal political wrangling rather than for the apex chamber to jump into the matter.   His words: “From the onset, from what I have heard, it looks like we are eager to take over the activities of Edo State House of Assembly. Looking at the report of the ad hoc committee, both the party, the Clerk of the Assembly and all that, it looks like that is a family affair of the APC, which the leadership of the party should have found a way to resolve and not us stepping into the matter that I think we do not have jurisdiction to handle.   “There is no proof whatsoever that Edo State House of Assembly is not functioning. We have had cases, where the Mace of the Senate was taken away and no other National Assembly took over the Senate. I think those of us who are in the caucus of APC in the Senate should handle it is a party matter rather than making it a National Assembly issue. We should not be eager to go and take over the activities of Edo House of Assembly.   “What happened in Edo Assembly is a break of relationship and we should find a way to resolve it than for us to stand here and talk about giving three weeks ultimatum for compliance and if the governor does not approve it, we will take over. I was also a governor and it would be insulting to the Edo State governor for us to sit here and force him to comply within three weeks. It is not proper.”   However, Senator Egwu (PDP, Ebonyi North), said: “I support the recommendation of the ad hoc committee. I was a governor too. I think the governor should not lead the House to do the wrong thing given the situation, where the Clerk recorded that the governor directed that the inauguration should be done by 3.pm, but the report by the Commissioner of Police said the inauguration was done by 9.pm.   “Something done in the night is a secret meeting. It is suspect, it is undemocratic and there is a purpose for that which was not good. For me, I think the governor did the wrong thing by inaugurating the Assembly in the night.”   The Red Chamber had actually got set for altercation, bickering and perhaps a rowdy session, but the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, quickly intervened and used his prerogative of office to calm the situation by not allowing further contributions on the matter.   The perceived use of fiat to address the matter by Lawan, really sparked off a lot of murmuring among the senators, who were not allowed to openly contribute to the debate as the President of the Senate did not give room for the pending pandemonium to happen.   As the recommendations of the panel were being considered, the Senate Majority Leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi (APC, Kebbi North) amended one of the three items, reducing the ultimatum from three weeks to one week.   Also, in an obvious move to approve the recommendation without opposition, Lawan did not allow the amendment to be seconded, when he put it to voice vote, and therefore, did not wait to properly determine the winner between those who supported and opposed the motion. So, he hit the gavel, approving the amendment automatically.   At this point, Senator Orker Jev (PDP, Benue), raised a constitutional point of order, drawing the attention of the Senate to apparent constitutional error in one of the recommendations of the ad hoc committee.  He said: “There is nothing that indicates in this constitution that the proclamation ought to be published in the media. The fact that such was not done does not infract on the constitution. As a lawmaker and lawyer, I am always bothered about the implementation of whatever comes out of any legislative house.   However, while he was still speaking, Lawan interjected, saying: “Let me rule. As far as this issue is concerned, this has been laid to rest. The Senate has taken a decision and it is in conformity with that of the House of Representatives two weeks ago. I believe that our colleague, Jev, can bring this point of order at an appropriate day if it would do any good. I believe that these resolutions should be sent immediately, so that the one week is not reduced by keeping the letter here.   “The National Assembly must insist on the right thing to be done even by state governors. This is the home of democracy; it is the highest legislative chamber. When the National Assembly queries decisions by the president, I don’t see the reason why when there is an error or misjudgement or something undemocratic that the National Assembly should stay away from it.   “This motion was taken on July 10. We had three weeks to allow for some political process. I believe that has proved impossible. I want to congratulate the Senate for coming to the rescue of democracy and I believe that the message is very clear. We want this issue resolved. We are not in a hurry to take over. The one week is to allow for the proper thing to be done.”   Since the ultimatum elapsed last week Tuesday, nobody has heard anything from the Senate, as to whether or not it has taken over the functions of the turbulent Assembly as it threatened. Nigerians are eagerly waiting for the country’s highest lawmaking body to implement its threat else the Senate might be seen and branded as a toothless bulldog, which can only bark without the corresponding power to bite.