Researchers in the United States (US) have found that a group of teenagers exposed to common agricultural pesticides before birth have distinctive reductions in certain types of brain activity. According to a new study published in the journal ‘Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS),’ researchers were able to see the changes in brain activity through brain imaging of the adolescents. Compared to their peers, teenagers estimated to have higher levels of prenatal exposure to organophosphates showed altered brain activity while performing tasks that required executive control, the study found. Organophosphates (OP) are chemical substances that are the main components of herbicides, pesticides, and insecticides. Lead author of the study, Sharon Sagiv, who is associate adjunct professor of epidemiology at University of Carlifonia (UC) Berkeley said: “These results are compelling because they support what we have seen with our neuropsychological testing, which is that organophosphates impact the brain.” The researchers, who also used data from the California Pesticide Use Reporting programme, found that teens with higher prenatal organophosphate exposure had less blood flow to the frontal cortex when engaged in tasks that tested cognitive flexibility and visual working memory. Similarly, the research team said the teenagers had more blood flow to the parietal and temporal lobes during tests of linguistic working memory. The California Pesticide Use Reporting programme documents when and where agricultural pesticides are sprayed, to estimate their residential proximity to organophosphate application during pregnancy. Previous studies had found that pesticide exposure has been linked to many conditions, especially after long-term exposure. These chemicals can cause short-term adverse effects and in some cases, chronic adverse health effects that can emerge months or even years after exposure, the ‘ScienceDaily’ reported. In pregnant women, pesticide exposure was associated with birth defects, learning problems of the child later in life, miscarriage or abortion, premature birth and low-birth weight. However, little information is available on how pesticides affect the infant’s brain in the long run.