A woman murdered her father by serving him a poisoned hamburger then encased his body in concrete under the home they shared.  Dayna Jennings, 45, was sentenced to life in prison for killing her 69-year-old father, Willima Mussack, whose body was found under their home in Denver in January 2018, Jennings was convicted of first degree-murder in July after an autopsy proved Mussack was poisoned by acepromazine, an animal tranquilizer. Mussack’s son, Brian, told investigators that his father texted him in December 2017 and said Jennings had ‘drugged’ him. In the text, Mussack went on to say that he ‘had been unconscious for 15 hours after taking a bite of hamburger she had given him.’  It was the last time Brian Mussack heard from his father.  Five weeks later, William Mussack’s body was discovered to be encased in concrete in a crawl space under his home.  Police investigated the home and said it smelled ‘like sewage and something rotting,’ which Jennings told officers was an overflowed toilet, adding that her father went to the mountains with his girlfriend. Italian prime minister to resign after attack on ‘opportunist’ far right deputy Jennings was later interviewed at the Federal Heights police station.  During the interview, the officer questioning her received information that human remains were found under the home.  During the interview, Jennings admitted pouring concrete in the crawl space.  When the officer said authorities were at the home breaking up the concrete, Jennings asked for a lawyer.  After she was found guilty, Chief Deputy District Attoryney Rhonda Pilmer said: “Jennings repeatedly misled the family after they became concerned about Mussack, describing everyday routines as if things were fine.  “All the while, she was scheming about how to get rid of her father’s body. She researched the drug, ordered it, received it. All of those were opportunities to stop and ask herself, ‘Am I really going to poison my father?”‘  It is unclear what motivated Jennings to kill her father, but police said her massage business fell apart and her husband left her just before the murder.  Her ex-husband reportedly told investigators that Jenning was in a ‘downward spiral’ after her business collapsed and she displayed ‘patterns of intense and unstable relationships with family, friends, and loved ones.’  * Courtesy: metro.co.uk