FELIX NWANERI writes on the recent call for revolution by campaigners of the RevolutionNow movement over rising insecurity and economic hardship in the country  T he world, over time, has witnessed series of political upheavals that saw ordinary people coming together to bring down regimes, they tagged oppressive. These movements relied on the unity of the parties involved parties although in most cases, they ended up as precursors to civil and even international conflicts.    Some of the most world-changing political revolutions to have ever occurred include the the Chinese communist revolution, Iranian revolution also known as the Islamic Revolution, a period where Iranians conducted numerous demonstrations against the United States-backed Pahlavi dynasty, and which became an inspiration to other movements all over the world including the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa as well as the Haitian revolution (a successful anti-slavery war).   Others were the Fidel Castro-led Cuban Revolution, which culminated in the overthrowing of the Batista-led authoritarian government; the Xinhai Revolution in China which led to the collapse of the last imperial dynasty in the country, the Qing Dynasty; the French Revolution that changed modern history in France and Europe in general, the American Revolution, which began after members of the American colonial society refused to submit to Great Britain’s King and Parliament’s authority.   There was also the Russian Revolution – the first, known as the February Revolution, which focused on the then Russian capital, Petrograd, and led to the collapse of the Russian Empire and the abdication of its leader, Emperor Nicholas II and the establishment of a provisional government and the second known as the October Revolution, which was led by Vladimir Lenin to overthrow the provisional government and imposed a communist government.   Africa has also had its fair share of revolutions. They include Algerian Revolution (1954-62), Angolan War of Independence (1961-74), Egyptian Revolution (1919), Egyptian Revolution (1952), Rwandan Revolution (1959-61), Sudanese Revolution of 1985, Somali Revolution (1986-92), and what many refer to as the Arab Spring that swept through Tunisia (2010-2011), Libya (2011) and Egyptian.   While most leaders of these revolutions predicated their actions on the need to unseat totalitarian regimes, there is no doubt that a few, particularly the most recent ones, were driven by the global trend for younger given growing unhappiness with establishment politicians.   This perhaps explains why in the past few years, countries like France, Ireland, Estonia and most recently, Austria have elected leaders under the age of 40. To the electorate in some of these countries, there is a feeling that new approaches are needed for today’s problems. Against this backdrop, less emphasis is being put on age and experience.     More than youth alone, these leaders offer their countries a renewed sense of vitality and excitement.   The question many have asked against this development is: What could have influenced the trend? The answer may not be farfetched as the rise of social media has changed the dynamics of politics. There is also no doubt that politics has become much faster and much less predictable and young people feel more comfortable dealing with this new dynamics than old established politicians.   This new dynamics, perhaps, informed the recent call for “Days of Rage” by Omoyele Sowore, a Nigerian journalist, political activist and presidential candidate of the Africa Action Congress (AAC) in the last general elections.   The protest, under the banner, RevolutionNow, is said to have been inspired by the recent popular uprising in Sudan that toppled the country’s authoritarian ruler Omar al-Bashir. The protest was billed to commence on August 5 across the country to demand for a better Nigeria.   Sowore, had after a meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the AAC on Saturday, August 5, said that the protest would be sustained until the country is put on the right path of honour where justice will prevail.   He noted that the action of the government compelled his party and other groups to go for the option even as he added that there was no level playing field during the 2019 general elections.   His words: “Election is a place we would have carried out a revolution of the ballot box, but they stole the ballot box. They hijacked materials meant for free and fair elections and as a result they did not organise any election that was credible enough for people to have faith in the ballot box.   “The revolution has therefore become inevitable. We didn’t choose to go for revolution they choose it by ensuring that there was no level playing field in the last elections.   “As you know, they did it in Sudan and it was started by some females. They were making fun of them, but they did not stop until doctors joined them, the labour union joined them and what started as five people became 5,000 and 500,000 and became 5,000,000 and the regime fell.”   Though the protest commenced as scheduled on Monday August 5 despite Sowore’s arrest on Saturday, August 3 by operatives of the Department for State Services (DSS), the Federal Government termed it a call for revolution aimed at overthrowing the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration.   The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had ahead of the commencement of the protest, warned its organisers on the enormity of the journey they were about to embark, describing the planned action as treasonable felony and an act of terrorism.   The police boss, through a statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, noted that the nation’s police force would not fold its hands and watch a group of people cause anarchy in the country.   Expectedly, many Nigerians have expressed doubt whether revolution, apart from one through the ballot box will do Nigeria any good given the fact that most revolutions ended up creating a cycle of crisis and violence.   Nigeria, they said, is too fragile at the moment that a “careless push” could reenact the Somalia or Rwanda experiences in Africa’s most populous nation.   However, there others who believe that Sowore’s arrest and consequent detention might not see to the end to the visible angst in the land. Those who hold this view, said rather than use of against force dissenting voices, there is the need for visionary leadership, which is the principal element that ensures that government serves as a vehicle for the attainment of the socio-economic aspirations of the citizens.   To these analysts, the leadership deficit that assails the country is so legendary that from all indications, the nation has continued to lag behind in an emerging world order that emphasises clear-headed and able leadership.   Nigeria’s problem, they further argued, had never been paucity of funds and resources, but lack of political will to do the right thing. This, according to them, explains why the country has stagnated in almost all facets, with rising insecurity compounding it woes.   No doubt, the clampdown on the protesters has doused tension for now, but there is the need for the Federal Government to adopt a more careful approach to resolve some of the issues raised by the RevolutionNow campaigners to avert further crisis in the polity already heated by rising insecurity.   Revolt, according to them, should be avoided at all cost as history has shown that though it may come in different ways, its end results have always been the same – major changes in culture, economy, and socio-political institutions within a relatively short period of time.