PAULINE ONYIBE reports that, as the Bayelsa State governorship election inches nearer, a new entrant into the race, Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei, is causing upsets among the big PDP contenders  The Bayelsa State governorship polls scheduled for November 16 is almost around the corner while the primary election that would produce the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate is just weeks away.  So many aspirants have indicated interests in becoming the governor of the state under the platform of the PDP, numbering over 20 in the party alone. Of course, there is a clamour for young, vibrant, energetic and productive candidates to take over the mantle of leadership in the state. But there are contentions as more persons who joined the PDP race are already having clash of interests owing to the entrance of Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei (DNA) into the race.  Already, political pundits are of the opinion that though many who are referred to as PDP restoration caucus or anointed aspirants are pulling strong, three key aspirants are to be watched in the PDP tussle, while others have argued that the trio do not stand any chance, arguing that they cannot win election considering their records.  They are the Secretary to the state government, Kemela Okara; Governor Seriake Dickson’s Chief of Staff, Talford Ongolo; and a member of the National Assembly, Hon. Douye Diri. But the Deputy Governor Gboribiogha John Jonah, may change the tide alongside Erepamu Osaisai, Timi Alaibe, Kenebi Okoko, Godknows Bolade Igali, Reuben Okoya, and Benson Agadaga, among other contestants, who are also in the primary race.  However, indications are rife that the preferred candidate is the man popularly called DNA, as he seems to be the one anointed amongst all the candidates, judging by the volume of support he gets from stakeholders and youth groups. Another factor working in Ayawei’s favour is the fact that he hails from the Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, which is supposed to produce the next governor bearing in mind that the West Senatorial District, where Governor Dickson hails from, had been in power for eight years now.   A stalwart of the PDP and ally of the governor, who craved anonymity informed Saturday Telegraph that there is every indication that Ayawei will clinch the PDD ticket going by his track record, local government of origin and his political base. “DNA is a man of the people, he was born about 48 years ago Koluama 2, an oil producing community in Southern Ijaw Local Government.  “It is on record that he has trained more than 20 Ph.D holders both in Europe and South Africa apart from master’s degree people, more than 50 undergraduates, both at the federal and private universities. “Talking about experience, he has worked at the Bayelsa State Ministry of Environment before being appointed as a member of the Bayelsa State Scholarship Board. “  Also as chairman of Bassan-Koluama Rural Development Area, he had a stitch in the Bayelsa state assembly before retiring to private business until Dickson appointed him as General Manager/Chief Executive Officer of the Bayelsa State Housing and Property Development Authority.  He also became the Commissioner of Housing and Urban Development before briefly taking up a lecturing job in the Niger Delta University before he was made the chairman board of internal revenue.  Some said Dickson is from that district and had spent eight years, maintaining that it was not morally right for anybody to come again from that district. Another politician in the state, Biboye George said: “It is not about zoning, it is about morality. The three senatorial districts have had one shot each.  The argument now is can we start from this end. Let us start from where we started which is the central comprising Yenago, Kolokuma Opokuma, and Southern Ijaw. “Now the argument is that people are saying that it should be Yenagoa or Southern Ijaw. It is a good argument but I have one argument, Southern Ijaw is one third of this state. It is bigger than every other local government put together.  The people in Southern Ijaw said look we have had one but we should still have one because we are bigger. “So they should be allowed the second term but the real deal is that in politics, fairness does not count. If you take fairness you may not win an election.  “The principal business of every election is to win and the only person that can win election here is Ayawei young sound, acceptable. He has reached people all over the local governments. “He has all his investments in this town. That is somebody who loves this state. Most of these aspirants will come during election and after, they will take off and block everybody.  “With Dr Ayawei as a flag bearer, in the whole of Southern Ijaw, APC will not have any vote. Everybody has said if you give him, it is all over. No wonder Dr Ayawei promised to unite both PDP and non PDP members to move the state to the next level when he becomes the governor of the state. Speaking in Yenagoa in a reception organized for him by his supporters after picking is form, he said: “If I’m elected the governor, I will bring the those that are in PDP and those that are not in PDP together.   All of us are Bayelsans, so Bayelsa must unite. “We must all be united to move Bayelsa to the next level. What will make Bayelsa grow is for us to live as brothers and sisters and protect ourselves. We must protect our state for our children and grandchildren. “Bayelsa state must change for better.  Bayelsa must move from strength to strength and if we must change the dynamics of Bayelsa, we must move as a group. “I like Bayelsa because the whole of my life revolves around Bayelsa. I’m not one of the people that come around during election and if they didn’t win, they will run away. “All the houses that I have in are all in Bayelsa. All the businesses that I have are in Bayelsa. My wife is a Bayelsan.   That is why I’m an original Bayelsa ‘pikin’. “When our roads are bad, I will know because this is the only place I live. If there is a pothole, I will know that there is a pothole. I won’t be the one that will fly in, ask for your votes and disappear after getting it. He emphasized. Ayawei said in the next twenty years the whole of the oil industry will be moving to the Atlantic Ocean adding that when he takes over as Bayelsa governor, he was going to send Bayelsans abroad for maritime training. Dr Ayawei said he was doing better as the board of internal revenue boss because he thinks out of the box.  He said he saw that the only thing he can do to raise the revenue index of Bayelsa was to go to the Atlantic Ocean, where the oil companies are operating. Ofcourse the revenue boss raising the revenue base of the state has endeared him to the governor of the state.  That is the kind of man that wants to take over the mantle of leadership of the state. That man that will not wait for the federal allocation to come before paying salaries while there are goldmines yet untapped in the state should be given the flag of PDP and that person is Dr Ayawei. Of course he has promised to consolidate on the gains of the current restoration government in the area of infrastructure if elected.  Dr Ayawei also pledged to ensure that the robust education policy of Governor Dickson’s administration will be further expanded on under his watch if he becomes the governor. That may also be the reason why a group of young professionals in Bayelsa state under the auspices of Ayawei Volunteers threw their weight behind the Governorship aspiration of Dr. Nimibofa Ayawei. The group said that he has capacity and disposition to the yearnings of the youths in the state.  According to the spokesman of the group, Kuro Peri-Ockiya, the decision to throw their weight behind the Governorship aspiration Nimibofa Ayawei was based on the need for a young, vibrant, and responsible governor who will ensure youthful participation in Government and consolidate on the gains of the present administration.  According to him, “We are using this medium to call on Bayelsa youths to support a candidate who understand their plight and is willing to work for them, and that person is Dr Nimibofa Ayawei.  The Co-convener of the group, Engr Domor Mienye in his statement said “Ayawei is the best candidate to carry on with the legacies of Governor Dickson having served in both the legislative and executive arms of Government, and with his wealth of experience in the academia and business.  Mienye further stated that as Chairman of the Bayelsa State Board of Internal Revenue, Dr Ayawei showed his administrative prowess when he exceeded the target given to him by the governor to generate an IGR of 600M, but rather generated over a billion naira monthly.  In his words: “Governor Dickson has done well in education, infrastructural development, security and we call on Bayelsans, especially the delegates to throw their weight behind an aspirant like DNA to emerge as the PDP flag bearer in order to carry on with these legacies and do even more for our people” The decision now lies with the delegates who will vote in the September 2nd PDP primaries.