Former Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida, turned 78 at the weekend. Felix Nwaneri, in this report, takes a look at the man who led Nigeria between 1987 and 1993  Former Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida, needs little or no introduction. Undeniably, his name rings a deafening bell across the land. Born on August 17, 1941, Babangida, who is popularly known as IBB, was Nigeria’s military ruler between August 27, 1985 and August 27, 1993 after his regime’s annulment of the presidential election held on June 12 of that year. Though a chain of events trailed the poll’s annulment, which was after a painstaking eight-year transition programme to return Nigeria to democratic rule, Babangida later explained that he was compelled to nullify the election because of security threats to the enthronement of a democratic government at the time. He pointed out that the Armed Forces Ruling Council (AFRC) he headed then knew that Abiola, if installed as president would be toppled through a military coup, which his government did not want. According to him, his regime decided that it would be the last that would ascend the seat of power through coup, adding that it would make no sense to install a democratic government that would be truncated within another six months. He, however, admitted that the poll was the best ever conducted in Nigeria’s history, saying: “June 12 was accepted by Nigerians as the best of elections in Nigeria. It was free and fair. But unfortunately, we cancelled that election. I used the word unfortunately, for the first time. We were in government at the time and we knew the possible consequences of handing over to a democratic government. We did well that we wanted ours to be the last military coup deta’t. To be honest, the situation was not ripe to hand over at the time. “The issue of security of the nation was a threat and we would have considered ourselves to have failed, if six months after handover, there was another coup. I went through a coup deta’t and I survived it. We knew that there would be another coup deta’t. But not many people believed what we said. They could have allowed me to go away and then they (coup plotters) would regroup and stage another coup.” But, annulment of the 1993 presidential election is not all about Babangida. He served Nigeria in various capacities before his emergence as head of state. The Niger State born former military ruler joined the Nigerian Army’s officer corps on December 10, 1962. He was the Chief of Army Staff and a member of the Supreme Military Council (SMC) under the administration of Major General Muhammadu Buhari (now president). Babangida would later overthrow Buhari’s regime on in a bloodless coup, with a promise to bring to an end, human rights abuses and to hand over power to a civilian government by 1990. One of the major economic policies of his regime was the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP), which was launched in 1986. The policies entailed under the SAP were the deregulation of the agricultural sector by abolishing marketing boards and the elimination of price controls, privatisation of public enterprises, devaluation of the Naira to aid the competitiveness of the export sector, and the relaxation of restraints on foreign investment. Between 1986 and 1988, when these policies were executed as intended by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Nigerian economy actually recorded appreciable growth. It is also to his credit that some developmental programmes such as the Peoples Bank of Nigeria (PBN), National Directorate for Employment (NDE), Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Directorate for Food Roads and Rural Infrastructure (DFRRI), Better Life for Rural Women and National Economic Reconstruction Fund were established. In retirement, Babangida has not relented from contributing to national discourse. In the heat of the debate for restructuring of Nigeria, for example, he described it as an appeal whose time has come. He also called for devolution of powers to give more responsibilities to the state as well as state police. The former military ruler who was reacting to the tension in the country then over hate speeches emanating from different quarters, warned against the consequences of war, citing the effects of the devastating Nigerian Civil War, which he said lingers till date. In a statement entitled: “I am a Nigerian,” Babangida also warned against demolishing the foundation of nationhood as a result of the country’s inability to realise her potential. He said: “That we have not fully realized our potentials as a great nation is not enough reason for us to want to demolish the foundation of our nationhood or rubbish the labours of our heroes past; both of which are borne out of our collective efforts to build a truly great nation, and great people. If we have repeatedly done certain things and not getting the desired results, we need to change tactics and approach, and renew our commitment. It is our collective responsibilities to engender a reform that would be realistic and in sync with modern best practices. “For example, restructuring has become a national appeal as we speak, whose time has come. I will strongly advocate for devolution of powers to the extent that more responsibilities be given to the states while the Federal Government is vested with the responsibility to oversee our foreign policy, defence, and economy. Even the idea of having Federal Roads in towns and cities has become outdated and urgently needs revisiting. That means we need to tinker with our constitution to accommodate new thoughts that will strengthen our nationality. “Restructuring and devolution of powers will certainly not provide all the answers to our developmental challenges; it will help to reposition our mindset as we generate new ideas and initiatives that would make our union worthwhile. The talk to have the country restructured means that Nigerians are agreed on our unity in diversity; but that we should strengthen our structures to make the union more functional based on our comparative advantages. “Added to this desire is the need to commence the process of having state police across the states of the federation. This idea was contained in my manifesto in 2010 when I attempted to contest the presidential elections. The initial fears that state governors will misuse the officers and men of the State Police have become increasingly eliminated with renewed vigour in citizens’ participation in, and confidence to interrogate power. “We cannot be detained by those fears and allow civilization to leave us behind. We must as a people with one destiny and common agenda take decisions for the sake of posterity in our shared commitment to launch our country on the path of development and growth. Policing has become so sophisticated that we cannot continue to operate our old methods and expect different results.” He also added his voice to the campaign for generational power shift ahead of the 2019 general election, when he called on Nigerians to reinvent the will and tap into the resourcefulness of the younger generation to stimulate their entrepreneurial initiatives and provoke a conduce environment to grow national economy both at the micro and macro levels. According to him, that will provoke fresh leadership that would immediately begin the process of healing the wounds in the land and ensure that the wishes and aspirations of the people are realized in building and sustaining national cohesion and consensus.