Fitch Ratings has said that recent measures announced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to boost economic growth through incentives for bank lending, “jar” with the apex bank’s goal of maintaining a stable exchange rate. According to the agency, “the CBN’s, Attempts to reconcile competing goals through unconventional macroeconomic management and weaknesses in policy settings are raising medium-term vulnerabilities to shocks, which could make the economy more exposed to falling oil prices or disruptions to hydrocarbon production.” The rating agency, which said this in a statement obtained by New Telegraph yesterday, also contended that: “The competing goals of preserving naira stability and supporting Nigeria’s fragile recovery are pushing the CBN towards increasingly complex policy measures, with a risk of aggravating external vulnerability or causing macroeconomic distortions.” Fitch noted that: “Tight management of domestic liquidity has been the key pillar of Nigeria’s exchange-rate policy in recent years. However, several recent measures to boost lending have contributed to a temporary loosening of domestic financing conditions. This has combined with falling oil prices and deteriorating investor sentiment towards emerging markets to put pressure on the naira. “The measures, announced by the CBN in July, included a requirement for banks to have a loans-to-deposits ratio of at least 60% at end-September and tighter restrictions on the amount of remunerable deposits that banks can park at the central bank.” The agency further pointed out that exchange-rate pressure pushed the CBN into resuming its liquidity tightening operations this month by auctioning Open Market Operations (OMO) bills, as well as  increasing  the supply of foreign currency, “releasing about $800 million from its foreign-currency reserves between mid-July and mid-August.” According to Fitch: “These moves have contributed to a rebound in domestic interest rates and limited the depreciation of the naira on the Investors’ and Exporters’ FX Window to 1% since end-June.” Although the agency stated that it expects the CBN to continue to pursue a combination of tight liquidity management, segmented exchange-rate markets, forex interventions and restrictions, adding that this “will be aided by ample international reserves of more than six months of expected 2019 current account payments, and a small current account surplus conditional (we estimate) on Brent prices averaging at least $60 a barrel,” it, however, warned of risks ahead. Specifically, Fitch stated that the CBN’s policy of auctioning OMO bills to non-residents “has led to a rapid build-up of short-term external liabilities with non-resident holdings of these bills amounting to $15.8 billion (4% of GDP) at end-April, equivalent to a third of reserves. “This generates meaningful rollover risks, which could necessitate persistently high interest rates, holding back growth and increasing the government’s debt-servicing costs,” it added. Also commenting on the CBN’s plan to intensify restrictions on FX access for food imports in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent directive, the rating agency stated that: “FX restrictions are unlikely to foster an expansion in domestic food supply, in our view, as Nigeria’s agriculture and food industries suffer from deep-seated challenges from infrastructure gaps, communal conflicts, insecurity and weather hazards. Instead, these restrictions could push more traders towards the informal economy and compound inflationary pressures.” Continuing, it said: “Inflation at about 11% already raises the risk of an overvaluation of the real effective exchange rate, which could put more pressure on the naira and increase the risk of a sharp adjustment following an oil price shock. Withdrawal of portfolio investors would aggravate potential balance of payment pressures.”