ONYEKACHI EZE examines the variables that constitute a political party against the backdrop that less than five of the 91 political parties registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are functional in the real sense of it    The concern expressed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and United Nations over the number of registered political parties in Nigeria has been raised by many Nigerians long ago. But unfortunately, INEC has been hamstrung by law to do anything about it. From 24 political parties that fielded candidates in the 2015 general elections, the electorate were confronted with a whopping 91 parties four years after. Yet, there are still more political parties still seeking to be registered. The names of these parties are not only funny; their acronyms are similar and confusing to the voters. Both literate and semi-literate voters still find it difficult to differentiate between most of the parties. What this means is that, in a country like Nigeria with high rate of illiteracy, there will be high number of void or rejected votes due to the difficulty of voters to make a choice from a long list of political parties. Special Representative of UN Secretary General in West African and Sahel Region, Dr. Mohammed Ibn Chambers, who spoke on the issue recently, said the number of political parties in the sub-region could cause distraction in the quality of the electoral process. His words: “Recently in Senegal, this same challenge was faced. Next door in Benin, they were confronted with 249 of registered political parties. In the last election in this country (Nigeria), many of you will recall that there were 73 presidential candidates. Many people have even referred to the ballot paper as table cloth on the account of its length and breath. “That is also a challenge in countries of the sub-region, where majority of mothers, fathers and relations are illiterates, and we are presenting them with such long list of candidates. We need to look into the number of political parties and their mode of registration, among others. “We are seeking to be part of the conversations (by INEC). We will be particularly interested in a number of issues; issues such as of political parties – number, mode of registration, internal democracy, accreditation of party agents.” INEC is presently undertaking a review of the 2019 general elections. The commission also promised to hold a stakeholders’ dialogue on the nation’s electoral process. This, INEC believes, will help in fashioning a credible political process in the country. Nigeria began the present democratic journey in 1998 with only three political parties – Alliance for Democracy (AD), All Peoples Party (APP) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The three parties gave fair representations of themselves in the 1999 general elections both at the executive and legislative levels. For instance, the AD won six out of 36 states of the country, as well as 19 seats in the Senate; the APP secured nine states and 23 Senate seats, while PDP won the presidency, 21 states and 67 Senate seats. Each of the parties also had a number of seats in the House of Representatives. That was the only period in the present political dispensation that Nigeria experienced “quality and election winning political parties.” Thereafter, Nigerians started witnessing what INEC’s National Commissioner, Festus Okoye, described as “mere commercial platforms for hire,” in the name of political parties. The liberalisation of registration of political parties in the country started in 2002 following the Supreme Court judgement, which voided 12 out of the 13 registration guidelines issued by INEC, in a suit filed by five political associations challenging the commission’s denial to register them. The associations – Chief Gani Fawehinmi’s led National Conscience Party (NCP), Movement for Democratic Justice (MDJ), Nigerian Peoples Congress (NPC), Community Party of Nigeria (CPN), and Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) – had approached the court to contest among other things, the registration fees charged by INEC, as well as the requirement by the commission for political associations to open offices in at least, two-thirds states of the country and Abuja. But the apex court described the guidelines as unconstitutional. Also, in 2009, an Appeal Court in Lagos overruled INEC’s plan to deregister some of the political parties that failed to secure any electoral victory in the 2007 general elections. The commission had relied on section 78(7)(II) of the Electoral Act 2010 to register some political parties that failed to secure electoral victory in the 2007 general elections. But Justice Iyisoba of the Lagos Appeal Court, in a suit again failed by the NCP, held that it is not part of Nigeria’s constitution that every political party must win election in order for it to operate as one. Analysts believe that most of Nigeria’s political parties are for pecuniary purposes. For instance, out of about 20 parties that contested the 2003 presidential election, only three – PDP, All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP, former APP) and All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) – scored over a million votes. And worse still, only four of them, including AD that won seats in the parliament. The PDP again won the presidency and governorship in 27 states, ANPP won seven, while AD and APGA won one state each. Okoye noted that “the present framework for the registration is inadequate to guarantee the registration of qualitative, membership driven and ideologically propelled political parties,” adding that some of the existing parties are mere platforms without concrete and visible presence in most states of the federation. “The presence of too many political parties on our ballot papers has in some instances, confused some of our compatriots who are not literate enough. It has bloated the ballot papers and result sheets and trucking them to the polling units has become a logistics nightmare,” he stated. According to him, “the fourth alteration of the constitution is inadequate to weed out political parties with little or no visible structures and presence in any of the states of the federation.” He therefore, said the commission will propose a rational and democratic threshold for getting on the ballot and save the Nigerian people the phenomena of “also ran.” INEC, he said will come up with a proposed amendment that “ties registration of political parties to visible, verifiable and concrete presence and structures in at least half of the states of the federation.” Proponents of liberalisation of registration of political parties often point at India with over 2, 000 registered political parties. But, unlike the Nigeria situation, these parties are not entirely national parties, or even recognised in all the states or region of the country. Parties in India are classified into three – national, state and regional. Seven of these registered parties are national, 36 are state recognized, while 329 are regional parties. There are also 2,044 registered, but unrecognised parties, which, though are allowed to contest elections, but not with a fixed symbol of their own. They are compelled “to choose from a list of free symbols issued by the poll panel.” To become a recognised political party either at the state or national level, a party has to secure certain minimum percentage of valid votes or certain number of seats in the state legislative assembly. To this end, to qualify as a national party, such party must secure two per cent seats in the parliament from at least, three different states in the general election; or it can score six per cent of the total valid votes in at least, four states. In addition, the party has to be recognized as a state party in at least, four states. Although like Nigeria’s INEC, the Election Commission (EC) of India cannot deregister any political party, it can “unlist” parties, which it considers as dormant, based on Article 324 of the country’s constitution. Such party or parties cannot be on the ballot. The United Kingdom is another country that presents a good study in the formation of political parties. The country practices multi-party system, but the only two dominant parties are the Conservative and Labour parties. There are other 30 parties including the UK Independent Party (UKIP), a right-wing political party that pushed for a referendum on Britain’s exit from the European Union (EU) in 2016, even though the party has over 16 per cent of the UK’s seats in the European Parliament. The United States (U.S.) equally practices multi-party democracy and commands quite a number of political parties, apart from the Republican and Democrat that occupy the national space. The failure of other political parties in both the United Kingdom and America did not diminish their existence as political parties. They have other policies, apart from winning elections, they champion, just as the UKIP succeeded in winning Britain’s exit from the European Union. One would agree with the Chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Peter Ameh that instead deregistering some of these parties, INEC could impose stringent rules against party registration. Ameh had argued that deregistration would deprive the parties the opportunity of development and attainment of full potential. But political party promoters should understudy how parties function in other democracies. There are rules of engagement, and if a political party sees itself as a commercial enterprise, the philosophy and objective of party politics it represents is defeated. Some of the 91 registered parties in Nigeria could involve, not just in campaigning for votes, but against myriads of problems facing the country, like rape, herders/farmers clashes, environmental pollution in the Niger Delta, girl-child education, out-of-school children, etc. In this way, their impact could be better felt by the Nigerian citizens and they would win many converts who would be ready to key into their programmes. But at the moment, the existing political parties in Nigeria except quite a few, is simply a commercial venture.