Do you know that getting good sleep is important in maintaining health? There are several interior ideas that you can introduce into your bedroom to promote good sleep.  While modern and luxurious bedroom design ideas often tell you that you need to have a sitting area, small office, or a king size bed in your bedroom, remember also that a bedroom’s main function is to be a place to rest and refresh. As such, you don’t need much space to create a beautiful bedroom.  You don’t have to worry about your small spaced bedroom because your small bedroom may be a blessing for you to create minimal bedroom decor for a better night’s sleep.  Note also that the American Sleep Association recommends keeping stimulating activities out of the bedroom.  They warn that distractions like TV, internet, and work can disrupt your sleep patterns. So, the less there is to do in your bedroom, the more sleep you set yourself up for.  Minimal decor is for those who wants to live with fewer material possessions. It is for those who just don’t like clutter or those who don’t feel the need to have a lot of personal items to be happy. If you are a minimalist and you are looking for a way to reorganize your bedroom, then Saturday Telegraph has got you covered with lots of minimal bedroom ideas.  Most of these ideas are surrounded by the ability to live without “things” but only the necessities and nothing extra. Minimalism has long been a popular look for social areas of the home, but the rising popularity of low profile beds indicates that minimalist bedrooms are catching up quickly and for good reason too! This philosophy streamlines bedrooms to their fundamental purpose as a place to clear the mind away from the responsibilities and struggles of everyday life.  While walls dotted with posters or wallpapers have a certain comforting charm, removing clutter allows the room to reflect the raw atmosphere of nightfall or daybreak.  TIPS The colour white is an expansive and practical choice for a minimal bedroom. It keeps the space from looking too busy or boxed in.  Using white or lighter colours combat the absence of large wall space or windows to brighten up the space.  Afraid of being too stark? To keep your small bedroom from feeling cold or void of personality, opt for different textures white-on-white patterns for drama.  Sometimes minimalism can effectively highlight an artistic element.  If you are limited on space but still need a place for clothing and a television, go for bedroom that has built in dressers to save some floor space.  To maximise the floor space, tuck your bed up against a wall or corner. The effect will create a sleep area that feels cozier.