Some activists yesterday stormed the streets of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to join the #RevolutionNow protest despite the early morning downpour and the water-tight security around Abuja. The protesters, who assembled at the popular Unity Fountain, marched to the headquarters of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) at Aguiyi Ironsi Street, where they submitted a petition and demanded among other things, the immediate release of the convener of the RevolutionNow protest, Omoyele Sowore. Operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) had on Saturday arrested and detained Sowore for treasonable felony. The protesters, who described themselves as ‘Concerned Activists,’ accused the Federal Government of violating the constitutional rights of citizens to freedom of association and expression. They also urged the commission to break its silence over what they described as “alarming human rights abuses” by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Addressing the protesters, one of the leaders of the protest, Dare Ariyo Atoye, said protest had become necessary because many Nigerians had become frustrated with the trend of events in the country. He said: “The revolution is an idea which time has come and we warn the government if they fail to allow us constructively engage our nation and to speak, the masses will rise up and it will be too late for them. “The reason we are here today is to bring frustration of our people for the government to know that we’re tired of what is going on. Our people are tired of the killings and kidnapping where herdsmen are unleashing terror. Our people are tired. The revolution we are talking about is already happening.” Another leader of the group, Adebayo Raphael, said that Nigeria was in danger and there was need for every citizen to be given the freedom to express their opinions and let the government know when things are not going well for them. He said that the arrest of Sowore would only worsen the situation and therefore, called for his immediate release. A formal petition jointly signed by the leader of the Concerned Nigerians, Deji Adeyanju, and a human rights activist, Atoye, was presented to the authorities at the NHRC. The petition read in part: “We are even more displeased by your silence in the face of the alarming human rights abuses considering the consistency of such anomaly under the present regime. “Recent developments in the country especially the ever-growing proclivity of the General Buhari-led regime for human rights abuses are indicative of a complete departure from all democratic tenets, norms and practices.