…as more risks go offshore  ANXIETY Most international players in oil and gas business are anxiously awaiting Nigerian underwriters to make bold move  N igerian underwriters’ plan to retain more of oil and gas risks locally with the creation of the Energy and Allied Insurance Pool of Nigeria (EAIPN) is yet to be fully realized six years after the pool was put in place.   The creation of the 14-member insurance pool was to enable local insurers cover over 75 per cent of the big ticket risks usually ceded offshore.  The National Insurance commission (NAICOM) had, six years ago, inaugurated 14 insurance companies to operate the technical management board of EAIPN with the hope that it would help the industry retain capacity in oil and gas risks underwriting, curb capital flight and grow the local market in energy and allied risks underwriting.  The 14 subscribers had contributed 40 per cent of their subscribed lines amounting to $4 million.   Despite being in place, recent revelation by the industry regulator showed that local underwriters still cede more of their oil and gas risks offshore with just about 65 per cent, amounting to $91.69 billion, retained locally from over $140 billion.   According to a section of the local content Act, “No insurance risk in the Nigerian Oil & Gas industry shall be placed overseas without the written approval of the Commission, which shall ensure that Nigerian Local Capacity has been fully exhausted.”   A document on the risk value of six oil firms released by the commission showed that Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), under its consolidated insurance package, totaling $99.5billion, insured $77.5billion locally and took $22 billion risk sum abroad, while Chevron Nigeria Limited, under its energy package insurance, of which its total risk sum was $14.30 billion, retained $10.50 billion locally and about $4 billion abroad.  Mobil Producing Nigeria Limited, in its energy package/physical damage insurance retained about $9.80 billion out of $14.09 billion insurance risks in the local market and took the rest offshore.   Similarly, StarDeep Water Petroleum Limited took 75 per cent of its risks valued at $3 billion offshore, while retaining 25 locally.  The same scenario also played out with Dangote Refinery Plc, which ceded 71.56 per cent of its $6.78 billion risks offshore while retaining 23.43 per cent locally.   Speaking on the status of the EAIPN last year, the current President of Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), Mr. Eddie Efekoha, said it had recorded significant progress, adding that the balance sheet of the pool had continued to be impressive. Although he did not give specifics about the growth status, he, however, appealed to companies transacting oil and gas business that are yet to subscribe to the pool to do so without delay.   “Companies, which currently participate in the pool are also encouraged to increase their patronage in order to improve the local market capacity to underwrite oil and gas risks through the pool,” he added.   While inaugurating the EAIPN l, the then Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Fola Daniel, congratulated the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) for bringing to fruition a pool that will address some of the challenges faced by insurance companies in oil and gas underwriting in Nigeria.   Daniel said the coming of the pool was long overdue, as the benefits are immense and most international players in oil and gas business were anxiously waiting for the Nigerian market to make the bold move.   “I can tell you that I am delighted to have this event today. All my discussions with some players at the Lloyds market in London point to the fact that Nigeria is not ready to retain capacity and grow the market because the players have refused to establish pools,” he said. “With the inauguration of the technical management board of the pool today, you have taken the bold and positive step to curb capital flight and grow the local capacity and I am sure the multinationals will be excited about this.”   The companies involved are Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Custodian & Allied Insurance Plc, Aiico Insurance Plc, Lasaco Assurance Plc, Royal Exchange Insurance Co. Ltd, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc, and Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc.   Others are Linkage Assurance Plc, Industrial And General Insurance Plc, Nigerian Agric Insurance Corporation (NAIC), Sterling Assurance Company Limited, Prestige Assurance Plc, NEM Insurance Plc and NSIA Insurance.  