T he two best managers in England go head to head on Sunday as Manchester City face Liverpool in the season-opening Community Shield at Wembley in London. Manchester City’s Pep Guardiola won an unprecedented domestic treble last season, clearing up the Premier League, FA Cup and Carabao Cup while Jurgen Klopp led Liverpool to the UEFA Champions League title and second place in the Premier League.   The two clubs and managers had one of the closest title races in Premier League history, pushing each other on relentlessly until the final day of the campaign. Guardiola’s City ended up with 98 points, just one more than Klopp’s Liverpool, the second and third highest point finishes in Premier League history. Before City’s 100-point total in the 2017/2018 season, the Premier League points record for a 38- game season was 95 set by Jose Mourinho’s Chelsea in 2005/2006.  Having won almost everything available to Premier League clubs last season – apart from the UEFA Europa League trophy won by Chelsea – Guardiola and Klopp are both keen to open the new season with another trophy, having also been included in the 10-man shortlist of best men’s coaches for The Best FIFA Awards. But both clubs have not been in great pre-season form, Liverpool especially.   Although City comfortably defeated an understrength West Ham 4-1 and eased past Asian clubs Kitchee and Yokohama, the Premier League champions struggled in their only proper test, drawing 0-0 with Wolverhampton Wanderers, before losing on penalties in the Asian PL Trophy final. Liverpool started off pre-season with wins over lower league sides Tranmere Rovers and Bradford City before losing to Borussia Dortmund, Sevilla and 3-0 to Napoli.  They however recovered on Wednesday to beat Lyon 3-1 in their final friendly.  Although City and Liverpool have a common enemy in Manchester United, the two clubs have developed a rivalry in recent years, heightened by the arrivals of two extremely competitive coaches. Klopp had the better of Guardiola in their first few meetings in England, but the Spaniard had the edge last season, bagging a win and draw in the league, four points that ultimately proved to be decisive in the title race.  Liverpool should have at least two of their The Best FIFA men’s player nominees available in Mohamed Salah and Virgil van Dijk with Sadio Mane not available after reaching the final of the Africa Cup of Nations with Senegal. City’s Sergio Aguero and Nicolas Otamendi might also not figure much as they returned to training only on Wednesday after getting to the Copa America semi-finals with Argentina.