This is definitely the most trying moments for parents of Hassan Muhammad in Wabu village Gamawa Local Governmnt Area of Bauchi state. They are desperately in need of help for their two-year-old son dying from acute malnutrition and cannot do anything about the illness. Muhammed, according to his mother has been suffering for a long time of a yet to be diagnosed sickness. His father Rabo pleaded for urgent help from government, individual and corporate bodies to enable them find cure for his dying son.  Rabo said there is nothing they could do to save the child but to watch on helplessly, which, is quite heart rending. He explained that his son was diagnosed of malnutrition at Wabu health care facility, but lamented that the sickness has persisted and is gradually killing his child, which made him more confused if it was really malnutrition or something else. “He said, “we have been receiving treatment and attending the maternity without knowing the actual disease our child is suffering from. We have not been referred to another hospital from Wabu maternity for further treatment; and even if they refer us to another hospital, we cannot afford the treatment fees.” The mother of the child, Hajia Aisha, said that their biggest concern was the inability of the health care facility to properly diagnose the ailment her son was suffering from, making him to be in critical situation of his life. Aisha said, “we are blind as far as his sickness is concern, we don’t know what really is his illness, and we cannot not do anything about it for now.” Reacting to the predicament of the parents and their sick child, Hajiya Altine, the health personnel in-charge of Wabu maternity in Gamawa LGA of Bauchi state, said that even the mother of the sick baby lacked balanced diet that can translate into healthy breast milk to feed the twins, especially the one that is hit by the severe acute malnutrition.  According to her, the child has been battling with diarrhea, malaria from birth and “a yet-to-be identified disease. Hajiya Altine, who expressed concern over the health situation of the child, said that the poor financial status of the parents has also hindered them to transfer the case to another hospital.   “Whenever we try asking them to go to general hospital for further checks, their response has always been, ‘we don’t have money to do that,” Altine explained. When New Telegraph visited the child, he truly looked malnourished, in fact, looked lifeless! He couldn’t breath properly, couldn’t lift his hand or even try to move his body, he just laid down looking hazily at his parents and around him. According to the health personnel, they told New Telegraph that the child is suffering from Severe Acute Malnutrition ( SAM). New Telegraph checks revealed that the out of stock of “Ready to Use Therapeutic Food ” (RUTF) used for the effective cure of SAM, being experienced in all the CMAM centers across the state may have aggravated the severity of little Hassan’s ailment.