Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State yesterday announced the arrest of a soldier, who allegedly shot and killed a motorcyclist, Chimaobi Nwaorgu Uzoukwa, on Wednesday over N100 bribe. Ikpeazu, who announced this when he paid a condolence visit to the family of the deceased at Umuokereke Ngwa in Obingwa Local Government Area of the state, vowed that no stone would be left unturned in the quest for justice for the slain motorcyclist. The governor’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Onyebuchi Ememanka, said in a statement that Ikpeazu gave the name of the soldier simply as “Corporal Ajayi”. The governor said Ajayi was arrested on Wednesday and was currently in detention. He described the killing of the 30-year-old Uzoukwa as wicked, malicious, unprofessional and cowardly and expressed deep sadness that a security officer paid and maintained by tax payers’ money would turn around to kill the person he was paid to secure. The governor said that the circumstances surrounding the killing of the young man were unacceptable to government and people of Abia State. Ikpeazu added that it defied logic why a soldier would pursue an unarmed young man from Ohanze village all the way to Umuokereke Ngwa, a distance of about 25 kilometres and shot him point blank. He said: “This is one murder too many. We will do everything possible under the law to get this murderous soldier and bring him to justice. Whatever it takes, we will do. We will go to Abuja or any other place to ensure that this soldier doesn’t go scot free. “The death of this young man is extremely painful and cannot go in vain. This is my position and this is the position of the government and people of Abia State.” Ikpeazu assured the family that he would personally ensure that the young family was not allowed to suffer. The governor urged the family and the entire community to take heart and accept the sad incident with philosophical calmness. Ikpeazu was on the visit with the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ene Okon, Police Area Commander for Aba, ACP Peter Opara, and other senior police officers. Uzuokwa left behind a young wife, two infant sons and an aged mother.