A cross section of Nigerians, who spoke with New Telegraph on issues that should be accorded priority by the new ministers, identified the economy and security. Temitope Ogunbanke and Wale Elegbede report  Olajide: It’s imperative of them to leave a legacy Dr. Kunle Olajide is the Secretary of Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) I want the ministers to realise that they are in the second and final term of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure and therefore it is imperative of them to leave a legacy . The first thing they have to do is that they must give Mr. President quality advice to ensure that his promises to the electorate are realised within this four years. The reputation of this administration in the first time was not the best because it appears that it was ethnic oriented. Therefore, they must ensure now that all parts of Nigeria are made to have a sense of belonging. That is very important.  They must strive and muster the necessary courage to ensure that they commence the process of restructuring of this country to achieve true federalism. Without that, we would merely be taken two steps forward and 10 steps backward. Everybody must live up to their responsibilities from Mr. President. They must really strive to improve the economy because the economy is at the root of insecurity. They must ensure that they improve power generation and power distribution. They must ensure that they lift a lot of people out of poverty and provide the necessary enabling environment for job creation by the private sector.  And consequently, they must ensure that we have security because insecurity is threatening everybody. So, the security architecture must be revisited to give every part of this country a sense of belonging as well. This country must not be made to believe that it belongs to a particular ethnic group. So, for me, I think if they take care of all these, at the end of their term, they should be able to beat their chests that they have achieved.  Okorie: They should be more involved in service delivery  Chief Chekwas Okorie is the National Chairman of the United Progressives Party (UPP)  The basic thing for the ministers is for them to ensure that the budgets for their various ministries are implemented to the letter. And in doing so, they should take their time to explain to the public what they are doing because they are political heads of their ministries. It is not the President, who should be coming every now and then to give account of what each ministry is doing. We need to see the ministers more actively involved in performance and service delivery.  Now that the Chief of Staff has been given the additional responsibility of appraising the ministers, we need to hear about their performance from time to time. The government should be more open to the public. That is what accountability is all about. And then of course, as political heads, they should also come up with more creative policy options that will enable the government to do better than it has done.  Some of the ministers served in the previous administration and what we saw them doing during the first term was like constantly praising themselves when the views of the public may be contrary to those praises. So, instead of them praising themselves, let them turn out precisely what they have been doing at least every quarter. We need to know what their challenges are and they should tell us the verifiable accomplishments within that quarter. That is how people can be carried along.  Sani: The ministers should hit the ground running  Anthony Sani is the Secretary of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF)  Even though the list and portfolios assigned to the ministers do not make most Nigerians expect any radical change about the vision and programmes of the government, some of us expect the ministers to be aware of the fact that despite myriad of challenges in the socio-economic milieu that dot most parts of the country, Nigerians still had confidence by re-electing the All Progressives Congress (APC) to consolidate on its records in the first tenure.  This is a testament to the fact that Nigerians still believe the administration did relatively well in the first tenure and hope it can improve over its previous performance. So, the ministers should therefore resolve and be determined to deliver on the promise of their mandate as contained in the manifesto of the ruling party, which promised better next level.  This is because the ministers are the ones to assist the President impel progress in the nation through good governance. The President will do this by multiplying his strength through the ministers. Therefore, they cannot afford to disappoint Nigerians and the President, who considered them out of 180 million Nigerians.  The ministers should try not to disappoint the President and Nigerians now that the ruling party has majority in the National Assembly expected to pass executive bills without any delay unlike the last regime, when the leadership of the National Assembly was always in disagreement with the executive, which also gave an impression that the President was presiding over a divided house.  I therefore expect the ministers to do better than during the first term when the ruling party was at war with itself. More so, that during the first tenure, some time was spent by the ministers to get familiar with their ministries and responsibilities amid the discouraging statement by the President himself that he inherited what appears overwhelming because he did not expect the challenges he saw.  I will advice the ministers to hit the ground running in the hope of making Nigerians feel the impact of a new regime as soon as possible since the budget has been passed and the ruling party also control the legislature, which suggests most Nigerians knew what they wanted by not rejecting the regime in the last elections.  Nigerians expect the government to surpass its record of performance in the first term. That will justify the old adage of “to whom much is given, much is also expected.”  The nation is still reeling under the weight of insecurity posed by banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling, clashes between herdsmen and farmers, cultism and some attacks by the ISWAP and armed robbers all of which combine with corruption to constitute sand bags on the path of socio-economic development.  The challenges may appear daunting because of the scope and depth amist paucity of funds, but great leaders and managers are defined by great challenges because such people pursue causes above themselves as worthy impulse.  Ojikutu: Buhari’ll be judged by the cabinet’s performance  Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu is a former deputy governor of Lagos State  Appointment of the new ministers is a mixed bag of experience and inexperience, but the portfolios assigned to the ministers seem to be well thought out and should bring out the best in them.  To answer to their calling and the nomenclature of minister, they should serve the people and not their personal interests. They should not surround themselves with sycophants. They should think out of the box to succeed. They should not treat it as political appointments or job for the boys. All projects should be well executed with no inflation of costs or usage of substandard materials. They should be very busy; not gallivanting round the world on unnecessary foreign trips.  There is no doubt that President Buhari would be judged by the performance of this cabinet. Nigeria as a nation on the brink of disintegration looks up to this cabinet going beyond the usual, same of same to serve the people.  They should shun ostentatiousness life style and be frugal. The number of vehicles in their official entourage should be purposeful, not political. The ones that have been noted as executing personal luxurious projects beyond their earnings should be wary of that because people are more alert now.  This should be a down to earth cabinet or they will rue the day they were appointed. Masses are waiting and the awakening is on now. The Arab Spring is on us in a different form now and the people are angry and hungry. So, they should not use capital projects funds to please their constituents Obatungashe: It’s opportunity for a new beginning Deacon Adebayo Obatungashe is the Deputy President, Campaign for Democracy (CD) President Muhammadu Buhari’s actions and demeanor since he resumed office for the second term have only served to reinforce his dictatorial stance.  A clear indicator of the administration’s dictatorial tendency is the blatant and brusque manner in which he rides rough on the electorate that magnanimously gave him mandate, and voted him into office. As things stand in Nigeria today, the President has completed the full cycle of transmogrification into a most dreadful dictator, and there seems to be no one to stand up to him.  The executive order by the President, which placed resistance to the newly appointed ministers not to have direct contact with him on issues that relate to the activities of their respective offices, rather, they were stringently instructed to always report to the Chief of Staff to the President, Alhaji Abba Kyari, is another step in a wrong direction which practically portends to draw the progressive boat of Nigeria backward.   The hope placed by Nigerians on the All Progressive Congress-led administration at the inspection for a secured and better future has been mortgaged, while the expectations had been blighted. It is necessary to mention that there is no provision for the establishment of the office of Chief of Staff in our constitution; it was a creation of the former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo in 1999. It has no significant value and contributes nothing tenable to day to day administration of the government.  So, this new development is a clear evidence that President Buhari has lost the control of his government to some powerful elements. Some of the newly appointed ministers have held various political and administrative positions in the past; some of them performed averagely while some left bad record in their scorecards.  What record of achievement do you expect from somebody that was alleged to have embezzled his state money and acquired several houses when he was a governor, and the money with some units of the houses recovered by the past administration, such person is now expected to sit in the chamber of presidency to formulate and implement national policies. We should ask ourselves with all sincerity, if this government attached high premium to the fight against corruption.  What are the politicians that have cases hanged on their necks by Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) doing in the hallowed chamber of the presidency where they parade themselves as honourable ministers?  It is out of mere exaggeration to say that, Nigerians have entered a one-chanced political vehicle which is being piloted by visionless leaders. We need fervent prayers for a successful landing. The ministers should remember that, with their appointment, they are just opportunists.  They should not see themselves as must qualified and competent politicians that got to position through their own efforts. There are millions Nigerians, who are better and more qualified than them. They should therefore, use their new appointment to make a new beginning in the lives of Nigerians by implementing programmes and execute developmental projects that will have direct reflections in the lives of poor masses.  Okei-Odumakin: They should see their appointments as call to duty Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin, a human rights activist, is the President of Women Arise for Change Initiative  While congratulating those who were successful in being appointed as ministers, it is important to remind them that it is a call to national service, and the nation’s interest must remain paramount to them at all times. Generally, the expectations of Nigerians are numerous, but ultimately, the ministers should be able to complement the President in delivering good governance and dividends of democracy to our people through their various ministries. My advice to the ministers is that they must shun all forms of corruption and see their new assignment, not as an avenue for personal enrichment, but a means of making life meaningful, for Nigerians. Erubami: They should be wary of corrupt practices Comrade Mashood Erubami is the President of Nigeria Voters Assembly (VOTAS) and Executive Director Centre for Human Rights and Ethics in Development (CHRED)   The new ministers no doubt conform to the promise of the President to give Nigerians a formidable team this time around to drive the Next Level agenda of his government and it is great that this has been done in a timely fashion.  The ministers, in my view, met the expectations of majority who do not harbour ethnic hatred and ill feelings or driven by separatist agenda, but imbued with the spirit of one nation, one government and one God They are persons with relevant past, progressive antecedent and pedigree, competent, capable and can add value to the policies and programmes of government.  It is the responsibility of you and I to wake-up and join hands to drive the processes and key into the policies for our own betterment, so that the ministers will not derail, acquire renew capacity for best practices and demonstrate incorruptible capacity for people focussed mandate delivery.  Against the deluge of campaign promises made by President Buhari on specific and general issues of road/rail infrastructure, education, agriculture, poverty eradication and inclusion of youths/women in government as well as the fight against corruption and insecurity, his victory on February 16, must once again set new agenda for earning greatness for the country and reaffirm the strong commitment of the President to ending corruption, jailing all its perpetrators and ends insecurity so as to regain the confidence of local and foreign investors who want to subscribe into businesses in Nigeria through the attraction of huge Direct Foreign Investment (DFI).  My expectations is lengthened by the high hopes of the Nigerian masses and the realities of noticeable shortfalls in government performance and the need to chart a new course for making Nigeria great again.  There is a subsisting confidential trust between the poor and the government of President Buhari, which must be redesigned by the new ministers to change the game of mandate delivery and redirect the Next Level government to concentrate more on the less privileged and vulnerables, creating a qualitative life for their decent existence.  Given the high hopes of the people and the deluge of unmet needs in the first term of President Buhari against his campaign promises, the people will expect that the ministers will commence their duties with immediate setting of specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time-bound project models to discourage the business as usual attitude and orientation of work, devoidof goaltargetingthatpermeated the first term tour towards underscoring the implementationof government policies in the spirit of prosperity and sustainable development.  My advice to the ministers will be to learn from those who have entered the pitfalls of corruption in the past to refrain from unethical practices in office and close their eyes against the temptation to want to divert public funds for their private uses.  They must also redouble their   efforts, work diligently to serve and not to steal. They must also ensure that every programme they implement make impacts on the lives of the people and contribute to the overall success of the Buhari administration.  Adeoye: Ministers must make remarkable different from Buhari’s first term Adelaja Adeoye is the Publicity Secretary of Action Democratic Party (ADP) in Lagos State Generally, my take on the new ministerial appointments by President Buhari is that competency, capacity, character should have been the yardstick for selection, and I expected that round pegs should be put in round holes to fast track the economic growth of Nigeria. Millions of jobs are lost daily, capital flight is on the increase, local and foreign investors are losing hope in doing business here due to uncertainty in our business environment, social vices are on the increase because of lack of jobs for youths.  There is no excuse for criminality, however, government must play its part by providing support, enabling and friendly business environment. The economy is in dire need of urgent revamping, as all indicators and economic monitor like Financial Times and United Nations are not giving good reports about our economic growth. Therefore, President Buhari should have assigned portfolios based on capacity and experience.  During President Buhari’s first term, former governor of Lagos State, Babatunde Fashola, was saddled with the three most important ministries – Power, Works and Housing. There is no way he could have managed these ministries well, even if he is a super human. Again, he has been given Works and Housing in the second term. We need ministers who based on previous experience and performance to handle key sectors such as agriculture, works, power, housing, foreign ministry, education, science and technology and labour, among others.  The Attorney General and Minister of Justice must be able to advise the President rightly on matters bothering on human rights. Our current record is nothing to write about, with clampdown on the opposition. I am saying this because there must be distinct separation of powers amongst the executive, judiciary and legislative arms of government. The President should sign the Amended Electoral Act.  Another important aspect I would want the President to look at is the creation of Regional Economic Development Agency, which will allow full development of economic resources in every state, for job creation and growth of our Gross Domestic Product (GDP). We must make our business environment to be very friendly to both the local and foreign investors.  Things will be easier if minister for trade and commerce can work round the clock. Our growth should not just be on papers but physical. We must also look at massive investment in the youth and out of school children whose numbers are in millions across the country. NPower and TraderMoni is not the way to go, we must create chains of entrepreneurs. My expectations from the ministers are that they must be able to make remarkable difference from what we saw between 2015 and 2019.  This is another opportunity, especially for those who returned; they must show their loyalty to the country and work harder to deliver good governance to Nigerians. The new entrant ministers should also ensure that Nigerians feel their impact. My advice to all the ministers is that they should set timelines to deliver key economic projects that will have direct impacts in the lives of citizens. The Minister of Power knows that Nigeria have been living in darkness for several years, he should give Nigerians light.  We have bad roads and housing deficit, the minister in charge should build roads across the country. The Minister of Trade should fashion out how to invest in youths and entrepreneurs. All the projects should have impact in all the geo-political zones of the country.  There should be no discrimination when implementing projects. All Nigerians irrespective of their religious or ethnic groups should enjoy equal benefits from the government.  Adetoyinbo: The team should get it right on economy, security  Chief Yemi Adetoyinbo is a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State The critical issues had been an unimpressive assignment of portfolios, like putting round pegs in square holes. Such has been the bane of his first term cabinet, which he failed to rejig or reshuffle. And this time around, it is a mere recycle of his foot soldiers who were rewarded with ministerial portfolios. Expectations are better delivery of assigned services and dividends of democracy, so Buhari and his team should get it right this time around on economy, security, anticorruption war, energy and power, agriculture, food production supply and distribution, employment creation and welfare, education, macro credits, terrorism, herdsmen killings, kidnapping, banditry, general security of lives and property for a better approximate appraisal and appreciation of the administration in the next four years as Nigerians rating of the last four years was not on the positive side.  Aduwo: Special focus should be on Works, Transport and Petroleum ministries  Mr. Olufemi Aduwo is the President/ Chief Executive Officer of Centre for Convention on Democratic on Democratic Integrity In 2015, the President surmised the pressing needs of the nation which he made his priority to be the economy, security and anti-corruption. I think four years after, the list has lengthened. Since Mr. President was elected on the platform of a political party, which has an agenda, I will advise him to run his second term administration on the APC agenda.  In the Second Republic, it was easy to identify the agenda of both federal and state governments with their party manifestos. On administration level, he should alongside his new cabinet improve on governance which appears to be the common currency donors and development agencies require for the release of both bilateral and multilateral.  This has been defined among different actors concerned with development in Sub Sahara Africa.  This includes the manner in which power is exercised in the management of the country’s economy and resources for development. The President should note that democracy and governance are interrelated, but not the same. Good governance entails the efficient and effective reciprocity between the ruler and the ruled with its incumbent upon government to be responsive. Mr. President should summon courage regardless of the political centrifugal forces against him and look into the reports of conferences convoked by previous governments.  Thomas Paine, in his book “Rights of Man,” published in 1789, which is generally acknowledged, validly stated that “a constitution has to be original act of the people. The people do ordain and establish….”  It reflects a confirmation that the America Constitution obtains its entire existent force and efficacy from the people to be governed by it. That is why our constitution does not command the sacred obsession and is being violated with impunity by political leaders because it is an imposition by the military. Those who practice true federalism with full autonomy to federating units such as France, America or Switzerland, have succeeded.  Those who have failed did so because they did not practice true and genuine federalism. They have run multi-cultural states along unitary lines and they have paid dearly for it. The Soviet Union was formed in 1919, it disintegrated in 1989 after a span of 70 years.  Yugoslavia was formed in 1919, it disintegrated in 1991 after 72 years; a great lesson for us to learn. If after more than 105 years of Nigeria’s creation and more than 59 years as an independent state, she still appears to be an artificial creation or just a geographical expression as stated by the legendary philosopher, Obafemi Awolowo in 1947, that confirms that our leaders are truly not committed to the concept of a just and equitable Nigeria. l do not belong to the school of thought that the only quality the President needs to run Nigerian well is good leadership. l believe that far more important than leadership are solid political and economic structures. In other words, the structure of a house is far more important than the interior decoration.  A good house must be able to withstand inclement weather and the rigour of reasonable existence; it must not be constantly under threat of collapse. In a functioning federal system where fiscal relations among the federating states are properly established, it should not be, for instance, the responsibility of the Federal Government to make pronouncement on policy issues like salary increase that are bound to disproportionately affect the states.  For instance, workers of the old Western Region were paid a minimum daily wage of five shillings, well above what was paid at the federal level and other regions. Governors in the United States do not receive equal salary, but in Nigeria, lawmakers in Yobe and Lagos states receive equal salary; this negates the principle of federalism. Today, it is however ironical that the oil producing states and a highly commercial and industrial state like Lagos appear incapable of paying the level or above of wages being paid to federal employees.  This is a manifestation of the distortion in fiscal federalism that needs to be corrected. Regardless of the efforts of the anti-graft agencies, the leakages are still there. It means corruption should be prevented instead of fighting through Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and judiciary alone. How to stop the occurrence should be paramount to Mr. President and the cabinet. He should set a body to fine tune the procurement regulation framework in the public sector because the current procurement law and regulations encourage ineffectiveness.   More attention should be focused on budget allocation to the ministries for proper utilisation because many Nigerians will judge Mr. President on his performance in the transportation, energy, petroleum and housing sector and not on TradeMoni.