Muritala Ayinla  Tragedy struck in Lagos on Tuesday when a truck conveying bags of cement rammed into a mass transit bus popularly known as BRT on Ikorodu Road, leaving a passenger dead and over 59 other passengers severely injured. New Telegraph learnt that truck, which was conveying bags of Dangote cement, had a brake failure which led to a head-on collision with a Primero blue Mass Transit bus with registration number LSR-228XS conveying 40 seated and 20 standing passengers. The ghastly accident led to serious confusion in the area for minutes as sea of sympathizers, onlookers rushed to scene of the accident to rescue the victims who were coming to Lagos when the accident occurred. All passengers on board sustained various degrees of injuries while a female passenger lost her life immediately. The driver, whose identity could not be ascertained as at the time filing of this report, also sustained a severe life threatening injuries with his leg totally decapitated. The combined efforts of rescue and security agencies such as LNSC, Nigeria Police, FRSC and LASTMA were on ground to bring the situation under control. Confirming the accident, the Director-General of the Lagos Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, said only a female passenger died in the accident, while the driver and other passengers sustained varying degrees of accident. Osayintolu said: “On getting to the scene of incident, a Dangote truck fully loaded with cement had a brake failure and had a head-on collision with a Primero blue Mass Transit bus with registration number LSR-228XS conveying 40 seated and 20 standing passengers. All passengers on board suffered various degrees of injuries with one female passenger losing her life and the driver suffered severe life threatening injuries with his leg totally decapitated. “The combined efforts of the Agency’s Assets (Medical Unit, Tiger unit, Papa Eagle and Cobra unit) are on ground working alongside LNSC, Nigeria Police, FRSC and LASTMA to ease vehicular movement and ensure a swift recovery of the truck. Recovery operation is ongoing,” he said.