The National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) Bauchi State chapter in their magnanimous efforts towards promoting breastfeeding have rewarded outstanding mothers who intended to practice exclusive breastfeeding for six months by presenting gifts to their new born babies. Presenting the gifts to the beneficiaries during the World Breastfeeding Week in Bauchi, Chairperson NAWOJ Mrs. Bulak Afsat said it was a yearly support to women especially those who exclusively breastfeed their babies and to encourage others to key into the programme of promoting healthy environment. Afsat said, “It is  part of our efforts to encourage the practice of breastfeeding because of it’s enormous benefits to the mothers and babies. It is also geared towards reducing the incidence of Severe Acute Malnutrition, of which Bauchi State is among the states with the highest burden. We do this by giving out little incentives to women who exclusively breastfeed their babies and also are up to date in Routine immunisation”. The presentation of gifts which include wrappers, water flask, pampers, Baby Shoes milk, detergents and soap was done in collaboration with the wife of  the Bauchi State Governor, Hajiya Aisha Bala Mohammed. Hajiya Aisha Mohammed said that “we want to emphasise that  mothers should take it a matter of necessity giving their babies breast milk in the first six months of life without any other liquids or solid foods not even water with the exception of oral rehydration solution, or drops syrups of vitamins, minerals or medicine”. He said, when a child is exhausted and when he is breastfeeding, it boosts their immunity system and strengthen  their bodies, which enable them to fight against life threatening illnesses such as pneumonia, diarrhoea and other related infections. Aisha Mohammed explained that, breast milk alone is no longer sufficient to meet the daily nutritional requirement of infants after six months, therefore after six months, foods and liquids are allowed to complement breast milk, especially foods that can provide energy and essential nutrients for growth and healthy development. In her good will message, UNICEF Nutrition Specialist Dr. Rajia Sharhan said there were countless benefits for mothers, children and families who practice exclusive breastfeeding. Rajia Sharhan pointed out that, breastfeeding provides total food security for infants which is available, affordable and nutritious food for infants up to six months of age and continuously up to two years and beyond. It prevents diseases and allergies for children, while for mothers, it  reduces the risk of ovarian cancers, increase the bonding and helps in birth spacing. She said for families, it helps in reducing the cost of buying the formula milk, which can costs up to N2,000 per carton.  The amount needed  to purchase this formula milk for first six months is over N100,000. According to her, there is a need for the children to continue to be breast fed for up to two years of age or beyond, saying it fits for the care of the child. “UNICEF, therefore, calls on mothers and fathers, community and religious leaders, policy makers and all stakeholders to support the practice of breastfeeding”. On their part, Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency Alhaji Bello Mustapha said that exclusive breastfeeding for six months yield tremendous health benefits that provides the right to proportion of nutrient and protection from deadly diseases He said in order to promote breastfeeding a strong partnership is needed between government,  non governmental organization and community based organization, partnership is needed between local authorities , health practitiiners and community members saying their role is key in elimination of malnutrition.