Researchers in the United States have expressed concern over the negative impact of e-cigarette on health. They said that there could be a link between using e-cigarettes and reported cases of seizures and neurological symptoms. The concerns followed complaints to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) which received 127 reports of seizures or other neurological symptoms possibly related to e-cigarettes, the agency has announced. To this end, Acting FDA commissioner, Dr. Ned Sharpless said: “The FDA is continuing its scientific investigation to determine if there was a direct relationship between the use of e-cigarettes and a risk of seizure or other neurological symptoms,” the ‘cnn’ reported. An electronic cigarette or e-cigarette is a handheld battery-powered vaporiser that simulates smoking by providing some of the behavioural aspects of smoking, including the hand-to-mouth action of smoking, but without burning tobacco. Using an e-cigarette is known as ‘vaping’ and the user is referred to as a ‘vaper’. Vaping is common in developed countries, is practised more among the elite in Africa and other developing countries.  Investigators have yet to determine, however, whether vaping was directly linked to the cases. So far, more than 120 cases of lung disease in 15 states of America could be linked to vaping. Similarly, vaping has been linked to marijuana use in young people, according to previous research. The FDA said the reported cases occurred between 2010 and 2019, and in addition to seizures, some people reported fainting or tremors. Sharpless said that “we still don’t have enough information to determine if e-cigarettes are causing these reported incidents” but called on the public to continue submitting reports. Additional information “may help us identify common risk factors and determine whether any specific e-cigarette product attributes, such as nicotine content or formulation, may be more likely to contribute to seizures,” he said. “It is imperative that health care professionals, consumers, parents, teachers and other concerned adults, as well as youth and young adult users, report detailed information about any past or future incidents of seizures following e-cigarette use to the FDA,” Sharpless said. “We’re committed to monitoring this issue closely and taking additional steps as necessary to protect the public, especially our nation’s youth, from the dangers of e-cigarettes and other tobacco products,” he added.