Organised labour under the aegis of Trade Union Congress (TUC) has called on Nigerians to be united and patient in the spirit of Eid-el-Kabir as the current developments in the country is not the best of time for the citizens. TUC, in a statement to felicitate with Muslims for the celebration, said the occasion of Eid-el-Kabir should afford everyone the opportunity to work to fulfill their allegiance to God, which the very essence of the celebration. The statement signed by Comrade Quadri A. Olaleye, President, and Comrade Musa-Lawal Ozigi, Secretary General, said: “It takes self-discipline to love and remain faithfulness. It is a sacrifice” “Though TUC admitted this is not the best of times for us as a country, a spiritual exercise such as this is central to reconnect us to Allah. “It is imperative at this stage to submit ourselves to the will of Allah and give our total allegiance to the country. We can only overcome our prevailing challenges if we consider it very necessary. Yes we have a role to play. We expect the celebration to humble every Muslim in particular and Nigerians in general in their service to Allah, and humanity. The congress, while attesting to the fact that Nigerians are a religious people, said the same religion was a cardinal factor and instrumental to some major crises that have so far claimed thousands of lives. “This makes us look unserious and hypocritical before the international community. There is scarcely any person in position of leadership today in the country who is neither a Christian, Muslim nor traditional worshipper. No religion preaches hatred, killings, thuggery, embezzlement, etc. and these are things that have threatened our collective existence. If our narrative must change, politicians, traditional rulers, youths, religious leaders have a role to play. On its part, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), while congratulating the Muslims faithful said: We believe that this Eid-el-Kabir has come at time of great challenges, both economic and social that threatens our common bond and values that holds us together. According to the President, NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, “it, therefore, offers us a great opportunity for deep reflection and rededication of our lives. “Let us reflect and allow this year’s Eid-el-kabir to impact us. We must understand that our purpose in life is to do our Creator’s Will and impact lives. Let us take advantage of the celebration to tolerate ourselves and chart a new course for the country.”