A Chief Magistrate’s Court, sitting in Umuahia, Abia State, has remanded the dismissed soldier, Ajayi Jonson, who killed a commercial cyclist in Aba, penultimate week in prison. Johnson was arraigned yesterday before Magistrate Lynda Mkpa, on one count charge. The count states that on 7th of August, 2019, at Umuokereke village, in Obingwa Local Government Area, Johnson killed Mr Chimobi Nworgu, a commercial cyclist, thereby committing an offence punishable under section 319(1) of the Criminal Code Cap 80 Vol 3 Laws of Abia State of Nigeria 2005. After the charge was read to Johnson, he could not make a plea. When asked by the magistrate if he had a counsel, he replied, “they didn’t allow me to get one.” Mkpa ordered that the suspect be remanded in prison custody and the case file transferred to the Department of Public Prosecutions (DPP). The Kogi State born ex-soldier was at a military checkpoint at Umuokereke Ngwa in Obingwa council area on August 7, 2019, when he accosted the victim whom he followed on another motorcycle to his house, a distance of about 5km from the checkpoint. When he got to the cyclist’s house, he shot him dead before his family members. Johnson has since been Court Martialled and dismissed. He was handed over to the police for prosecution. The matter was adjourned to September 16, 2019, for report of compliance. The Abia State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), a Superintendent of Police (SP), Geoffrey Ogbonna, said the matter would be transferred to the DPP before the next adjourned date. Meanwhile, the widow of late Chimobi Nworgu, Chiamaka, has demanded justice, appealing to the state government to ensure that the killer of her husband will not escape justice. Chiamaka said that she was yet to come out of the trauma caused by the painful murder of her husband. She said that the deceased was the breadwinner of the family. She added: “My late husband was our breadwinner. I don’t know how to carry on with life. How do I even raise two children on my own? I don’t even have a job.”