Former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd.), has described Osun State as a role model to other states in the country in terms of peaceful co-existence among the people irrespective of their religious differences. Gowon, who arrived the state since Saturday, had led a prayer for the country through the Movement with a view of achieving a peaceful, secure and more united Nigeria. He described as amazing the way and manner he found the good people of Osun living together in peace and harmony and playing their roles well with prayer and unity for the good of the state, the country and mankind. Specifically, he said he was delighted the governor, who is a Muslim, agreed  to host him during the Muslim festive period, a gesture the ex-leader noted, others would have politely turned down on the ground that it was a Sallah period. Expressing satisfaction with the level of understanding and tolerance for one another in the state  despite differences in religious beliefs, Gowon maintained that other states and even  Nigeria as a country must imbibe such attributes. He said among the states in the South West that he and his Nigeria Prays Movement team had been to, Osun State stands out in all ramifications, confessing an increase in his love for Osun. He appreciated God for blessing the state with the governor who believes in the efficacy of prayer. He maintained that Nigerians need to develop a sense of unity, love and respect for one another, adding that his greatest wish is for Nigeria to continue to dwell in unity and peace. He thanked the governor for the warm reception given him and prayed God to support him in his determination to take the state to greater heights. He said: “I am delighted to tell everyone that Osun is a role model state for other states in the country, because it has attributes that must be adopted by all to have peaceful co-existence. “All the religious bodies: Christianity, Islam and Traditional religion are clearly playing out their roles here as prayer warriors for the good of the state, for the good of Nigeria, and for the good of mankind. “Honestly, among the states that we have been to as Nigeria Prays Movement, Osun State stands out. We were well received, and we saw your good character on display. The governor told me he is a man of prayers and he believes in prayers.” “I can confirm the manifestation of his prayers and strong belief in God on the life of the people. You certainly made us to feel very loving towards one another, and I will say thank you very much indeed. “Honestly, I think I have fallen in love with Osun State and its people, and this is where I see the faith in Nigeria that Muslims and Christians as well as Traditionalists go hand in hand to celebrate one another in truth, by bringing a sense of unity, love and respect for one another. “Nigeria needs this more than anything else. My prayer has always been: let Nigeria continue to dwell in peace and unity.” Responding, Governor Oyetola said he felt honoured to welcome the former head of state to the state, describing the retired general as a man of history who would not be forgotten, adding that National Youth Service Corps was established during his time as the country’s leader and it fostered unity till date. He said Gowon was a man without controversy, commending him for serving Nigeria well to ensure development and unity.