  As a result of the glitch in its IT that has led to grounding of its operations worldwide, British Airways’ Flight 74 cancelled its flights to Nigeria yesterday. The airline’s Abuja flight is also affected by the problems that led to cancellations of flights across the world and make nonsense of thousands of passengers’ travel plans. BA operates early morning flight to Abuja everyday. A top official of the airline told New Telegraph on condition of anonymity that flights to the cities of Abuja and Lagos had been rescheduled to arrive Thursday afternoon. The source said BA will operate two flights into Lagos today. The first of the flights would take off at 9a.m. from London Heathrow and expected to arrive about 3p.m. in Lagos, while the second flight will arrive at past 5p.m. British Airways operates two flights into Nigeria. It operates to Lagos and Abuja on weekly 14 frequencies. British Airways (BA) flights were yesterday cancelled with delays around the world affecting thousands of passengers after an IT glitch halted check-in and flight departures. Almost 300 flights were cancelled or delayed at Heathrow and Gatwick airports alone as holidaymakers had their plans thrown into chaos. From as early as 4:30a.m., photos surfaced revealing frustrated passengers in huge queues stretching through terminals. BA has insisted the glitch was not a global outage, but problem with two separate systems – one that deals with online check in, the other that deals with flight departures. A total of 81 flights were cancelled to or from Heathrow yesterday while 10 Gatwick flights were cancelled. Over 200 other flights were delayed, with some more than five hours behind schedule – reportedly affecting up to 15,000 passengers. It’s just another problem to hit the flag carrier airline of the United Kingdom – having this year faced a multi-million pound fine over a hack of their customer’s data, the threat of pilot strikes and baggage mayhem. It’s the third major IT outage for BA in two years after 672 flights were cancelled with 75,000 people affected over a May Bank holiday in 2017 and another glitch in July last year. The airline has already urged passengers flying out of Heathrow, Gatwick and London City to rebook their flights if affected – suggesting the problem may not have a quick fix. BA could face a compensation bill in excess of £5 million if all those affected claim what they are entitled to under EU rules.