F ear has gripped residents of Ilasamaja community in Lagos, following the disappearance of four children within three weeks.   Members of the community believed that a syndicate was behind the disappearance of the children.   Now sick with dread, the residents have urged the Lagos State government and the state Police Command to rescue the children and fish out the syndicate. It was learnt that four children were stolen within three weeks, while two attempts of child theft were foiled.   According to reports, last week, two children, both four years old, Raphael Ogunwole and Godwin Mbachu, were stolen by a man on August 14, at their residence in Ilasamaja.   One of the parents of the abducted minors, Mr. Christian Mbachu, said: “Raphael and Godwin were born the same year. We all live in the same compound. Being that they were born the same week, they became very close. On the day in question, they were playing outside the house, when my wife came to call Godwin to eat. She didn’t see him, but she did not entertain any fear as she concluded he might be in his friend’s house.   “My wife went to Raphael’s house, and both of them were not there. She raised the alarm and the two families and other sympathisers went to the streets in search of them. My wife called me on the phone and told me about the development.   “When I came back home, I joined the search party, but we couldn’t find them. It was about 9p.m. that a man told me that he saw the children with a familiar face that he used to see in a barber’s shop, near my house. The man said that he didn’t suspect anything. He said that the children were with a familiar face. He told us that the man was guiding the children and they were moving towards Cele area. We ran to the area, but our children have gone far. My family and that of our neighbour are devastated.”   Christian begged the government and police to locate their children.   He said: “We are also appealing to those that abducted the minors to release them. Please, people who know where the children are or know who is with them should contact us through these telephone numbers: 08038247696 and 08022853375 or contact the nearest police station.”