U nited States stocks rallied after the Trump administration said it will delay tariffs on some Chinese goods until December, while Treasuries fell after a pickup in inflation dented arguments for cutting interest rates. According to Bloomberg, the S&P 500 Index spiked higher after trade officials named a broad swath of consumer goods that would be spared from tariffs at the current September 1 deadline. Apple and Caterpillar surged more than four per cent, while makers of computer hardware and chips pushed the Nasdaq 100 higher by two per cent. Oil surged, the yen weakened and gold plunged. The trade headlines sparked demand for risk assets that had been under pressure for more than a week as investors grew increasingly concerned the spat with China would slam global growth. Rising tension in Hong Kong and Argentina had added to the poor sentiment. The narrowing of the yield curve kept gains in check, as the recession signal emanating from the bond market grew louder. “I think this is certainly good for business in general but it also suggests that there’s a willingness to make some concessions perhaps in these discussions with China and eventually hopefully reach a deal,” said Peter Jankovskis, co-chief investment officer at Oakbrook Investments. “We’ve certainly gotten into these situations before where the market believed we were headed toward a deal and then it was derailed by comments from various officials. It’s an encouraging first steps but it’s difficult to speculate how far it will go.” Earlier, stocks were under pressure after an unexpectedly hot inflation reading sent the two-year Treasury yield higher, narrowing its gap to the 10-year rate to the smallest since 2007 in what is commonly seen as a recession signal. Risk assets were also under pressure globally as turmoil in Hong Kong and Argentina persisted. Argentina’s peso tumbled as its rout continued amid rising concern the nation will default on its debt. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index reversed losses sparked by disappointing investor sentiment data in Germany. Asia’s benchmark retreated the most in a week, with Hong Kong stocks the worst hit as anti-government protesters again crippled the airport. Signs of the trade war’s impact are growing. Singapore’s government cut its forecast for economic growth this year to almost zero. In Europe, Henkel was among the worst-performing stocks after missing quarterly profit estimates, which the detergents maker blamed on the trade conflict and a competitive retail environment. The S&P 500 Index rose 1.7 per cent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 1.8 per cent. Nasdaq Composite Index gained 2.1 per cent, while the Nasdaq 100 Index rose 2.4 per cent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.6 per cent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index decreased 1.4 per cent. The MSCI Emerging Market Index decreased 0.5 per cent. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index advanced 0.2 per cent. The euro fell 0.2 per cent at $1.1194. The British pound was little changed at $1.2078. The Japanese yen fell one per cent to 106.35.