President of the Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA), Rev. Stephen Panyan Baba, speaks in this interview on the state of the nation. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  What is your assessment of the state of the nation? Nigeria is passing through a very turbulent period that is not only threatening her corporate existence, but has made life very unpleasant and unbearable for the citizens. We really need to admit this if we must even have a chance of outlining solutions to our problem. In fact, if we will but face the stark reality, the Nigerian national project is tottering terribly on the edge of the abyss. This is not a comfortable truth for us to come to terms with. One of the mandates of the Church is to speak out against socio-political and economic injustice and to declare God’s counsel to all, especially those in authority on whose shoulders God has placed the responsibility of governance for the benefit of humanity. Insecurity across the country appears to be reaching a frightening level. What do you think is responsible for this? Over the past few years, the state of insecurity across the country has been a cause of worry for the Church. With every passing day, the Boko Haram insurgency has found a new lease of life and has been organizing regular raids against the military and ordinary communities over the past six months and taking in more hostages, among who are some of our Church members – Leah Sharibu, Alice Loksha and many others. Clearly, the insurgents are telling the world that they have not been defeated as claimed by the government. The conflicts between herdsmen, communities and farmers have spread over most parts of the country and according to an Amnesty International report. There have been 6,641 deaths from January 2016 to May 2019. The situation has blossomed into large-scale criminality, kidnapping and rural banditry. In addition to these is the resurgence of wild protests of the Shiite Islamic movement for the release of their leader who has been held in detention under the watch of the Federal Government, resulting in the avoidable loss of many lives. But the incursion of Fulani herdsmen into the South-West is creating another dimension to the security impasse… Today, virtually no Nigerian, anywhere in the country, feels safe. I want to commiserate with Pa Reuben Fasoranti, the leader of Afenifere, whose daughter, Funke Olakunrin, was killed recently. The sad truth is that Pa Fasoranti is not alone in the journey. Hundreds of other Nigerians have continued to suffer under these criminalities in silence because many of them are not reported. The issue is not about an individual, the tribe, language or religion of the victims or of the criminals perpetrating the gruesome acts. It is about insecurity and the sanctity of human life. It is about the fact that we all live under the threat of insecurity at present in Nigeria as heinous crimes are being committed regularly. I therefore call upon the government to rise to its constitutional responsibility to restore the country to the path of orderliness and peace by ensuring the strict adherence to the principles of equity and justice to all. We also wish to use this medium to advise Nigerians to avoid the ethnic and religious profiling of criminals. People who commit various criminalities do so on their own accord and not as representatives of their tribal or religious groups. I wish to appeal to the media to be more sensitive in news reportage so as not to lend credence to the profiling of criminals. What do you make of the obvious polarisation of the country along ethnic and religious lines? Never in the history of our dear country has Nigeria been as polarized along regional, ethnic and religious lines as we are experiencing in recent times, which has made it increasingly difficult to engage in meaningful discussions on issues of common national interest and development. The principle of tolerance and equity for which regions in Nigeria were known and enshrined in the Federal Character Act is fast disappearing. Unfortunately, the attitude of the current Federal Government in the skewed distribution of federal appointments in favour of one region and in fact, a particular religion without recourse to the complex and diverse nature of our country, simply deepens the already existing fault-lines, fuels mutual suspicion and creates unnecessary tension in the land. Some of the obvious ways to addressing the problem would be for the political leadership to strictly adhere to the Federal Character principle in the distribution of national wealth, projects and to implement policies of national unity rather than adopting divisive policies and bias leadership. We are praying as a church for the current administration of President Muhammed Buhari to demonstrate to all that he is a leader for all tribes and religions and that he is indeed a father to every Nigerian. At present, the division across ethnic, social and religious borders is fast threatening the unity and coexistence of the geographical entity called Nigeria.