The crisis rocking the installation of  Obalemo of Odo Ora-Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government of Ekiti State, Oba Akin Adeyemo, took another turn last week as youths of the ancient community took to the street of Ado-Ekiti to protest.   The youth, totaling about 50 in number, displayed various placards urging the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi to instruct one of his aides, Mr. Wale Fapohunda to stop interfering in the Odo Ora monarch tussle.   According to them:”We demand justice over the protracted Court case instituted to dethrone the current monarch over alleged forgery and irregularities surrounding his installation.”   The aggrieved youths claimed that several attempts had been made to express their grievances but all efforts to do so proved abortive.   Some of the placards they carried read thus: “We want peace in our country home, Odo Ora-Ekiti.”   “The rule of Law must prevail.” “Governor Fayemi, please save us from injustice.”  “Odo Ora-Ekiti deserves peace, “Judges should not prevent us from getting justice.”  “Attorney General should stay-off Odo Ora case,” among so many other placards.   Speaking with newsmen during the protest, one of the leaders of the aggrieved youths, Comrade Sesan Ojo, said all what they want is justice on the Odo Ora Obaship matter.   According to Ojo:“We heard it from a reliable source that the judiciary may be bought-over in order to pervert justice on Odo Ora monarch crisis.   “We are appealing to Governor Kayode Fayemi to ensure that justice prevails. We have been making frantic efforts to see the governor in order to express our displeasure but to our own dismay, we were being prevented from doing so.”   Another protester, Mrs Tayo Ajayi, disclosed that they have no confidence in the matter the way it was going because of the so many challenges facing the community.   She said:“Our purpose of staging this protest is to express our feelings as a community and to tell the whole world that the Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General should steer clear from the Odo Ora Obaship case. We appeal to the present government to come to our aid. We want justice and nothing more,” she appealed.   Oba Akin Adeyemo and Chief Samuel Fayigbe were arraigned before a Chief Magistrate Court sitting in Ado-Ekiti recently for allegedly stealing the community right.   The monarch is currently facing four count charge, ranging from conspiracy, stealing, forgery to fraudulent conversion of the sum of N2.453,000  (two million, four hundred and fifty three thousand naira) belonging to minor Chiefs of Odo-Ora Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government Area of Ekiti State.   Oba Adeyemo, alongside Chief Fayigbe were docked for forging the signatures of other Chiefs on the Odo Ora-Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local council Chieftaincy payment vouchers.   The Chief Magistrate, Adesoji Adegboye, had earlier granted bail to Chief Samuel Fayigbe on condition of N200, 000 with two sureties and N250, 000 each while Oba Adeyemo was granted bail on self recognition.   Efforts to reach the monarch for his reactions to the incident proved abortive, as several calls put across to his telephone lines were unattended to.