… IGP orders security beef around clergymen, worship places   Gunmen yesterday killed a Catholic priest, Rev. Fr. David Tanko, in the Takum Local Government Area of Taraba State. The Chairman of the local government, Mr. Shiban Tikari, confirmed the killing while speaking with journalists in Jalingo. Tikari said the priest was ambushed and killed by bandits on his way to a meeting to resolve the crisis between the Tiv and their Jakun neighbours in Kufai Amadu community in Takum. “After killing him, the attackers set him and his car on fire,’’ he said. Tikari said that Tanko was an indigene of Wukari Local Government Area of the state. He fingered people he described as Tiv militia for the killing, alleging that the militia was responsible for other attacks that had claimed lives and property in Southern Taraba. Taraba State has witnessed a series of deadly attacks in recent months with the most recent taking place in the Wukari Local Government Area. Donga and Takum local government areas have also witnessed bloody incidents. Many people in Tor-Damsa community in Donga Local Government have been rendered homeless, following relentless attacks by militia groups. Reacting to Tanko’s killing, the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, yesterday ordered Commissioners of Police in the 36 states’ of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), to beef-up security around the clergy as well as places of worship. While condemning the dastardly act by yet-to-be-apprehended gunmen, the IG ordered the police to identify, arrest and punish the killers. Also, the Parish Priest of St. James the Greater Parish, Ugbawka in Enugu State, Rev. Fr. Paul Offu, was killed by suspected herdsmen early this month. The alleged killers were later arrested by the police. The Pariah Priest of St. Mark’s Catholic Church, Obinofia Ndiuno, Eziagu Local Government Area of Enugu State, Fr. Clement Ugwu, was also murdered in similar circumstances about six months ago. In a statement, the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, said the IG called for public support, to contain crime and criminality in the country. He said: “The Inspector-General of Police has given marching orders to the Commissioner of Police, Taraba State Command to fish-out the killers of Rev. Father David Tanko who was gruesomely murdered in the most inhuman and barbaric manner by unknown persons in the early hours of today, 29th August, 2019, at Kpankufu village on Wukari Road on his way to Kofai Amadu village in Taraba State. “The IG condoles with the Catholic Family in Nigeria over the unfortunate incident. He also expresses deep concerns over the recent incidents of attacks on clergymen in some parts of the country and has directed Commissioners of Police in all the States of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to henceforth pay special attention to the clergy and increase security around worship centres nationwide. “The IG has further directed the DIG in charge of the Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (FCIID) to provide additional forensic and other investigative assets to the Taraba State Command to aid investigations into the incident.” Meanwhile, the IG enjoined the people to be calm and give maximum support to the police in the bid towards unravelling the authors of the crime, their motives and circumstances surrounding Tanko’s killing. This was as he reassured the nation that the perpetrator(s) of the dastardly act would not go undetected and unpunished.