…says Shi’ites do not recognise Buhari as President  The Federal Government, yesterday, told the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja that the Government of Iran is sponsoring the detained leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), Sheik Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, to forcefully turn the country into an Islamic State. The government made the submission in a counter affidavit it filed to challenge the application filed by the IMN wherein it is challenging its proscription order. In the application filed by the Solicitor General of the Federation, Dayo Apata, the Federal Government (FG) alleged that El-Zakzaky was being sponsored to replicate a violent revolution that led to the forceful takeover of power in Iran in 1979. It further told the court that the relationship between El-Zakzaky and Iran started shortly after the said revolution that toppled a sitting government, stressing that currently, members of the IMN do not recognize President Muhammadu Buhari’s authority. It added that El-Zakzaky, who was a Shia activist in the university, was “heavily influenced” by the Iranian revolution, and had since galvanised his followers and brainwashed them to unleash mayhem against the Nigerian State and its citizens. In a 56-paragraph counter-affidavit that was deposed to by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in Charge of Operation, FCT Command, Enyinnaya Adiogu, the FG urged the court to dismiss the suit the IMN filed to challenge the order that proscribed its activities in Nigeria. DCP Adiogu averred that he had the consent of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), the National Security Adviser (NSA), and the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), to depose to the affidavit. He averred that: “From history and facts available, the Movement called Islamic Movement of Nigeria founded by El-Zakzaky has its sole aim of creating an Islamic State. “That Sheik El-Zakzaky was heavily influenced by the Iranian revolution, which saw Ayatollah Khomeini taking power in 1979 after the overthrow of the Shah in a popular uprising. Khomeini remains the Islamic Movement in Nigeria’s main inspiration. “That members of IMN first pledge allegiance to Khomeini at their gatherings, and then to their local leader, Sheikh Zakzaky. “The IMN views itself as a government, and Sheikh Zakzaky as the only legitimate source of authority in Nigeria and it does not recognise the authority of the Nigerian government, and views its leaders, both Muslims and Christians, as corrupt and ungodly. “That the AMN began with a Shia Muslim university activist, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, who became so impressed with the 1979 revolution in Iran that he wanted one at home (Nigeria). “Later, El-Zakzaky went to Iran, ultimately becoming a Shia cleric. “That at his return home, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky formed the Islamic Movement of Nigeria and turned it into a vehicle for proselytizing and gaining followers in 1990s. “That till date, Sheikh El-Zakzaky enjoys the support of Iran in all the activities of the IMN, including the agenda to make Nigeria an Islamic State. “That as a result of El-Zakzaky Movement’s activities, many Muslim youths have converted to Shia-Islam of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria. “That the main aim of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria is to propagate the ideology in Iran and turn the country (Nigeria) into an Islamic State as was done in the Iranian Revolution of 1979. “That the violent acts of the members of the Respondent/Applicant right from its inception up to the 24th day of July 2019, are chronicled in an affidavit in support of the motion used in proscribing the Respondent/Applicant.” In the counter-affidavit, the FG averred that contrary to the deposition in paragraph 36 and 37 in the Respondent/Applicant‘s affidavit, the security agencies have not provoked members of the Respondent/Applicant, and neither have the police killed their members and take away the bodies. The government noted that the activities of the Shi’ites “show clearly that members of the Respondent/Applicant are a security threat to the entire nation as all their activities are done in violation of the laws of the land.” The trial judge, Justice Nkeonye Maha had, however, fixed September 11 for hearing of the applications. The court had, on July 26, while delivering ruling in an ex parte application filed by the Federal Government, proscribed the activities of the movement in the country. However, the movement, in a motion on notice filed on August 2, have asked the court to vacate the ex parte order made on July 26, proscribing the existence and activities of the group in Nigeria on the grounds that the said order was made without jurisdiction and in violation of their fundamental rights. The group, through its counsel, Femi Falana (SAN), in the motion filed is asking the court to set aside the order “restraining any person or group of persons from participating in any manner whatsoever in any form of activities involving or concerning the prosecution of the collective intention or otherwise of the IMN, under any other name or platform howsoever called or described in any part of Nigeria.” When the matter was called yesterday, counsel to the Federal Government and Solicitor General of the Federation, Dayo Apata, however, informed the court of an application he filed on Tuesday, seeking to regularise the process of the government in the suit. The application was not objected to by the applicant’s counsel following which the application was deemed to have been properly filed and served by the court. Falana accordingly asked for a short adjournment to enable him respond appropriately to the position of the government. In a short ruling, Justice Maha granted the application for adjournment and fixed September 11 for hearing of the IMN’s motion praying the court for an order to reverse its proscription as a terrorist group.  