…rejects FG’s livestock transformation plan  Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the change of name of the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, to Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi. But the governor outrightly rejected the Federal Government’s proposed National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP), describing it as a round peg in a square hole. The governor, who gave the commendation while fielding questions from journalists at the Government House, Makurdi, also lauded the National Assembly for passing the bill which sought to change the institution’s name. He specially commended the member representing Gboko-Tarka Federal Constituency, Rt. Hon. John Dyegh, who sponsored the bill. “We appreciate Rt. Hon. John Dyegh for reminding the entire nation and the President that there was the need to immortalise our father and hero of this land.” He said J. S. Tarka left indelible footprints on the political and economic landscape of the country and deserved to be accorded the honour as it had been done to other notable sons and daughters of the nation. “Today, the likes of Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Nnamdi Azikiwe, Sadauna of Sokoto, Sir Ahmadu Bello and several other heroes of our land have been immortalised and so we appreciate Mr. President for honouring our great son,” he stated. Governor Ortom also commended President Buhari for banning the importation of agricultural produce, stressing that the decision would benefit farmers across the country as return on investments in agriculture would also increase. The rejection of the proposed NLTP followed a meeting with major stakeholders drawn from the traditional institution, the church, socio-cultural organisations, the academia and civil society groups. The stakeholders arrived at the common position during an interface with a delegation from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. Paramount ruler of Lobi, Chief Moses Anagende and his Kwande counterpart, Chief Ambrose Iyortyer, who spoke for traditional rulers, said what was best for the Federal Government was to rebuild homes, schools, churches and other property destroyed during the many herdsmen’s invasion of the state and to rehabilitate the displaced persons that were still languishing in internally displaced persons (IDP) camps. They said the document detailing the NLTP and its implementation only talked about cattle and no other category of livestock, stressing that the plan was reintroduction of the rejected Ruga settlements and cattle colonies for herdsmen. A professor at the Benue State University, Amstrong Adejo, said the word livestock as captured in the document was holistic, but the conclusion was particular about cows, saying the document was a proposal which he advised the Benue State government to set up a committee to dissect and bring up Benue’s position. Mrs. Josephine Haba, representing civil society organisations (CSOs), wondered why Benue had recently become a theatre of killings and asked the Federal Government to address the plight of those who suffered such attacks, adding that it had brought an architect to redesign structures for pastoralists in the state.