P rofessional services network, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Nigeria, has said that Nigeria’s remittance inflow was 6.8 times larger than the net official development assistance (foreign aid) of $3.4 billion received in 2018.   The firm, which stated this in its latest White Paper Series, entitled: “Strength from Abroad: The Economic Power of Nigeria’s diaspora,” also estimated that remittance inflows to the country amounted to $23 billion in 2018 and represented 5.8 per cent of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).   It further stated that Nigeria accounts for over a third of migrant remittance flows to sub-Saharan Africa, adding: “The 2018 migrant remittances translate to 77.2 per cent of the Federal Government budget in 2018 and 10.1 times the FDI flows in the same    period.”   The firm, which predicted that migrant remittances to Nigeria will rise to $25.5 billion this year and $29.8 billion by 2021, also forecast that the remittances to the country could grow to $34.8 billion in 2023.   Specifically, PwC stated that over a 15-year period, it “expects total remittance flows to Nigeria to grow by almost double in size from $18.37 billion in 2009 to $34.89 billion in 2023.”    However, the firm noted: “The growth in remittances is subject to global economic forces, which could spur or hinder growth of remittance flows.”   According to PwC, while the United Nations data shows that there were 1.24 million migrants from Nigeria in 2017, the figure is likely to be higher in 2018 and 2019, given the recent trend in migration from the country.   In fact, PwC cited a 2018 survey conducted by Pew Research Centre, which showed that “almost half of Nigerian adults have indicated their willingness to leave the country in the next five years.”   Commenting on the report, Partner & Chief Economist at PwC, Dr. Andrew S. Nevin, said: “The report is an analysis, which shows the critical importance of the diaspora to Nigeria’s economy. The recently-established Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), led by Abike Dabiri-Erewa, indicates that the Federal Government recognises the strategic importance of the Nigerian diaspora. The key next steps for the newly-established Commission is to formulate and execute a strategy to maximise the benefits of Nigeria’s diaspora.   “In addition, we’re very keen to see state governments start to engage the diaspora. The primary benefits of remittances to recipient households is the improvement in their general welfare, and studies show that 70 per cent of remittances are used for consumption purposes, while 30 per cent of remittance funds go to investment-related uses. So it is important that Nigeria has a diaspora strategy both at the national and state levels.”   He further pointed out that while official remittances have exceeded Nigeria’s oil revenues for four consecutive years, the actual amount of remittance flows into the country is arguably higher given that “many transactions are unrecorded or take place through informal channels.”   He recommended the creation of platforms that increase accessibility of crucial information for Nigerians in the diaspora as well as the creation of pooled investment vehicles. 