 A former Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Bello Salim, has called for the establishment of mobile tribunal courts to enhance the speedy trial and conviction of offenders found guilty of examination and admission misconducts. This was contained in the board’s weekly bulletin made available to newsmen yesterday in Abuja by the Head of Information, JAMB, Dr. Fabian Benjamin.  According to him, establishment of mobile courts would help to sanitise the system by cutting down the alarming rate of examination, admission and registration infractions that have bedevilled the conduct of public examinations in the country. Salim, who served as the third substantive Registrar, advised JAMB to partner with relevant agencies to set the machinery for the establishment of the tribunals in motion, while seeking out proactive and potent ways of combating examination misconduct once and for all. In his words: “Examination malpractice is a global malaise. The battle is ongoing; we haven’t won it. When fraudsters were caught during the paper-pencil examination era, such cases could languish in the courts for years and at the end of the day, nobody would be punished. As such, all examination bodies need to be on the same page as the fight must be a collective one.  “For instance, when you present suspects at the beginning of August and a court hearing is fixed for the middle of October, the hearing is adjourned almost as soon as it starts to maybe January and so on. The court case would thus dragging on and on. “Since examination has gone digital, the law  governing the conduct of the examination should go digital as well. In this wise, approaches to fast- tracking trials should be sought so that examination infraction cases don’t get bogged down in the courts. Let there be mobile courts just like the election tribunals to treat all cases of examination malpractices and other unwholesome practices promptly.” Salim, who commended the judiciary for the recent convictions secured by the Board, however attributed the slow prosecution of offenders to sympathetic law enforcement agencies given the long years of incarceration if found guilty. He maintained that anyone involved in examination misconduct deserved severe sanctions not mercy.   “We should have penalties that are enforceable. The prescribed seven years jail term for anyone involved in examination malpractice should be enforced. The Registrar is winning the war with the series of convictions he has secured. I urge him to keep up the tempo.” The former JAMB boss, who also raised concerns over the illegal mobilization of unqualified persons into the National Youth Service Corps scheme (NYSC), lamented that some citizens, whom he described as unpatriotic, falsify their records in conjunction with some unpatriotic elements in some tertiary institutions to ensure they were enrolled into the scheme. “The desperation exhibited by some Nigerians all in the bid to participate in the scheme is unfortunate. Why should someone who is 45 or 50 years old go to an NYSC orientation camp and claim they are eligible graduates? For any institution or person to mobilize any person who neither attended such institution nor properly graduated is very unpatriotic.”