The House of Representatives’ joint committee on healthcare services and health institutions, in conjunction with stakeholders in the health sector, yesterday constituted a sub-committee to resolve Resident Doctors’ N26.5 billion arrears, amongst other issues. The committee, comprising representatives of the ministries of health, finance and committee of chief medical directors and medical directors (CCMDs/MDs) was given a week to resolve all issues and report to Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila. The meeting was convened by the committee and Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD). In his opening remarks at the meeting, Chairman, House Committee on Health Services, Hon. Yusuf Tanko Sununu, explained that the meeting was a continuation of the earlier efforts by the speaker on July 29. He said: “There were three issues in contention at that meeting: One is the issue of shortfall of salary that amounted to N3.5 billion, which is to be paid to doctors practising in the country. “I think that has been successfully resolved as both Budget Office and Ministry of Finance clearly told us that a provision was made to ensure that within this month, at least that will be paid. “Second, we also have issue of skipping arrears totalling about N23 billion, which was strongly debated. Mr. Speaker is of the view, as at the conclusion of that meeting, that the claim is a genuine one. Because all evidence before the meeting as at that date shows that the Federal Government, through the agency of federal ministry of health, has gone into agreement to pay these skipping arrears. These are all the available documents that were tendered to the committee. “That the issue of skipping was in court could not be substantiated by the documents tendered before that meeting.” The lawmaker said the third thorny issue was how to fund the medical residency of doctors, the bill of which President Muhammadu Buhari had signed into law last year. Chairman of committee on health institutions, Hon. Pascal Obi, said: “Based on the fruitful deliberation we’ve had here today (yesterday), I’m convinced we will not be talking about strike again.” He expressed confidence in the committee that had been set up, saying he is sure the panel will resolve all the issues between the doctors and government. President of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD), Dr. Olusegun Olaopa, while speaking with reporters on the outcome of the session, said there will be no problem if government keeps to its side of the bargain. “We are trying to let government know that it’s not as if we’re unreasonable. We’re doing everything possible to show reasoning and continue to negotiate with government. “If the various organs of government can keep their own terms, there will not be problems. Currently, I must say it’s an on-going process and we believe it’s going to lead to a long lasting solution to the problem.”