…seven injured, several missing Buhari mourns, urges greater safety on campuses  Four students of the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi State were killed, seven were injured while others were missing when a bridge collapsed on the campus. The Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Ahmad Abduazeez, said that the school had been shut for two weeks to mourn the deceased. He said: “I regret to announce the death of four of our students on August 5, 2019. The unfortunate accident occurred last night on Gubi Campus. While the full details of the occurrence are awaited, the university’s Senate, at an emergency meeting this morning, August 6, 2019, decided to close the school in honour of the students. The reopening date has been fixed for August 18, 2019. “For now, we learnt that the students were trying to return to their hostel in the midst of the rain last night, when the connecting bridge between their reading area and the hostel collapsed. Four students drowned immediately.” Abdulazeez said the other seven injured students were receiving treatment at the university medical centre. He added: “Many students are still missing, but combined teams of security and firefighters have been working tirelessly, looking for the missing victims.” Abdulazeez, who used the opportunity to commiserate with families of the deceased, prayed that God should console the entire community of ATBU on this unfortunate development. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has commiserated with the families of the students who lost their lives in the incident. The President, in a statement by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu in Abuja on Tuesday, described the incident, as “tragic, sad and unfortunate”. While condoling with the management, staff and students of the university, President Buhari called on the university authorities to prioritise the safety of students under their care. He regretted that “these future leaders and potential family benefactors met such an untimely end.” He prayed almighty God to console the bereaved families and university community, and grant speedy healing to the injured students, and rest to the souls of the departed.