The Federal Government has approved N600 billon for electricity market to boost power supply. Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said the intervention is for the payment of the shortfall in electricity invoices for the entire market. “The whopping sum of money has never been injected into the power sector before, but even when it is privatised, government is spending more telling you that the privatisation is given a red flag. “The fund will be ready for disbursement any moment from now,” Mr. Edmund Ejie, the Market Operator of TCN, said. TCN disclosed this yesterday in Abuja at the 3rd quarter Participants and Stakeholders Interactive forum for 2019. The forum has as its theme: “Rules Compliance for Nigerian Electricity Market (NEM) Development and Sustainability.” Ejie said the intervention by the Federal Government was at a very advanced level, adding that it had already been signed by President Muhammadu Buhari. He explained that the intervention was not restricted to a single chain in the market, as it was holistic. According to him, “the plan is at an advanced level and the fund has been signed by Mr. President. The president signed for the release of the intervention and it is an intervention of N600 billion.” Asked whether the latest N600 billion was specifically for the distribution, generation or transmission company, Eje said: “At this stage, I’ll tell you that it is for the market. If the money is injected into the GenCos it is for the market, if it is injected into the DisCos it is for the market. It is generally for the shortfall in the payment of monthly invoices. “It is wrong to say that the earlier N701 billion is for the Gencos, DisCos or gas companies. No! As a matter of fact, I will tell you that whatever money government has injected into the market is for the sustenance of the market.” On when government would release the N600 billion, Eje stated that government was not happy that the fund had yet to be deployed. He said: “I think government is not happy that it has not taken effect. But you know when government signs such a thing, there are underlying protocols that must be observed in order to facilitate it and that is what is going on right now as I talk to you.” Mr. Usman Mohammed, the Managing Director of TCN, said that one of the factors that would make the Nigerian Electricity Market Participants to thrive was by complying with rules, codes and orders. Usman said that there was the need for the operators to be proactive in recognising that regulatory and standard compliance were the key to market development. “The theme of the event reflects the growing recognition, concern and importance of regulatory compliance and ruling documents implementation. “Today’s interactive forum is part of the market operator effort to support you and improve the market performance,” he said. He said that the forum was to access the market performance, changes and their impact on the market participants’ readiness and challenges, predict what lies ahead and to determine compliance to rules or lack of it. Mohammed said that TCN had commenced the provision of Automatic Meter Reading (AMR) in all trading modes in the country provision. He said that TCN also plans to establish lasting Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) equipment and facilitating operational audit of both the system and market operator. It would be recalled that the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, recently expressed dissatisfaction over the performance of electricity distribution companies in the country, saying there is a need for a substantial change of strategy in order to meet the electricity needs of homes and businesses. Osinbajo had said: ‘The distribution capacity in the 11 DisCos are significantly low, hovering at around 4,000 megawatts on average with a peak at about 5,400MW. So, despite all the availability of about 8,000MW of generation and 7,000MW of transmission capacity, the lack of infrastructure by the DisCos to absorb and deliver grid power to end-users has largely restricted generation to an average of about 4,000MW, and sometimes even falling below 4,000MW.”