Tension has risen in some parts of the South-East recently following some brutal actions of men of the Nigerian Army. They were posted to the zone to maintain the peace, but some of their actions are now creating tension. EMMANUEL IFEANYI reports from Aba   For anyone who stays in Aba, Abia State or any part of the South East Nigeria the Nigerian Army has contributed towards maintaining security of the region. They have, in fact, done very well in some areas when it comes to combating kidnapping and other violent crimes. But their recent attitude towards the same citizens they were sent to secure is gradually erasing all their good works. With constant intimidation, extortion, humiliation and brutalization usually dished out on innocent citizens at various military checkpoints in Abia State and the entire South East, questions are beginning to come up about their mission. Reactions are now pouring in that if such is not corrected, stopped fast and now, it may affect the unity of the entire nation as people would develop the mindset that the army was sent on a different mission in the South East. New Telegraph gathered that at many spots and junctions in Aba, the commercial nerve centre of Aba State, residents now feel more threatened by the presence of soldiers who at slightest or even without provocation do things that tingle the ear. Within a space of just two weeks, the activities of the Nigerian army in Aba sent irrecoverable shock into the spines of residents, who now wonder if the army who were drafted to curb activities of kidnappers and other related crimes have suddenly lost focus. From moving into the streets, flogging, maltreating and shaving the hairs of youths wearing dreadlocks, to the shooting of a motorcyclist for refusing to give them N100 bribe, the respect residents of Aba once had for the army has totally reduced and evaporated within just two weeks of extraordinary behaviour. To add salt to injury, the army has developed a comical way of denying every illegal act perpetrated against the residents of the commercial city without taking into cognizance that in this era of technology, hiding certain things seem impossible. After the killing of a motorcyclist, Chimaobi Nwaorgu Uzoukwa, right in his own village, the 82 Division of the Nigerian Army in Enugu horridly issued a press release saying that the killer of Uzuokwa was a cultist wearing a camouflage. It didn’t take too many hours for such denial to be deflected as many residents and eyewitnesses who saw what happened felt embarrassed and insulted by such statement which ended up infuriating people and causing more anger. Unfortunately for them, the Governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, when he visited the deceased residence at Umuokereke Ngwa in Obingwa LGA which is also the governor’s LGA, announced that the killer is actually a soldier, who has been arrested already. It took the Nigerian Army over 24 hours to make another release in which they later accepted that the killer soldier is actually one of them; a situation that made the whole thing dramatic and absolutely ridiculous. Reacting to the activities of soldiers in Aba, Chief Goodluck Egwu Ibem, President General of the Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL), said the killing of Uzuokwa, who was survived by his wife, two little children and an aged mother was barbaric and wicked. “If they Federal Government is sincere in its fight against corruption, the should fight this military and police extortion/killings frontally by removing the checkpoints in the zone and introduce military and police patrols that will be moving from one place to another on the roads to provide security. Staying in on place for too long leads to extortion. “The checkpoints that were meant to be security checkpoints have been turned to extortion points by the soldiers and police men. “They harass road users and kill at will those who refused to pay. They boast and say nothing will happen, if they kill anyone for refusing to pay the extortion. “If bribery and extortion of motorists in the South East geo-political zone have been enshrined into our constitution overnight, we will like to see the section of the Constitution where it is written. But if not, we demand for immediate stoppage of extortion of motorists in the entire South East Zone. “The is an Igbo adage that says “any child sent on an errand by his father, breaks the door with his legs”. The military extorts motorists with confidence, without fear, whatsoever. “The way and manner the soldiers collect this bribe without any atom of fear, is as if, they are collecting the bribe and accounting to the Chief of Army Staff or a higher authority somewhere within the corridor of power. “We can’t explain how motorists must pay money every day to the soldiers and police at checkpoints and nothing has been done to stop the ugly trend. “The soldiers behave as if they were strictly instructed to extort, maim and kill South Easterners and not to save life. The activities of the army in South East is as if, we are in a war. South Easterners are treated as enemies. “If we are seen as part of Nigeria, tell me how an army officer paid salaries with tax payers’ money, will trail a law abiding citizen and kill him in his father’s house. What an insolence?” he said. Also reacting, a resident, Mr. Eusobio Eke Substance, said: “What are the Igbo doing? Must we remain like this until they annihilate all of us? “Why must we be brutally intimidated in our place and everybody is keeping quiet? We should all march to the army headquarters. Let them kill all of us because this is getting too much. “Must we continue like this? Why must a young man and a hard-working father be killed because of N100 bribe? “What will his children be told happened to their father and how would they take such stories when they grow up? “Someone is there claiming to be fighting corruption while soldiers are busy brutalizing innocent citizens doing their legitimate business.” Meanwhile, after the press release by Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, 82 Division of Nigeria Army, Colonel Aliyu Yusuf, announcing the arrest of Lance Corporal Ajayi Johnson after several pressure from all angles, reactions have also followed, as many felt that a mere press release is not enough to get justice. Comrade Emma Powerful, the Media and Publicity Secretary of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), said that words were not enough until the mentioned killer soldier is paraded for all to see. “Without the benefit of public parade of the so-called Lance Corporal Ajayi Johnson as is customary with law enforcement agencies in Nigeria, the continued denial of the army will be seen as mockery of the deceased.