President Muhammadu Buhari has unbundled the existing Federal Government ministries with the creation of five new ministries in addition to the present 23. “I am pleased to inform you that the federal ministries have been further expanded to ensure effective service delivery,” the president said. Buhari disclosed this yesterday while assigning portfolios to members of his second term cabinet at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The newly created ministries are Police Affairs, Aviation, Special Duties & Intergovernmental Affairs, Power and Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management & Social Development. While the Ministry of Aviation was created from the Ministry of Transportation, the power ministry has been carved out of the former Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. In the president’s first tenure, Police Affairs was under the Ministry of Interior. On assumption of office in 2015, Buhari merged police affairs ministry with the Ministry of Interior. Another significant change is the fusion of the Ministries of Finance and Budget and National Planning. The new Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development will be headed by Hajiya Sadiya Umar (Zamfara) while that of the Ministry of Special Duties and International Affairs will be headed by former Governor of Benue State, Senator George Akume. Alhaji Muhammadu Dingyadi from Sokoto State is the Minister of the new Ministry of Police Affairs. Senator Hadi Sirika is now full-fledged Minister of Aviation while Sale Mamman is the Minister of Power. Speaking while swearing-in the new ministers, President Buhari warned the cabinet members that they must not allow his government to fail Nigerians. According to the president, Nigerians continue to face tough times, which can only be addressed through strong commitment and efficient delivery on the part of the government. One of the key priority areas, which need immediate attention, he said, is the security sector. Buhari said: “We must also intensify efforts to reduce internal security threats and eliminate corruption at all levels so as to ensure that our citizens have a safe and corruption-free environment where they can live and conduct their businesses without fear and intimidation. “Our primary business over the next four years is to work together towards delivering the results that the people of Nigeria expect from us. We have a great opportunity as an administration to build on the progress already made in order to fundamentally shift Nigeria’s trajectory on the path of steady growth and development.” The president challenged the ministers not to allow such issues as political affiliation, sectional interest and primordial loyalties to blind their thoughts and commitment against patriotic obligation to drive the nation’s growth, development and prosperity in an atmosphere of enduring peace, security and stability. Buhari said he has since directed the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, to track the progress against their specific assignments in order to achieve the overall objective of the administration. For the second time, President Buhari emphasized the importance of communication and harmony within the government. “You must work in harmony with your fellow ministers. Communication – vertical and horizontal can only be ignored at a price. As I said on Tuesday, in terms of coordinating communication, kindly ensure that all submissions for my attention or meeting requests be channelled through the Chief of Staff. While all Federal Executive Council matters be coordinated through the SGF in order to speed up the process of decision-making.” In his remarks, the SGF told the new ministers that they are expected to kick the ball rolling and familiarise with permanent secretaries of various ministries in order to set out to work, particularly on the 2020 budget. He said the ministers must do this, taking cognizance of the fact that government has assured the National Assembly of sending the budget immediately they return from the recess. “We will send out the ministerial mandate for you to review within two weeks with the permanent secretaries assigned to your ministries and attach your signatures and return for the purposes of safe keep and also monitoring and co-ordination,” he added.