T he Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may have decided to discontinue its decision to probe the voting pattern of its legislators in the elections of leadership of the 9th National Assembly.   The intervention committee set up by the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT) on the disagreement between PDP National Working Committee (NWC) and some members of the House of Representatives over minority leadership of the House, is however expected to submit its report.   The PDP leadership had directed its lawmakers to vote Senator Ali Ndume and Hon. Umar Bago as president of the Senate and speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively.   But at the inauguration of the National Assembly on June 11, some PDP lawmakers went against this directive, resulting in the emergence of Senator Ahmad Lawan and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila to the two positions.   PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, at the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting on June 24, described the action of the lawmakers as “embarrassing.”  Consequently, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said a committee headed by former Senate President, Adolphus Wabara, has been constituted to probe why some PDP lawmakers failed to abide by the decision of the party. The committee was formally inaugurated on July 9, with three weeks mandate to submit its report.   But, a source at the PDP National Secretariat told New Telegraph that the party want the matter to die a natural death.   “The party does not want to pursue the matter further. There were pressures on the leadership to stop the probe,” the source said. Ologbondiyan, however, said the party is still waiting for the probe committee’s report.    When reminded that the three-week period has expired, he responded that “they might have asked for extension of time,” adding that “the committee is not under pressure to submit its report.”   The BoT intervention committee, which is headed by former President of the Senate, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, was inaugurated on July 7.   PDP NWC had suspended six of its members in the House of Representatives for alleged “indiscipline, insubordination and disobedience,” on July 5 for one month, for substituting the name of Hon. Kingsley Chinda, who represents Obio/Akpor Federal Constituency with Ndudi Elumelu, as the minority leader of the House of Representatives.   They were referred to the Disciplinary Committee, for further action.   Chairman of PDP BoT, Senator Walid Jibrin, told New Telegraph that the report of the committee is ready and may likely be submitted today.   “They have concluded their report and will be submitting it tomorrow (today), so they told me.   “We thought that the assignment was easy, but it wasn’t. They went round the country and discussed with many people. They told me they are ready. So let’s exercise some patience,” Jibrin pleaded.   Those suspended by the party are Elumelu, Wole Oke, Lynda Ikpeazu, Anayo Edwin, Gideon Gwani, Toby Okechukwu and Adekoya Abdul-Majid.   Apart from Ayu, other members of the committee include two former Senate presidents, David Mark and Adolphus Wabara, a former Deputy Senate President, Ibrahim Mantu, and a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Austin Opara, who serves as secretary.