Operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) have arrested two suspected cultists for allegedly being responsible for the death of 16 people in Lagos State. The suspects, Oyedele Oyegoke (30) aka Sanbgana and Lukeman Sholalu (25) aka Butcher, were alleged to be two members of the outlawed cult groups, Aiye and Eiye confraternities in Lagos. Police said that the suspects, during a supremacy battle at Mile 12, in January 2019, killed 11 cult members and five civilians. “In January 2019, two cult groups, Aiye and Eiye confraternities, had a supremacy battle, which Sangbana coordinated against rival Eiye confraternity. The Aiye group killed nine members of Eiye and later, the Eiye killed two members of Aiye group around Mile 12 area of Lagos. “During the exchange of gunfire between the two groups, five members of the public, which the cultists mistook for rival members, were killed. Out of the nine members killed, Sangbana killed one, later identified as Super, an Eiye confraternity member,” a police source told New Telegraph. It was learnt that IRT operatives recovered a Pump Action rifle from Sangbana, which police believed was the same gun used to kill Super. The police disclosed: “The second suspect, Sholalu, is also a member of Aiye confraternity. His role is to arm himself with an axe during clashes, which he uses to butcher his opponents. It was because of his ability that he was called Butcher. Another of his nickname is Seven. “Butcher took part in the killing of three Eiye members, Master, Omo Coach and Bariga. However, during the fight, Butcher led his men. When he was arrested, he led operatives to the Ojota under bridge, where he had hidden a rifle. The rifle was recovered.” The New Telegraph further learnt that the suspects would be charged to court for conspiracy, murder, unlawful possession of firearms, and also for belonging to unlawful society. Fielding questions from journalists, Sangbana explained that he was once a student of the Kwara State Polytechnic, Ilorin, but was later rusticated because his Grade Point Average (GPA) was too low. He told New Telegraph that his low GPA was caused by distraction of cult activities from his studies. He said: “I attended Kwara State Polytechnic, but could not finish due to my cult-distracting activities. My discipline was Business Administration. I could not concentrate due to cult activities and its associated problems. “I joined cult group while in school. I met a guy called Kale Mogaji in 2009, while in school. He was a member of Aiye confraternity. He was the person that initiated me into cultism and remained my mentor. I couldn’t keep up with my studies because of many fights with rival cult groups. At a point, I became ashamed and afraid of entering the class because my GPA was low. By 2012, I was rusticated. I went home and started trading on fruits and vegetables at Mile 12. I regrouped with Coal confraternity at Mile 12. It was Kazeem, a resident of Mile 12, that was in charge. We attended normal meeting weekly and paid meeting fees like N400. We were living in peace in 2014. The war started in 2016, the day Eiye confraternity members shot one of our members, Sypon, on the neck at Agiliti area of Mile 12. He also sustained injury as a result of the bottle, which they used to stab him during the surprise attack. “When we went to retaliate, we killed an Eiye confraternity member called Junior with machete. I was not part of the retaliation attack. They later came back and killed one of our members, Charley, by using a knife to cut open his stomach.”