Between July 20, 2018 when the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) commenced its intervention in the sale of foreign exchange in the Chinese Yuan (CNY), and last Friday, the apex bank has sold about CNY 1.1 billion to authorised dealers, findings by New Telegraph show. The CBN had, on April 27, 2018, signed a three-year Bilateral Currency Swap Agreement (BCSA) with People’s Bank of China to facilitate trade between the two countries and reduce their dependence on the dollar. In a statement at the time, the CBN had said that the transaction, which was valued at Renminbi (another term for Yuan) 16 billion, or the equivalent of about $2.5 billion, was aimed at providing adequate local currency liquidity to Nigerian and Chinese industrialists and other businesses. It also stated that the agreement would reduce the difficulties encountered in the search for third currencies in the execution of business transactions between Nigerian and Chinese industrialists. New Telegraph’s analysis of Yuan auction data, obtained from the regulator, shows that between July 20 and December 31 last year, the CBN sold a total of CNY669.66 million to authorised dealers, compared with CNY 450.28 million auctioned between January and July 26 this year. This means that the apex bank sold about CNY 1.1billion in the last 12 months. For instance, in its’ recently released Annual Activity Report for 2018, the regulator stated: “In April 2018, the CBN signed a BCSA with the People’s Bank of China (PBoC-CBN), and commenced full implementation of the agreement with the CBN-Renminbi Retail Secondary Market Intervention Sales (SMIS) auction of July 20, 2018. “Since then, 12 bi-weekly auctions had been conducted and Renminbi worth CNY669.66 million was sold. This helped boost foreign exchange management as it reduced demand pressure for USD, thereby conserving foreign reserves. It also helped to improve trade relations with China.” Furthermore, New Telegraph’s compilation of Renminbi SMIS carried out by the CBN since the beginning of this year indicate that it has so far conducted 12 of such auctions. Specifically, as part of its intervention sales, the CBN sold CNY 38.70 million to authorised dealers on January 25. Shedding light on the auction, the Director, Corporate Communications Department, CBN, Mr. Isaac Okorafor, said the Yuan transaction was in the Spot and Short tenored forwards of the foreign exchange market, adding that it was for payment of renminbi denominated Letters of Credit for agriculture and raw materials based on bids received from authorised dealers. According to him, the CBN was satisfied with the implementation of the BCSA with the People’s Bank of China. The banking watchdog also sold a total of CNY93.2 million and CNY 70.4 million at auctions in February and March respectively. Similarly, it sold a total of CNY69.6 million and CNY 70.3 million at auctions in April and May respectively. New Telegraph’s findings further revealed that the CBN sold CNY 32.3 million in the month of June while a total of CNY 75.7 million was auctioned by the apex bank in July. As at last Friday, the official naira to Yuan exchange rate stood at N44.614/ ¥1, compared with N52.3/ ¥1 at the parallel market. Giving details of the latest Yuan auction which held last Friday, Okorafor said the CNY36.0 million in the spot and short-tenored forwards segment of the inter-bank foreign market, was for Renminbi-denominated Letters of Credit. Okorafor had stated at the commencement of Yuan sales by the CBN on July 20 last year, that the exercise would be through a combination of spot and short tenored forwards, adding that the auction, which would be via retail SMIS, would be dedicated to the payment of Renminbi denominated Letters of Credit for raw materials and machinery and agriculture. He explained that the apex bank would receive bids from all authorized dealers and emphasised that due to the peculiarity of the exercise, the CBN would not apply the relevant provisions of its Revised Guidelines for the operation of the Inter-bank Foreign Exchange Market, which direct all SMIS bids to be submitted to the regulator through the Forex Primary Dealers. Okorafor further explained that there would be no predetermined spread on the sale of Forex Forwards by authorised dealers to end-users under the Special SMIS-Retail.