 About 62.7 million Internet subscribers in Nigeria are now on broadband, which offers high speed, New Telegraph has learnt.
This represents 33 per cent of the country’s population based on the estimated figure of 190 million. The deployment of 4G infrastructure by the mobile network operators (MNOs) is helping the country to achieve its broadband target via mobile. According to Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), the 33 per cent was achieved at the end of last February. This paper’s checks revealed that additional 1.9 million subscribers join high speed Internet users every month, as the NCC’s figure showed an average one per cent monthly increase in penetration over the last one year. According to a World Bank study, a 10 per cent point increase in fixed broadband penetration would increase Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth by 1.21 per cent in developed economies and 1.38 per cent in developing ones. Nigeria had, in 2013, set a penetration target of 30 per cent by 2018 through the National Broadband Policy (2013-2018). While some stakeholders were pessimistic about achieving the target due to infrastructure challenges in the country, the telecoms regulator announced that 31 per cent was achieved last December, thereby surpassing the target. Analysis of NCC’s data on broadband growth pattern over the last one year showed that penetration in the country was 19.9 per cent in January 2018. However, by January 2019, the penetration had reached 61.7 million people to hit 32 per cent. Announcing the new penetration level for February, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof Umar Danbatta, expressed optimism that Nigeria can achieve 70 per cent broadband penetration milestone in the next five years, even though a new national target of the penetration has not been made public yet. “We exceeded expectation of Nigeria as the broadband penetration was 31 per cent as at December last year. The good news is that we are steadily seeing increase in the penetration. As at February, it was almost 33 per cent. “There is a new target, though no official pronouncement has been made, but we are hearing stakeholders saying it is possible to hit 70 per cent in the next five years,” he said. “When you divide 70 per cent by five, that will give you an idea of what we are expected to hit on annual basis. “So far, no official pronouncement has been made by the supervising Minister who is the custodian of the National Broadband Plan including the one that has just lapsed. Besides, Prof Danbatta said that the Federal Government would soon come up with another penetration target to be attained in the next five years of the mission of National Broadband Plan phase two. Phase one lapsed in 2018. Also, the NCC boss noted that all the key four parameters of the industry are currently on the way up. He said while data usage is also steadily increasing, 174 million Nigerians have access to telecommunication voice services, adding that the Internet penetration in real terms is over 100 million. Meanwhile, the Commission said it had also concluded plans to disburse subsidy to companies licensed to deploy broadband infrastructure across the country, otherwise known as InfraCos. Six companies, one for each geographical zone of the country, have been licensed to help deepen broadband penetration by building infrastructure across nooks and crannies of the country. The already licensed six InfraCos are MainOne Limited for Lagos Zone, Raeana Nigeria Limited for South-South Zone, O’dua Infraco Resources Limited for South-West Zone, Fleek Networks Limited for North-West Zone, Brinks Integrated Solutions for North-East Zone, and Zinox Technologies Limited for the South-East Zone, while the seventh licence for North Central Zone is being processed.