British researchers said it may be possible to restore brain cells damaged by Parkinson’s disease as well as reverse a patient’s condition. The researchers focused on a naturally-occurring protein in the brain called Glial Cell Line Derived Neurotrophic Factor (GDNF) and it was thought that boosting GDNF in brain tissue might help re-generate dying brain cells in people with Parkinson’s and thereby reverse the condition. Their findings were highlighted in a new study which delivered the special ‘growth factor’ proteins to restore failing brain cells. The results were published in the journal ‘Brain and the Journal of Parkinson’s Disease’. Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects predominately dopamine-producing (“dopaminergic”) neurons in a specific area of the brain called substantia nigra. The progression of symptoms is often a bit different from one person to another due to the diversity of the disease. Presently, none of the available treatment for Pakinsdon’s can achieve what the treatment from the current study can do. Some notable personalities in advanced countries affected by Pakinsdon’s diseases are the late George H.W. Bush, a former president the United States (US) and the late Muhammad Ali, a renowned American professional boxer, activist, and philanthropist. Pakinsdon’s disease occurs worldwide, with studies in Africa yielding hospital frequencies of 0.3 to 2.3 per cent of neurological diseases. In western Nigeria, the prevalence rate is between 50 to 90 per 100,000 of the population aged above ten years. Reacting to the breakthrough, the Principal investigator of the study Dr. Alan Whone said, “The spatial and relative magnitude of the improvement in the brain scans is beyond anything seen previously in trials of surgically delivered growth-factor treatments for Parkinson’s.” He added, “This represents some of the most compelling evidence yet that we may have a means to possibly re-awaken and restore the dopamine brain cells that are gradually destroyed in Parkinson’s.” In the trial involving just 41 patients, the British team used robot-assisted surgery to place four tubes into the brains of six Parkinson’s patients so that GDNF could bypass this barrier and be infused directly to affected brain areas