Abdullahi Buba is a Bauchi-based social critic. In this interview with ALI GARBA, he talks about how lack of patience, dialogue and understanding have caused a lot of couples their marriages   How long have you been married?
Yes, I am married for two decades with six children and I am happy with my family. What are those things that makes you happy at home?
It includes the understanding between my family and I and the patience of nurturing a home. Once you are staying with someone, there are reasons, factors, that you could have friction but that should not turn into problems or crisis that would lead to divorce.
You have to be patient, tolerant. Sometimes, some things, you issue warning and pretend as if it didn’t happen so that everybody would have a sense of belonging in the house.
Marriage is a fulfilment of religious obligation. Once, you come of age, it is incumbent on you to get married so that you can re-generate. You are a product of marriage. You should also have a product of marriage. I believe if one is not married, he could be tempted to do so many things but the moment you have responsibilities tied to your neck; that you have to cater for, to train, to provide shelter, food and other need of the family, it curtails some of the excesses that may affect your behavior; checks that you may not go out of your bounds. You will try to behave in tandem with right thinking members of the society so that they will not see you as a wayward or irresponsible member of the society. Divorce is common in the north. Why?
The causes are so much. This is not peculiar to the north alone. It is one of the features of a society that engages in polygamy. Divorce is a product of a crisis. If you are living happily with your family, nothing would lead to divorce but if you are in a mess, crisis with your wife, divorce is inevitable, maybe, as a result of promiscuity, as a result of intolerance, insubordination and as a result of recklessness and as a result of other things. Ordinary, you should ensure good understanding between the two of you. Once you do not have the patience to bear, you do not have the capability to manage the crisis. Once, you do not concede to your family some of these things, definitely there is tendency that the crisis may escalate and once the crisis escalates, you cannot predict what would come out of it. Often times, that is what lead to divorce.
Divorce is not welcome but in a Muslims’ dominated area, especially in the north where the culture is more or less a reflection of Muslins, divorce do occur. Divorce is not unholy, is not unreligious. There are conditions that Islam allow for divorce but again Qur’an to Muslims which is the holy book says at several verses and chapters that be patient and for anybody that is patient, Muslims believe that your amount of patience is an exchange which make you get closer to God.
Beside other religious obligations, there is Hausa Proverbs that says Maihakuri yakan dafa dutse meaning that a person who is patient can cook a stone and eat from it because of his patience.
What in essence that means is that anybody that can exercise patience, will reap the benefit of it at the end. Once there is patience on the part of both husband and wife, between family members, you would not see divorce. Whenever you see divorce is a product of escalated crisis. What is your advice to a family that is about to break up?
Patience! They have to be patient, learn to tolerate the shortcoming of your wife. The woman should also learn to tolerate her husband’s shortcoming. After all, both the husband and the wife, nobody is perfect and as human, all are likely to make mistakes. We have our natural and acquired short comings. We most create the mechanism, the ability to tolerate one another in the face of this shortcomings. Again, another area that I feel a couple should adopt to save their marriage is dialogue. Whenever there is crisis between couples, they should learn to sit together, be frank to themselves, tell themselves about the Genesis, about the misunderstanding they have that is about to lead to divorce or to break up so that they discuss and get things right. Even wars are won on tables. The second world war was fought and settled on a table. I believe dialogue is always a solution no matter how deep the crisis is.
Another thing again, let the husband see himself as the head of the family at the same time give leverage to other members of the family to also have sense of belonging. Don’t be the boss. Marriage is a union of understanding. You must have agreed with your spouse before you come together to live as a husband and wife. She should also have a stake a sense of belonging in managing the affairs of the house.
The head of the house should learn to concede certain things about managing relations to his wife. She can give you advice on something you want to do which to her it may not mean well for the entire family. You are looking at it on your level as an individual, she is looking at it in a holistic point of view for the entire family. You take it and drop your own.
Understanding would save families that is about to break up. Couples should dialogue; they should learn to concede to each other. They should learn to tolerate one another’s shortcomings and most importantly, agree the husband is the head of the family; the woman is right behind him.
As the phase goes on, any successful man there is a woman behind him. The woman should also know her limitations as wife. We know all the two major religion Christianity and Islam preach obedience of the wife to her husband. Where you have a wife that doesn’t take valid instructions from you, you have a wife that engage in promiscuity for instance, you have a wife that doesn’t see you as the head of the family, no man would take this. You can take other rubbish from her but this particular aspect, he would not take it. Again because he is the one that has a say in a divorce, that is the reason a time, he will say I better let her go, so that I will not have hypertension. So, he will just issue the divorce. Women should know there restrictions the men should also learn to concede. That way, they would have a meeting point and divorce would be avoided.