CSJ raises 250 querries on ‘uneconomical’ items  The Centre for Social Justice ((CSJ) has uncovered a total of 250 provisions classified as “frivolous, inappropriate and wasteful” expenditure estimates in the 2019 Appropriation Bill from which the Federal Government could save an estimated Seventy Four Billion, One Hundred and Seventy Five Million, Three Hundred and Eighty Two Thousand, Seven Hundred and Forty Seven Naira, Ninety Kobo. President Muhammadu Buhari had on December 19, 2018, presented to the joint session of the National Assembly, a N8. 82 trillion budget proposal for the 2019 fiscal year. The suspicious expenditure items, which run through almost the entire budget, include bogus provisions for purchase of vehicles, renovation of buildings, procurement of computers and softwares, welfare packages, security votes, empowerment and capacity building. The discovery of these items followed a comprehensive review of the federal budget by the CSJ and it’s partners in the Citizens Wealth Platform (CWP) as part of efforts by civil society organisations to promote accountability, transparency and value for money in public finance management in Nigeria. In a report submitted to the National Assembly, the CSJ frowned at budgetary provisions which had no details, locations and deliverables, arguing that such nebulous and unclear items had no business being part of the Federal Appropriation Bill. The 46-page report raised queries on several items allocated to the State House Headquarters (Presidency) including the sum of N21 million allocated to “Systemic Collection and Assessment of Data About Projects and Programmes. Although the budget said the proposed data would enable management make decisions, the report described it as a “nebulous provision that is very much like a slush fund” as there were so many government agencies already charged with collection and assessment of data. CSJ advised the government to save the money for some thing more important and delete the item from the budget of the State House. A similar query was raised on another item tagged: Annual Routine Maintenance of Mechanical and Electrical Installations of the Villa, for which N4.3 billion has been earmarked. According to the report, the State House had perpetually gotten huge sums for rehabilitation and repairs of its buildings, adding that the sum of N5.4 billion was allocated for the same purpose in the 2018 budget. The report also revealed that whereas the State House had N907.1 million for the purchase of motor vehicles last year, another N607.1million has been proposed for the same item in the 2019 budget. Similarly, the purchase of library books and equipment in the State House, had the sum of N44.5 million allocated to it in the budget under consideration but the report said such an allocation was frivolous and unnecessary as the sum of N67.2 million was allocated to the State House for the same purpose in 2018. In the budget of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, the report questioned the allocation of N10billion to the North East Development Commission (NEDC) after another provision of N45 billion had already been made for the same purpose in the Service Wide Votes. The report also frowned at the N700, 954,177 provision made for the procurement and installation of security system in the current budget after the same item gulped a whopping N715 .1m in the 2018 budget. Also in the office of the SGF, the sum of N164, 043, 400 has been proposed for the procurement of four 18-seater buses and two 30-seater buses while another sum of N150, 000, 000 has also been budgeted for the procurement of an unspecified number of utility vehicles. The report recalls that over N383 million was voted for purchase of vehicles for the same office in the 2018 budget. Lead Director, Centre for Social Justice, Eze Onyekpere, who presented the report to newsmen in Abuja, disclosed that research had shown that some projects are duplicated across some Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) but have continued to reoccur in the budget for so many years. Onyekpere lamented that after providing for specific infrastructure projects across the federation or in a state, the author’s of the budget still make general provisions for the same infrastructure projects without clarity as to their location “Some MDAs are still in the practice of yearly repetitive budgeting for line items such as computers, printers and software programmes. Hefty sums in billions, hundreds and ten of millions have been repeatedly provided for maintenance and repair of buildings. This raises the question whether a building rehabilitated in 2018 will still require repairs of such magnitude in 2019. In the security arena, there are line items which do not clearly indicate what the treasury will be paying for and we have asked the National Assembly to thoroughly scrutinize these line items on behalf of the Nigerian people. “The Ministry of Agriculture allocated various hefty sums for undefined value chains. In some instances, MDAs are demanding for specific brand of vehicles instead of providing for functional specification of vehicles. This stultifies competition and value for money in public procurement. The vehicles frequently demanded are foreign brands that should compete with Made In Nigeria brands in accordance with the Executive Order on Local Content in Budgeting and the National Automobile Policy. “We have statutory transfers which simply contain a lump sum provision without details for institutions such as the National Assembly, National Human Rights Commission, Public Complaints Commission, Universal Basic Education Commission , Niger Delta Development Commission and National Judicial Council. Also, votes in the Service Wide Votes for the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Sustainable Development Goals and North East Interventions have no details but are stayed as lump sums. “No one is permitted in a constitutional democracy to spend public funds in a way and manner not known to the citizens who are the ultimate sovereigns,” Onyekpere said. The report, among other things raised concern about the allocation of the sum of N250 million to the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission for the planning and Development of a Nuclear Power Plant. The report advised the Federal Government to save and re-allocate the entire sum as Nigeria does not have the human and technical capacity as well as the discipline to develop and manage such a facility. It noted that it was rather unfortunate that such a proposal was coming at a time more advanced countries were decommissioning their nuclear power plants. The CSJ urged the Federal Government to rechannel the investment to develop competencies and capacities in renewable energy.