Oyetola, Adeleke take battle to appellate court  For the second time in nine years, the court will decide on Osun State governorship election as the Election Petitions Tribunal, last Friday, nullified the election of Governor Gboyega Oyetola, in what seems a replication of the 2010 experience, Felix Nwaneri reports  For the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 22, 2018 governorship election in Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke, it is two steps left in his battle to take over Government House, Osogbo, following Friday’s win at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal for the state, sitting in Abuja. The tribunal in a split decision of two to one, nullified the election of the Governor Gboyega Oyetola, and ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to immediately withdraw the Certificate of Return earlier issued to him. The tribunal also declared Adeleke as the duly elected governor and ordered the electoral umpire to immediately issue him with a Certificate of Return.
In the majority Judgment delivered by Justice Peter Obiora, the tribunal set aside the rerun election conducted in seven polling units on September 27, 2018, for being unlawful. It held that election in the units is unknown to law because the Returning Officer has no power to cancel and order a rerun of an election. The tribunal noted that PDP and Adeleke established beyond reasonable doubt that INEC did not comply substantially with the Electoral Act. As a result, over 2,000 votes credited to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Oyetola were deducted from the total votes credited to them by INEC, while over 1,000 votes said to have been scored by the PDP and its candidate were also removed from the total votes. However, the minority judgment, delivered by the Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Ibrahim Sirajo, held that the petitioners, PDP and Adeleke, failed to prove how the non-compliance of non-recording in the columns of accredited votes and account of ballots in the result sheets substantially affected the final results. Justice Sirajo further stated that even when nonsubstantial compliance affects the outcome of the election, the tribunal, by virtue of Section 140(2) of the Electoral Act, did not have the power to subtract the votes affected by the non-compliance from the scores of the candidates and announce a winner. According to him, the tribunal only has the power to nullify the results of the polling units affected by the non-compliance and order a supplementary poll. He concluded that even if the non-compliance was substantial, it was not proved by the petitioners and consequently dismissed the petition. Oyetola’s road to the government house was not an easy one, considering the various issues that played up before his emergence as APC governorship election as well as during the gubernatorial election. His victory was decided through the second ballot during a rerun held on September 27, 2018, following INEC’s declaration of the September 22 poll as inconclusive. Oyetola, who ran on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), polled 255,505 votes to defeat Adeleke, who scored 255,023 votes, while the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate, Senator Iyiola Omisore, who played a major role in the runoff election by working for the APC candidate, scored 128,053 to come third. But, Adeleke, in a 593-page petition, challenging Oyetola’s victory, asked the tribunal to declare him the winner of the governorship election on the ground that he polled the highest number of lawful votes cast and met other requirements of the law. The APC candidate had trailed his PDP counterpart by 353 votes before going into a supplementary election. However, his votes from the supplementary poll were enough to help him overturn the deficit and be returned as winner of the keenly contested election. Unlike before, the matter would have ended at the appellate court, but for the amendment on the Constitution and Electoral Act, which paved the way for the Supreme Court to be the final arbiter on petitions over governorship elections. According to the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and the Electoral Act 2010, governorship elections cases traverse a journey of three steps. They start at the tribunals, from where they move to Court of Appeal and terminate at the Supreme Court. Already, Oyetola has appealed against the judgement. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Wole Oyebamiji, which informed the people of the state that the judgement of the tribunal has been put on appeal, also assured them that justice will prevail at last. It further assured all the residents of the state of adequate security of lives and properties, noting that the government of the state is still the only legitimate government having the authority to govern Osun.  Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy for the APC in the state, Kunle Oyatomi, who spoke on the party’s behalf, said the verdict will not stand superior legal scrutiny.
“The verdict cannot stand superior legal scrutiny. Therefore, we will appeal against it,” he told journalists on Friday. But, Adeleke, who said he hoped that the electoral body would comply with the orders of the court, declared his readiness to meet Governor Oyetola at the Court of Appeal. His party in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, described the judgment as a victory for democracy and the will of the people. “For those who have been desperate to destroy our democracy, this judgment has proven to them that their shenanigans will always  come to no avail,” he said, adding: “This verdict, which reverberates across our nation, points to the fact that the truth will always prevail.”  Adeleke’s 2018 stunner  Pundits and pollsters had ahead of the Osun governorship election predicted that the man popularly known as “Dancing Senator” would not win poll. Members of the ruling APC also mocked him.  But, what analysts, who dismissed Adeleke as a failure, did not comprehend then was the depth of his support. In a stunning performance, the lawmaker stuck to a plan that worked to perfection in his party’s primary, a campaign built around his celebrity personality, his team’s command of the social media and anti-establishment message of change. After a bitter and divisive campaign, Adeleke scaled series of obstacles that would doom any other candidate: A court suit that challenged his victory in the primaries; another suit over his eligibility due to alleged certificate forgery and an invitation by the police over examination practice.  To many residents of Osun State, which prides itself as “Land of Virtue,” Adeleke was “an imperfect candidate with a near-perfect message,” but his opponents failed to comprehend that. Perhaps, it was against this backdrop that the electorate showed their aversion towards the political establishment given the state of affairs then in Osun. Many still hold the belief that Adeleke guessed correctly that he could ride the wave of discontent against the APC to the Osun State government house. This, he almost did even without chains of university degrees.  Instructively, specifics were never his strength. Instead, he used an “us versus them” message to build voter enthusiasm in places, where most of the other contenders never ventured – rural areas with voters, who felt ignored by the powers that be in Osogbo. Besides making voters feel like they mattered, Adeleke thumbed his nose at the extensive get-outthe- vote operation and data-rich organisation that are seen as essential to a modern winning campaign. Rather, his campaign relied on more unofficial networks of rabid supporters to get the word out. Though pundits underestimated how this approach and his strength in the primaries would carry over to the main election, there was no doubt that Adeleke benefited from an opponent with his own flaws.  APC, had on paper looked good to retain the governorship of Osun State, but the then incumbent governor – Rauf Aregbesola – who is the party’s leader in the state as well as Oyetola’s benefactor took a costly political gamble by banking on the same political variables that determined his victory in the 2014 governorship election.  For instance, the claim of inability of the APC-led federal government to fulfill most of its campaign promises and issues over salaries of workers and entitlements of retirees in Osun State not only worked against the ruling party, but boosted the confidence of the main opposition party. There was also the issue of the crisis that rocked the APC over the outcome of its governorship primaries, which led to some of its chieftains teaming up with the opposition parties. The party opted for a direct primary in electing Oyetola as its candidate against the wishes of other aspirants.  Though the ruling party was not alone in the post-primary crisis as the PDP also had its own fair share of the impasse, another sentiment that worked against the APC was that of zoning as there was agitation that power should shift to Osun West senatorial district, where Adeleke hails from. Arrow heads of the agitation stemmed their campaign on the claim that the zone is the most politically marginalised since the creation of the state in 1991.  This, perhaps, informed why the PDP, ADC and ADP opted for candidates from Osun West as against APC that opted for Osun Central, while SDP took its ticket Osun East. This composition resulted to an interesting voting pattern during the poll.  Victory dance cut short  Adeleke’s victory dance was however cut short by INEC’s declaration of the election inconclusive. At the end of the collation of votes, the PDP candidate won majority votes of about 254,698 votes, while APC’s Oyetola came a close second with 254,345 votes. Both leading candidates had a difference of about 354 votes.  The electoral body hinged its decision on the argument that the total registered voters in the polling units, where elections were cancelled was 3,498. Since that figure was higher than the difference between the votes of the leading candidates, a re-run election had to be conducted. Against this development, the questions ahead of the rerun was: Will Aregbesola and his anointed survive the PDP onslaught? What strategy will the ruling party deploy in a contest against Adeleke, who has demonstrated massive support at the grassroots?  Will Adeleke dance to government house as he boasted ahead of the election? He had said during a town hall meeting organised by Oduduwa Youth Development Initiative three days to the poll that “I will surely dance to government house by winning all the local government areas in Osun State. “I have been tagged ‘Dancing Senator’ but this shouldn’t be used against my personality because everybody dances. Have you seen someone who doesn’t dance? When I was in the university overseas, I used to go for a dancing competition. I do win the dancing competition.  This is the reason why I was nicknamed ‘Jackson’ but my real name is Ademola Nurudeen Adeleke. “There is no crime in dancing. My traducers are only trying to make a mountain out of a molehill. I strongly believe in my supporters’ vote and by it, I will dance to the government house by winning in all the local government areas in Osun State.”  Adeleke’s rise to national stage  Many have wondered how Adeleke came this far. The lawmaker, shot to national political space in July 2017, when he won the Osun West senatorial bye election to replace his late brother, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, who occupied the seat between June 2015 and April 23, when he passed on. The late senator, a former governor of Osun State, represented the senatorial district on the platform of the APC. His selfless service to his people, while in the National Assembly, prompted calls for him to join the 2018 governorship race in the state, which he obliged. While that ambition was cut short by his demise, it opened another chapter in state’s polity – the scramble for who takes over Osun West seat in the upper chamber of the nation’s legislature.  Expectedly, the APC was the party to beat and that explained the number of aspirants that sought for its ticket. Among them was late Adeleke’s sibling – Ademola – as well as the man the late senator defeated during the APC senatorial primaries in 2015, Hussein. Others were a national ex-officio of the party, Hon. Akintola Omolaoye; the state secretary of the party, Ayobami Sansile; Alhaji Tiamiyu Bello; Mr. Tijani Adekilekun and Alhaji Sule Alao. However, the number of aspirants got pruned during the screening exercise carried out by the then national leadership of the party.  Whereas other contenders withdrew from the race to pave the way for Adeleke’s emergence, perhaps as a consolatory gift to his family, Hussein insisted on a primary, but he was later disqualified over his failure to resign as a serving commissioner in the state. But, Hussein claimed that he formally resigned his position as Commissioner for Cabinet Matters and tendered his resignation letter to Governor Aregbesola on June 6, 2017. An appeal committee, which entertained his objection to the disqualification, affirmed the position of the screening committee.  Displeased with the development; the powers that be in the state APC mounted pressure on the national leadership, which reconsidered Hussein and cleared him for the primary election. Ademola got the signal of the 11th hour clearance and swiftly tendered his resignation letter from the APC and decamped to the PDP for screening less than 24 hours to the party’s primary and was given the ticket.  He premised his action on lack of trust in the APC and the manipulation of the process by godfathers. But, the party in its response, not only dismissed Adeleke’s grounds for his resignation, but accused him of “riding on mischief all along, concocting false and irrational explanations as a subterfuge for his failed attempt to destabilize our party in the state.”  The brickbats by both camps got to a height, when then Governor Rauf Aregbesola lashed one of the Adelekes, Deji, saying that he may have gone mad because of the death of his brother. But, the Adelekes ignored the tirade and soldiered on, having the belief that their late brother’s goodwill will work in their favour during the poll.  The kindred spirit, which the family believed in, played out, when Ademola trounced the governor’s candidate – Hussein. He won nine out of the 10 local government areas that make up the senatorial district to serve out his late brother’s tenure. He polled 97,480 votes against APC’s Hussein 66,116 votes. Aregbesola, who was humbled by the defeat of his party, quickly congratulated Adeleke, saying with the result of the poll, the people of Osun have spoken. Adeleke, on his part, described his victory signposts of a brighter future for PDP in the state.  What has played out since then seems to have justified the saying by United States senator, late Robert Kennedy that “each time a man stands up for an ideal, or acts to improve the lot of others, or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope, and crossing each other from a million different centres of energy and daring, those ripples build a current that can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance.”  History repeating itself  This is not be the first time that Osun State governorship would be decided by the court. The 2007 governorship contest in the state was resolved at the appellate court, following Aregbesola’s challenge of INEC’s declaration of Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola as winner of the poll. Aregbesola contested the poll on the platform of Action Congress (AC) – one APC’s legacy parties, while Oyinola was the standard bearer of the PDP. After an interesting legal battle, the Court of Appeal sitting in Ibadan, Oyo State, in a landmark judgement on November 26, 2010, declared Aregbesola winner and ordered that he should be sworn into office by noon on November, 27.  However, with two legs to go in the present legal battle, the question remains: Will the appellate and apex courts affirm the judgement of the tribunal, which has offered Adeleke a ray of hope in his quest for the number one position in Osun State?