In this column of Wednesday, November 7, 2018 titled “Will Amosun repeat OGD’s mistakes?” I warned Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State NEVER to repeat the mistakes made by his predecessor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel in staying in one party and supporting/ sponsoring a governorship candidate in another. In 2011 Daniel failed in that enterprise; his then godson, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka (GNI) of the Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN), and the favoured candidate of the ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, General Adetunji Idowu Olurin (rtd) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), lost the race to Amosun of the then Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN).  It was a three-horse race in 2011 but four last Saturday. In 2011, the splintering of the PDP into two factions weakened it and allowed the newly-formed mega opposition party, the APC, to coast home to victory.  The same splintering of the PDP, this time into three groups – the Buruji Kashamu INEC-recognised group which contested the Ogun governorship election on PDP’s ticket, and the Ladi Adebutu and Daniel factions which split their support between the APC and APM candidates.  The APC won and Amosun is seething. But we warned him! Refresh yourself with that advice. We shall then return to draw some inescapable conclusions: George Santayana’s words and those of other sages like him remain immortal; to wit, that if there is any lesson history teaches; it is that men seldom learn from history. And those who fail to learn from history are often condemned to repeating its mistakes.  The pair of Adolf Hitler and Joseph Goebbels also posited that human memory is very short. Human memory must be very short indeed for Governor Ibikunle Amosun to be contemplating the very same mistakes that his predecessor, former Governor Gbenga Daniel aka OGD, made less than eight years ago. If Zik is right in his polemics with a colonial officer that you cannot execute the same wrong policies and get a different result, then, it follows that if Amosun repeats the same mistakes that OGD made in 2011, he will most likely get the same disastrous results that OGD got in 2011.  Incidentally, OGD’s mistakes of 2011 paved the way for Amosun to snatch victory in that year’s governorship election in Ogun State, under the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu-inspired Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), beating OGD’s candidate, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka (GNI), who contested on the platform of the Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) hurriedly put together by OGD to spite Obasanjo; and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, retired Gen. Adetunji Olurin, imposed by ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo.  Obasanjo and OGD had turned Ogun State into a political battlefield of sorts; having suffered the excesses of Obasanjo as sitting president for a gruelling four years (2003 – 2007), OGD in his second term (2007 – 2011) decided, after due consultation with his kitchen cabinet, “no more”. OGD leveraged on his position as sitting governor and leader of the party in the state but ex-President Obasanjo and his forces, which at a point included the dreaded Kashamu Buruji, fought back so ferociously that they made Ogun State virtually ungovernable for OGD.  The State House of Assembly soon became the epicentre of many battles for supremacy, with the removal of OGD’s crony, Mrs. Titi Oseni, as speaker. GNI was a brilliant and smart technocrat; one of the “Young Turks” credited with the OGD economic blueprint that produced stunning results which rapidly transformed Ogun from a sleepy civil service state to an investor’s destination of choice. Truth be told, OGD’s first tenure (2003 – 2007) brought massive economic transformation to Ogun; had he thrown in the towel at that point, he would have left the scene when the ovation was loudest.  His second term (2007-2011) was marred largely by the many battles for survival that he had to fight. Up to a point he rode the storms and had the upper hand.  After he finally settled down for GNI as his choice as successor out of a motley crew of jostlers, everyone around started seeing and addressing GNI as “Your Excellency”. People had started currying favours from, and worming themselves into GNI’s heart. The governorship all appeared signed, sealed, and only waiting to be delivered. GNI at that point must also have started seeing himself as “governor-designate”.  All of a sudden, however, the tables turned. OGD could not get the PDP ticket for GNI; Obasanjo used his bigger and stronger political flexes to muscle OGD and his godson out of the way. OGD’s political group decided to move into another party, hence the PPN – but OGD himself faced a dilemma. He did not want to be seen as an antagonist to circumstantial President Goodluck Jonathan’s 2011 presidential ambition. Moreover, OGD was appointed the South-West coordinator of Jonathan’s campaign.  So, OGD got stuck in PDP even though he had pushed his vibrant political forces into PPN, where they became rudderless and leaderless, so to say. Confusion and uncertainty set in. Many began to retrace their footsteps to PDP; others left for other parties, including ACN.  OGD was a sorry sight to behold: A PDP sitting governor sponsoring a governorship candidate on the platform of another political party; a South-West coordinator of Jonathan’s campaign who asked his supporters to vote PDP in the presidential election but vote PPN in the governorship! Jonathan won as president but GNI lost the governorship. It was a three-horse race between GNI, Amosun, and Olurin.  The balkanisation of PDP’s votes paved the way for Amosun to win the laurel. The combination of PPN and PDP’s votes surpassed Amosun’s. One would have thought that fair is fair; after all, life itself is: win some; lose some! Unfortunately for OGD, politics is not like that. You must have heard politicians say that all politics is local. Once a leader loses his political base, he loses relevance and dangles in the air.  He may become an “Abuja politician”, as they are derisively called; and that is if he is lucky to land an appointment there or gets himself into the Senate as many ex-governors are wont to do these days. If, in his ongoing face-off with the APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, over the party’s primaries that have become “yonpon-yanrin”, Amosun toes the path that OGD toed in 2011, it is likely he ends up in the same cul-de-sac that OGD ended up in, in 2011.  He cannot remain in APC to campaign for President Muhammadu Buhari and send his political forces into another party to contest the 2019 Ogun State governorship election. A Yoruba proverb literally interpreted says if you want to be a leper, be a proper leper; and if you want to be blind, make sure you are blind in both eyes. To be blind in just one eye causes confusion.  That is when you will see an elephant and say you have just seen a grasshopper! Amosun cannot have his cake and eat it. I hope Baba Onifila Gogoro is listening! Unfortunately, Amosun did not listen; ditto Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha who also sat in the APC where he, like Amosun, worked for President Buhari’s re-election and also contested for Senate but went ahead to sponsor/support a godson to contest as governor on another party’s platform. Both governors are crying now and imagining what hit them. Their arrogance hit them. Their “Iberiberism” or folly did them in! It is queer when people take the same faulty steps but expect a different result.  Theirs is the case of the proverbial hunter’s dog destined to get lost in the forest of many devils, which neither heard nor listened to the hunter’s whistle. As dirty as we say politics is here, our people still have a modicum of morality to fathom out that there is something intrinsically wrong with Amosun’s and Okorocha’s arrangement: You had breakfast with the APC but went somewhere else for lunch. As ignorant and easily dispensable as our leaders think their hapless followers are, these same people still have enough commonsense to see through the gimmicks of their leaders.  The literacy level is another issue; so also the clumsiness of the crowded field of contestants, not to talk of the fact that the elections were generally flawed. In the article titled “My country, right or wrong” (“On the Lord’s Day” column, Sunday Tribune 10th March on page 30), I argued that it helps the growth of internal democracy in political parties and the overarching interest of a virile democracy if politicians do not whimsically see and treat political parties as disposable items. Such use-and-dump mentality is not only capricious but also an ill wind that blows no one any good.  FEEDBACK  “As O TO GE fear grips Lagos” of Wednesday, 27th April is prophetic. The problem, however, is that the dog that will get lost will not hear the hunter’s whistle. The mentality of “money answereth all things” should change to “posterity will judge every man”.  Your pen shall never go dry! – Dare Dimeji.