The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State on Monday warned banks and other financial institutions not to grant ‘last-minute’ loans, overdrafts and other financial instruments to the outgoing governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. The party said that any institution that grants such requests “does so at its own risk.” This was contained in a statement by the Publicity Secretary of Ogun APC Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, which was made available to reporters in Abeokuta. Oladunjoye disclosed that the state chapter of APC was aware that Amosun had been exerting pressures on banks and financial institutions to grant frivolous loans immediately the party’s governorship candidate, Prince Dapo Abiodun, was declared winner. He also alleged that files and other sensitive documents were being moved out of government offices on the order of the governor. He said the party and the incoming administration believes in the rule of law and due process. Oladunjoye warned that the Abiodun-led government will not honour any obligation that does not follow due process and loans that do not receive the prior approval of the State House of Assembly. The statement read, “It has come to our notice that the outgoing governor has been exerting pressures on banks and financial institutions to grant frivolous loans, overdrafts and other instruments immediately Prince Dapo Abiodun was declared Governor-elect. “We are equally aware that files and other sensitive governments documents are being moved out of government offices on the order of the outgoing Governor, His Excellency, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. “It is therefore important to let it be known to the concerned public officers that it is part of their duties to protect public properties, including files, documents and information at their disposal. As anything contrary to this will be running foul of the laws and their oath of office. The allegiance of the civil servants is to Ogun State and not to any individual, no matter who. “As for the banks, we want to state categorically that the incoming administration believes so much in the the rule of law and due process. Therefore, the administration will not honour any obligation that did not follow due process or any loans that did not receive the prior approval of the State House of Assembly. “According to the Federal Bureau of Statistics, Ogun State’s Internally Generated Revenue has increased by 590 per cent in eight years totaling N74, 835, 979, 000.51 (seventy four billion, eight hundred and thirty five million, nine hundred seventy nine thousand naira and fifty one kobo). “Why the outgoing administration still wants ‘injury-time’ loans despite those already incurred, beats one’s imagination and leaves much to be desired. The incoming administration will not honour such shady loans.”