The Kebbi State government has commended by effortof the European Union and the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (EU/ UNICEF) and other donor agencies in partnering with the state, assuring them of more commitment towards eradicating health challenges of the state.  This was disclosed yesterday by Commissioner for Health, Alhaji Umar Kambaza, while receiving some delegates from EU in his office. He said the state government under the leadership of Atiku Abubakar Bagudu, was ready to sustain the mutual relationship between the EU/UNICEF in order to achieve the aims and objectives of the state in healthcare delivery.  “Patterning with EU has make a positive impact in the life of this administration, most of the focal people were women and children and a lot have been done in that regard, we make changes under maternal mortality and children from 0 to 5 years old,” he added. Kambaza also made an appeal to the EU to also do more in eradicating malaria as the state government was ready to combat the menace in ensuring a malaria-free state. “We want to do more in terms of healthcare delivery, we commended you people, especially on the issue of procurement,” he said. Responding, leader of the delegation, Alhaji Musa Rabiu, who was the head of UNICEF Communication Office in Kaduna State, thanked the state government for partnering with them, assuring them of EU’s commitment towards promoting healthcare delivery in the state. The level of maternal and infant mortality in Kebbi State is high. In this report, AHMED IDRIS reviews the role of Dr. Zainab Atiku Bagudu, a medical practitioner and wife of the Kebbi State Governor, in the fight to reverse the trend, as well as reform health institutions in the… In “Health” The representative of the United Nations Children Emergency Fund (UNICEF), Dr. Sanjana Bhardwaj, who is also the Chief of Health UNICEF, Abuja, has said Kebbi State is among the top 10 states in Nigeria with high death rate of children under the age of five. Speaking yesterday during an interactive… In “News” The Kebbi State Commissioner for Health, Alhaji Umar Mohammed Kambaza, has commended the Maternal Child Health Week programmes held recently in the state saying, “it was aimed at saving one million lives.” The Commissioner explained that the medical outreach with the theme ‘Maternal Newborn and Child Health Week (MNCHW),’ was… In “Health”