Senator Gbenga Kaka, Deputy Governor of Ogun State between 1999 and 2003, and later as senator for Ogun East Senatorial District between 2011 and 2015, in this interview with ADEWALE AJAYI, speaks on outcome of the 2019 general elections among other issues  If you are to assess the outcome of the just concluded general elections, would you say there was an improvement in the process compared to recent polls? We thank God because, many had thought that the general elections will be like the one we had in the past, some were even afraid that the election would lead to the disintegration of the country, some were afraid of violence, but at the end of the day, the election has come and gone.  There was lesser violence across the country though we had some skirmishes in Rivers State. Beyond that, nobody can deny the fact that the conduct of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was near perfect, if not totally perfect though there is still room for improvement, especially as regards electronic devices used during the elections.  In some cases it gives room for fraudulent practice, so if we can perfect that, it will be good enough. Also, when we look at it, Nigeria is no longer a primitive country, so we can have electronic voting rather than the semi automated process. That will even make it possible for people to vote from their homes. How about the conduct of security personnel during the elections? I have to give kudos to the security agents, they performed creditably well with their performance. We have reduced incidences of ballot box snatching. Though there are still insinuations of ballot box stuffing carried out in some places, by and large, the last election was an improvement over what we had the last time. Do you think the result reflected the turn out? Also there are allegations that some results were declared by the returning officers under duress, like the case of a senatorial election in Imo State… Like I said, the threat of violence forced many people to rather decide to stay indoors to save their lives and the number may not be terribly alarming, but when you look at human life, it seems that it is becoming something that is of no value to us here in Nigeria. Thugs were on rampage in some places, so whoever valued his or her life would naturally stay indoors than going to risk that life by attempting to vote.  Some of our politicians are yet to learn their lessons. They ought to take elections as a game. Of course the stakes have suddenly become very high, whereby monetary gains and wielding of power have made people to see elections as a situation of life and death, which is rather unfortunate. If you want to serve the people genuinely, it is not supposed to be by force. It is the people that will beg you to come and serve them, not you imposing yourself on them. But the pecuniary gain and covetous power intent are responsible for making violence inevitable. To prevent it, those who were arrested during this election should be put to trial, so that they can face the consequence of their actions to serve as a deterrent to others.  In the case of Imo State, it will be difficult for anybody to fault the electoral officer if it was true that his life was in danger. If he actually did the announcement under duress, the issue can be investigated. They can interrogate it by going to the people, check all the documents to determine who the winner is, and if there is culpability, there is the need to apply sanction against whoever that put him under duress. Some people will disagree with you on the position that there was an improvement in the electoral process due to the cases of inconclusive elections in six states and suspension of collation of result in Rivers State… I will not agree with you. The reason is that if you want to change a system for the better, you won’t say because you don’t want to declare a process inconclusive, you will manage it and declare someone as the winner. But we have not had this kind of experience… It was so because those who have been perpetrating rigging do it with impunity, with the law not being applicable to them. We now have an INEC that is responsible and responsive and is able to use sort of eagle eyes to penetrate what is going on. So, once an infraction is detected, you apply the break not minding what will be the cost, and not minding whose ox is gored. In fact, in some cases, some people will just come, do accreditation and the voting will surpass the number of people accredited and it would be passed as flawless votes. That is not good.  So, if you are now cautious that any infraction must be penalized, there is no way you will not apply the break when necessary. I don’t see it the way you put it provided it is not that INEC is making itself available as an instrument to anybody. If it is to sanitize the system, it is a welcome development. Some states that are under the control of your party were lost to the PDP; states like Oyo and Imo. Is that not an indictment on the performance of your party in those states? I will give kudos to Mr. President and the leadership of APC for allowing such to happen. That is respecting the wishes of the people. On the past, the PDP will say it is a Tsunami, wining at all cost, to control governance for the next 60 years that was their ambition. From the inception of the Buhari administration, he has totally distanced himself from the activities of INEC, making it truly independent and where there are infractions, the best thing for it to do is what is normal according to the dictates of the law. That was why the peoples’ choice manifested in Oyo State.  In Lagos State, some people made an orchestration that they wanted to be like Kwara, but they couldn’t make up. In Kwara, there was serious effort by Bukola Saraki and co, but the peoples’ wish was respected. In Imo the governorship position went to the PDP; that shows that APC is a party of integrity. Mr. President did not tolerate any form of electoral malpractice as far as this election is concerned. He was able to provide a level playing ground for everybody and that was why you are not hearing about people rushing to court as it used to be. You will probably discover we will have lesser cases at the tribunal with this election compared to the previous one. If you look at the governorship election in Lagos State, you will see that Jimi Agbaje who was defeated by a wide congratulated the winner. Before now, people would have gone to court.  In Ogun State, all the contenders have congratulated Dapo Abiodun. That means we are arriving at the expected destination, where losers will take it with equanimity and of course the winner with magnanimity, believing that the state belongs to all of us, Once election is over, we have to come together to ensure that all hands are on deck to move the nation forward in terms of development and growth. What lessons have been learnt from the crisis that cost your party victory in the states it hitherto controlled? It is true that most often an outgoing chief executive will naturally want to have a say in who his successor would be. It may be for altruistic reason and it could be for selfish reason. If it is for the interest of the generality of the people and the outgoing governor has performed well, and genuinely he has an able lieutenant, who can continue that good job, people will not raise objection to that. But, if an outgoing governor is interested in sustaining shoddy performance, people will resist it and that was why we had ‘O to ge revolution’ in Kwara State. Some people wanted to replicate that in Lagos, but it could not work because Lagosians have witnessed a trend of succession, which proved to be beneficial to them. Our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu may have his shortcomings like any other human being, but nobody can deny the fact that he has been able to provide a successor not immediately after him, but even subsequently. He has done it three times and Lagosians have not regretted whoever he presented as replacement for the outgoing governor. When you have good leadership, a good leader must be able to replicate himself either in office or in terms of behavioral examples. When you are able to get yourself a replacement, it is then that people can say you are a good leader. A leader who cannot raise a successor cannot be said to be successful. When you perform well, the leadership of the party will not resist you from producing a successor and it can be the other way round. Those outgoing governors who wanted to cover their tracks by putting their lackeys in office, so that they can continue to perpetrate the impunity they are noted for are the ones the electorate said no to and that happened in so many states. It is not restricted to a political party, as it happened in APC, it also happened in PDP. It shows that the electorate have become more conscious.