 The Ondo State Government has sent 100 workers of its workforce in the health sector to the University of Medical Sciences (UNIMED), Ondo for training on the implementation of its primary health policy
The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Wahab Adegbenro who disclosed this during the opening of five-day training for the workers said the government would partner with the UNIMED in the training of health workers of the Primary Healthcare Board.
This, Adegbenro said was to achieve an effective Primary Healthcare System and elicit optimal performance of health workers Adegbenro said the training is to give residents of the state qualitative and affordable healthcare.
Adegbenro said the emphasis around the world presently is on Primary Healthcare because they are closer to the grassroots and should be able to take care of minor health challenges before referring when it is beyond their ability.
According to him, it is not enough to provide infrastructures and equipment for the health facilities, but the manpower has to be given the prerequisite skills to man them.
Adegbenro who thanked the University of Medical Sciences and the Primary Healthcare Board for the initiative, urged participants to take advantage of the training to sharpen their skills and learn about latest trends in their various fields.
The Vice Chancellor of the University of Medical Sciences, Prof Friday Okonofua said the training became imperative because acquisition of knowledge is a continuous process as well as the need for the Health Workers to be abreast of recent developments in their different fields.
The Vice Chancellor who was represented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor Prof. Adeseye Arogunjo said the Vice Chancellor Prof. Okonofua is very passionate about the University contributing it’s quota to the development of medical education, thus the training is aimed at strategically reposioning Primary Healthcare in the state and country at large.
Doing an Overview of Community Health, Primary Healthcare and Health for All, one of the foremost Professors of community Health in Nigeria, Prof. Michael Asuzu expressed delight that the training is a vision of over forty years come true.
He opined that corruption and political distractions has crippled the real vision of the Primary Healthcare, thus the PHC is not functioning as it should and the grassroots is being disenfranchised.
The University teacher criticised some government policies and interventions which do no really meet the need of the people because they not properly channeled and do not have the right intent.
His words “If the system must succeed in his words,all health workers must acknowledge the importance of others and encourage each other in the interest of the masses, especially the rural populace.
Dr. Akindele Adebiyi who did an overview of Medical Officers of Health in the past, present and future, said failure of government policies at the level of implementation and that of leadership are clogs in the wheel of progress of achieving effective Primary Healthcare.
Adeniyi opined that the poverty discuss dictates what is happening in Nigeria and this narrative also dictates the pace of Public Health.