 Nigerians opened 2.04 million bank accounts between December 2018 and February 2019, latest data released by the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) shows. New Telegraph’s analysis of the NIBSS data shows a steady increase in the number of bank accounts in the last three months. According to NIBSS, the total number of bank accounts opened by Nigerians, which stood at 118.1 million as at the end of December, last year, inched up to 118.9 million in January and rose to 120.1 million in February. Further breakdown of the data indicates that the number of active bank accounts also increased during the period as they grew from 71.2 million in December last year, to 71.7 million in January and 73.5 million last month. The data also reveals steady growth in the total number of current accounts during the review period as these increased from 25.7million in December 2018 to 25.9million in January and 28.4million in February. However, the data does not show steady growth in total savings accounts. In fact, after inching up from 89.1 million in December, last year, to 89. 6 million in January, the number of savings accounts fell by 1.2million to 88.5million in February. Analysts point out that the decline in the number of savings accounts belies the general expectation of an improvement in the country’s savings culture due to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) stepping up its financial inclusion efforts. The acting Managing Director of NIBSS, Mr Niyi Ajao, said in December last year that the nation’s financial inclusion rate increased to 63.6 per cent in 2018 from 45.4 per cent recorded in 2016. Ajao, who disclosed this at the launch of the 2018 Financial Inclusion Survey by Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFInA), said with the rise in the rate, the efforts of stakeholders in the financial industry to boost financial inclusion was beginning to pay off.  Ajao, however, said that there was need to do more if the country would meet the 20 per cent exclusion rate by 2020. According to the EFInA survey, 63.6 per cent of Nigeria’s adult population of 99.6 million have access to financial services, while 36.8 per cent, equalling 36.6 million of the adult population are financially excluded.  In addition, the survey shows that only 39.7 per cent of the population is banked.  The Federal Government had, in 2012, launched the National Financial Inclusion Strategy aimed at reducing the number of eligible adult Nigerians that are excluded from the formal financial system from 46.3 per cent to 20 per cent by the year 2020.  As part of efforts to ensure that it meets the target, CBN    recently released the revised National Financial Inclusion Strategy, the Financial Literacy Framework, the Consumer Protection Framework and the Consumer Education Framework. It also introduced regulations and guidelines for the licensing and operations of Payment Service Banks (PSBs).  However, commenting on the unexpected drop in total savings accounts last month, a manager at a Tier 2 bank, who did not want to be named, attributed the development to the tough economy as well as a growing preference for current accounts among owners of small businesses.  According to the bank official, unlike savings accounts, which have certain transaction limits that could hinder business, personal current accounts give companies a lot more room to carry out some financial transactions.  The bank official said: “The economy is getting tougher and a lot of people are losing their jobs almost on a daily basis. People are leaving the country in droves. Without a means of livelihood, you are not likely to be earning enough to want to open a savings account. So, the people who have enough funds to open bank accounts these days are mainly businessmen and women involved in business.  “If you are a businessman, you will prefer to open a current account instead of savings because apart from the fact that savings accounts pay very little interest, most banks do not allow some transaction to be carried through such accounts,” the official said.  