 Detectives attached to the Lagos State Police Command have arrested a 61-year-old fake landlord for allegedly defrauding a pastor and a couple of N3.9 million.
The fake landlord, Mr. Elobar Aruoya, was said to have posed as a landlord in order to swindle his victims. He was further alleged to have defrauded the couple of N900,000 and the pastor of N3 million.
According to the police, Aruoya carried out the fraud in connivance with others identified as Adesina Abegunde (54), Segun Adewale (42), Olamide Ojajnu (42) and Mathew Adeniyi (46).
The suspects, who are house agents, were alleged to have pasted an advert, along with a phone number, on a wall of another agent’s office to attract prospective tenants.
The state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, who presented the suspects at the command’s headquarters yesterday, disclosed that the agents lured the couple with a “house for rent” advert on a wall of an agent’s office.
Muazu said: “The couple called the phone number they saw on the advert and the supposed owner answered. He introduced himself as a house agent. He, however, claimed to have travelled out of the country. He later sent another phone number to the house hunters and claimed that the owner of the second phone number was his partner.
“The couple met with Abegunde, who took them to Agindigbi area of Ikeja where he showed them an empty three-bedroom flat. Abegunde thereafter, made a call and informed the couple that the landlord, who happened to be Aruoya, was in church attending service. He later led them to a Catholic church at Ikeja. On arrival, Aruoya, who posed as the landlord of the house, came out of the church hall and asked them if they were the lucky tenants?
“Having brainwashed the couple that he was the landlord to the house, he gave his Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) account number through which the victims paid N900, 000. The couple didn’t know they were dealing with fraudsters.”
Muazu said that the following day when the couple went to check out the house, they were chased away by the rightful landlord.
He said: “The couple called the phone numbers of the acclaimed house agents and that of the landlord, but the phone lines were switched of. It was then it dawned on them that they had been defrauded.”
Muazu, thereafter, said that the five suspects were arrested at their hideout and investigation had shown that the same gang of fraudsters on December 15, 2018, collected N3 million for a duplex at Ikeja GRA in the same manner from a pastor at Lekki.
One of the suspects, Adeniyi, said that he was the actual person that initiated the business. The idea came to him after a friend told him he had a vacant apartment to let. The friend said that he needed the money the apartment would bring to take care of his parents. Adeniyi said: “We didn’t get tenant for the apartment on time. There was a time I needed money to offset a bill, but I didn’t have money. It was then the idea of using the apartment to dupe people came to my mind. I contacted my colleagues who are also estate agents. That was how we started. Each time we showed people the house, they would pay; but when it’s time for them to move in, we would tell them that there was something we wanted to fix. In the process, another person would come and we would also dupe them. We didn’t know the landlord would come on the day the couple went to inspect the house. It was the devil that pushed me into this sort of business. God should forgive me.”
Aruoya, who spoke with journalists, denied claiming to be the landlord of the house in question.
He said: “I was in my shop when one Mathew, who is on the run, called me that they had business they couldn’t handle. He said that I should come and put them through as an elder, who had been in the estate agent business for long. I never told the couple that I’m the owner of the house. They paid the money into Adewale’s account. I was given my own share after the deal. But since I started the agent job, I have never been involved in such a deal before. I regret my action.”
Another suspect, Ojaniju, explained that he needed money to buy his diabetes drug, which was why he joined in the scam.
He said: “The role I played in the deal was that whenever prospective tenants came, I’m the person that always takes them to the house. After showing the individual tenant the house, I get between N20,000 and N40,000 depending on the money collected from the tenants.
“I was into buying and selling of property, but left it because customers were not coming. I joined the syndicate three months ago. This is the second time in the last three months I would be invited to the deal. I regret my action. I am not feeling fine because I had not taken my drugs since three days now. I also don’t know how my family would feel when they see me on television.”