May announce Bauchi Tuesday  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has condemned the action of the military in the March 9 governorship election in Rivers State, stating that some soldiers and armed thugs attempted to subvert the will of people of the state.
The Commission, however, ruled out supplementary election in Bauchi State and might announce the winner of the governorship on Tuesday. These were part of the decisions reached on Friday by the Commission after considering the reports of fact-finding committees constituted on the suspended elections in the two states. A statement yesterday by Festus Okoye, INEC’s National Commissioner in Charge of Information and Voter Education, noted that results from 17 out of 23 local government areas in Rivers had been collated and declared before some soldiers and armed thugs invaded the collation centres “resulting in the intimidation and unlawful arrest of election officials thereby disrupting the collation process.”The Commission expressed displeasure with the role played by some soldiers and promised to engage the security agencies at national level and the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee at the state level to demand neutrality and professionalism of security personnel in order to secure a peaceful environment for the completion of the elections. INEC said it was committed to expeditious completion of the collation process where results of the elections have been announced, and disclosed that detailed timelines and activities for the completion of the election would be issued Wednesday. On the suspended Bauchi State governorship election, the statement said resumption and conclusion of the collation of results of Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area would resume on Tuesday. It noted that the fact-finding committee established that the result in polling units and registration areas were available and in safe custody. According to the statement the number of cancelled votes for the four polling units in Ningi Local Government Area was 2,533, as against 25,330 recorded in form E0106 (1). “Consequently, the commission has taken the following decisions: “Approved the resumption and conclusion of the collation of results of Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area in relation to the governorship election as the duplicate and original registration area results are available.
“Approved the resumption, conclusion and announcement of the result of the Tafawa Balewa State constituency. “The appointment of a new collation/returning officer for Tafawa Balewa Local Government to continue and conclude the collation process in place of the original collation officer who withdrew from the exercise citing threats to her life and those of her family members.
“The collation process for Tafawa Balewa Local Government will resume on Tuesday, 19th March 2019. “The commission directed that the error in the total number of cancelled votes in four polling units in Ningi Local Government Area should be corrected from 25,330 to 2,533,” the statement added. The governorship candidate of African Action Congress (AAC), Mr. Awara Biokpmabo, has called on the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) to continue with the electoral process and announce him the winner of the Rivers State governorship election. The leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers and Transportation Minister, Rotimi… In “News” lNEC suspends collation of Rivers result PDP, Wike kick   A lecturer with the Ken Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic and three others sustained gunshot injuries after soldiers and operatives of the Federal Special Anti- Robbery Squad (F-SARS) stormed an Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) collation centre in Bori in Khana Local Government… In “News” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) failed to declare results in seven out of 29 states where governorship elections were held on March 9. ONYEKACHI EZE writes on what might have necessitated this   One can understand the worry of Kola Ologbondiyan, the National Publicity Secretary of the main opposition… In “Politics”