President Muhammadu Buhari has insisted that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has questions to answer about the $16 billion spending by its government in the power sector with no improvement on electricity generation and distribution. The President, at a meeting with a delegation of the organized labour at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, yesterday, lamented how the opposition, which held sway for 16 years spent earnings from the sales of oil at the international market between 1999 and 2014. The labour leaders were at the Villa to felicitate with Buhari on his victory at the poll, following his declaration as winner of the February 23 presidential election by the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. Speaking at the event, Buhari said: “The PDP still owes Nigerians explanation on how it expended the humongous resources that accrued to the country from oil sales between 1999 and 2014. “The current administration met a country with dilapidated infrastructure all round in 2015, and it calls to serious question what the party that was in power for 16 years did with the country’s earnings from oil, which reached a peak during the period. “PDP has not successfully explained to the country what they did with the money; there were no roads, no rail, no power. They said they spent $16 billion on power, but where is the power? The irresponsible expenditure of that period has not been explained, and Nigerians deserve an answer on that terrible mismanagement of the country,” he lamented. The President expressed gratitude to the leadership of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC), which mobilized their members to come out and vote in spite of the initial postponement of the election. According to him, “The short period when the electoral umpire postponed the election was a trying period for most of the candidates. “I thank the organized labour for the support and patriotism you have shown during the presidential election, especially after the unexpected postponement. “You and your members stepped in to support willing Nigerians to exercise their civic and patriotic rights to vote. You intervened as patriots, and not for political, religious or tribal purposes. You simply did the right thing during a difficult period for many of us.” Speaking on what Nigerians should expect in the next lap of his administration, Buhari said he would continue to push the Change Agenda, “and remain focused on the core pillars of security, economy, and fight against corruption.” He admonished the organized labour to partner with the government to make the country peaceful, prosperous, and corruption free. In his remarks, President of NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, lauded the President for being worker-friendly, as exemplified in the granting of bailout funds to state governments to pay backlog of salaries and pensions. Wabba said: “We all remember the special bailout and budget support you introduced to support state governments during the recession. Your directive during this intervention was that state governments must offset accumulated arrears of salaries and pension liabilities. I remember you publicly asked state governors, ‘how do you manage to sleep at night when the salaries of workers in your state are not paid?’ “For us, that was one of the finest moments we have had with any President in this country. I can stand here today and say your intervention was the difference between life and death for many workers.” The labour leader appealed to the National Assembly to earnestly pass the National Minimum Wage Act, while also asking the President to thereafter sign it into law within the shortest possible time. The organized labour pledged to remain veritable partner in progress with government, counselling the President to continue to “make the Nigerian people, especially the poor, the centre-piece of his policy initiatives and actions.” President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said that Nigeria’s infrastructure got rotten from 1999 to 2014 when the country had enormous wealth. Nigeria was during the period governed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). President Buhari, while receiving the outgoing British High Commissioner to Nigeria, His Excellency, Paul Arkwright, in a farewell… In "News" Ex-president: You're speaking out of ignorance on projects President Muhammadu Buhari has gone hard on former President Olusegun Obasanjo, accusing his government of wasting $16 billion on the power sector without meaningful result. The President stated this yesterday at the presidential villa while receiving the Buhari Support Organisation led… In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari says he refused to replace Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), when he took over power because he wanted to give him the opportunity to salvage the economy from its “terrible condition”. Buhari said this on Friday night when he hosted some of… In "News"