As part of measures to guarantee violence-free Governorship and House of Assembly elections this Saturday, the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has deployed seven Deputy Inspectors General of Police, to man the country’s geo-political zones. The DIGs are: Messrs Usman Tilli Abubakar (North-East), Abdulmajid Ali (Coordinator); Frederick Taiwo Lakanu (South-South), Anthony Ogbizi (South-East), Yakubu Jubrin (South-West), Aminchi S. Baraya (North-West), and Godwin C. Nwobodo (North-Central). Also deployed were 10 Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs), alongside 277 Commissioners of Police (CPs) – 62 CPs, 72 Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs), and 143 Assistant Commissioners of Police.
The police boss is deploying a total of 294 top officers for the Saturday elections. Under the Police Act and Regulations, Section 2, CAP P19, Laws of the Federation, 2004, Commissioner of Police means “a Commissioner of Police, Deputy Commissioner of Police or an Assistant Commissioner of Police.” According to a statement yesterday by the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Mr. Frank Mba, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, the CPs will be deployed across the 36 State Commands, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). With the deployment, however, Anambra, Bayelsa, Edo and Sokoto states have new Police Commissioners, to superintendent over the respective commands, during the election period. Three CPs, Mba further disclosed, will be deployed to each of the states, with further posting to the three Senatorial Districts. Meanwhile, Mba explained that owing to earlier security assessment, some local government areas in Plateau, Benue, Imo and Taraba states have one Commissioner of Police each deployed to coordinate security in the councils. “With this deployment, each command now has additional three CPs deployed to the three senatorial districts in their respective states of assignment which will form part of security management base for the command CPs. “However, based on security assessment earlier carried out by the Force, some Local Government Areas in Plateau, Benue, Imo and Taraba States have one Commissioner of Police each deployed to coordinate security in the LGA. “Each of them is expected to work with the Command CP and to ensure that no stone is left unturned towards emplacing adequate security, including the supervision of security personnel deployed to each of the senatorial districts under their watch,” Mba said. For purposes of the polls, Mba listed Messrs Rabiu Ladodo, Olushola David, Dan-Mallam Mohammed, and Aminu Koji Kwabe, as CPs for Anambra, Bayelsa, Edo and Sokoto states respectively. Pursuant to the deployment, Guma, Logo, Agatu, Gwer East, Gwer West, Katsina Ala, Okpokwu, and Ukum LGAs of Benue State, will each get a CP. While Orlu and Okigwe LGAs of Imo State have CPs each, six councils of Plateau State will also play similar host to CPs. They are: Langtang South, Jos South, Bassa, Langtang North, Riyom, and Barkin Ladi LGAs. The case of Taraba State is not different, as Wukari, Ibi, Lao, Karim Lamido, Bali, Kurmi, Jalingo, Dunga, and Sardauna council areas will have Police Commissioners.