   Seven companies have lost their licenses to operate as Value Added Services (VAS) Providers in the telecommunications sectors, New Telegraph has learnt. The affected service providers failed to renew their licenses, which expired last February and have been removed from the regulator’s list of licensees. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) had recently expressed worry over failure of its licensees to renew their operating licenses as at when due, warning that failure to do the right thing would attract license withdrawal. As part of the licensing rules, licensees are expected to apply for renewal six months to the expiration of their license. Investigations by this paper revealed that some players in the VAS segment are now finding the business less profitable with the regulator’s ban on auto-renewal of services last year, which explains why some of them are not renewing their licenses. The affected VAS providers include Mobilise International Limited; Payday Lotteries Limited; One97 Communications Nigeria Limited and Nextgen Telesolutions Limited. Others are Upstream Mobile Services Limited; Log Mobile Nigeria Limited; and Polo Solutions Project Limited. The licensees of the companies expired February 28 and were not renewed, which prompted the regulator’s action. With their removal, the number of VAS operators providing Content Service Using Shortcodes has been depleted to 344. However, there are indications that many other operators might also quit the business this year as many licenses are due to expire this month, with slim chances of renewal. The VAS market was last year valued at $200 million and has been projected to reach $500 million in the next three years. That segment of the telecoms business has, however, come under the scrutiny of the regulator following increasing complaints from telecom subscribers who are being forced to pay for services they did not request for. Based on regulatory pronouncements made late last year, some of the VAS providers have suspended their business while awaiting the actions the regulator promised to take within the first quarter of this year. According to them, the VAS business is now surrounded by uncertainties, which prompted many of them to stop operation since last November until they have a clear direction. “It is not just about sanction, it is about uncertainties surrounding the business,” one of the operators said. Last year, the regulator stopped auto-renewal and we know how that has affected us. And now after its investigations, which found many of the service providers culpable, the regulator said it would make pronouncements early this year. We don’t know what that will be, we don’t know what policy they would be introducing again and we cannot continue to invest in a business that is currently full of uncertainties.” The NCC had last December announced that it might suspend or out rightly decommission some VAS platforms and services in the overall interests of consumers after its discovery of rampant cases of forceful subscriptions across the networks. Many subscribers have lost their money to the telcos through charges for services such as caller ring-back tune, Daily News, Sport News, Job alerts among many other services for which they never make request for subscription. The issue, which has been going on for long time, attracted the attention of the regulator and prompted an investigation as subscribers’ complaints mount. NCC’s Director of Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement, Mr Efosa Idehen, who led the investigations into VAS activities on mobile networks, said in some instances, they discovered 100 per cent of VAS services be ing dished out by some of the VAS providers were forced on the subscribers. “During our investigations, we called subscribers randomly, and all the people we called said they never subscribed for the service but their airtime is being deducted,” Efosa said. “Some said they don’t even know that such services exist, yet they are being charged. The least forceful subscriptions that we found on the networks is 76 per cent, most are 100 per cent.” Describing the discovery as unacceptable, the Commission said it would soon be directing the indicted organisations to make refunds to affected consumers as appropriate. “The Commission is also considering, and will impose appropriate sanctions as necessary,” the Commission said. “This outcome justifies the Commission’s commitment to evidence-based interventions. The NCC director noted that investigations are still on-going and would be concluded before the end of first quarter this year, after which decisions would be made on those found culpable.