Today is Mother’s Day and Nollywood actress, Mercy Johnson and her lovely kids already started celebrating.  The ebony actress recently shared the most adorable photo of herself and her babies as they all rocked matching outfits showing that they are a fit family. Sharing the adorable picture on her Instagram, Mercy says, “My biggest fear in life? It would be ‘Not being alive to take care of and watch over my kids’. Happy Mother’s Day friends and may we be alive to watch them grow into great personalities; may we enjoy our children in good health and prosperity with God as the center of it all. Because it’s almost Mother’s Day and I can’t wait, plus Henry keeps saying Happy Mother’s Day mummy since last week!”  For a while now, Johnson has been teasing her fans with details of her upcoming project where she teaches mothers that they can be all they need to be. She has been promoting fitness and saying anyone can look as gorgeous as she does after three kids without going under the knife. Just recently, after launching her project’s social media page, she shared photos of herself and her kids and the internet is completely swooned. All her three children look adorable as well as Mercy, who looks almost picture perfect. The photo has gained thousands of likes and comments on social media and it is clear Mercy Johnson remains dear to her loyal fans. Today is Mother’s Day and as people all over the world celebrate their mothers, some Nigerian entertainers have expressed how special their mothers are to them. They tell ALABA PETERS why they will always cherish their mothers.   Omowunmi Dada I love my mum. She is the best thing that… In “Body & Soul” Nigerian actress, Mercy Johnson Okojie‘s birthday was on August 28th and to celebrate her day, she shared new things with her fans – from a new website to new photos and a new look. The actress celebrated her wedding anniversary in addition to becoming a year older and apart from… In “Body & Soul” Sultry actress, Mercy Aigbe has been making headlines in recent years both for good and bad reasons. She was in the news again this week but for a very good reason. She just got herself a beautiful mansion and truly, it’s one of the best looking buildings we’ve seen celebrities… In “Celeb Lounge”