Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday sentenced to seven years imprisonment a retired Air Vice Marshal, Tony Omenyi, on money laundering charges involving the sum of N136 million. Omenyi was said to have received the money from a contractor with the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), while he was a public officer. The convict, a former Managing Director of Aeronautical Engineering and Technical Services Limited, a subsidiary company of NAF, received the money as kickbacks or bribe from SkyExperts Nigeria Limited in 2014. The court also ordered that the company, Huzee Nigeria Limited, through which the convict was said to have received the sum of N136 million from the contractor, SkyExperts Nigeria Limited, be wound up by the Federal Government. Justice Dimgba equally ordered that the sum of N62 million already recovered from the convicts by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) be forfeited to the Federal Government. The court consequently sentenced the convict to seven years on each of the three counts in the charge, stressing, however, that the sentence would run concurrently. The court ordered that the firm through which the kickback was received from the contractor, SkyExperts Nigeria Limited, should be closed by the Federal Government. Justice Dimgba said he was satisfied that the prosecution successfully established a prima facie criminal case against the defendants. AVM Omenyi had insisted that monies paid into his account by a contractor, were refunds of expenditures he had earlier carried out. But the judge held: “The court did not believe that the evidence given by Omenyi in his defence was credible. “The defence was a sham.” The judge noted that if actually the money the defendant received from Mrs. Theresa Etu, a NAF contractor, was a refund as he claimed, the said expenditure should have had receipts to show for it. “For example, the N15 million he said he helped her pay for refuelling of two aircraft, he should have received a receipt from those who refuelled, but no receipt or invoice was tendered in court by the defence.” The judge wondered what motivation the defendant had in expending his own money in executing a contract on behalf of a contractor. He further noted that it was pertinent for a public office holder to operate at arms’ length with a contractor, particularly one that was working for the office in which he had due influence over. He further wondered how the defendant could claim to have made expenditure on behalf of Etu when he was a co-owner of the business she operated and her business partner. The judge pronounced that: “In view of the above, I find the defendants guilty and convict them accordingly.” The EFCC had, on April 17, 2018, closed its case against the defendants after it called a total of five witnesses that testified before the court. The last prosecution witness, Goji Mohammed, who is an investigative officer at the EFCC, told the court that the agency had, in the course of investigating the arms deal scandal, found out suspicious transactions that were linked to the former AVM and the firm.EFCC said the investigation was triggered by a letter from the Office of the National Security Adviser, dated December 9, 2015, alleging that the convict was operating suspicious accounts.