Officials of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have arrested a 52-yearold, Dennis Agya Kiyeye, for impregnating and attempting to murder a 15-year-old niece (name withheld). The Ekiti State NSCDC Commandant, Solomon Iyamu, said Kiyeye defiled and impregnated the girl at Ilupeju village in Gbonyin Local Government Area. The suspect, according to Iyamu, confessed that his niece had been living with him since 2013 after the demise of her mother in Benue State. He said: “Kiyeye said he had been having carnal knowledge of the girl in the past three years and the act has become normal for the two of them. “The incest resulted to pregnancy in 2016, but was kept secret with the help of a quack midwife who assisted them to terminate it. “Kiyeye claimed that the pregnancy was jointly owned by him and one Kunle who happened to be the girl’s school mate in the village. “Kiyeye explained that the girl later became pregnant for him again, and due to the shame he had caused himself, he conspired to terminate her life in a nearby bush around the village.” Luck came to her side as the poor girl was rescued by a Good Samaritan who reported the act to the head of the community. The village head, Chief Adebisi Olaoye, explained that the suspect was a man of questionable character. After the act became open, his movements became suspicious. Olaoye added that people in the village had been watching the suspect to determine the veracity of the information they heard. The village head confirmed the claim that Kiyeye was arrested by the people while attempting to kill the girl in the village. The village chief promised to support the NSCDC in its investigations to unravel the mystery. The victim said she was unable to reject the sexual advances of her uncle who she claimed deflowered her. According to her, the man is responsible for her feeding and upkeep, so any refusal may make her go hungry. She said: “He feeds and shelters me. Any attempt to refuse may result into hunger, punishment and refusal to pay my school fees.”