A Professor of Strategy and Development and Director, Centre for International Advanced and Professional Studies (CIAPS), Prof. Anthony Kila, has called for the review and overhauling of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in order to guarantee more credible elections in the future. Speaking at the quarterly forum of the Association of Political Consultants- Africa (APC-Africa), with the theme: “2019 Presidential Elections Predictions: A Post Mortem,” in Ikeja, Lagos, he said INEC as currently, constituted is confused and must be overhauled. Kila also frowned at the poor turn-out of voters during the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections, saying INEC should be worried about voters’ apathy during the elections while voting pattern remained unchanged from what it was in 2015 general elections. He said: “The current INEC is too slow and confused and do not reflect the needs of today’s society. The body is not credible. Modern technology should be employed to get results rather than people queuing and waiting for days for INEC to manually announce results of elections. “There is a way to handle Nigerian elections and get results immediately when you vote, it is possible. The process of collecting PVCs is outdated. It should be outsourced to the banks. PVCs should be connected with BVN.” Kila, while delivering his paper said election is a test for parties, candidates, umpire and political analysts, lamenting that the current INEC under Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had not done better than what Prof. Athahiru Jega did in the 2015 elections. He said the prediction of the 2019 general elections was predicated on what social media, prophets, supporters, opinion polls, media outfits and political consultants predicted. He stated that lots of people predicted victory for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari, based on common prediction themes, such as the incumbency factor, geographical spread of votes, the value of the main contender and the irrelevance of the Third Force.