…five-year-old girl reunited with family  Police have rescued a five-year-old girl, Aisha Ibrahim, who was kidnapped on March 16, 2019 at Ibudu 1 area, Warri, Delta State. Aisha was rescued from her abductor at Bukan-Kwatu, Lafia, Nasarawa State. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), ACP Frank Mba, said Aisha was reunited with her father, Mr Ibrahim Abdulmalik, of Gibori Street, Ibudu Market, Warri, Delta State on March 20 at the Force Headquarters, Abuja. Abdulmalik, who expressed joy over his daughter’s rescue, showered encomiums on the police. He said: “I thank God o! I thank police o! I have even lost hope! I just received a call I should come to Force Headquarters to collect my pikin (child)!” According to Abdulmalik, Aisha was kidnapped while returning from school. Mba said that on receipt of the information on the girl’s abduction, police detectives from the Force Headquarters, Abuja, acting on the directives of the Acting Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, swung into action which led to the arrest of the suspects and rescue of the victim. The PPRO said a 30-year-old man, Abdullahi Abubakar, and his 62-year-old mother, Mrs. Jummai Salihu, both of Bukan-Kwatu, Lafia, Nasarawa State, were arrested in connection with Aisha’s abduction. Mba said the principal suspect, Abubakar, was well-known to the family of the victim.  According to him, under the pretext of helping Aisha to cross the road, Abubakar abducted her and took her from Warri in Delta State to Lafia in Nasarawa State where he kept her with his mother while he contacted the parents of the victim for ransom.  He said: “The suspects have made useful statements to the police on the roles they played in the kidnap of young Aisha. Efforts are ongoing to apprehend other persons, particularly Inusah Ibrahim (58) of No.7, UCC Road, Hausa Quarters, Warri in Delta State, connected to the crime.” Mba also said that the IG, Adamu, had called on parents and guardians to be aware that most criminal harms done to children, including child stealing, child trafficking, rape, defilement, abduction, kidnap etc, were usually carried out by persons they were familiar with. The IG therefore advised parents and guardians to pay close attention to their children/wards especially on their movements to and fro school in order to prevent any untoward situation that might endanger or bring the children to harm’s way.