●Hoodlums set INEC office ablaze in Akwa Ibom  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has assured Nigerians that the credibility of the Governorship and House of Aseembly Elections is intact as it will not be affecyed by the issue of missing card readers in Bayelsa State. Speaking on a Channels TV programme, The Verdict, monitored by our correspont on Friday, the eve of the last round of Nigeria’s general elections today, a top official of INEC said the 63 missing card readers could not be used to perpetrate any electoral fraud. According to Oluwole Osaze-Uzzi, INEC’s Director Voter Education, “The 63 card readers cannot be used as part of the election since they are not configured yet for the purpose of the election holding today. So, the chance of anyone using them to perpertuate electoral fraud doesn’t arise because even if they are configured, they couldn’t have worked since they were not configured for today’s polls.” It would be recalled that INEC had announced days ago that a total of 63 card readers used for the Presidential and National Assembly elections were missing in the South South state. The ommission, while making the announcement, pleaded with those in possession of the missing card readers to return them before today’s polls. Wilfred Ifogah, head of department, INEC Voter Education and Publicity, listed areas including Brass, Sagbama, Southern-Ijaw, Nembe and Yenagoa as local government areas where the card readers were used. Ifogah said in Brass ward 6, unit 19, one smart card reader was missing, 24 were missing in Nembe wards 1, 4, 12 and 13, while 24 went missing in Southern-Ijaw, wards 1, 2, 3, 12 and 15. “Yes, about 63 card readers are missing. The resident electoral commissioner, Mr Monday Udom, has issued a statement that those involved should return them to INEC on or before Wednesday,” he had said, adding: “Eight card readers are missing in Sagbama ward 1, Unit 5 and ward 6 Unit 3, while in Yenagoa six are also missing in wards.”