Tribunal adjourns till March 18  CJN challenges CCT’s refusal to deliver ruling on objection  The on-going non-asset declaration trial of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja was yesterday stalled due to toothache and high blood pressure suffered by the defendant. The Federal Government has slammed a six-count criminal charge on Onnoghen bothering on non-declaration of five domiciliary accounts with Standard Chartered Bank.
Onnoghen had pleaded not guilty to the charge. The tribunal was billed to commence trial yesterday, after it heard two interlocutory applications filed by Onnoghen wherein he challenged the jurisdiction of the court and alleged bias on the part of the tribunal chairman, Danladi Umar. The tribunal had deferred ruling in the two applications and further ordered a day-to-day trial.  At the resumed trial yesterday, counsel to Onnoghen, Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN) told the tribunal that defendant developed a toothache, which needed to be treated urgently.  He consequently produced a medical report obtained by Onnoghen from the hospital where he was said to be receiving treatment. The prosecuting counsel, Aliyu Umar (SAN), acknowledged that he had been given a photocopy of the medical report.  He noted that he would have expressed “an observation” about the medical report, but for the comment of the doctor who signed it, stating that Justice Onnoghen had a high blood pressure of 210/121.
Umar also noted that the doctor stated in the letter that the defendant needed to observe bed rest.  Meanwhile, following an agreement by the prosecution and the recommendation in the medical report that the defendant needs a bed rest for 72 hours, the tribunal adjourned the case till March 18. Meanwhile, Justice Onnoghen, yesterday, approached the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division to challenge the refusal of the tribunal to deliver ruling on his two objections he filed against his trial. Onnoghen, in a notice of appeal he filed through his counsel, Awomolo (SAN), argued that it was legally wrong for the Danladi Umar-led CCT panel to order day-to-day hearing of the case against him, when it had yet to determine whether or not it has the requisite jurisdiction to entertain the charge.  He argued that the same panel had, in a previous ruling it delivered on February 9, 2018, terminated hearing on a similar charge FG brought against Justice Sylvester Ngwuta of the Supreme Court, based on a preliminary objection that was filed by the defendant.
He submitted that Ngwuta’s trial was stopped at the preliminary stage.
He (Onnoghen), however, wondered why his own case would be treated differently by the tribunal. The tribunal had, on Monday, granted FG’s request to go ahead and call its witnesses to give oral and documentary evidence against Justice Onnoghen who was suspended from office by President Muhammadu Buhari on January 25. Relying on section 396(2) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015, and Paragraph 5(5) of its Practice Direction, the CCT panel said it would not consider the merit of Onnoghen’s objection to the charge till the conclusion of the trial. Insisting that it was empowered under section 396(3) of the ACJA to conduct day-to-day hearing on the matter, the panel held that ruling on two applications the suspended CJN lodged against his trial would be delivered alongside judgement on the substantive charge. However, dissatisfied with the decision of the CCT, the defendant, who failed to appear for the scheduled commencement of full-blown hearing on the case against him, yesterday, prayed the appellate court to invoke its powers under section 16 of the Court of Appeal Act, and set aside the ruling the tribunal delivered against him. In his three grounds of appeal, Justice Onnoghen maintained that the CCT panel erred in law in its interpretation of section 396(2) of the ACJA, with respect to his application challenging the constitutional jurisdiction and competence of the proceeding before it, “when they deferred ruling on the application to the conclusion of trial when the issue of jurisdiction is a threshold issue which ought and must be determined immediately.”