Canadian varsity community mourns Prof. Adesanmi  The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has described the death of three Nigerians in the Diaspora in the Ethiopian Airline crash on Sunday as sad, shocking and devastating.
Dabiri-Erewa, in a statement by her media aide, Mr. Abdur-Rahman Balogun, said the death of the Nigerians was very painful at this crucial time of Diaspora development in Africa. The affected Nigerians in the ill-fated airline were Prof. Pius Adesanmi of Carleton University, Canada; Ambassador Abiodun Bashua, and Mr. Karim Safi, one of the most active Diaspora youths in Europe.
“They all died in the active service of helping and contributing to the growth of Diaspora, not only in Nigeria, but in Africa as a whole.
“The sudden loss of our distinguished Diasporans in the Ethiopian airline is shocking, sad and devastating,” she said. She said the distinguished Nigerians had contributed immensely to the development of Diaspora affairs in Nigeria and will be greatly missed.
Dabiri-Erewa offered her condolences to their immediate family members, the Diaspora community and Nigerians in general. She prayed God to bless the soul of the deceased and condoled the families of all who lost their lives in the crash, for their gentle souls to rest in perfect peace.
She said that the deceased Nigerians were part of the delegates that were supposed to attend the Citizens and Diaspora Directorate/Economic, Social and Cultural Council meeting in Nairobi, Kenya. “Adesanmi was one of the few professors who taught about the AU and Agenda 2063; while Safi was one of the founders of African Diaspora Youth in Europe (ADYFE). Amb. Bashua was a retired senior Nigerian diplomat with many years with the UN. “The trio were among the 149 passengers and eight crew members from 35 countries aboard the Ethiopian Airline from Addis Abba, Ethiopia, that crashed on Sunday on its way to Nairobi, Kenya,” she noted.
Meanwhile, the Carleton University community, Ottawa, Canada, has expressed shock over the death of Prof. Adesanmi. The President and Vice-Chancellor of Carleton University, Benoit-Antoine Bacon, said this in a statement obtained by News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Monday.
“Pius was a towering figure in African and post-colonial scholarship and his sudden loss is a tragedy. “Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and all those who knew and loved him, and with everyone who suffered loss in the tragic crash in Ethiopia,” the vice- chancellor said.
The Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, Pauline Rankin, said: “Contributions of Pius Adesanmi to Carleton are immeasurable. “He worked tirelessly to build the Institute of African Studies, to share his boundless passion for African literature and to connect with and support students.
“He was a scholar and teacher of the highest calibre who leaves a deep imprint on Carleton,” said Rankin. Rankin disclosed how Adesanmi taught in the Department of English Language and Literature at the Carleton University.
“He shared his boundless passion for African literature and to connect with and support students,” Rankin. The Nigerian-born Adesanmi was an award-winning author and teacher.
He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in French from the University of Ilorin in Nigeria, his Master of Arts degree in French from the University of Ibadan in Nigeria and a Doctorate degree in French Studies from the University of British Columbia.
Adesanmi taught at Penn State University before going to Carleton.
On Saturday, Adesanmi had posted a picture of himself on Facebook, quoting Psalm 139:9-10: “If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me.”