The World Health Organisation (WHO ) ranks Nigeria first among countries with the worst records in open defecation. Dakibu, a ghetto settlement in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), has emerged as a living example of a community without toilet facilities. CALEB ONWE reports    In the words of a former Prime Minister of India, Mahatma Gandhi, “Sanitation is more important than independence.” However, this philosophy does not resonate with many underdeveloped countries of the world, including Nigeria. The 2018 National Outcome Routine Mapping, NORM, Report said that 47 million Nigerians defecate in the open while the country loses N455 billion (US$ 1.3b) annually due to poor sanitation. In Dakibu, one of the slums that have survived the angry bulldozers of the Department of Development Control, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, the sanitary environment is unwholesome. This ghetto community, located in the Jahi District is very close to the city centre. Although it lacks basic social amenities , it is home to both the low and middle income classes of Nigerians, who are unperturbed about the sanitary condition of the community. Inside Abuja’s visit to the community showed that the residents are so engrossed in their personal battles for economic survival that they do not care about the prevalence of open defecation in their surroundings. These citizens seem not perturbed that most of the makeshift homes they occupy do not have toilets and other public utilities that make life meaningful. A thorough check around the community revealed that many homes do not have toilets and where toilets are available, the sanitary integrity remains doubtful. It is a common sight to see both children and adults rushing to the bush and every available open space in the community to answer the call of nature. It was learnt that most residents prefer to use the bush or any available open space for the inevitable natural exercise than using what exist as toilets. A female resident of the community, who simply identified herself as Sandra, said she cannot risk her health by using the toilet in the compound where she lives. Sandra said that using the toilet in her compound was equal to kissing every open wound that one sees on the street. She noted that, “it is better to go to the bush to defecate than using a toilet where one is not sure of the hygiene.” Sadly, there seems to be no definite end to the challenge of open defecation in Nigeria, with the low level of awareness of the negative effects of open defecation to both human health and the environment. There are however several reasons why the squatter households in Dakibu community are bereft of decent toilets. While some house owners said they cannot provide all the amenities required in residential building because the area is a temporary community and not part of the Abuja masterplan, some said the tenants in Dakibu were so poor that they struggle to pay their rents. Mr. Danladi Bako, who claimed to be a landlord in the community, said he actually built a toilet attached to his ” face me, I face you” apartments there but he refused to fix it when it collapsed due to lack of maintenance among the tenants. Bako noted that it was not profitable for him to fix a toilet in the residential buildings where occupants do not pay rent. He confirmed that most landlords like him in the area were not giving attention to standardisation of the homes, because many of the tenants were defaulting in their rent obligations. “We build houses to rent out and make profit but a situation where tenants who rent your house don’t pay rent regularly, how will you get the needed fund to repair whatever the tenants spoil in the house. “The houses that do not have toilets here have remained so because the owners are not making profit and cannot spend what they scarcely earn on fixing something that will give comfort to tenants who struggle to pay their rents. Many people here already find it more convenient to go to bush to defecate and that is why you see the people always rushing to the bush”, he noted. Minister of Water Resources, Engr Suleiman Adamu, recently warned against the growing spate of open defecation in the country. Adamu said that women and girls involved in the indecent act were vulnerable to rape and susceptible to debilitating health risks. Addressing participants at the National Stakeholders Retreat on Elimination of Open Defecation in Nigeria, held in Abuja, Adamu said that women, particularly girls were exposed to the dangers of falling into the hands of hoodlums when they have to go out at night to defecate in the open. Adamu lamented that Nigeria has become second to India and first in Africa in the practice of open defecation. According to him, the Federal Government had made efforts to end the menace but only minimal progress has been achieved in the implementation of the plan. He lamented that only 10 out of 774 Local Government Areas have so far been certified as open defecation free in Nigeria. He explained that the government had in 2016 developed and launched a National Roadmap towards making Nigeria Open Defecation Free (ODF) by 2025. However, Adamu said the processes to end the menace of open defecation cannot be left for the government alone but for all stakeholders in the  country. He advised that anyone who is building a house must provide a decent toilet.  Abuja Environmental Protection Board ( AEPB) an FCT agency with the statutory responsibility of sanitation, seems miffed with the rate of open defecation in the territory, especially in the areas where government has no plans of retaining unorganised settlement but cannot displace them.  Head, Department of Information and Outreach Programme Unit of the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Muktar Ibrahim, said AEPB has been mandated to take care of all environmental nuisance. Ibrahim said AEPB also has a duty to connect properties to a central sewage line which empties into the WUPA Water Treatment Plant. “It is the largest in the West Africa sub-region and basically it is expected that it will reduce the incidence of open defecation. The issue of Nigeria ranking number two in the world for ODF is very worrisome. That is why at AEPB, we recently set up a committee chaired by the Coordinator of Abuja Metropolitan Management Council to study the situation and also proffer solution. “The committee has moved to the point of setting up a sub-committee that is to deal with provision of more public conveniences because the population in Abuja currently has grown so exponentially beyond the expectation and projection of the city planners. “The committee is to identify strategic locations where public conveniences can be set up and a report has already been drafted. They are to submit the report and when it comes into effect, this incidence of people defecating openly will be reduced to a great extent. “But beyond that, there is also need for people to attune themselves to modern practices and desist from ODF because as we have noticed, even where toilets are provided, some people either because of ignorance or cultural background, believe that ODF is healthier or more convenient for them. “It is wrong to defecate in the open because it has a lot of consequences,” he said. From all indications, Dakibu may remain in this mess for a long time unless it gets a helping hand from somewhere. Some Non Governmental Organisations have joined the campaign to sensitize people on the dangers of open defecation, but there is no sign that a new orientation on the issue will easily permeate the consciousness of the people in rural communities in Nigeria.