Former handball, volleyball and track and field star, Olu Sule, spoke to CHARLES OGUNDIYA about his struggles as a young sportsman and claims that Nigeria lost a lot of athletes during the six years that the National Sports Festival did not take place. Excerpts…   As an athletics coach and an ex-international, what can you say about athletics in the country now compared to your own days?
I think we have to refer to sports as a whole, for some time now it has been a downward spiral in sports performances and this cannot continue. In a situation where there are no sport policies and structures, things are bound to crash. The government has not been helping also, and the corporate bodies are not doing so well like we have it in other countries. For me, I will say it has not been fine. During our days, it was a little bit working but for some time now it has not been working, but I think we are back to picking up again like the old days. The National Sports Festival was off for six years but it returned last December. Would you say the country lost so many talents that would have emerged in all sports during that period?
Definitely, numerous talents would have been discovered from this meaningful festival, six years is not a joke. If we look at the current people making waves in the country at the moment, they are those that were discovered during the last two festivals — Garden City Games in Port Harcourt in 2011 and Eko 2012 in Lagos State. They are still the one on top of their game, so if you ask me if we missed, then I will say yes, we missed a lot during the six years. 2019 is going to be a big year for athletics with the All Africa Games and World Championships, what is your expectation about Nigerian athletes both overseas-based and home based?
The point is something always works for us every year. Whether we like it or not, work for it or not, Nigeria will surely pick medals here and there at the All Africa Games and the World Championships. Not because we deserve it, not because we work for it, but just because it always happens and that is what has been affecting us. People will tell you whether you like it or not Nigeria will get to where they want to be. The problem is that we are supposed to be leading the world, not just managing. If we don’t plan to win, we will always plan to lose. Sincerely, 2019 is here and the season of athletics is here already. Just like before, we are going to have Nigerians going out there putting on performances here and there, pick medals, but at what level? Waiting for America or Jamaica to throw away their chances and we can come in third position as we usually do? But these things are not supposed to be like that, we are supposed to work hard and get to the top. Imagine the rest of the world are preparing, they have the data of their athletes already, have their camps, they have everything working for them, but here we are, we don’t even have any plans on the ground.
You go to anybody they tell you there is no money; you go to government, they will tell you the budget is not out yet, how can things work like this? That is why we have been calling the Federal Government to put up a structure whereby we don’t have to keep running back to the government for funds. If you put out structures that people know will be self-sustaining, we will be like the rest of the world, like America. We are supposed to be giants; naturally we are blessed in this country, we can go to any village and bring out champions, go to Delta State, bring out a lot of champions but even if we discover them, how do you nurture them? How do you take them to the promised land? That is the problem because all this requires money, time and planning. If you ask me about 2019, I will tell you it is still going to be the same thing. You are in charge of jumps and we have a certain athlete that just moved to the United States, Grace Anigbata, who is doing well at the moment. What can you say about this athlete who at a time was a football referee?
We saw what she was capable of doing even before now; we all saw it coming. It took her time to actually come out the way she was supposed to do but we had seen her even from the outset. She was into high jump for a very long time; for a while I was telling her to leave high jump because it’s not really her thing, but to concentrate on triple jump. Eventually she did and so if you see her performing now, then it is not out of place. As a matter of fact, she is yet to begin, when she gets to her peak, she will be a world beater. Her moving to the US is a good one for herself, her family and Nigeria as a whole. I am sure that girl is really going to make us proud very soon. Another athlete, Divine Oduduru, at the moment is also on fire, what can you say about him?
Well, I will say let’s hope and pray for him to maintain that form. Divine is naturally gifted and he has been like that since when he was a junior. He has been a famous athlete especially with his popular ‘I never expered it’ statement years back. What has been going for him is humility. He has been able to manage his career unlike some other young athletes like him. He was injured for a very long time and nobody was there for him. He went through this on his own, now he is back everybody is seeing him and talking about his performance without bothering to know how he was able to manage himself to return to action. These are some of the things we are talking about. We have some other athletes in America and other parts of the world who can actually do great things and achieve a lot for the country, but they are angry with the system and some of them actually decided not to even compete for Nigeria because they know that the country might not be ready to support them when the need arises. I will advise we leave Divine alone for now; whatever he can deliver, let him do, we should let him take it step after step and we should not put him under any pressure at the moment. He has achieved some incredible times at the moment and I see him doing much better than he is doing at the moment. The indoor season is over now; let’s see what he can do when the outdoor gets underway. How did Olu Sule get into sports?
Olu Sule has always been in sports all his life. I started actually with basketball because as at that time, all my friends were very tall and I was trying to play with them, but because I don’t have the height, it was very difficult for me, so I moved over to handball. In my early days, I was good at handball and that was the first sport that took me out of this country even as a very young child precisely at the age of 15. After that I went into volleyball and I seriously fell in love with it from where I made the junior national team. Everything was going well for me in teams sports until I met a man, coach Morisson Momoh from Kwara State, who introduced me to track and field. I was still in secondary school then, Ilorin Grammar School, and at that time, I was already getting tired of team sports. Six people will be on the court about the same time so if you are good you are good, but if your team mates are not good, you will find it difficult winning. So I got tired of blaming people for our collective errors, that was when I decided to go into individual sport which was jumps, if I loose I will blame myself if I win I will take the glory, that is how I fully came into track and field in 1990. Just a year after then in 1991, I became national junior champion and the following year I became the senior national champion. That’s the story of how I came into track and field and also how I left other sports. Have you ever regretted leaving handball and volleyball for athletics?
No, not at all. Actually my short stay in track and field was a glorious thing for me. It was all good stuff that I encountered. As a matter of fact, I wouldn’t ask for more, everything a man needs to achieve, I did in track and field. Like I said, the first year I became the national junior champion, the next year I became the senior national champion. I was privileged to be among the people whoare multiple national champions. I was the national champion seven times. I spent 10 years in track and field and I was never beaten until I decided to leave even when the ovation was loudest. In those days, parents put more emphasis on education than sports and you started your sporting career while in secondary school. Did your parents give you the nod or you decided to go into sports without their support?
Seriously, my story is enough for a book. Actually, at that time I was staying with my uncle, he is late now. He usually scolded me whenever I went out to partake in sporting activities. In those days, they had this belief that only dropouts took to sports. But then I found peace in sports and I would always sneak out. At the initial stage of this interview, I said I travelled out as a handball player when I was in school; the story about that trip was very funny. I didn’t just sneak out; I was to give a letter of consent to my uncle so that I would be released for the trip. I actually received the beating of my life that day for daring him and taking part in sports. Because he was not supporting me initially, it led me to some bad behavior. I actually went as far as borrowing a father to represent me in school because I couldn’t go home to tell my uncle that he needed to follow me to school because of sports. I rented somebody to come and pretend to be my father; you can imagine that situation even when my parents were very much alive. But later my uncle realised what his attitude was doing to me, turning me into a bad boy, so he turned around and supported me wholeheartedly. He told me after then that I was going to make it big in sports because it’s what I love doing. Those words stay with me till this moment of my life. What can you say about combining sports with education, especially in Nigeria?
Combining sports with education is the best thing that can ever happen to somebody in life. If we look at sports critically, it is prevention from any bad things in life and it’s a cure for every bad thing that can happen to someone in life. Let’s take it from the angle of those special athletes; we now have Para sports, people who used to be destitute are now taking to sports which has bettered their lives. Sports can heal anything ranging from depression and whatever. Sports is magical, even if you are a dullard that doesn’t know anything, when you start partaking in sports, your brain will open. In the same way, with blood pumping into your brain, people say if you combine sports with education your education will suffer, that statement is a lie. They just don’t know anything. Why is it that America has been investing heavily in collegiate sports? They decided to take their sports into their colleges, because they understand the relationship between sports and education. No one should come around and give us all that talk that the two cannot be combined. We have doctors, engineers and lawyers all making it big in sports; all you need to do is to know what you are doing. You don’t leave one for one, they go hand in hand. That’s why it’s annoying sometimes when a professor will tell you that as a sportsman, you cannot make it in education. One of the busiest persons on earth as at now should be the American president, Donald Trump, but despite that, he still takes time out for sports. We should start thinking in this country. What’s your advice to the younger generation of sportsmen and women who always want to put money first before their career?
Everywhere now all you hear is sports is big business, big money in sports. But in my days, it was for the fun of it and because we had the passion. Sometimes it was because you wanted to get scholarship to school’ especially outside the country. But today, everyone wants to become a billionaire without doing anything. It’s not about sports alone but all the aspects of our lives. If truly you want to make it in sports, you need to have a game plan and that’s loving what you are doing, enjoying the sport itself and the sky will be the starting point. But if it is about money, then you will start getting into trouble because you might start doing what you are not supposed to do. If truly sports is about money, then our politicians would have taken over our sports because they can afford millions to push their kids there. But they cannot because those kids don’t have the talent. So those given the talent, use it wisely, enjoy what you are doing and while enjoying it, the reward will come too. How was your love life during your active years as an athlete?
During my years, I didn’t even understand the word love. I was so naive then that I couldn’t even understand it. Also there was no time because all my hours were training to school and back to training, so I didn’t have the time for that. My coaches would always tell me to stay away from women. If you have sex with a woman, you might not recover for the next three months, and competitions already lined up, so I didn’t indulge myself in it. I was like a virgin all through my career. I don’t see how an athlete can combine women with a career. Especially the attitude of women, if you don’t give them time, anything can happen. They don’t care about you and this applies to both men and women. The female athletes during my days, they hardly had time, although there were some of them who moved around like couple, but I wonder how they coped. Even at that, most of them didn’t make it far. It was either the lady was making it big or the guy was nowhere to be found or vice versa. If you really want to make it big time, then stay away from love affairs. Apart from sports, what else do you do to relax?
I am a movie freak; I watch any good movie whenever I am free or not doing anything. Any movie that makes sense and sometimes I take myself out to see good movies.