As part of measures to guarantee violence-free Governorship and House of Assembly elections this Saturday, the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has deployed seven Deputy Inspectors General of Police, to man the country’s geo-political zones. The DIGs are:  Messrs Usman Tilli Abubakar (North East Zone);  Abdulmajid Ali (Coordinator);  Frederick Taiwo Lakanu (South-South Zone); Anthony Ogbizi (South-East Zone); Yakubu Jubrin (South-West Zone);   Aminchi S. Baraya (North-West Zone), and
Godwin C. Nwobodo (North-Central Zone). Also deployed were ten Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs), alongside 277 Commissioners of Police (CPs). According to a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Mr. Frank Mba, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, the CPs will be deployed across the 36 State Commands, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). With the deployment, however, Anambra, Bayelsa, Edo and Sokoto states, have new Police Commissioners, to superintendent over the respective commands, during the period of the elecrions. Three CPs, Mba further disclosed, will be deployed to each of the states,with further posting to the three Senatorial Districts. Meanwhile, Mba explained that owing to earlier security assessment, some Local Government Areas in Plateau, Benue, Imo and Taraba states have one Commissioner of Police each deployed to coordinate security in the councils. “In line with his stated commitment towards providing adequate security for the General Elections, the Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP M.A Adamu,has deployed Seven (7) Deputy Inspectors General of Police (DIGs) to the six geo-political zones across the Country, Ten (10) Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) to the police zonal commands and additional Two Hundred and Seventy Seven (277) Commissioners of Police to complement the efforts of the respective Commissioners of Police in the thirty-six (36) State Commands and the FCT. “With this deployment, each command now has added three CPs deployed to the three (3) senatorial districts in their respective states of assignment which will form part of security management base for the command CPs. “However, based on security assessment earlier carried out by the Force, some Local Government Areas in Plateau, Benue, Imo and Taraba States have one Commissioner of Police each deployed to coordinate security in the LGA. “Each of them is expected to work with the Command CP and to ensure that no stone is left unturned towards emplacing adequate security including the supervision of security personnel deployed to each of the Senatorial Districts under their watch”, Mba said. For purposes of the polls, the statement said listed Messrs Rabiu Ladodo, Olushola David, Dan-Mallam Mohammed, and Aminu Koji Kwabe, as CPs for Anambra, Bayelsa,Edo as well as Sokoto states respectively. Pursuant to the deployment, Guma, Logo, Agatu, Gwer East, Gwer West, Katsina-Ala, Okpokwu, and Ukum LGAs of Benue State, will each get a CP. While Orlu and Okigwe LGAs of Imo State have CPs each, six councils of Plateau State will also play similar host. They are: Langtang South, Jos South, Bassa, Langtang North, Riyom, and Barkin Ladi LGAs. The case of Taraba State is not different, as Wukari, Ibi, Lao, Karim Lamido, Bali, Kurmi, Jalingo , Dunga, and Sardauna council areas will have Police Commissioners. “The IGP assures that just as in the recently concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections, the Nigeria Police Force shall remain civil, firm, optimally professional and apolitical in the discharge of our duties in the 9th March, 2019 elections”, the statement added.