Oshole Imhoagene is an alumnus of Madonna University. She was called to Bar in 2015. Imhoagene speaks on her passion for law, challenges since called to Bar and sundry issues. JOHN CHIKEZIE met her  Background My name is Oshole Imhoagene, and I am a legal practitioner, who loves to learn new things and take up challenges. My academic background includes stint at Federal Government Girls College Abaji, Abuja where I obtained my West African School Leaving Certificate in 2009. I obtained my LL.Bin law from Madonna University Nigeria in 2014, after which I proceeded to the Nigerian Law School. I was called to practice as a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria in 2015. In 2016, I enrolled at the Institute of Chattered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria and was inducted in 2018 as a member of the institute. I am presently undergoing a master’s degree program in corporate, commercial and trade law at the University of Illinois, Urbana Champaign where I also work as a graduate research assistant.  Choice of career My interest in the legal profession was rooted in my desire to be actively involved in the improvement of the society whilst ensuring my professional, intellectual and personal growth. After accomplishing a thoughtful consideration on a career path that suits my interest, I discovered that the legal profession was my best bet for the following reasons. First, the legal profession plays an integral role in the society and ensures that justice is enforced. Secondly, the legal profession is multifaceted because it cuts across several spheres of operation, from transactional to the regulatory, shipping to finance, access to market to dispute resolution, taxation, human rights, etcetera. Law School pressure Knowing and focusing on my mission, vision and goal as well as my ability to handle difficult situations and my deep passion for the legal profession played an integral role in helping me to overcome the challenges I faced in law school. I drew up a personal time table and tried as much as possible to stick to it, this helped in limiting my engagement into frivolities. Law school doesn’t get easier, but you can get better.  Hobbies Aside law, I enjoy watching movies, listening to music and researching.  What to change about our legal system or legal practice I would like to put an end to the interference of the Nigerian judiciary; no country can function well without an independent judiciary. The judiciary is the hope of the masses and as such, should be allowed to discharge its duties independently as continuous interference would cripple the system. If the judiciary is destroyed, Nigeria will cease to exist.  My mentor(s) They are Mr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), Mr. Femi Falana (SAN) and the late Chief Abdul-Ganiyu Oyesola Fawehinmi (SAN). These are men of integrity who made a good name, as well as great impact on the Nigerian legal system.  Choosing between the Bar and the Bench I’ll choose the Bar, because I am more interested in litigation. My worry The high rate of Unemployment, Child labour, child abuse and violence against women, Youth and children in Nigeria are of great concern to me. As a developing country with a whole lot of challenges, Nigeria has a lot of families who live below $1 per day particularly at the grass root level. My passion for development, Advocacy and community service led to my active participation in the establishment of a non-governmental organization; Star Advocacy for African Women and Children, where I currently serve as a Trustee and Director of International Projects/Legal Secretary. The organization is aimed at achieving the following; The Establishment of Children and Women Development Centers in Most Rural communities in Nigeria and Africa; The creation of online and offline platforms where women, children and other interested individuals can report cases of violence and abuse of all kinds; The establishment of vocational training colleges particularly in the rural communities aimed at eradicating unemployment; To combat Child trafficking and child labour in Nigeria; To ensure the Rehabilitation as well as justice for victims of sexual violence.  To establish a network of Volunteer Lawyers aimed at advocacy for all the voiceless victims of violence and abuse in Nigeria. In this encounter, Mirian Obioma Okoro, an alumnus of Madonna University tells JOHN CHIKEZIE how her foray into law profession began   Background My name is Mirian Obioma Okoro. I hail from Ishiagu in Ivo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. After successfully completing my elementary education in Living Word… In “Law” She is an alumnus of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka where she obtained LL.B in 2014. Chiamaka Caroline Nwangwu, who was a victim of police brutality penultimate week, told JOHN CHIKEZIE how her journey into the profession of members of the wig and gown began   Background She is from… In “Law” Helen Nwaowe read law at Ambrose Ali University, Ekpoma, Edo State. She was called to Bar in 2008. Nwaowe shares her pupilage experience, first day in court and embarrassing moment, among others with AKEEM NAFIU   Background She was called to the Bar on May 20, 2008. Helen Onyemarechi Nwaowe… In “Law”