A study published in the ‘Lancet Global Health’ shows that African mothers who give birth by cesarean section are more likely to die after the procedure than women living in high-income countries. Experts said planning pregnancies, attending antenatal, training care workers, among others could cut down the number of unnecessary deaths resulting from caesarean section. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  Salawa Coker, a 26-year-old from from Itafaji, in the Lagos Island gave birth to her first child by cesarean section last year. “It was unplanned. It came as an emergency. I was told that my baby was big and that she was not in a position to follow through the delivery process,” she said. “I was so scared I thought I was going to die during the process because I did not have enough information on c-section.” She gave birth to daughter Ope with few complications, but her fear of the procedure was well-founded, according to a new study. African mothers who give birth by ceasarean section are 50 times more likely to die after the procedure than women living in high-income countries, according to the findings of a study published in the journal ‘Lancet Global Health’. The research found that the maternal mortality rate in African countries was “substantially higher than expected”: 5.43 deaths per 1,000 operations, compared with 0.1 deaths per 1,000 operations in the United Kingdom (UK), the authors said. Similarly, one in six African women experienced complications during cesarean surgery, three times the rate of women in the United States (US). Bruce Biccard, an anesthesiologist and professor at the University of Cape Town who led the research, said that three-quarters of the women in the study had an emergency c-section. “Women can’t access care easily, and when they do, they end up in a health care facility that’s often inadequate,” he said. Caesarean section, also known as C-section, or caesarean delivery, is the use of surgery to deliver babies. A caesarean section is often necessary when a vaginal delivery would put the baby or mother at risk. Some factors that may warrant a caesarean section include obstructed labour, twin pregnancy, high blood pressure in the mother, breech birth or problems with the placenta or umbilical cord. A caesarean delivery may be performed based upon the shape of the mother’s pelvis or history of a previous C-section. A trial of vaginal birth after C-Section may be possible. The World Health Organisation recommends that caesarean section be performed only when medically necessary. Some C-sections are similarly performed without a medical reason, upon request by someone, usually the mother. The research studied 3,684 women who had elective and non-elective cesarean deliveries, using data from 183 hospitals across 22 countries in Africa. It formed part of the African Surgical Outcomes Study, which measured the outcomes of all patients who received surgery during a seven-day period between February and May 2016. In Nigeria for instance, the increasing use of c-Section as a mode of delivery is due to improved safety of the procedure because of increasing use of antibiotics, blood availability, and improved anesthetic techniques. Despite all these, it has been shown that problems of safety and cost still pose some concern, particularly in resource-poor countries, according to the results of a five-year survey of cesarean delivery at a Nigerian tertiary hospital, carried out by Isah AD, Adewole N, and Jahman J from the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Abuja Teaching Hospital in Abuja. While caesarean sections can be a crucial life-saving intervention for the safety of the mother and child, for example if the baby is showing distress or if the mother is bleeding before birth, experts said the procedure would account for about 10 to 15 per cent of births if only used when medically necessary. But in a new series of studies and commentaries published in the ‘Lancet,’ a team of researchers have revealed that in many countries caesarean sections were rising rapidly, accounting for more than 21 per cent of births globally in 2015, up from just over 12 per cent at the turn of the millennium. Experts said more needed to done to raise awareness among women, their families and medical professionals of the potential risks of caesarean sections when not needed for medical reasons. Highlighting how this came about, a co-author of one of the studies in the ‘Lancet,’ Jane Sandall, professor of social science and women’s health at King’s College London, said,“For the mother, for her future pregnancy there is an increased risk of preterm birth, ruptured uterus and the placenta embedding in the wrong part of the uterus, which means she is at risk of postpartum haemorrhage and needing a hysterectomy.” There are several reasons why caecarean section pose high risk for women in developing nations including Nigeria. Experts believe that statistically, a planned cesarean section is considered relatively safe. According to PMA2020, one in five pregnancy in Lagos State is not planned, contributing significantly to high risks during early pregnancy and during delivery. Performance Monitoring and Accountability (PMA) 2020 is a household and facility survey for Family Planning and Water and Sanitation in Burkina Faso, DR Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Niger, Nigeria, and Uganda. The first survey was conducted in 2013. Many mothers skip antenatal due to out-of-pocket payment and when some deliveries become complicated mothers end up being rushed to facilities on emergency, most of which end in c-section. Often, some of mothers, despite being in critical health conditions after labour had set in are rejected by some facilities including public and private health care facilities. A Consultant Obstetrics and Gynaecologist, Dr. Kehinde Okunade urged citizens to plan their pregnancies, attend antenatal as part of strategies to reduce health risks, adding that when c-sections were planned, mothers and babies benefit from the interventions. Often, when C-section was recommended as the way out, some due to shortage of funds to pay for the surgery, would reject the medical intervention on the believe that they would be delivered through natural method. . In the ensuring delay, some mothers and babies lose their lives. Mothers in sub-Saharan Africa are far less likely to give birth via c-section than elsewhere in the world, where c-sections have been on the rise. Biccard said it was important to increase access to the procedure in parallel with improving the safety of c-sections in Africa “Paradoxically, while many countries are aiming to reduce the caesarean delivery rate, increasing the rate of caesarean delivery remains a priority in Africa. In sub-Saharan Africa, the caesarean delivery rate is static at 3.5 per cent, despite an increasing pattern in rates globally. “ The results of the study underscored the need for more specialist surgical, obstetrical and anesthetics care, Biccard said. The study found that there was an average of 0.7 specialists per 100,000 people in the countries in the study. Biccard said that figure should be at least 22 per 100,000 people to obtain a safe minimum standard. “The true morbidity and mortality after caesarean section on the continent is therefore likely to be higher than reported,” said Anna Dare of the Centre for Global Health Research, St. Michael’s Hospital and the Department of Surgery at the University of Toronto. “Making childbirth safer for African mothers will require dedicated efforts to make caesarean section much safer as well. This improvement in safety must occur while simultaneously striving to avoid the overuse of caesarean section, which many other countries are now grappling with,” she said in a commentary published alongside the study in Lancet Global Health. 