The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Bauchi state has halted the collation of results for the governorship election held March 9, 2019 for Tafawa-Balewa local government area of the state. The state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Ibrahim Abdullahi told newsmen in Bauchi on Tuesday that the decision was as a result of a court order received by the commission retraining it from collation and subsequent announcement of Tafawa Balewa LG governorship results. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is in receipt of a court order restraining it from proceeding with the collation and announcement of results in respect of Tafawa Balewa governorship only. “I must also add that the order which was sought and granted by the court does not include the Tafawa Balewa state constituency. “For this reason, we are going to make arrangement to continue with the state constituency collation and subsequently announce the result,” said the commissioner. Abdullahi said “what is also going to continue is the scheduled 23rd March election that affects the canceled election in other local government areas.” The REC called on the people to remain calm and law abiding, adding that INEC would do the right thing by announcing the true winner of the race. NAN reports that INEC, on March 15 approved the resumption of collation and conclusion of results of Tafawa-Balewa Local Government Area in relation to governorship election using available existing duplicate and original results from Registration Areas. (NAN) May announce Bauchi Tuesday   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has condemned the action of the military in the March 9 governorship election in Rivers State, stating that some soldiers and armed thugs attempted to subvert the will of people of the state. The Commission, however, ruled out supplementary… In “News” The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, has said that the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to cancel the result of Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area in last Saturday’s governorship election in Bauchi State lacks substance and is a clear departure from the… In “Politics” The returning officer for Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area in the gubernatorial election, Mrs Dominion Anosike, has written to the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Prof Mahmood Yakubu, requesting to appear before the Committee set up to investigate controversies over the cancellation of the results of the… In “News Around Nigeria”