 The Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Opeyemi Oke, has lamented the fall in professional ethics among lawyers saying “the flag of honour of the legal profession is flying at half-mast.” She bared her mind while speaking during the maiden edition of the memorial lecture in honour of Pa Tunji Gomez , who was the oldest Nigerian practicing lawyer before his demise on 18th July,2018 at the age of 90. The event was organised by the Egbe Amofin Ni Eko.  The lecture with the theme, “The Nigerian lawyer and the challenge of nation building – 2019 and beyond,” held at the foyer of the Lagos State High Court in Igbosere, had the Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun (SAN), as the guest lecturer. The Lagos Chief Judge was represented on the occasion by Justice Kazeem Alogba. Speaking on the CJ’s behalf, Justice Alogba said while he was in practice as a lawyer before becoming a judge, he encountered the late Gomez on many occasions, noting that the deceased always said it as it was, “no matter whose ox is gored.” Justice Alogba urged lawyers to practice law with conscience as did the late Gomez, who was popular with the sobriquet: “It’s a matter of conscience.” Justice Alogba said, “The philosophy underpinning law has been thrown aside by some. If we take seriously the jurisprudential training we received, we’ll practice law as it should be. “I can say that the flag of honour of the legal profession is flying at half- mast. “The result is that today, some are no longer respected and recognised as lawyers.” Highlighting some of Gomez’s qualities that today’s lawyers must emulate, Justice Alogba said, “Pa Gomez would dress neatly, conservatively and lawyerly. But today some lawyers don’t know what to wear to court and to party. “Appearance matters for lawyers. Please, let’s take that from Pa Gomez. “Honesty has been thrown away. Why not be honest and trust that God will keep you alive? “Lawyers should engage in soul searching for the good of the profession and the good of the society.” In his lecture, Fagbohun said lawyers must be alive to their responsibility in the society.  “When citizens no longer see the legal system as a space for the achievement of justice, it exacerbates discontent, deepens inequality, corruption, social injustice, corrodes democratic principles and normative values of democracy and prompts citizens to resort to self-help,” he said.  “If lawyers are faithful to their training, the fundamental functions and purposes of law which is to establish standards, maintain order, resolve disputes, drive necessary reforms and protect liberties and rights will be served.”  He continued: “Rule of law will not become ingrained nor law begin to count until every lawyer conducts his or her affairs in accordance with the ethics of the profession.  “Of course, it is rare, and indeed, it will be extraordinary to expect every lawyer and judicial officer to act responsibly.  “Consequently, there is a need to reform and strengthen relevant regulatory institutions such as the Nigerian Bar Association and its disciplinary arm, the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee in the case of lawyers; and the National Judicial Council in the case of judicial officers.  “In this regard, I fully align with recommendations from different quarters of the need to reform the teaching of ethics in our universities and Law School; properly mainstream continuing professional development after Call to Bar; and critically consider separation of the regulatory and representative functions currently being performed by the Nigerian Bar Association.”  Fagbohun called for the reform and strengthening of relevant regulatory institutions in the judiciary in order to ensure that all practitioners behave responsibly.  The Chairman of Egbe Amofin Ni Eko, Mr. Martin Ogunleye, said the late Gomez was noted for his courage and uprightness, adding that he was a dedicated Bar man, who rarely missed NBA meetings and functions, even in his old age.