 The Theatre Arts & Motion Practitioners Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN), Somolu, Bariga, Lagos State Chapter has elected Ogunse Tosin as its new Chairman. The energetic chairman will bring his wealth of experience in the theatre industry to bear for the growth of TAMPAN. “I will reform the various units where members can be identified with. I will also put up performances, and create regular rehearsal, and seminar, workshop for effective art programmes in order to broaden the intellectual in the profession,” he disclosed. With the coming of Ogunse as the Chairman of TAMPAN, it is the first time a youth will be at the helm of affairs of TAMPAN, especially in Somolu. Other members of the executive include; Ranti Adeosun Lawal (Vice-Chairman), Peter Oladimeji (General Secretary), Goddey Johnson (Assistance secretary), Makanjuola Remilekun (Treasurer), Ajayi Amos Abosede (Social secretary), Adeniyi Femi (Financial Secretary), Abiona Seun (Public Relations), Adeyemi Soliu (Chief Whip), Chief Mrs. Esusu O. (Lagos Governor), and Bolaji Amusan (Mr. Latin), has the National President. The newly elected Chairman called on every practitioners to work together to ensure that the association moves to greater height. “For this regime to succeed, we seek member’s supports, both financially, and morally, materially, and spiritually, especially in payment of meeting dues, and other financial commitments to make theatre art in Somolu/Bariga great once again,” he said.  The former Assistant General Secretary, Fine and Applied Arts Department, FCT College of Education, Abuja appealed to producers to reach out to members, and EXCOS while on location. “I urge producers to always reach out to both EXCOS and members during production either movies or stage. Let us see ourselves as one big family,” he said. Speaking on his plan for the Association, he assured that his administration will restructure and build local government TAMPAN Troupe, partner with local government area, and LCDA during governmental events. “We will focus more on movie, and stage productions; we will move the association more closely to the local government by supporting them with performances at various governmental events. The annual Somolu, and Bariga Theatre Festival (SOBAFEST), will have a new shape and well packaged,” Ogunse said.