Following last weekend’s presidential and National Assembly elections where President Muhammadu Buhari was returned for a second term, National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) Dr. Eddy Olafeso, in this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, says the elections were allegedly fraught with irregularities and massive rigging aided by security agencies  What is your overview of the presidential and National Assembly elections? To me, my party and to most electorate in Nigeria, the country has just gone through the worst electoral nightmare since independence. It is unfortunate that it was fraught with irregularities; it does not conform with electoral laws, neither did it satisfy the yearnings and aspirations of the Nigerian people. There were double standards where the card readers were used in the South but were abandoned in the North. Election results were written and underage were allowed to vote and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials were not even allowed to touch electoral materials, yet election results were declared in such places. It is rather unfortunate that we were allowed to go through this scenario. It is so unfortunate that was allowed in the situation and circumstances where we found ourselves, the poor economic situation, the youth unemployment that is rising astronomically to over 40 per cent and the fact that life is no longer safe and secure in the nation. You will be surprised that immediately after the election, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) lost over N85 billion, that is to tell you the ominous danger and poverty that await the entire nation. That was an indication of lack of confidence in the government and they are not doing anything about it. They have just rigged themselves to another four years and have just stolen the people’s mandate.  How do you see the role of the security agencies in the elections? The security agencies, especially the Army became an arm of the All Progressives Congress, (APC). The experience in Rivers State, the killings, the burning of ballot boxes in Lagos State compared with the situation in war-torn areas like Borno, Yobe and Gombe states, you had more turnout of voters than in relatively peaceful states down South speak volumes. I think President Muhammadu Buhari gave himself in this election a name that his generation will not be proud of. He is the most corrupt leader in the history of the country if he presided over this kind of election and he is celebrating and jubilating over a stolen mandate; he is reckless and mindless and I think it is so unfortunate that Nigeria got itself into this corner.  What is your reaction to a media report stating that some INEC Commissioners threatened to resign over intimidation from security agencies in the last elections? Of course, it tells you extensively how they have compromised the process and I am surprised that they are waiting this long to resign. I read the story in the online section of one of the prominent newspapers the other day and was not surprised. The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu should have resigned when all these things were going on. But at a point, he compromised and presided over a historically debased election, but I know that history will not be kind to him.  Apart from the results announced by the INEC, your party claims to be in possession of “authentic results” of the elections. How did you arrive at that and how authentic are the results? We got that through all our agents across the 774 local governments and 120,000 polling units across the country; through our observers and through all caring innocent citizens that were deprived of their rights to vote. The people they chased away in Lagos, brandishing another tribal war; chasing people on the basis of where they came from and political leanings and the fear that they might be voted against. For us, we knew they were going to do this long before the elections and we had prepared ourselves. The world will see what we were able to gather during that election and both APC and President Buhari will be put to shame.  On Thursday, former Head of State, General Abdusalami Abubakar met with your presidential candidate and his running mate to broker peace. How far do you think that can go? The fact is where there is injustice, how can you be talking about peace? Justice is what can bring about peace, or putting it differently, peace is a product of justice. You see, if the APC wanted peace, they should have done the rightful and the needful, but they failed. And we have already made it known to the rest of the world that we are not like them. We have not said anybody’s blood should be soaked or that baboons and others should be killed. We are saying that legitimately and through constitutional means we will continue to seek redress. What they should do is to seek peace between them and God as well as the Nigerian citizens.  The New York Times said that the last election was a referendum on integrity and honesty. How do you react to that? They are not here but are merely repeating the statement of their (APC) publicists. If they were in Nigeria they would have known that there is nothing like integrity in President Buhari and the APC government. What kind of integrity would have made a President violate the Constitution by removing a sitting Chief Justice of the Federation? What form of integrity would make you believe that in Borno and Yobe states where people are beleaguered and are being killed daily, where the likes of Leah Sharibu are still in captivity by virtue of her faith, people would vote massively than in areas that enjoy peace? Buhari knows what he is doing. His conscience will not say anything about integrity and if he is being used, it is rather unfortunate. Sooner than later, history will tell him. I don’t believe in that kind of crab from whatever sources you said that is coming from. Look at another instance. Before the election, a bullion van containing money was found in the house of the National Leader of APC. If it was found in another party leader’s house, what would have been the reaction of the government if it is not the mega corrupt person that is involved? By today the person would have been facing the law with regard to money laundering. The man is richer than the state, but it is on record that he has never created a single factory in his life before he became governor. We know his net worth. After he became governor he became a power broker. Believe me, how can they hide from the judgment of history? Where is the integrity of this government?  What do you think EFCC should do in this regard? Is there any EFCC? The EFCC today is an appendage of the APC. If they are really serious, that bullion wan should have been seized and its content showed to the world. Because they (EFCC) locked down many accounts that they knew would be of favour to the Peoples Democratic Party, but suddenly a bullion van took a ride to the premises of somebody and everybody was clapping. And the man had the temerity and effrontery to insult and assault the sensibilities of the Nigerian people to say that well he did not do contract for the Federal Government; that it is his money. So if it is your money there is no law guiding how you spend your money within an economy? What about the Financial Intelligence Unit of the security agencies like EFCC and NDLEA? There is so much insanity in the system and yet the government is talking about integrity and honesty.  Some people have attributed the performance of your party to low commitment on the part of your former presidential aspirants; that they all went to sleep after they lost in the primaries. What do you say about this? As events unfold we will be able to know whether those assertions are right or wrong. To me, anybody that leaves his party to vote for another party that has no ideological lineage or programme for the country has committed political suicide. Over time we will be able to know whether that was what transpired. For now, we are not judging anybody, but we are looking at the figures because we know that everywhere, they have committed so much against the electoral process that they could equally be victims.  How do you look at the performance of your party in Kano, Kaduna, Katsina Sokoto, Borno states where APC got in some cases excess of one million votes? That is exactly what I am telling you. How on earth will be people vote for APC massively in areas that are under serious terrorists and bandits’ attacks? I mean you saw the video everywhere where people were serially thumb-printing 10 and 20 booklets of ballot papers; and children playing with ballot papers. How do you justify that with reality? If will know sooner than later if the card readers were used at the polling units there as stipulated in the Electoral Act to accomplish that kind of results. Where will they get a million votes in all the places they claim to have scored millions of votes? It was a stolen mandate; there was no election in the North.  Can we look at voter apathy like in Lagos where there was about six million… It was because they used the security to chase the people away. It happened in Lagos and many parts of the South like Akwa Ibom and Rivers states. How come we are having more registrations and lesser votes in some of these states now? How come in Rivers State not many people went out to vote after some have been shot dead by the military? How come in Lagos State where you had about six million registered voters you had a few over one million votes? They know what they were doing- stifling democracy.  Your party was very successful in the South-West and in particular Ondo, Edo, Oyo states. How do you see this? I told you before that we were all set and that it is a process that the South-West will return and will return. This place is the most sophisticated region in the country. We have demonstrated our independent minds; we have demonstrated that we know the issues at stake and we have worked very hard here. I appreciate the entire South-West for their outstanding support for the party, for standing injustice in the land and all these cabals that are trying to undermine the country. We ran away from the fact that our son is the second in command and voted for the opposition and I will forever be grateful for what we achieved here. What we were able to achieve in Ondo, Oyo and Osun and are all not a single man’s victory but that of the entire people. We are grateful for what they have done to us. We appreciate what they have done in Oyo State where they voted out a sitting governor. It is just a testimonial of his not doing well among his people. We appreciate the Lagosians, and we are urging them to come out next Saturday to vote. Nobody is greater than the other. If there are opportunities it is because God gave them. We are all citizens of this great nation. Oto ge is the message in Lagos. Enough is enough in Lagos. Lagos has been raped, brutalized and stolen for too long. They must have their freedom this time. For me I appreciate the fact that the South-West made my leadership worthwhile, because I started with nothing but I am coming up with something.  How will you react to INEC report that the senatorial elections in some parts of Ondo and Edo states are inconclusive? Let me tell you, it is part of their insanity. The APC became jittery that they were losing all. How can we be leading with over 27,000 votes and you said that there was inconclusive voting in 48 polling units that had 28,000 registered voters? Not that they are all accredited voters; not excluding those who have not collected their PVCs. And you still think there is a game in there for you? For us, whatever it takes, we have already won that seat in Ondo South and nobody can take that away from us. So it is just part of their irresponsible desperation. That we are going to deal with sooner than later.  In our earlier conversation, you said the outcome of the elections shows that the nation needs restructuring. What is the basis for that statement? You see, the North will continue to be a dead weight on the South. As it is now, there is no development in the North, very few industries and what you have is rebellion, Boko Haram attacks, killings by herdsmen and all that. It was the doing of the military that made us to have 19 states in the North. You have more local governments in the North and you begin to wonder, on what premises? Let us take Lagos for instance, and compare it with Kano. What gives Kano the basis to have 44 local governments and Lagos 20? It is this inequity and injustice that is creating the problem. That is the reason why we have not been making progress, rather we have been retrogressing, moving backward. Unless you remove the inequity and inequality, there is no way this Nigeria can develop. The country should be restructured so that all of us can have our destinies in our hands and move according to our pace and needs and what we feel is right and appropriate for us. The North is not ready, and they have never been ready.  What is your opinion on the victory of the party in Benue State? It was obvious. How can they be killing your people and you will vote for that person? I was a little disappointed because what they did was to rig so that they can close the gap. APC does not deserve a single vote in Benue State. In one single day they buried 86 innocent people, and that was when APC was celebrating a marriage feast in Kano. You recall that the President was there and he had no time to visit the bereaved in Makurdi. I am so disappointed that they rigged for themselves some figures in Benue, but time will tell.  Are you surprised that your party won in the Federal Capital Territory? How could I be? FCT has already spoken about who President Buhari is- a non-existing, absent leader that has no direct impact on his immediate environment. His loss at the Presidential Villa is the greatest testimonial. He is a President at large.  But the people celebrated his victory with wild jubilations, though along with some acts of vandalism in Abuja… How would you celebrate a stolen mandate? It is like a thief, having successfully robbed a bank, is now throwing a celebration party. You know that for sure that that is improper. By the way even in the seeming victory, APC followers were violent. What a shame!  But your party lost in Kwara State, homestead of the Senate President and Director-General of your Presidential Campaign Council? It was conspiracy and the use of money to kick out the Senate President. It has been long coming and we saw it, and when it arrived we were not surprised. But everybody will pay their prices for their own actions, mark my words.  You say it is not over yet. What net and how are you preparing for the governorship and houses of assembly elections? We are doing the best we can; we are talking to the people and we shall overcome. The people have made up their minds that this government is not it- that it will lead Nigeria nowhere. So, we are hopeful and appealing to them to come out en mass more than they did during the presidential and national assembly elections to cast their votes for the PDP and make them count.