The Federal Government has cautioned Nigerians on the dangers of unregulated Genetically Modified, (GM), food products, stating that it was capable of stunting Nigeria’s economic growth, endangering lives and depriving the country of the benefits of the products.
The Director General of the National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA), Mr. Rufus Ebegba, disclosed this in Lagos.
He said that if modern biotechnology and its products, which are mainly GM organisms, are not regulated, the country’s environment and food system may be negatively impacted through dumping of unsafe GM products.
He said: “Developers can produce unsafe GM products, flood the market with them and mislead Nigerians that they are genetically modified. Hence, regulating this sector is very key for the development of the economy and the sanctity of safety of GM products in the market.
“Also, Nigeria would not benefit from safe modern biotechnology under a legal framework for economic growth, improved agriculture, job and wealth creation, industrial growth and sustainable environment as operators will not have confidence in the sector; but the nation will instead, be at the receiving end of the countries that have commercialized these crops since they will have free access to Nigeria market unhindered.”
Ebegba warned that the absence of a biosafety system would amount to dumping of unauthorized GM into the country and would also adversely affect humans, animals, the environment and the economy.
He insisted that those calling for scrapping of the NBMA were directly paving the way for dumping of GMOs in the country, enriching the countries from which these crops are imported, weakening the potential of Nigerian scientists in this sector and do not have the interest of the public at heart.
He insisted that the permits granted by the NBMA for GM products were issued after a rigorous and hectic process, noting that a number of stakeholders are involved in the numerous process of analyzing the applications and review risk management and risk assessment before coming up with a decision.
“The permits so far given were granted after proper risk assessment and analysis were carried out, public display of the application done and the applications duly reviewed by representatives from all sectors of the economy,” he noted.