 Banana Island Residents and Property Owners Limited has called on President Mohammadu Buhari to prevail on the Nigeria Army Property Company Limited (NAPCL) and Tauraf International Limited to obey existing rules and Nigerian Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA)’s stop-work order on the proposed Apple Island.
According to one of the residents, Mr. Adelowo Adesola, the establishment of Apple Island in its current location could cause accident on the waters based on location and dredging activities.
Besides, he said the proposed project was considered major security risks apart from other ecological challenges of undermining the superstructure of the Island, accentuating flooding, since Banana Island itself is a sand-filled Island.
He wants the company to stop further dredging activities until court decides on the case before it.
Adesola alleged in a statement made available to New Telegraph that NAPCL and Tauraf International Limited, joint venture partners, to the Island were bent on re-writing all known and existing rules on dredging and reclamation projects of the proposed Apple Island within the Lagos’ Lagoon waterways, which, according to him, would require appropriate technical and stakeholders’ engagement before approval could be given by NIWA with planned access through the high-brow Banana Island.
“The company is embarking on this project with zero compliance to the extant laws and by-laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Lagos State,” he said.
Adesola said that as things unravelled, the project was becoming “one of the biggest impunity to be exhibited by a government agency on people they are to protect and who actually pay the tax from which they are maintained.”
This act of the Nigeria Army, through its agency, he said has put the residents of the estate under serious mental siege as they felt their rights were being trampled upon by a commercial enterprise irrespective of being a commercial off shoot of the Nigeria Army.
Adesola recalled that sometimes in June 2018, an elaborate arrangement was made by the NAPCL and Tauraf International Limited as directed by its Managing Director, Brigadier Muhammed under the Chairmanship of the Chief of Army Staff General, Buratai to officially launch Apple Island on the waters where no land existed.
According to him, other partners to the project were Julius Berger and Van Oord, noting that property of Banana Island was destroyed in the desperation to demonstrate viability to the Chief of Army Staff.
In the process, he stated that NIWA invariably demonstrated it could bark by putting a stop work order on the dredging project.
He said that NAPCL and Tauraf International Limited were unable to positively follow NIWA’s guidelines before proceeding on dredging (i.e to provide environmental impact analysis, obtain approval from Federal Ministry of Environment to create the Island, hold a public hearing, present a survey plan and Certificate of Ownership\Occupancy and make payments).
According to Adesola, resolve of NAPCL and Tauraf International Limited to undermine all agencies of government at both the federal and state levels, especially NIWA left it with no choice but to impose its stop work order on March 18, 2019.
According to an expert whose work involves travelling on the Lagos waters, the proposed Apple Island best exemplified “what is wrong in Nigeria and with Nigerians.
“If an Island has to be created it should not be where it is currently located as it is mainly within the general channels used for navigational purpose.”
Besides, Adesola also said: “Would NIWA be allowed to do its work? This is a multi-million questions being asked by all and sundry. The sincerity of the Buhari government to entrench transparency and enforce rule of law by allowing inter agencies and ministerial departments to do their work without interference is being tested with the Gestapo style of NAPCL and its Joint Venture Partner – Tauraf International Limited.”
He said the residents’ anger manifested when General Buratai visited, as he was embarrassed by the placard carrying residents because he was under assumption that all necessary process and procedures for creating a new Island were followed.
“The residents were only soothed by his promise to wade in, which he did by setting up a committee to look into the grievances of the Banana Island Association complaints of not wanting Banana Island to be an access road into the proposed Apple Island,” he lamented.