Insurers feed fat on ignorance of the insured  Failure or loss of interest by most Nigerians to embrace insurance as part of mechanism to cover their property has culminated in victims of tragedies losing out entirely from being compensated through claims payment or outright restoration of the lost property, reports SUNDAY OJEME  Unlike in the past, Nigerians from all walks of life are recently being confronted with all forms of tragic experience.
From as little as loss of properties through petty stealing, the country is no longer immune to certain catastrophes including natural disasters, suicide bombings as well as highly organised banditry and insurgency which used to be strange occurrences. While the other side of the world is battling to curtail or contain the situation through constant initiatives, the government of Nigeria and the citizens appear to have remained aloof to the situation or simply driving in reverse while accepting things as fate that had befallen the country. From major and minor road accidents, fire disasters, to flooding, victims, especially those who die in the process, are easily forgotten, while those who survive lose everything but start from the scratch, as if nothing had happened. Only recently, the country woke up to a major tragedy with the collapse of a three-storey building in the heart of Lagos State, leading to the death of school children. The tragic experience highlighted another posture of Nigerian government’s lackadaisical attitude to the safety of citizens and proper compensation for victims of such avoidable misfortunes. Barely 48 hours after the tragic experience, another building collapsed in Oyo State, trapping the occupants just as another being demolished in Lagos caved in. The recent incidents are merely additions to other tragic experiences which had occurred in the past where the victims and their families are always left on their own without appropriate compensation, which insurance should have taken care of. Before now, recall that an accident involving about 54 vehicles had occurred on one of the bridges in Lagos, where it was discovered that only seven of those vehicles were properly insured, thereby, making it impossible for the other motorists to be compensated. This is besides the ones that happen almost on a daily basis. According to a research by one of the lecturers in the Department of Building, University of Lagos, Dr. Abimbola Windapo, there were over 112 incidents of building collapse in Lagos alone between December 1978 and April 2008. Mrs. Windapo also revealed an upward trend in reported cases of building collapse in Nigeria in 1985, 1995, 1999, 2005 and 2010. However, she said the geographical spread suggested a high prevalence in the southern part of Nigeria with 81.6 per cent of reported case in Lagos only, 8.8 per cent in Abuja, 6.5 per cent in South-South, 5.5 per cent in the South-East and 4.4 per cent in both the North-West and North Central states. Another survey showed that South-West zone of the country had the highest record of building collapses in the last eight years, with Lagos accounting for about 134 deaths and 159 injuries. There is an average of five deaths recorded yearly in Nigeria as a result of building collapse. A survey of building collapse in 2015 showed that an average of 27 buildings caved in 14 months. Out of these, 175 deaths occurred while 427 others were injured. In all of these calamities, no one family of the dead received any form of claims as the buildings were never insured. Although figures had been churned out in the past to prove how backward the country is as far as patronising insurance is, the recent ratio, as represented through the unfortunate carnage, is a practical example of what Nigerians lose by not insuring their lives and assets. The time to face reality is now, unlike some years back when stories about wildfire in Australia, flooding and mine collapse in China, and suicide bombings in some parts of Middle East were alien to us. More than anything now, the loss of lives and property amid the prevailing catastrophe coupled with growing unemployment and lacklustre government security apparatus now give a clearer picture that the days are no longer easy and the need to take insurance more seriously has become urgent. Although no one is immune from disasters, the ordinary man,   however, appears to be exposed more to all. While the rich keep their wards in highly sophisticated and secured environment, the poor are exposed to tragedies on a daily basis. In one of the most celebrated building collapse cases in Lagos that appeared to have been swept under the carpet like others in the past, several artisans reportedly died as a result of the collapse of a five-storey building under construction on Kushenla Road, Ikate-Elegushi, Lekki. Ordinarily, and under the compulsory insurance law, such buildings are supposed to be insured to cover the workers.  All the government did, as usual, was to commiserate with the families of the victims, followed with the usual state government no longer tolerating the action of unscrupulous owners and builders who challenge its supervisory control, thereby “endangering the lives of Lagosians”. Till date, there has not been any report of compensation either from the state or the developer for the families of the victims. It would have been a different ball game if the building was properly insured with premium paid.  Whereas there is a law stipulating what victims of disasters should earn, according to provisions under the Compulsory Insurance policies, it is what the government, employers or those in charge of the situation decide should be handed to the victims as compensation, and which is usually far below what the law stipulates. Over time, the ordinary citizen has remained the biggest loser in this regard as the law under the Insurance Act 2003, which is supposed to protect them, has been tactically undermined by government and become meaningless to Nigerians. Beyond collapsing buildings, employees are losing their lives on duty without being under any group life insurance cover, farmers are losing their crops to natural disasters such as flooding and pest without being compensated while houses, vehicles and other form of assets are either being stolen or consumed in inferno without the owners getting them replaced as insurance would have done for them. Although flooding, for instance, has been around for years, the dimension it has taken in the last three years calls for concern. These days, private and public buildings as well as farmlands are easily submerged with properties worth millions of naira or even more lost. Last year, farmers in some parts of the country lost major part of their crops to flooding, only for the President, Muhammadu Buhari, to make a promise of direct compensation to them since they failed to insure their farmlands. The promise was, however, different from that of the Managing Director/Chief Executive, NAIC, Mrs. Folashade Joseph, who assured victims that NAIC would pay appropriate compensation to insured farmers, whose agricultural farmlands were ravaged across the country.  She said that the corporation was mindful of its corporate responsibility to provide relief and plough farmers back to prosperity through the prompt payment of appropriate compensations.  While encouraging farmers without any form of insurance for their farmlands to do so for future benefits, she said apart from insuring the risk of loss of crops from flood, NAIC also provides insurance against crop losses arising from fire, lightening, drought and pests.  According to her, the risks of death of, or injury to livestock caused by accident, disease, fire, lightening, storm or flood are also insured by the corporation. She added: “To other farmers who might have suffered from losses arising from the floods but did not have NAIC cover, the corporation wishes to equally sympathise and encourage them to, in future, take advantage of the agricultural insurance solutions of the corporation, in accordance with the policies of government to offer protection to farmers who have answered the patriotic call to go back to agriculture.” Whereas Compulsory Insurances have made it possible for huge losses to be compensated through claims, it is, however, not taken seriously by government, individuals and institutions. According to details of the act, six different insurance policies should be obtained and retained in Nigeria, not just to boost the industry’s gross premium but to give Nigerians hope in the event of suffering losses and a better standard of living. The Act covers Statutory Group Life Insurance as stipulated in Section 9(3) of the reviewed Pension Reform Act 2014; Employees’ Compensation as stipulated in Section 33 of the Employees’ Compensation Act 2010; Occupiers’ Liability Insurance as required by Section 65 of the Insurance Act; Motor Third Party Insurance as stipulated in Section 68 of the Insurance Act 2003; Builder’s Liability Insurance as stipulated in Section 64 of the Insurance Act, and Health Care Professional Indemnity Insurance as required by Section 45 of the National Health Insurance Act 1999. According to the details, the Group Life policy, for instance, simply entails that in addition to the statutory pension contributions that employers and employees must remit under the Pension Reform Act, it also requires all employers to make group life insurance premium payments in favour of the employee for a minimum of three times his annual total emolument.  Under the Employee’s Compensation Contribution, every employer is required, within the first two years of the commencement of the Employee’s Compensation Act, to make a minimum monthly contribution of one per cent of the employee’s monthly payroll to the Compensation Fund. The fund is created to pay adequate compensation to employees or their dependents for any injury, disease or disability out of or in the course of employment. The Occupier’s Liability insurance requires all public buildings to be insured against various hazards among which are building collapse, fire, earthquake, storm and flood. Public buildings in this case refers to any tenement house, hostel, buildings occupied by a tenant, lodger or any building used for the purpose of educational, medical or recreational services or for the transaction of any business. Also, the Builder’s Liability insurance makes it mandatory that builders of real property that has more than two floors must compulsorily register and insure such a building against all construction risks resulting from the builder’s negligence or the negligence of the builder’s servants, agents or consultants, which negligence may result in bodily injury or loss of life or damage to the property. Worried by the Nigerians’ lack of interest in these laws, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), on several occasions, had attempted to drum the benefits of the Acts into both the Federal Government that created the laws and the citizens to no avail. A bold step was taken in 2011 when the commission fixed the first quarter of that year as cut-off date from when all compulsory insurances would be fully enforced and penalties applied on defaulters. The cut-off date has long come and gone, but things still remain as they have always been with more catastrophes occurring everyday with nobody being compensated. To further ensure Nigerians apply themselves to the benefits of the cover, NAICOM came up with the idea of a programme tagged: Market and Development Restructuring Initiative (MDRI), aimed at creating an engineered approach towards the development of insurance in the country. The focus was to ensure the full implementation of the Compulsory Insurance Act. However, unfolding developments over the years still point to the fact that the programme remains a hard sell due to gross apathy facing the insurance sector in the country. In the course of investigation, New Telegraph gathered that only two states out of 36 across the country actually took the initiative to key into the building insurance with Lagos, incidentally, being among the two. The other is Imo. Speaking on the failure to drive building insurance properly, a developer, Mr. Deola Sowunmi, said the issue of insurance of public building hardly bothered tenants due to the desperation involved at the stage of searching for accommodation. He argued that most of the policies in compulsory insurances were mere paper work or laws that can hardly be implemented because of peculiar Nigerian environment. “The insurance of public buildings is not new. It is meant to protect the occupier of the property, but tell me, if you desperately need an accommodation and by stroke of luck you find one with  good terms, would you start bothering to find out if your landlord insured the building or not. If you do not move in, another tenant will take it. “Government too is not helping matters; it has failed to provide facilities for people and under the same failure, it is creating more burdens for those who make such facilities available. If I need an office, and I know government has made one available for me, then I have the option of finding out if a landlord had insured his own property before I move in assuming I prefer the one he is offering to that of government,” Sowunmi said. He further established that insurance would remain a difficult commodity to sell in the country because of the prevailing economic environment, adding that those in charge of the sector should do more to create the needed awareness. “One of the major problems with insurance in the country is lack of adequate awareness. This is besides lack of enough disposable income. Those in the sector have been trying to create awareness but I believe they still have to do more. May be they should design new strategies if the old ways are failing,” he added. A source at NAICOM told New Telegraph that in Imo State, government achieved almost 100 per cent success in implementing the building insurance policy. “At a point in the state, anybody that operated a private school or hospital and attempted to renew his licence was required to present insurance cover on such premises. In the same vein, any business person, who had more than three people working for him renewing any document, was also expected to present his Group Life document for workers,” the source said. Although Lagos had attempted to do same, it has never been as effective as developers still go about building houses without the necessary insurance cover. The source added: “Although it is already law, we also want the states to incorporate it into theirs. You know so many policies meant to benefit the poor are sometime politicised. That is part of the problem we are facing now. We know some of the state governors are interested but they don’t want to be seen as putting more burdens on their subjects, so they overlook it. “Another thing people need to understand is that if you are insuring a public building, it is in the interest of the third party, who is the tenant. So the policy is not covering the building but the tenant. The benefits in compulsory insurance are not directly for the owner of the property but the occupier. It is just to ensure that if any occupier dies or suffers injury, the law will ensure the family is adequately compensated. So the compensation does not go to the owner of the property. “What most people don’t know is that Compulsory Insurance is meant to protect the vulnerable. If you are a tenant in a public building, the law is meant to protect you and your property in the event of loss, but here in Nigeria, nobody cares. Either out of ignorance or sentiments, you see those whom the law is supposed to protect would be the ones sympathising with the landlords or owners of such property, who failed to cover the risks. We have a long way to go in this country. “The truth is that if the tenant takes such a landlord to court, he (the tenant) would recover all that he had lost. That is the reason behind compulsory insurance. At least, it will teach the landlords and others a lesson. A wise landlord should be able to transfer such risks to an insurer, but here everybody feels insurance is not their business. On the benefit of the Third Party vehicle policy, he equally lamented the losses suffered by people due to ignorance. According to him, imagine if there is an accident and the driver is taken before a judge whose relative was initially killed by a hit and run driver, and out of anger he awards N100 million against the person, how would he pay that? This is what N5,000 would have taken care of. But there is a law that is supposed to protect the person but he allows himself to be cheated. While this is common knowledge to over 80 per cent of motorists, the benefit does not, however, end there as the same policy is capable of footing hospital bills in the event of the accident victim being hospitalised and in most cases take care of whatever he has been deprived of during the period he is incapacitated. Simply put, the policy, which cost just N5,000 provides coverage against physical damage that is incurred to another vehicle or property, injuries or even death to your own passengers or the passengers of the third party, and for medical and legal cost, up to the tune of N2 million for claims that are filed against the policyholder in favour of the third party. “Another example is the Group Life. Imagine when some workers die in active service, their employers decide what to give the families as compensation; whereas, the law makes it clear that such an employee is entitled to three times his annual emolument. If he was earning N1.5 million annually, he is supposed to be paid a minimum of N4.5 million, which is three times his total emolument. But here, a lot of people don’t know this. They accept whatever the employer brings, may be N500,000, an probably offers to buy the coffin.” On incidents of collapsed buildings in Lagos, New Telegraph’s attempt to get reactions on the status of building insurance was futile as a source at the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LSBCA) said she won’t be able to give details of insurance claims paid to victims, if any, as she was attending a meeting.  In the light of the devastating experience, an insurance operator also gave reasons why the compulsory insurance act was not meeting its target despite the benefits attached.  According to the Managing Director of Mutual Benefits Assurance, Mr. Olusegun Omosehin, there is need for operators in the industry to collaborate more than ever.  He is of the view that NAICOM still has a lot to do in order to ensure reasonable compliance. To him, collaboration among all practitioners is needed to enable the commission drive the compulsory insurance project successfully. He said: “I would like to call for the cooperation of the National Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) in the ongoing efforts of NAICOM to sensitise the industry and harness the opportunities inherent in the various legislations and enactments, particularly as they relate to compulsory insurance of buildings.”  Another industry operator, who spoke to New Telegraph on the condition of anonymity, however, put part of the blame on the regulator, saying it had laid emphasis more on boosting the sector’s gross premium than the benefits to the public.  He said: “Look at the MDRI, which was supposed to drive compulsory insurance, for instance. If you study it closely, you find out that the emphasis is more on boosting the gross premium income.  “The question is how the money would be realised without the public being carried along. The exclusion of the insuring public made it look like a selfish enterprise. Although the project is tied around compulsory insurance, the louder part of it should have been the benefits to the public than pursuing N1 trillion.  “Awareness still remains a major problem. Until this is taken care of, it will be difficult to make any reasonable impact. More important too, is that NAICOM should also be given the power to bit and not just to bark. If they have the power to prosecute, then the sky would be the limit.”  Speaking differently, however, a risk analyst, and consultant to the commission, Mr. Yemi Soladoye, said as much as enlightenment was necessary, insurance of public buildings and those under construction was not new.  He said: “The fire service, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), the Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria and the police are some of the law enforcement agencies that have one statutory role or the other to play in respect of the compulsory insurance products.  “Building insurance, for instance, would help curtail the damaging and painful effects of several cases of building collapse, which has recently been recurring in the country. I believe a key essence of compulsory insurance is to instil responsibility into all stakeholders that are connected with putting up public buildings, including town planning authorities, architects, surveyors and landlords.  “The biggest challenge to full realisation is apathy. Over time, NAICOM had embarked on rigorous awareness and enlightenment campaign on the policies as it hopes to get more voluntary participation.  Part of what has, however, dented insurance in the country, apart from some operators’ failure to pay mature claims promptly, is that many policyholders, who are completely oblivious of their rights to their entitlements and the inherent benefits of policies, end up bearing the burdens of the fallouts of incidences, while the insurance companies continue to make huge profits over their ignorance.  Others, who know better, are simply lethargic about pursuing their claims because of the rigours and bottlenecks involved in doing so. This last scenario has also emboldened dubious insurance operators to rate-cut in order to attract more clients.  Put bitterly, most Nigerians have lost out unnecessarily under circumstances where they should have actually earned enormous benefits. Over time, businesses, which ordinarily should be restored in the event of catastrophe, have gone into oblivion due to the owners’ ignorance about the workings of insurance. While most people keep blaming economic downturn on some investors’ inability to insure their assets, recent revelations have actually shown that the best time to insure is when things are tough.  The understanding here is such that it will be easier for an investor, who is a victim of disaster, to be restored to his former position by an insurance company than finding such help elsewhere under the same tough economic environment.  