●Obaseki vows to deal with cult members, sponsors  The Edo State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Danmallam Abubakar, yesterday disclosed the arrest of 13 suspects in connection with the killing of four policemen, including a Divisional Police Officer (DPO), at the Afuze Police Station, in Owan East Local Government Area, of the state. This emerged on a day the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, vowed that he would deal ruthlessly with members of secret cults in the state. Danmallam while parading about 120 suspected kidnappers, armed robbers, murderers, secret cult members and others arrested for their involvement in various crimes in parts of the state, urged other criminals to steer clear of the state. Among the 120 suspects paraded by the police was an army deserter, Private Mbawa Lucky, who was paraded for alleged cult activities. Damallam said details about the arrested suspects linked with the Afuze killings couldn’t be given at the moment until those at large are brought to book. He said: “On March 12, some unknown criminals, cowards who went to hide under cover of darkness, attacked Afuze Police Station, killed the DPO and three others. “If you recalled my press conference with the governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, I promised the public that we would do everything within the ambit of the law to detect and apprehend the criminals. “We succeeded in the sense that we have 13 suspects in our custody. The reason I do not want to parade them is that they are still making useful information and I do not want anything that will jeopardise our investigations as we have made arrests and they have confessed to have participated in the operation where they killed the DPO and the three others.” Meanwhile, Obaseki, cautioned parents to call their wards and children to order in the wake of the menace, which had led to the death of over 35 persons following bloody war in the past two months. He stated this when he led members and supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to a thanksgiving service to acknowledge the work of God in the violence-free event and celebrate the triumph of the APC during 2019 polls in the state. The governor said with the massive support given to candidates of the APC in the general elections, particularly in the state House of Assembly election, there was no excuse for non-performance on the part of the party. He said: “Every achievement made by my administration so far has been divinely directed as God directs my everyday activity. “This victory throws up a lot more responsibilities as the victory in the election shows the people trust our administration and we can’t afford to fail them. “All the 18 local government chairmanship seats in the state are occupied by members of the APC. All the newly elected 24 Edo State House of Assembly members from various parts of the state are APC members. “So, with our party’s dominance of the political space, we have no excuse not to deliver. I want to rededicate myself and this administration, and reinforce our earlier promise to put Edo people first at all times and to make life more comfortable and better for them.” He noted that there were a lot to thank God for, as all the elections held in the state since he became governor have been violence-free, with no life lost. The governor who frowned at cult-related activities in the state vowed to deploy a mix of strategies to stamp cultism out of the state. He called on parents to urge their children and wards to stay away from cult related activities as no one will be spared if caught in the act, adding that the necessary laws on cultism, which were passed by the state House of Assembly, will be effectively used. “Cultism is my next priority and we have a law on cultism in place, which we will use to punish offenders. With the assistance of the Edo State commissioner of police, we will set up a special squad on cultism, to deal with offenders and render it history in the state,” he said. Obaseki acknowledged and applauded the support and prayers of the Benin Monarch, Omo N’ Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolo kpolo, Oba Ewuare II, which he said have played a vital role in the success of his administration. In his sermon, the Arch. Bishop of Bendel Province Anglican Communion, Friday Imeakhai, commended the governor for relying on God and making it mandatory to always give thanks to God. Represented by Ven. Joseph Osueni, he said the victory of the party in the election was divine as no party in the history of the state has won all the seats in the state House of Assembly before now. “I want to commend the governor for his prompt payment of workers’ salaries and outstanding pension arrears,” he said. Police will today parade some suspects arrested in connection with the killing of policemen during attack on Afuze Divisional Police Headquarters in Edo State. The arrest of the suspects followed the order to the police by Governor Godwin Obaseki to fish out the culprits in the massacre of police officers.… In “Metro and Crime” Operatives of the Edo State Police Command have intensified raids in parts of Benin, the Edo State capital and arrested 54 persons in connection to the wake of raging bloody secret cult war in the state. Among the suspects were five members gang nabbed in connection with the killing of… In “Metro and Crime” The police in Kwara state paraded the son of a former spokesman of the command, Alhaji Woru Mohammed for alleged murder and membership of Aiye confraternity cult group. Alhaji Woru is also the Magazine Nda of Ilorin. The suspect, Lanre, aka Askari of Number 13, Ile Nda compound, Emir's Palace… In “Metro and Crime”