Apex northern socio-cultural organization, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has said that the issue of one Nigeria is a settled one. Speaking through its Secretary General, Anthony Sani, ACF said those questioning the unity and oneness of the country are just expressing their frustrations. ACF, however, said it is hard to have a perfect country, but the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari is a sign that Nigerians across board believe in what he is doing. It called on Nigerians to work towards a state where whoever becomes the president does not matter. His words: “The issue of one united Nigeria is already settled. All some people do when they call the unity of Nigeria into question is expression of their frustrations, which comes with preconceptions of how they want the country to be, and as long as their expectations are not met completely, they begin to call into question the Nigerian project. This is not right. “These kind of people feign ignorance of the fact that there can be no perfect country. Hence, you hear of socio-economic and political challenges in all climes, including the developed world. “For examples, some people of Alaska in America want to be excised from America and merged with Russia. In Canada, you hear Quebec does not want to be part of that country. In Great Britain, some people do not want Scotland to be part of Britain. In China, Jinjiang wants independence and in Indonesia, there are challenges posed by Aceh. It is too early to forget Catalonia in Spain. “So, when you talk of unity of a country, it is relative. We are already one country which only needs improvement by practice of good governance that comes with justice and fairness.” Sani said the coming of President Buhari has reduced challenges posed by Niger Delta militants, Boko Haram insurgence and ethno-religious crises in the North. Speaking on the agitation for the 2023 presidency between the South-East and South-West, Sani said: “I believe politics of identity symbolized by zoning, rotation and power shift are admission of failure of leadership which has made communities to believe that unless one of their own heads the government, they cannot have fair share of government patronages by way of projects, appointments and major contracts. “If the political class can rewire the politics, reengineer our sense of justice, make mercy smarter and make hope strategic by realistic appreciation of the fact and reality that governance is an art of balancing competing demands among constituencies, it will render the politics of identity superfluous in favour of it would not matter whether the cat is black, white, brown, grey or spotted, provided it catches the rats.”