Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara has indicted the executive arm of government for being responsible for the delay in the passage of successive budgets, saying the nation’s budget lacks national values and that selection of budgets is without integrity.
Dogara made this declaration yesterday in Abuja at the opening of the 2019 national budget hearing jointly organized by the committees on appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives. In his opening remarks at the occasion, the speaker lamented that “over the years, the main problem with our budget, as submitted by the Executive, is that it does not reflect national values and priorities. “The budget, more often than not, only reflects the values and priorities of those who help the president in drafting it. The integrity of the project selection process has always been the bane of our national budgets,” he said.
He insisted that unless these problems are eliminated, “we will always have non-implementable national budgets which cannot be relied upon by policymakers in establishing spending priorities.” According to him, “It is very painful that for some years now, our budget process has been an exercise in either or a combination of audacious optimism and/or hypocrisy involving key actors putting together a budget that they fully know will, at best, be implemented up to 45% which is by all standards below average.” Addressing stakeholders, Dogara queried: “How many of us here are proud of our below average budget performance all these years? Our below average budget performance is the main reason why Nigeria has remained a major promise as our national potentials cannot be released without effective budget planning and execution.” The speaker expressed regrets that all efforts by the National Assembly to improve the budgeting process were thwarted by President Muhammadu Buhari due to his failure to assent to relevant bills.
“In yet another effort to improve institutional capacity of the parliament to process and pass budget expeditiously, the National Assembly Budget and Research Office (NABRO) Establishment Bill was passed into law. It was closely modelled after the American Congressional Budget Office (CBO).  “Unfortunately, I regret to inform this gathering that these laudable efforts and initiatives were thwarted when the President withheld his assent to these two important Bills.”
Dogara stressed that “consequently, efforts to enact a Budget Process Bill, which will spell out timelines for every activity concerning the budget, is stalled because it would be ineffective to enact a law that will run contrary to Section 81(1) of the Constitution which allows the President to submit the Budget estimates at anytime before the end of the financial year.”  Dwelling on the reasons responsible for the delay in budget passage, Dogara said: “It is unfortunate, however, that many commentators always ignorantly accuse the National Assembly of delaying the Appropriations Bill as if we are meant to urgently rubber stamp whatever budget estimates that is submitted to us by the Executive.  “If we fail to scrutinize the budget proposals, it will not only amount to abdication of our constitutional responsibilities as legislators, but a betrayal of the mandate of our constituents.”
Defending the legislature, he noted that: “It is very unfair for the Executive to consistently and repeatedly blame the National Assembly for delaying passage of the budget while failing to address the issue of late budget submission on its part.”