The Federal Government has told the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in February 23 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, that he is free to challenge the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in court. Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, on Wednesday declared President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the election. Buhari polled 15,191,847 votes against Atiku’s 11,262, 978. Atiku had vowed to challenge the outcome of the February 23 Presidential election in court. The PDP presidential candidate hinged his decision on allegation that the result was marred with irregularities. Speaking with State House Correspondents yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said the country’s constitution and the Electoral Act have provided that whoever is not satisfied with results of election should approach the court. He said Atiku and his party, the PDP, were free to proceed to court if not satisfied with the outcome of the polls. The SGF said: “We are not jittery at all because the process was open and transparent. It was a credible election and we will continue to savour in the victory, but in the process too, we will extend the hand of friendship for the purpose of nation building and reconciliation. “Our Electoral Act and the constitution have both provided a window for whoever is dissatisfied with the process of election to seek redress. That is the path and we will encourage them to go along that path,” he said. Mustapha assured Nigerians that President Buhari would do more for them in his second term, especially in the area of infrastructure development. He said: “Looking into the future of the country, the President is very clear about what he wants to do. He will stand on the three pivot points that he pushed forward in 2015; securing the nation, diversifying the economy and also fighting corruption with all intensity. “There will be inclusiveness all over the place. This is one government that has really invested in social infrastructure by bringing people who are below the poverty level up and out of poverty, There are so many things that we are looking forward to and I am very thrilled and grateful that we had this opportunity to now consolidate on the tenets and gains of our democracy,” he noted. Meanwhile, the Legal Directorate of the All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council has declared its readiness to meet Atiku in court. The Legal Directorate of APC PCC said it was ready for the legal tussle. Deputy Director of the Directorate, Prof. Mamman Lawan Yusufari, in a statement, said: “We call on interested parties who are not satisfied with the results of the elections to challenge same by following due process of the law. “We affirm our readiness to defend the resounding victory of President Buhari with all the legal expertise at its disposal.” The Council thanked Nigerians for their overwhelming support for President Buhari in winning the election. Yusufari said: “We commend the presidential candidates, political parties and their support groups for their general respect for the law in the campaign activities. “We commend INEC for conducting the Presidential and National Assembly elections in substantial compliance with the law. “We condemn the few cases of violence in some parts of the country and call on the appropriate authorities to deal with the perpetrators in accordance with the law.”