Although the season is nearing its conclusion and the title race in England is now a two-horse race between Man City and Liverpool, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer will be under the spotlight for the rest of the season after his appointment as full time manager of Manchester United on Thursday. The Babyface Assassin has worked wonders since taking over from Jose Mourinho, a fact highlighted by United’s run for a Top Four Champions League place and their quarterfinal berth in the prestigious tournament at the expense of star-studded PSG. United will go into their last-eight clashes with Barcelona as underdogs and such elimination may not count against the Norwegian gaffer. However, having done a great job of narrowing the gap between them and other top four contenders to the slimmest of margins, the expectations of the Red Devils faithful are high as a miss out of the Champions League place will amount to dissipation of efforts. Solskjaer expressed his delight over getting the job at Old Trafford but he should know at the back of his mind that since the retirement of the legendary sir Alex Ferguson, all the gaffers at Old Trafford had been relieved of their posts. David Moyes, who many believe laid the shaky foundation which United have been struggling post Ferguson was booted out while Dutchman Luis Van Gaal was equally sacked despite winning the FA Cup. Mourinho himself helped United to a record of landing their first Europa League title but the loquacious Portuguese was also sacked last December which paved way for Solksjaer, who was the match winner in the historic Champions League final turnaround win over Bayern Munich at the Camp Nou in 1999. Today’s match against Watford looks winnable which would see Man United move to fourth at least until Arsenal’s home match against Newcastle on Monday night. With United facing tough games (they will play City, Wolves, who knocked them out of the FA Cup a fortnight ago and Chelsea a top-four rivals in the next fifteen days) Solskjaer is already looking towards next season as he vowed to spend wisely in the transfer market in a bid to shape his side this summer. The 46-year-old coach has led the club to 14 wins from his 19 matches in charge since becoming caretaker manager in December. “United is a club that has money, and that has to be spent in a reasonable way,” Solskjaer told Norwegian media. “People who know me, know that I will use that in a good way. “We have a plan with the club, they have scouted players for longer than I have been here, and we have players that we need to keep. “We will not spend money just to spend money.” Solskjaer said he will “hopefully” conclude United’s transfer business before their pre-season tour gets under way in Australia in July. David de Gea could establish himself as Manchester United's greatest goalkeeper, says interim manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. The Spaniard, 28, made 11 saves as United beat Tottenham 1-0 at Wembley. During 11 years as a striker at Old Trafford, Solskjaer played alongside Edwin van der Sar and Peter Schmeichel. "We've… In “Sports” Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admitted recently that he wanted to “give the best job interview I could ever do” during his supposedly temporary spell as Manchester United manager. The Norwegian had already done that before his team stunned Paris Saint-Germain to qualify for the Champions League quarterfinals, but this historic victory… In “Sports” Manchester United are “absolutely” still in the hunt for a top-four finish, says Antonio Valencia, while the Champions League final is considered to be another feasible target. The Red Devils appeared to be slipping out of contention at home and abroad under the guidance of Jose Mourinho. The Portuguese has,… In “Sports”