CAJETAN MMUTA, in Benin, reports that the gruesome attack on Owan East Divisional Police Station in Edo State two weeks’ ago was one too many. The sad incident calls for extra action by the state government to nip in the bud the repeated ugly cases of heartless killings, especially of security operatives on duty  A Black Tuesday In the latest case, four innocent policemen on duty including a Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the station, DCO, a pregnant woman Sergeant and a Corporal were gruesomely massacred while property worth several millions of naira were razed by gunmen. For residents of the agrarian and peace loving Afuze community, headquarters of Owan East Local Government Area of Edo State, life and living hold everything positive. They have lived harmoniously together, engaged in normal productive ventures such as marriages, traditional, political, religious and cultural activities as obtains in every other clime. The people are greatly reputed for massive growth in agricultural products and have no dull moment too in matters of politics and politicking. These have joined to stand the people out in balancing their affairs as a dominant ethnic nationality in the north senatorial district of the state. The area, no doubt, has some trappings in the shared nodal status as the parent Heart Beat state (Edo). It has common links with neighbouring towns of Owo in Ondo and Igbira in Kogi states. The near mountainous hills that give its people adequate security and protection where and when it matters most, is a huge benefit to the inhabitants. This singular natural potential exposes its rich tourism attractions that beckon for exploration and exploitation. However, two weeks ago Tuesday, the peaceful atmosphere that pervades the rich and vast landmass wherein lies a serene vegetation that harbor these set of hardworking group of people, was punctured, leaving the residents in fear, pains and anguish. Indeed, it was a black Tuesday in the town of Afuze as gunmen unleashed terror in the area. By the time the dust raised by their incursion settled, four policemen were mowed down in their pool of blood, others sustained injuries while property worth several millions of naira went up in flames in the process. Among those who were gunned down in most commando and gruesome manner at the spot included the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the station, the Divisional Crime Officer (DCO), a pregnant policewoman and a police Corporal respectively. The victims were massacred by the rampaging gunmen who stormed the police station in a vehicle at about 7:00pm of the fateful day. The casualties during the attack include the DPO Mr. Tosimani Ojo (a Superintendent of Police), Sergeant Justina Aghomon (a pregnant woman), Inspector Sado Isaac, who was the DCO until his sudden death and Corporal Glory David. Aside the killings, several vehicles, including police patrol vans and police station complex were seriously torched with explosives suspected to be dynamites or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) while another police van stationed in the premises of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the local government area was also not spared by the rage of the armed men. Sources close to the station disclosed that the suspects had immediately on arrival into the town headed straight to the residence of the late DPO but did not meet him and from his house raced to the divisional station. At the station, the gunmen numbering over four had walked into the office of their main target (DPO) alongside with the three other victims. They were said to have ordered the unsuspecting officers into a room, pulled their official uniforms and shot them endlessly until the victims breathed their last. It took the sudden discovery by one of the rescuers amongst sympathizers at the tensed scene few minutes after the attackers left, to break open one of the doors to discover to the rude shock of those around the lifeless bodies of the policemen in one room. It was also reported that not done in their evil spoil, the hoodlums blew open all the doors of the station, thereby allegedly freeing some of the inmates in the detention cell. They also carted away arms before they zoomed off to an unknown direction. In the melee, the awe stricken residents around the police station had bolted for safety as sounds of gunfire and explosives boomed endlessly. Sympathizers and residents thronged the station and houses of the victims in the early hours of Wednesday with wailing and expression of shock over the ugly incidents that befell the community and families of the deceased persons. An indigene of the area, who gave his name as Mr. Godwin Ikpekhia, said the incident occurred at night when many of the officers of the division had gone on outside duty and to their homes. According to him: “We only heard gunshots and nobody knew what happened until this morning. The divisional police officer and three other officers who were on duty were killed on the spot inside the building. The hoodlums didn’t stop at that. They went to the INEC office and were shooting sporadically in order to attack men who were on duty. Police van in INEC office was burnt by the hoodlums.” Some residents who lamented the sad marks left by the rampaging gunmen, stated that how the suspects entered the community and later escaped were mysterious to them. It was reported that the night attack by the hoodlums may not be far from the trademarks of suspected drugs peddlers, political thugs, kidnappers and armed robbers. The Owan axis of the state has been touted as the route for drug cartels which activities have links with towns and communities from neighbouring Ondo state and adjoining areas. Litany of attacks It would be recalled that similar gruesome attack took place on 14th of July last year at a checkpoint near Uzeba-Aviosi junction along Ifon road, Sabongida Ora in Owan West council area at which four policemen on night duty were murdered by unknown gunmen and a Hilux patrol van belonging to them officers was burnt while their official riffles were carted away in the process. Also, suspected kidnappers had on January 24, 2019, abducted a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and member of the state house of assembly representing Owan West constituency, Hon Michael Ohio-Ezomo, from his private residence at Eme-Ora in Owan West council area. A police orderly attached to the lawmaker was killed during the early morning raid.Ohio-Ezomo was later released from the den of his captors after spending about 38 days and payment of huge sum of unspecified amount of cash in the process. Following the ugly incident, a joint team of security operatives including soldiers, anti-riot mobile policemen, officials of the Directorate of the State Service (DSS) and other agencies were drafted to the local government area. Also, among the joint security outfits are regular policemen led by DPOs detailed from various divisions in Edo North senatorial district and men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC). A visit to the area during the week revealed the presence of the security operatives with mounted patrol vans within and outside the police station while routine security checks have been on in the council. In addition, the officers in show of force had patrolled round Afuze town with intensified manhunt for the fleeing perpetrators of the dastard act which left many families in pains and tears as well as destruction of properties including the police station and vehicles. Already, the activities of the joint security operatives have yielded positive result with the arrest of some of the suspects. Although, the actual figure of those nabbed has not been made public by the state police command, it was learnt that hunters and vigilante groups within the council were deployed to comb all available bushes and forests within the town and adjoining areas with a view to trailing the fleeing hoodlums even as the state police command, the state government and management of Owan East council vowed to ensure that the suspects were tracked down and brought to book at all cost. Grieving families, residents Meanwhile, distressed family members of the deceased officers have been counting their losses. The grieving family of one of the officers, late Inspector Sadoh Isaac, has demanded for justice over the death of their bread winner. The second son of the deceased, Mr. Sadoh Louis, a 36-year-old Lagos State based Civil Servant, told newsmen that his father was due for retirement in few years but had died in active service of his fatherland, the Afuze community and members of his family. He described the father of seven as ‘a lion whose bravery, fearlessness while in active service was exceptional and a police officer who stood for justice, peace and love for both his family and all throughout his professional career. The young Sadoh, who spoke when New Telegraph visited the deceased’s residence along Alli Street, said the family demands proper investigation and justice. He noted that his father believed in due process and the rule of law. The family said when they searched their father’s car, they found a wrapped suya meat which he had apparently bought to eat later that night. According to Louis, the father of seven lost his wife four years ago. He said: “My daddy was a lion in uniform; he was one of the best policemen that I have ever seen in my life. He was brave, fearless and he was never afraid of duty. So , he worked 24 hours in a day; working at night and the day time. I have never seen him sit at home as a policeman whether he is on duty or not. He was always on the field. He fought so many battles for this country, many of which I am aware of. He had worked in different parts of the country. So, my dad was a force in the Police and it is a pity that he went this way. I was expecting his retirement from service which are just few years from now”. Sadoh stated that, “He (father) was a fearless officer, a father that defended his country, his children and his family. He was a responsibility father. He has been a brother, he has been a friend to us and he also became a mother to us when we lost our mother four years ago. He has been playing the role of a father and mother since then. He was very close to the family. Our last born is about eight years old. We will miss that love he showed to us.” Asked if there was any premonition about the death of his father on the fateful day, he said: “I called him in the morning around 10 am because there was a plan we were having to discuss with him about it and he asked me to send some money which I did. We discussed at length and by 12 noon, we spoke again and he said he was at work and there was no premonition from the tone of his voice that anything untoward will happen”. He added that all the family wants is justice for their father. “My dad believed in justice and fairness and the rule of law. So, what I will want the authorities to do is to actually bring the culprits to book and to face the law because I know if my daddy was alive, he will take this case upon himself and ensure the culprits are fished out and dealt with. He investigated so many cases like this and brought them to book. So, I will implore the Nigerian Police to do same for my late dad, a hero who has served this country effectively. He worked in almost the 36 states of the federation”. An eye witness of the saddening tale, Mrs. Ruth Ifijeh, who is a petty trader, disclosed that four suspected armed men who operated outside the police station were among the gunmen as they stormed the station on the fateful evening. She described the attack as “a wonder” beyond the imagination of everybody in the area. Mrs. Ruth Ifijeh, who has been trading near the Afuze Police station for over 10 years, stated that no sooner had she finished sales for the day and was having dinner at about 7:20pm while backing the main road that leads to Otuo and the station when suddenly the gunmen shot sporadically at the area. She was forced to abandon her food, shop, wares and other of her belongings and ran for safety. She also fell into a ditch where she sustained bruises but had to gather herself up and continued the run, pointing out that the gunshots were followed with loud bangs. Ifijeh said: “I thought that day was my last day but God said no, time hasn’t reached because I am hypertensive. I fell into a ditch but I quickly got up and started running again, I never knew where I got the strength from. I had bruises and by the time things went down and I came back, I could not see many of my belongings again. Though, I cannot say whether it was the people who came to ransack my store or other people but I later heard that they killed the DPO and others. I felt bad because he was like a father to all of us here. He was nice to all of us and it is painful that they killed him this way. We have never seen this kind of experience before. We only hear of attacks in banks here”. She added that, “the people I saw outside were four in number and they had opened fire immediately they arrived at the police station at about 7:00pm. Even my store, I didn’t lock my door; I got some wounds, I fell into the gutter. I saw only four outside with my eyes before God and man. I don’t know any other thing. I have been here for about 10 years. It was not up to one year the DPO came here”. Government reacts On his part, the secretary of Owan East council, Mr. Godwin Imoudu, said the entire people of the council were mourning over the devastating incident and described the late DPO as a quintessential policeman who stood for peace and had worked tirelessly towards the peaceful coexistence of all segments of people of the council. Imoudu recalled that the late DPO (Tosimani Ojo) who was a member of the council’s peace and security committee, “was very neutral during the just concluded elections and had called a meeting of all stakeholders and politicians, a feat he said boosted peaceful polls in the area. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Muhammed Danmallam, who visited the scene of the attack, said that investigation would commence immediately and vowed that those responsible for the attack would be brought to book. He said: “Urgent steps will be taken to curb the increasing cases of criminality in Owan axis of the state.” On his part, the state Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, condemned the attack and promised that the culprits would be arrested and made to face justice. “We have not gotten this lawless in Edo State that people can go to the extent of attacking police officers at their station. I have ordered the release of all the resources required to apprehend and bring the culprits face-to-face with justice,” he said. “Our hearts are with the families of the deceased and we will stand by them in these difficult moments. I have ordered the immediate refurbishment of the police facility for policing to continue in Afuze and environs,” the governor stated. There is an urgent need for all stakeholders to sincerely join hands together, look inwards and ensure that the peace and development which the present government of Governor Obaseki has laboured for in the past two and half years and desirous to leave as its outstanding legacy is sustained with all sense of duty and responsibility. This is so important because a stitch in time saves nine and one should make hay while the sun shines. The supervisors and manager of the newest security out, Operation Wabazighan should and must wake up to their onerous task of ensuring that Edo people sleep with their two eyes closed and perpetrators of crime and criminalities are treated without kid gloves.