 • Doctors warn against proposed release of 10, 000 GM mosquitoes  • 90% scientists fear that GM mosquitoes could spread uncontrollably  • WHO certified Sri Lanka malaria-free without GM mosquitoes  Malaria control using genetically modified (GM) mosquitoes is a new technique developed to contain the scourge of the disease. However, this has been criticised by Nigerian scientists, doctors, and environmentalists for its potentiality to cause male infertility, depopulation of Africa and wreaking havoc on the environment. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports that Sri Lanka got a Malaria-free status from the World Health Organisation (WHO) without using GM mosquitoes   Malaria is a serious public health issue, affecting millions of people annually. Africa continues to carry a disproportionately high share of the global malaria burden. Fortunately, since 2000, the malaria death rates in Africa have decreased by 66 per cent among all age groups, and by 71per cent among children.  The declines in malaria incidence and deaths are attributable to extensive and effective use of insecticide treated bed-nets and more effective treatment regimen with Artemisinin-Combination Therapy (ACT), according to the WHO.  The search for solutions, particularly for vector control, nevertheless continues, due to resistance to the insecticide-treated bed-nets. Hence malaria control using genetically modified organisms (GMO) – mosquitoes is a new technique to get malaria out of the system.  This project was given the green light to make an open release of 10,000 GM Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes in the village of Bana, west of Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina Faso. The GM mosquitoes were exported from Imperial College in London to the West African nation in November 2016 and are currently in ‘contained use’ facilities waiting for open release.  Target Malaria, a Non Governmental Organisation (NGO) sponsored by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, is working on this and targeting an open release of ‘gene drive’ mosquitoes, with the aim of reducing the population of Anopheles gambiae (female) mosquitoes, which can transmit the parasite that causes malaria. The hope is that reducing the mosquito population will reduce the risk of malaria transmission and hence disease incidence. ‘Gene drive’ is a way of spreading genetically engineered traits through a whole population of plants or animals, which also has the power to eliminate population of any insect or mammals.  “This technology intends to spread a genetic trait that biases the sex ratio of the mosquito population towards male mosquitoes, thus suppressing the mosquito population,” according to Academician Dr. Philip Njemanze.  He warned, like other scientists working in the area of gene drive that gene drive may be uncontrollable and could have unintended consequences, even as civil society organisations are calling for a suspension of this technique.  Sunday Telegraph learnt that the GM mosquitoes proposed for release in Africa this year, are Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes, which have been genetically modified to be male-sterile by a construct that incorporates the Homing Endonuclease Gene (HEG).  With this, there will not be offspring when they mate with normal mosquitoes. Their eggs will be sterile and therefore cannot produce any offspring. It dies off, but the fear that such technology might be a tool for bioterrorism when it gets to the wrong hands and cause infertility among men when bitten is heightened.  Target Malaria has it that these GM mosquitoes have shown 100 per cent infertility, stating that all eggs laid by females that have mated with these GM male mosquitoes have been infertile.  According to Njemanze, there is no data on the possibility that the saliva of these GM mosquitoes may or may not incorporate HEG, which could be transmitted on biting humans and cause infertility in men across Africa.  “But well founded distrust is mounting, given that the same international sponsors of this project also funded the development of anti-human chorionic gonadotropin (anti-HCG) called the infertility vaccine that was incorporated into tetanus vaccine (and others) administered to women of child-bearing age in Africa, Asia and Latin America to cause infertility without consent.   “There is fear across Africa that the target of this GM mosquitoes release may not be malaria but spread of infertility across Africa through bites of GM mosquitoes,” Njemanze said.  Corroborating Njemanze, Director, Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF), Nnimmo Bassey said, “Genetically engineering on the whole is not as precise as it is often made to seem. The complexity of nature makes it virtually impossible to control the nature of an organism simply by targeting certain genes.  “Practitioners in the field have reported of surprising and totally unexpected outcomes to some of their experimentations. Genetically modified mosquito raises the level of risk from human attempts to control nature.  “The experiment is a new and extreme form of genetic engineering called gene drive whereby the mosquito is engineered to spread a genetic mutation that would annihilate its own species. In the past, scientists have tried to keep organisms from spreading mutations.”  Bassey who said this is the very aim of the new technology, said it is expected that by forcing harmful species of mosquito to only have male offspring, the species would die off, which can be also applied to other animals – by engineering the species to ensure that their offspring are all of the same sex.  According to him, this can equally be applied to humans but warns that the same can easily be a tool for bioterrorism in wrong hands.  He noted that the moment the release is made in Burkina Faso, the entire continent will be at risk of facing peculiar ecological challenges that would not occur in nature, saying the scientists are concerned because many of the villagers in the target villages are not fully aware that they are objects of an experiment, neither are those in neigbouring villages.  He continued: “The GM mosquito is an attempt to put a foot in door. If this is allowed to happen, there is no knowing what would follow. And certainly, the Burkinabes will not be in control of any of these. Our peoples are simply being used as laboratory rats.  “Malaria can and must be eradicated. The solutions do not require genetic engineering. What is needed includes adequate sanitation, nets and good housing. We are hardly able to regulate and control the influx of GMO foods into our nations. What would the case with this extreme version.”  Sequel to this, the Association of Catholic Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (ACMPN), Owerri Archdiocese, Imo State warns against release of GM Mosquitoes and risk of male infertility in West Africa.  ACPMN, in a statement by its Committee Chair, Dr Philip C. Njemanze also calls for International Criminal Court (ICC) prosecution of Imperial College London, UK, Burkina Faso, Target Malaria and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.  The statement reads in part: “Under European Union (EU) law, Imperial College should provide a publicly available environmental risk assessment that meets European standards before exporting GM insect eggs for open release to foreign countries.  “This legal requirement arises because GM insect eggs are alive, living modified organisms covered by the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety (CPB) to the Convention on Biological Diversity, to which the UK and Burkina Faso are both Parties.  “The relevant legal requirements for export are implemented in the UK through the European Regulation (EC) 1946/2003 on transboundary movement of genetically modified organisms (GMOs).  “This Regulation requires that the environmental risk assessment (ERA) provided by the exporter meets the EU standards on risk assessment contained in EU Directive 2001/18/EC16.  “Target Malaria acknowledges that there are no benefits to the proposed GMO mosquito release. However, they have not explained what the risks are posed by this release.”  However, for the critics of GM mosquitoes, these ‘Frankenstein’ creatures pose an unquantifiable threat that may not have appropriate checks and balances in nature and has become sources of serious concern.  Sunday Telegraph learnt that there are concerns that the GMO mosquitoes may carry or develop unknown pathogens that hurt humans. Critics say there has not been enough testing and observation of the GM mosquitoes to guarantee human safety.  According to a geneticist, Chikelu Mba, though the mosquitoes are introduced species, native species are now reliant on these mosquitoes, saying that the GM mosquitoes may mutate into a stronger mosquito that can reproduce, which poses a whole new threat.  “Most pesticides have been ruled safe by government researchers, so why risk a GMO release? Fear that despite the gene modification, some of the hatched GM mosquitoes will survive to adulthood and breed. The cost of producing GM mosquitoes is too expensive and too time-consuming,” he said. He noted that there are already numerous methods for destroying mosquitoes or protecting people from them, yet the supporters of the technology consider it a huge step forward in the war against mosquitoes.  Critics say it is dangerous to manipulate the DNA of any animal, saying the experimentation could bring disastrous consequences.  For the producers and supporters of GM mosquitoes, this solution offers an environmentally friendly way to remove an invasive mosquito species. It has been shown that invasive mosquitoes can carry diseases that can be fatal to humans.  Meanwhile, the Malaria Director, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Philip Welkhoff had said the technology will systematical eliminate all forms of mosquitoes species causing malaria in Africa and by extension Nigeria. He said, “We are seeing all those other pieces that are as important, if not more important, than the science itself, lined up and actually being executed in sequence.”  He disclosed that Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation had dedicated $70 million to support the research teams in the three countries. Nigeria will be the next in line if these African countries give their consent.  According to Ike Swetlitz, for the first time, researchers will release GM mosquitoes in Africa. The government of Burkina Faso granted scientists permission to release GM mosquitoes anytime this year. Other countries are Mali, and Uganda.  Burkina Faso’s National Biosafety Authority granted permission on August 10 last year for scientists to release up to 10,000 GM mosquitoes, according to Burkina Faso’s Director of Stakeholder Engagement for the ‘Target Malaria’ project, Delphine Thizy.  The lead researcher in Burkina Faso, Abdoulaye Diabate, said these mosquitoes, unlike their ‘gene drive’ counterparts, are not intended to have a lasting impact on the insect population.  Africa doesn’t need GMO mosquitoes – Molecular geneticist  But a Nigerian molecular geneticist and malaria specialist, Dr. Ify Aniebo, sees reasons for skepticism, saying Africa doesn’t need GM mosquitoes, insisting that their deployment is too hurried, lacks legitimacy, and is unnecessary.  Dr Aniebo’s first concern is the speed with which the technology is being deployed, saying that more studies on GM mosquitoes need to be done to ascertain safety and avoid unintended consequences before releasing them into the field.  “African countries do not have the infrastructure needed to regulate or solve any problem that may arise from this technology. The continent still struggles to control infectious diseases with an inefficient health system. Will the engineered organisms upset the delicate balance of ecosystems, thereby causing new diseases to emerge or prompting already existing illnesses to spread, what should be done?” she asked.  Sunday Telegraph observes that a careful analysis of the GM mosquito releases that have taken place – in the Cayman Islands, Panama, Brazil and Malaysia, suggest that the claims of success made for these trials are not actually supported by evidence.  Dr Aniebo said it’s unethical to release such a technology without consulting or speaking to the actual residents, saying this is typical of African countries, which suffer from bad governance and lack transparency, where decisions are usually made in private meetings with officials who don’t listen to their citizens. “This can be seen in the recent adoption of GMO foods by a few African countries despite outcry and opposition from the people. Africans have already suffered, as a result of events in the past including unethical and harmful clinical trials. In fact, Africans should have been consulted before the mosquitoes were created in the first place,” she laments.  “This follows a pattern seen in other of the Gates Foundation’s activities – that in supposedly helping the world’s poor it spends the bulk of its money on high-tech approaches in rich developed countries,” she added.  For Prof. Phil Bereano, Bill Gates is not an African, not a scholar of Africa and not a development expert, but he knows how he wants to remake the world.  “His wealth gives the Gates Foundation global reach when it comes to promoting his technocratic vision, including hiring PR agencies to minimise any regulations or oversight that might restrict its ability to introduce the so-called ‘gene drives’ that Target Malaria works on.”  Sunday Telegraph learnt that the supporters claimed there is no other alternative to control malaria in the continent.  An Environmentalist, Michael Egbedike, said Sri Lanka has been certified as malaria-free by the WHO without resorting to GM mosquitoes. “Even in the age of drug resistance, some countries have still managed to attain malaria elimination status,” he added.  Also, Nigeria’s Malaria Eradication Programme encourages innovative ways of supporting current efforts to control malaria-spreading mosquitoes, although there are no clear plans to use GM mosquitoes there yet.  According to the Malaria Journal of April last year, a vast majority of Nigeria’s scientists are sceptical about using GM mosquitoes to tackle malaria in the country. Nearly 90 per cent of surveyed scientists were concerned that such mosquitoes could spread in an uncontrolled way beyond their release sites.  Over 94 per cent others feared GM mosquitoes could mate with other mosquito species to produce hybrids with unknown consequences. Almost 93 per cent of the scientists said before any GM mosquitoes will be released in Nigeria, contingency measures must be available to remove them should a hazard become evident, according to the study.  According to a researcher at the University of Ibadan, Nigeria, Patricia Okorie, the new study surveyed by 164 scientists working in various disciplines in two states, Oyo and Kwara, Nigerian scientists want to be involved if GMO mosquitoes are released.  The Chief Medical Officer, National Arbovirus and Vector Research Centre, Nigeria, Okechukwu Chukwuekezie said the GM mosquito research is worth undertaking, saying that it is currently impossible to confine the mosquitoes in a particular location or state.  An entomologist at the University of Jos, Georgina Mwansat, said GM mosquitoes are an unsustainable way to cut malaria because Nigeria lacks the resources and facilities to deploy them.   