…to discredit Atiku’s claims  The All Progressives Congress (APC) is strategizing to win more states in the forthcoming governorship and State House of Assembly elections so as to discredit the claims of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar on the presidential election result. A party source informed New Telegraph that the party had planned for another sets of rally before the Saturday’s election in some states in the South-East and South-South geopolitical zones. The PDP and Atiku are claiming to have won the Presidential election that was conducted on February 23. The PDP presidential agent and former Minister of Aviation, Chief Osita Chidioka did not sign the result as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, claiming that the result did not agree with the result from PDP situation room. Atiku had said he would challenge the result, just as he has assembled 18-man legal team led by Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN) for the case in court. The Directorate of Legal of APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), after its meeting last week, said they were ready to meet Atiku and the opposition party in court. But a source at the National Secretariat of APC in Abuja said the party is making moves to win more governorship election, especially in those states that PDP is laying claims to have won. According to the source who spoke in anonymity, the ruling party and the President would carry more campaign rallies in those states Such states included Delta, Imo, Lagos, Akwa Ibom, Abia, Oyo and Cross River states. These were some of the states that PDP are laying claims that they won and APC rigged them out in the Presidential and National Assembly elections. The party source said the APC would not only rely on the result of the Presidential and National Assembly to make its defence. The source said: “The party needs to win many states, especially those states that PDP alleged were rigged to show as evidence. “If APC wins those states, when the legal team is arguing in court, they would be citing the victory of the party in the governorship and state assemblies elections as evidences of the party’s presidential election.”