The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it would field candidates into the leadership positions of the 9th National Assembly.
The party noted that the position of the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives as well as the Deputy Senate President and the Deputy Speaker, are constitutional right of every elected lawmaker in both chambers.
Also, the PDP Caucus in the Senate made it clear to their counterparts in the All Progressives Congress (APC) that it is the right of every senator to aspire to the Senate Presidency, irrespective of party affiliation, as provided for in the country’s Constitution. The main opposition party, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said its elected senators and members of the House of Representatives are constitutionally eligible and could seek election into any presiding offices of both chambers of the National Assembly. “It is, therefore, laughable and amounts to empty grandstanding and self-delusion for President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, to posture as if the presiding offices and committee chairmanship in the National Assembly are exclusive rights of the APC,” the party stated.  PDP told President Buhari and Oshiomhole that the National Assembly belongs to no political party, but to all Nigerians who exercise their control through their elected representatives.
It stated that Section 92 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) is clear how principal officers of the National Assembly could be elected. The party noted that in June 2015, Hon. Terkimbi Ikyange and Hon. Peter Azi, both of APC, were elected Speakers of Benue and Plateau State Houses of Assembly respectively, though their party, the APC, was minority in both houses.
PDP also recalled that President Buhari and the APC applauded the defection of then Speaker of the House of Representatives, Aminu Tambuwal, from the PDP to the APC, in October 2014, without relinquishing his position.  “In fact, the former Minority Leader of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, echoed the constitutional provision that ‘the constitution requires only that the Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives shall be elected by members of that House from among themselves.'”  According to the statement, the party offices in the legislature are the Majority and Minority leaders and deputy leaders as well as Majority and Minority Whips and Deputy Whips.
PDP, therefore, called on President Buhari and the APC to respect the independence of the legislature and stop sowing seeds of discord among the lawmakers, as such is directly against national interest.
PDP, against all odds, produced the Deputy President of the Senate, in the 8th National Assembly.  Meanwhile, the PDP Caucus has reminded their colleagues in the ruling party, based on the provisions of the grand norm of the land, that it is the duty of all senators in the Ninth Senate to elect their Senate President and other leaders, stressing that nobody from outside is empowered by law to interfere in the process.  The PDP Caucus made these assertions in a statement signed by Senate Minority Leader, Mrs. Biodun Olujimi, and Chairman, Senate Committee on Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Dino Melaye.
It also warned the APC senators to leave the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, out of their on-going schemes in the jostle for the Senate Presidency of the 9th Assembly.
The Caucus said that it had observed closely as the contenders for the various Senate leadership posts in the APC sponsored various publications in the media to create the impression that Saraki was seeking to play a role in who should occupy the various leadership positions in the coming Senate.  It further warned that such surreptitious attempts to drag Saraki into the issue that did not concern him would not augur well for the smooth take-off of the next Senate and could only create suspicion and ill-will among the incumbent Senators and the incoming ones.  The PDP caucus said: “…It is obvious that many Senators and even Senators-elect still defer to Saraki. And this is understandable because he is a national leader of the PDP.
“Last week, PDP Senators paid Dr. Saraki a visit in his home as a way of encouraging him and in recognition of the personal sacrifice that he has had to make for providing strong and purposeful leadership to the National Assembly….
“Let it be known that no matter the mischief being sponsored by these spineless people, Dr. Saraki knows that it is the duty of all Senators in the Ninth Senate to elect their Senate President and other leaders. Nobody from outside the Senate has such powers.  “It is also the right of every Senator to aspire to that position as stated by the constitution. He has benefitted from this practice of Senators within the chambers exercising the right. He is conscious of this fact and will not be a party to any plan to seize or interfere with the process of evolving the leadership of the Ninth Senate.
“We, therefore, urge the APC gladiators and their handlers to leave Saraki out of their schemes and manipulations. They should go and concentrate on how to convince the Senators-elect and ensure that the election of the next Senate President takes place in a conducive atmosphere with a view to strengthening the institution and making it perform its constitutional roles, without any hindrance.” Ahead of the expected zoning arrangement to be announced by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), frontline contenders for presiding officer positions in the incoming 9th National Assembly have commenced a bi-partisan campaign. Insiders told New Telegraph that while some of the ranking Senators are denying having flagged off full-scale… In “News” An intriguing battle for the position Senate President has ensued within the All Progressives Congress (APC), which won majority of seats in the upper legislative chamber ahead of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, Felix Nwaneri reports   The National Assembly elections have come and gone, with winners and… In “Politics” Plan unsettles APC APC NWC decides on zoning formula   A plot by the opposition Peoples Democr a t i c Party (PDP) to influence the emergence of a new Senate leadership, when the 9th Senate is inaugurated in June has unsettled the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). New Telegraph… In “News”