UEFA LEAGUE   Round of 16 (TUE) Dortmund v Tottenham – 9pm (Agg 0-3)
Real Madrid v Ajax – 9pm (Agg 2-1)  Round of 16 (WED) FC Porto v Roma – 9pm (Agg 1-2)
PSG v Man United – 9pm (Agg 2-0)  About three weeks ago, he suffered his first reversal as caretaker coach of Manchester United when he was completely outsmarted by his German opposite number, Thomas Tuchel in the first leg of the UEFA Champions League Round of 16 tie. Old Trafford became the ‘Theatre of Nightmares’ as the 46-year-old Ole Gunnar Solskjaer watched helplessly as Paris Saint-Germain turned on the style to sweep aside his Red Devils with outstanding performances from Kylian Mbappe and Angel Di Maria. Di Maria, a former Manchester United star showed what might have been, was the arrowhead of the PSG second half display with his 53rd minute corner allowing Kimpembe, arguably fortunate to still be on the pitch, to escape the attentions of Nemanja Matic and side foot past David de Gea. And it was fitting that the brilliant Mbappe, whose searing pace was a threat all night, enhanced PSG’s position of superiority when he turned Di Maria’s inviting cross past the exposed De Gea on the hour. Although Solskjaer’s plans were wrecked by first-half injuries to Jesse Lingard and Anthony Martial but PSG can rightly point out that they were also missing their injured Brazilian superstar Neymar and striker Edinson Cavani when they gave the Norwegian’s side a mountain to climb in Wednesday’s second leg. Predictably Ole sounded upbeat after the first leg reversal insisting that they would be up for the Herculean second leg challenge, insisting that they still had a chance. “Mountains are there to be climbed – you can’t lay down and say this is over. We will go there, play our game and improve from today. Today is a reality check for us,” he said after the game. However, Solskjaer’s team will have to raise their game to superhuman levels if they are to defy all the odds to leave the Parc des Princes with a ticket to the quarter-finals of the most lucrative club football competition in the world. Beyond the fact that on paper, the Parisian side appears to have the better and more tactically savvy players, history is also not on the side of the man who famously scored the dying second goal against Bayern Munich in the 1999 final which ensured Manchester United entered folk law as the first British team to achieve the treble on that dramatic night in Spain. In fact none of the previous 34 teams to lose the first leg of a Champions League knockout match at home by two or more goals have progressed this is the daunting task facing Ole and his Red Devils, who will also be without one of their most influential players, Paul Pogba who was shown a red card in the first leg. In analysing what went wrong for the Norwegian in the first leg, goal.com wrote: “It had been a stodgy, compact match in the first half with limited space in the centre of the pitch as Marco Verratti ran the midfield (primarily because Paul Pogba was man-marked out of the game by Marquinhos). Consequently United should have sought to redefine the contest on the flanks, not double down on sluggish inside forwards; Juan Mata and Alexis Sanchez inevitably added to the sense of claustrophobia. “Instead, Solskjaer should have brought Romelu Lukaku on and switched to the 4-3-1-2 that has served the United head coach well over the past month. Lukaku and Marcus Rashford could have split wide, using their pace on the counter with Mata in the hole behind them. “Tuchel’s own half-time tactical switch confirmed Solskjaer’s mistake. The PSG boss instructed Thilo Kehrer to sit deeper and narrower, forming a back three during sustained periods of possession (presumably to nullify Martial, not knowing the Frenchman was about to be subbed). “Rashford was easily suffocated while Mata and Sanchez were thwarted by the outside centre-backs as they attempted to drift infield. Had Solskjaer gone to 4-3-1-2, Lukaku and Rashford could have made runs in between the three PSG centre-backs to cause considerably more damage.” However, in truth it is easier said than done, because not only will Ole have to get his tactical plans spot on he will also have to ensure that his wards remain pumped up for the occasion in which it is very crucial that it is the Red Devils who get the first goal on the night. Should PSG add to their already hefty advantage then it will surely be game over for three three-time European champions. Yesterday United warmed up for their foray into Europe with a home game against Southampton, while PSG was away at Caen. The Round of 16 actually kicks off on Tuesday though with German side, Borussia Dortmund needing to find three goals without reply following their shock first leg capitulation to Tottenham Hotspur at Wembley. Just like what ensured at Old Trafford it was also a game of two halves with half-time tactical adjustments changing the direction of the tie. Dortmund’s Jadon Sancho looked dangerous throughout the opening 45 minutes, cleverly dropping into the half-space between the left wing-back Jan Vertonghen and left centre-back Toby Alderweireld. Spurs’ boss Mauricio Pochettino gave his players some detailed tactical feedback at the break to correct this problem. First, the defensive line was pushed higher so that the gap between the centre-backs and midfield was reduced, squeezing Sancho out. But more importantly Serge Aurier was instructed to stay back more often, allowing the three centre-backs to shuffle across and Alderweireld to track Sancho without fearing what was behind him. The tweak limited Sancho’s influence (he completed four dribbles in the first half and zero in the second) and freed Vertonghen to burst forward, having previously dropped deeper to mark Sancho. Suddenly Tottenham had an outlet out wide and the laboured possession of the first 45 became incisive. Vertonghen assisted the opening goal with a perfect cross for Son Heung-Min, before adding the second himself with the sort of attacking run he couldn’t possibly have risked in the first half. Pochettino, repeatedly touted with a move to Old Trafford this summer, however, knows that in football nothing is certain and cannot thus rest easy despite the first leg score line. For his German opposite number, Lucien Favre the task is simply to strive to get an early goal in order to put pressure on the visiting team. Although the Swiss is under no illusions over the importance of progressing in the Champions League, he also knows that should he finally end Bayern Munich’s six-year grip on the Bundesliga he would still be celebrated. His Dortmund is currently just three points ahead of the 27-time champions, and thus cannot afford any slip up at home. In fact although he will not admit it publically, but privately Favre will not lose too much sleep should his side exit the competition at this stage, which would allow him concentrate wholly on winning an eighth title, the last coming in 2012 when they finished eight point ahead of Bayern. Fans in the biggest stadium in Germany, the 81,365-seater Westfalenstadion, will be fully behind the home team, decked in their famous yellow attire, as try to propel their team to victory. At the end of 90 minutes though, although the Germans should win it, however, might just not be enough to get them through to the quarter-finals. And in the final game of the week, Real Madrid should prove just too strong for very unlucky Ajax, who made all the running in the first leg but still ended suffering a 2-1 defeat. Next week the final Round of 16 games see Manchester City hosting Schalke 04 and Juventus tackling Atletico Madrid on Tuesday and on Wednesday, Lyon travelling to Barcelona and Bayern Munich hosting Liverpool. 