Joseph Otteh is executive director of Access to Justice. In this interview with JOHN CHIKEZIE, he speaks on roles of the military in elections, corruption, CJN’s arraignment, CCT roles in justice system and varied issues  What is your evaluation of events surrounding arraignment and prosecution of suspended Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen and the future of judiciary? My prognosis is, if we remain like this, then there’s a lot of gloom ahead. The Chief Justice Onnoghen story is a fiasco that will overshadow a lot of what people think (or make of) the Nigerian Judiciary or the strength and vitality of our legal and judicial system. In many parts of the world, it would be unthinkable that a Chief Justice was removed in the way ours was. The more you think that a head of a branch of government was removed by an ex-parte order, you more you realize that all the very elaborate designs made by the Constitution to protect against tyranny and guarantee a separation of powers can be defeated in an instant, by the snap of a finger, in the hands of a poorly prepared umpire if I may be allowed to speak as an activist and stakeholder now without the attributions. You know, it used to be said by American scholars, such as Alexander Bickel, that the Judiciary is the least dangerous branch to democracy. The Code of Conduct Tribunal has turned that proposition on its head. The judiciary or at least a body exercising judicial powers in Nigeria is now the most dangerous institution to democracy in Nigeria. The Code of Conduct Tribunal is now doing the sorts of things the Supreme Court of Nigeria cannot do; the National Assembly cannot do; and even the President himself cannot do. Somebody wakes up one morning and decides, “oh, the Constitution of Nigeria is subject to me: today I say that the Chief Justice be removed from office” and he does it. I fear that what the Code of Conduct Tribunal has done will define international perceptions of the strength and reliability of Nigeria’s judicial system for a long time to come.
Having said these, I am hopeful that the damage done to Nigeria’s judiciary will be ameliorated ultimately, and this disingenuous ruling of the Code of Conduct Tribunal will be regarded as a freak incident, in the same way that Justice Bassey Ikpeme’s mid-night order stopping elections in 1993 was. Nigerian appellate courts I hope, will peel back some of the damage that the CCT has done to Nigeria’s democracy.  Do you share speculations making the rounds that the government has actively pursued the removal of Chief Justice Onnoghen so as to influence how election disputes are determined? Everything about how Chief Justice Onnoghen was purportedly removed from office aligns with that theory. The unprecedented and implausible haste with which the Code of Conduct Bureau received complaints against him, investigated the complaints and filed the charges (let’s remember, less than 3 days), the outlandishly bizarre orders given by the Code of Conduct Tribunal for his removal, and the peculiarly irregular approach to this case, all support this theory showing an unmistakable handwriting on the wall.
Will all this permutation work to plan? The answer will blow in the winds for some time. But I hope not for too long. One thing is reasonably clear to me at this time though. By the provisions of Section 231(5) of the Constitution, a person appointed to act in the position of the Chief Justice of Nigeria cannot remain in that acting position for more than three months without the recommendation of the National Judicial Council (NJC). So, the ball is now, or will be soon, in the court of the NJC. I do not expect the NJC, in view of the atrocious illegalities that led to this current situation, alongside (with respect) the benumbing conduct of the Acting Chief Justice himself in accepting that position in the circumstances in which he did, to recommend a continuation of office for him. Except of course, the Code of Conduct Tribunal – since it holds itself above the Constitution – gives yet another Order that section 231(5) be immediately “suspended for the time being”. If, however, the Constitution is allowed to still remain Nigeria’s Constitution, then by April, the acting tenure of the Acting Chief Justice would expire. The Constitution says he cannot be reappointed to the position. How will this affect the current game plan? I’m not sure, but it seems that the current Acting Chief Justice will not be in the position to order things around. So if the government has based its thinking on the acting Chief Justice remaining in office at the time election disputes reach the Supreme Court, it may have miscalculated. At the end of the day, the government may have been too clever by half. Then again, you can’t put anything past a government that is ready to plumb any depth to achieve a self-serving goal.  How do we resolve the issue of conflicting judgments from courts of coordinate jurisdiction especially in election matters? I do not think the judiciary has, with respect, stepped up to the plate in handling this subject and that failure may have far-reaching implications for the integrity of election decision making by election tribunals. Conflicting decisions strike at the very foundations of the legal philosophy on which our jurisprudential system is founded and robs the system of its predictability and reliability. Going forward, I’ll like to see the Chief Justice of Nigeria, as head of the judiciary, perhaps alongside the National Judicial Council to address the problem more resolutely and establish stronger guidelines for appellate courts in this respect. Remember there was such a time High Court Judges used to grant ex-parte injunctions indiscreetly and randomly. The Judiciary stepped in, and ensured that was abated. That sort of intervention is needed here too in my view.  Is it possible in law to use videos on social media to establish electoral fraud where the elections abruptly stopped and people disenfranchised by INEC? I believe they can, given that our laws of evidence wear a more contemporary look and have, to some extent, closed some of the pre-existing gaps of the erstwhile legislation. We will watch how electoral courts fare with using modern communication media to gather and analyse information.  Does the military have any role in election? My recollection is that the role of the military is to provide security during the elections. Unfortunately, the military has interpreted this role rather expansively, and has even appropriated to that role, basic aspects of law enforcement. This is clearly a territorial grab of the functions of law enforcement agencies. In the process of interfering with the conduct of the elections and getting itself distracted, the military then failed to meet the basic primary reasons for its being deployed in election sites, i.e. to provide security and safety. It is clear to me that military power was put to very illicit, inappropriate uses during the elections, and military presence, at least in some instances, has possibly done more harm to electoral democracy than good. This is something we need to think about and review as we go forward. The extent that the military should be involved in tampering with election observers, aiding ballot box snatchers, etc., the images we have seen give very little credit to the military’s role in the elections, and INEC has said this too. This will represent another and this is another major failure for our military. In another clime, the leadership of the military would have resigned, or been booted out for undermining the elections. But our government that fights corruption with all of its might looks on presumably with avid interest. All this, of course, is besides its notorious reputation for committing acts of genocide, but that is a matter for another day.  With the reports on the election so far compared with last election in 2015, how would you rate democracy in the country vis-a-vis adherence to the rule of law? There are quite a number of opinions saying the 2015 elections had far less incidents of carnage, violence, bare-faced thuggery and brigandage. Maybe there is some truth in them. Our President says he wants his legacy to be defined by the fairness and freeness of elections, but so far, he has not lived up to the bill, and his efforts do not yet measure up to scratch.   What voting rights do inmates have under the Constitution or Electoral Act? The Electoral Act gives a general right to vote to all persons eligible to vote, and does not discriminate against persons who are incarcerated. I did read, prior to the elections, that INEC was making preparations to ensure that prison inmates can exercise their franchise, but I do not know whether they were able, eventually to guarantee this. If INEC failed to ensure that eligible prisoners did vote, that would be a major, and actionable denial of civic rights. This is something I should raise with prisoners’ rights groups.  Is there any provision of the law supporting the parade of suspects by the police officers? This is something that’s been of interest to me for quite a while now. Parading crime suspects is quite a blatant abuse of the rights of those suspects and it hardly serves any legitimate criminal justice purpose. It is basically a dance to the gallery by the police oftentimes, to give the public a certain impression I suspect, at the expense of the rights of others. I wished it were possible for someone to conduct some survey on the percentage of persons who were subjected to public parading but were acquitted for the crimes charged with and paraded for afterwards. The ratio could pull some surprises, and you might be shocked to see that many paraded persons were eventually discharged, sometimes even, for lack of prosecution. I know of one or two cases where such paraded persons were acquitted and indeed two of them successfully got a declaration that their public parading was unconstitutional and illegal. Yet, the police still persist in that obnoxious practice. It’s also quite invidious on other fronts. People of power, wealth and privilege are not subjected to similar practice. Look at the ex-Governors, former Ministers, serving and past Senators undergoing trial, former Chief executives of Banks, former heads of security agencies (Army, Navy and Air Force), how many of these people were required to sit barefooted on the ground so that the police would do a bit of image laundering using them for a narrative? It’s just a major shame that we practice this obnoxious apartheid-form discrimination within our criminal justice system, only that this time, it is defined by class and power not race. Access to Justice will be revisiting this matter shortly I hope.