Prof. Mamman Lawan Yusufari is a lecturer at the Bayero University, Kano and Deputy Director, Legal Directorate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC). He speaks in this interview with JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM on the presidential election and rejection of its outcome by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar   How prepared are you to face the legal team of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at Election Petition Tribunal?
In the first place, l think the position of the opposition PDP is not unexpected. Normally, when politicians lose elections they challenge the result. The normal thing they do is to go to court and pour out all their grievances there as they are; that they are not satisfied with the result and we are not surprised that PDP is doing this, by going to challenge the result in court. That is fine with us. It is what the constitution has made provision for and that is what the legal system is there for.
We commend them for doing it in a civilized way, they are not taking the laws into their hands, they have not resorted to violence and they have not gone against the law. Actually, this is what the law provides for. So, just as they are ready to go to court, we are ready to meet them in court. As you are aware, the APC Presidential Campaign Council has a legal Directorate that was inaugurated by Mr. President on January 7 and we did our work throughout the campaign period and since there is a structure in place, as we got the intentions of the PDP, we immediately summoned an emergency meeting of the Directorate and we discussed the likely issues.
So, like we said in our statement last week, we are prepared to defend the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari. We believe he won the election and that it was free, fair and transparent as most international observation groups attested to. When you talk about elections, you talk about numbers. We have the numbers, we don’t have any fear as the gap between President Buhari and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is about four million votes and we know that these are legitimate valid votes. We can defend them anywhere. So, we have no fear. Have you made any research on the allegations by PDP presidential candidate on the election to take the position you are taking?
Yes, we are working on it. We have heard their allegations and like l said, they are normal allegations whenever you have the results of elections announced – over voting, among others. They are normal allegations and we are ready for them. Our team are already working in those areas. Have you been asked by the President or the APC Presidential Campaign Council to submit a preliminary report on your findings over the allegations by the PDP and what were your findings?
That is between us and the presidency just like a client-lawyer relationship. You don’t disclose what you do with your client. It is a private communication. All l can say is that we are ready for them and normally you have to respond to a petition, when you are served. We have not been served or the President served. As soon as our client is served, we will meet to prepare our response and file it before the court and serve the petitioners. How many lawyers would you be expecting to have on the legal team of the President taking cognizance that the presidential candidate of PDP has assembled an 18-man legal team with Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN) as the lead counsel?
I think the number doesn’t matter. When you talk about a legal team, you talk about quality and not quantity. The quality matters not quantity, but l will assure you that we will have both – the quality and quantity. Is your team also thinking about adopting an alternative dispute resolution approach on the issue?
Sure! Our doors are open. Normally, lawyers would not kick against resolution of matters out of court. In fact this is something that is recognised by our rules. Whenever parties decide to settle out of court, we encourage them to do that. Talking about the clients, are you saying that the lawyers cannot initiate that?
Normally, clients initiate that but lawyers too can make a case for that. But as far as we are concerned, we are going to be a respondent to the case. We are waiting. If we are sued, there is no way we wouldn’t respond. We are waiting and if they want settlement, we will not say no to them and if they want to go to court, we will not say no to them. We will go to court and face them. We will oblige them if they explore out-of-court settlement. Are you in anyway threatened by the allegations of exhibit the PDP said it has.
Not at all! We are confident. They have spoken and everybody has heard them, it is a question of number of votes. We have valid and legitimate votes in favour of Mr. President in the election. So, we have nothing to fear, not at all in this case. Are you categorically saying that your team have what it takes to face the PDP in court?
Very, very confident! If the loser is confident to go to court; what about the winner? I mean the winner should be more confident because you are defending what you know you got legitimately and validly. So, why should we hesitate to go to court to defend it giving what is at our disposal? Looking at the result of the presidential election holistically, what would be your take on other persons that want to go to court against APC?
It all depends, ours is to defend Mr. President because we are under the APC Presidential Campaign Council. We cannot speak for other positions, but generally, the elections were free, fair and transparent, particularly the presidential election. The result is a true reflection of what was expected. Of course, you know there were opinion polls that Mr. President was likely to win certain areas and he was likely to lose certain areas and surely what came out was a confirmation of what the analysis showed.
So, if there were pockets of cases, where you have troubles, that is normal with elections and even when you have problems in polling units, if the total number of votes affected could not affect the result of the election, the court definitely would not invalidate the election. It would still discover that the President was validly elected notwithstanding troubles here and there. Would you say that the PDP presidential candidate was ill advised to go to court?
Well, you know that it is a question of choice and it is a question of information available to them. Perhaps they have the wrong information or they are under the wrong impression that the elections were rigged against them. It is only the court that will determine that. If they have evidence, let them bring it to the court and we have our own evidence. The court works with evidence and you will see that Mr. President was validly elected. Even if there were some irregularities here and there, they cannot be sufficient enough to be injurious to our candidate.