Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said the will of the people of the state will prevail ahead of the botched announcement of the governorship election result. He also called on the people to remain calm because the success of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the March 9 governorship election would be sweet victory in the end. Speaking yesterday when members of the National Assembly elected on the platform of PDP presented their INEC certificates of return to him at a ceremony in the Government House, Port Harcourt, Wike noted that all those who plotted the killings of Rivers’ people because of their desperation to clinch power would face the consequences of their actions. He said: “I know that PDP won the elections squarely. We believe in peace, therefore Rivers’ people should remain calm. We believe in due process. “I believe that INEC is doing their best to follow due process. In the end, it will be a sweet victory. The will of Rivers’ people will prevail,” he said. Wike described the entire political standoff as a drama which will end. He said the people voted overwhelmingly for the PDP in all the elections, while the anti-democratic forces attempted to snatch results at the collation centres. “Let me thank the people of Rivers State for the love they have shown for our great party. It is not in doubt that Rivers’ people have shown our party love. What is happening is sad. It is a drama. “We have 13 House of Representatives seats and the PDP clinched all of them. We have three Senate seats, one has been declared and PDP won. When the remaining two seats are declared, PDP will win them. Eighty per cent of the seats declared, PDP took all. “You begin to wonder why any right thinking person would say that PDP lost the governorship election. “Not that they say PDP lost to a party with a known logo, or even if you have seen the candidate one day in your life or seen his posters to make people vote for the candidate. For us, it is a drama. PDP won the election squarely,” he said. He added: “Across 4,442 polling units the results are there. The PDP won in all these areas. Not when you hijack results at the collation centre. When you hijack Form EC 8C, you forget that there is Form EC 8A. Any other party can win in any other state, but not in Rivers State.