A well-developed Commodities Exchanges Market will play an important role in advancing Nigeria’s economic diversification goals. Chris Ugwu writes  In as much as the local bourse has been developed, having been attested to by the international communities and other stock exchanges in the world and with the sustainable bearish run, which have caused many investors fortune, stakeholders in the Nigerian economy have stepped up campaign for the diversification of the exchange to accommodate, the commodities exchanges. A commodity is a product, which trades on an exchange. This includes cocoa, rubber, palm kernel, palm oil, coffee, hides and skin, gold wheat, cotton, rice, corn, grain, sorghum, butter, eggs, potatoes and wool tops. Also included are fats and oil (including lard, tallow meal, groundnut oil, soya bean meal oil, and all other fats and oils), cotton seeds, groundnut, soya beans, soya bean meal, livestock products and oranges, solid minerals and all other tangible goods and articles, except all services, rights and interest in which contracts for future delivery are presently being dealt with.
The need for vibrant commodities exchanges have become necessary as agriculture, which supposed to be the mainstay of Nigerian economy has suffered from years of neglect, inconsistency, poorly conceived government policies and the lack of basic infrastructures. In the 1960s, the agricultural sector was the most important in terms of contributions to domestic production, employment and foreign exchange earnings. The situation remained almost the same three decades later with the exception that it is no longer the principal foreign exchange earner, a role now being played by oil and gas. The sector remained stagnant during the oil boom decade of the 1970s, and this accounted largely for the declining share of its contributions. According to National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the trend in the share of agriculture in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) shows a substantial variation and long-term decline from 60 per cent in the early 1960s through 48.8 per cent in the 1970s and 22.2 per cent in the 1980s. Unstable and often inappropriate economic policies (of pricing, trade and exchange rate), the relative neglect of the sector and the negative impact of oil boom were also important factors responsible for the decline in its contributions. However, currently, the reverse is almost becoming the case, as the decline in crude oil prices is currently affecting the economy and government is looking for a way to boost non-oil revenue in the country. This is more compelling reason why there is need to boost non oil revenues, one of which is reviving the country’s Commodity Exchange to encourage agriculture and also offer investors opportunities not only in the equity side but across the various asset classes. Since capital market is reflective of the economy, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has said that in order to complement the government in the area of agriculture, there is a great need to strengthen Commodities Exchanges in the country to enable farmer have value for their products. This is why the SEC recently granted approval-in principle to Lagos Commodity and Futures Exchange (LCFE). Aside the proposed LCFE, there are two major Commodities Exchanges in the country-Nigerian Commodities Exchange and Afex Commodities Exchange- which are promoting the trading of commodities.  Endorsement LCFE being promoted by Lagos State government and Association of Stockbroking Companies of Nigeria (ASHON) recently obtained approval-in principle from SEC to commence operations. The new Exchange is expected to commence operation immediately after the on-going installation of its state-of-the art technology, which is at the concluding phase. Commenting on the recent development, ASHON’s Chairman, Chief Patrick Ezeagu, expressed gratitude to SEC for the opportunity. He assured the Commission that ASHON had been working very hard to complete the installation of the technology in order to commence trading.
Corroborating him, LCFE’s Acting Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr Akin Akeredolu-Ale, described the approval as a welcome development. According to him, it shows the level of dynamic capacity of the apex regulator to empower capital market operators to play pivotal role in capital formation and wealth creation. Akeredolu-Ale underscored the essence of capacity building in order to improve efficiency and service delivery.
He explained that the trading floor of the new corporate office of LCFE in Lagos was already wearing a new look, as trading technologies, including control room and servers are being installed. One of ASHON’s technical partners, Mr Subbiah Rajagopa of Chella Private Limited, explained that as ASHON would soon commence a specialized exchange, it is necessary to expose its members to the rudiments of Commodity and Derivatives market. According to him, from the African perspective, Nigeria used to be the largest economy in terms of the size of its Gross Domestic Products (GDP). But due to the last two to three years of recession, it has come down in size. However, “we are seeing an upward movement at the moment,” he said.
“Therefore, this is the right time to start investing in such products like derivatives and commodities because Nigeria has a large population, which depends on farming and it is important that these farmers finally start benefiting from such marketing institutions, automation and technology.”  Commitment to reviving Commodities Market In a bid to deepen investors’ participation in the nation’s capital market, SEC has said it is committed to ensuring that the Commodities Exchange is revitalised. The Commission also restated its commitment to partner with relevant government agencies and the private sector to attract more investments to the country in a bid to further boost the economy.
Acting Director General of the SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk stated this in Abuja when she received the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) Ms. Yewande Sidiku. Uduk said that it is in furtherance of its objectives of attracting more investors to the capital market that the SEC is poised to revitalize the commodities exchange market among other initiatives. “There are opportunities in the Commodities market and we need to scale up participation in that regard to attract investors,” she said. “And we will require the collaboration of the NIPC in that regard as the direct investors you are seeking to attract “Various opportunities abound in the capital market for both individuals and government and that is why we are exploring avenues to attract states to come to the market and raise funds for infrastructural projects. We are happy to partner with you to make the market and the country richer and better” Uduk said. In her remarks, the NIPC ES, Yewande Sidiku said the Commission is committed to ensuring that the nation has the required business climate to attract both foreign investors and Nigerians in the diaspora. She said the Commission is visiting different states to explore investment opportunities and also looking at some investments that were started by states but are now moribund and find ways to revitalize them. “There are many investment opportunities in the states and what we have done now is to design a platform for profiling such investment opportunities. Part of the strategy is to enlighten the state officials, as it is important that the states are ready for the investors,” Sadiku stated.
She said the mandate of the Commission is to encourage investors to come and that is why incentives are being put in place to make it easier for them to come. “The work that we do is connected to the work of the SEC, we encourage investors to come while the SEC is here to protect the investors and that is why we need to collaborate. We are happy to work with the SEC to further grow our economy,” she explained.  Operators’ views The Managing Director, Crane Securities Limited, Mr. Mike Eze, who described the efforts of the government and regulators as a welcome development, said, “as an investor your chances of risks are very less if you choose to invest in commodities trading.
Explaining the important of Commodity Exchange, aside helping to deepen the activities of the capital market with the introduction of new products, Eze said that it will increase the earnings of the producers by reducing the effects or price volatility, provide a basis for risk management and serve as mechanism for effective pricing. “The benefits of a Commodity Exchange include market price discovery as well as access to information concerning commodities traded on the Commodities Exchanges, which are available to brokers in advance of trading i.e. quality, location and time of delivery, thus facilitating pricing,” he said.
“The futures markets help to determine the best current prices. All bids and offers are aggregated and the prices at which the trades are executed, determine the best, current market price. In addition, the prices are publicly disseminated and therefore provide an easy way to determine a product or instrument’s fair price.” According to the Chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association, Mr. Boniface Okezie, the chances of risks are lower because commodity investing primarily deals with diverse items.
“Moreover when the contracts are entered for a future date at the current time you can exercise reasonable care and see to it that the chances of risks are reduced or nil,” he said.   Last line
To have viable Commodities Exchanges is particularly critical now given the increasing emphasis on agriculture, which is expected to enhance non-oil revenue in the country.