   The February 23 presidential election may have been won and lost, but the last has not have been heard as the simmering allegations level against the President-elect and candidate of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Muhammadu Buhari, by his main challenger, Atiku Abubakar, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are such that would raise not a little dust in the days and months ahead. Atiku is challenging at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja, rejecting the result, alleging widespread “premeditated malpractices,” besides claims that President Buhari was not qualify to contest the election. In preparation for his petition, Atiku had obtained the nod from the Justice Abdul Aboki-led three man panel of the tribunal for the electoral body to grant him access to all election materials. The tribunal, however, refused his request for forensic analysis of the said materials. Atiku who concluded the process of filing his petition through his team of lawyers premised the said petition on five grounds. Cited as 1st to 3rd respondents are INEC, Buhari and APC. The petitioners’ state that the grounds upon which this petition are as follows: “The 2nd Respondent was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes cast at the election. The election of the 2nd Respondent is invalid by reason of corrupt practices. The election of the 2nd Respondent is invalid by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended). “The 2nd Respondent was at the time of the election not qualified to contest the said election. The 2nd Respondent submitted to the 1st Respondent an affidavit containing false information of a fundamental nature in aid of his qualification for the said election”. Expounding on the facts the petitioner submitted that the 2nd Respondent was not duly elected by a majority of the lawful votes cast at the said presidential election and did not score one-quarter of the lawful votes cast at the election in each of at least two-thirds of all the States in the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. “The Petitioners state that contrary to the result declared by the 1st Respondent, it was the 1st Petitioner who indeed won majority of lawful votes cast satisfied the mandatory constitutional threshold and spread across the Federation and ought to have been declared winner and returned as duly elected President of Nigeria at the said election to the office of President which held on 23rd February 2019. “The 1st Respondent wrongly and unlawfully credited the 2nd Respondent with votes which were not valid or lawful votes at various stages of the election, namely, at the polling units, the ward collating centres, local government collating centres and the State collating centres, with the result that the 2nd Respondent was wrongly returned when the said 2nd Respondent did not score majority of lawful votes. “The Petitioners shall lead oral and documentary evidence at the trial to show that the results of the election as announced by the 1st Respondent and especially the votes credited to the 2nd Respondent do not represent the lawful valid votes cast. Lawful votes were deducted from the 1st Petitioner’s scores by the 1st Respondent in order to return the 2nd Respondent. “The Petitioners shall also call evidence of statisticians, forensic examiners and finger-print experts at the hearing of the Petition to establish that the scores credited the 2nd Respondent were not the product of actual votes validly cast at the polling units. The Petitioners plead and shall rely on electronic video recordings, newspaper reports, photographs and photographic images of several infractions of the electoral process by the Respondents. “The Petitioners plead, state and contend that from the data in the 1st Respondent’s Server, as between the 1st Petitioner and the 2nd Respondent, the true, actual and correct results upon a State to State computation are as reflected under the scores of the 1st Petitioner and the 2nd Respondent”. The petitioner also gave details of his allegation that the Presidential election conducted by the 1st Respondent is invalid on account of corrupt practices. The particulars of corrupt practices before and during the disputed election, he said, include but not limited to the following: •Compromised printing/production of electoral materials •Manipulation/misuse of state resources •Manipulation of the ballots and ballot boxes •Manipulation of card readers •Manipulation of accreditation and collation •Manipulation of security agencies and militarisation of the election •Manipulation of election aerial delivery •Arbitrary arrest and detention of petitioners members and supporters •Massive thumb-printing of ballot papers “The Petitioners state that the 2nd Respondent does not possess the educational qualification to contest the election to the office of the President of Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The Petitioners state that by Section 31 (1) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), every political party shall not later than 60 days before the date appointed for a general election submit to the Commission in the prescribed form the list of the candidates the party proposes to sponsor at the elections. “Further, by Section 31(2) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), the list or information submitted by each candidate shall be accompanied by an affidavit sworn to by the candidate at the Federal High Court, High Court of a State or Federal Capital Territory indicating that he has fulfilled all the constitutional requirements for election into that office”. On the ground of submission of fake academic result, the petitioner contended that the 2nd Respondent filled and submitted Form CF001 to the 1st Respondent, which was declared before the Commissioner for Oaths at the Registry of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja on the 8th day of October, 2018. The said Form CF001 is accompanied by an acknowledgement indicating that the 1st Respondent received same.   “The Petitioners aver that the said Form CF001 filled by the 2nd Respondent and submitted to the 1st Respondent for the Office of President was also accompanied by the Curriculum Vitae of the 2nd Respondent as well as general form of affidavit duly sworn to by the 2nd Respondent at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, along with copies of his Membership Card of the 3rd Respondent and Voters Card. “The general form of affidavit which accompanied the Form CF001 submitted by the 2nd Respondent for the office of President on or about 18th October, 2018 to the 1st Respondent for the 2019 General Elections was surprisingly sworn to on 24th November, 2014 before High Court of Justice of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja almost four (4) years preceding the 2019 General Elections. In this regard, the Petitioners plead and shall found on the following: “Form CF001 filled and submitted by the 2nd Respondent to the 1st Respondent numbering six (6) pages including the Declaration/Oath page and acknowledgment page. “Curriculum Vitae of the 2nd Respondent attached to the said Form CF001 submitted to the 1st Respondent on 18th October, 2018. “General form of affidavit sworn to on 24th day of October, 2014 which accompanied the said Form CF001 and Copy of Membership Card of the 2nd Respondent, which also accompanied the said Form CF001. “Copy of Voters card of the 2nd Respondent, which accompanied the said Form CF001. The 1st Respondent is hereby given notice to produce the original of the said Form CF001 together with all the accompanied documents as listed above. “The Petitioners aver that the 2nd Respondent accompanied Form CF001 with a stale general form of affidavit earlier on deposed to on 24th day of October 2014 instead of an Affidavit specifically sworn to in respect of the 2019 General Elections indicating that he had fulfilled all constitutional requirements for election into the Office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “In the stale general form of affidavit deposed to on 24th November 2014 which accompanied Form CF001 filled by the 2nd Respondent in respect of the 2019 General Elections, the 2nd Respondent claimed that all his academic qualification documents as filled in his Presidential Form, President APC/001/2015 are currently with the Secretary Military Board. The Nigerian Military has since denied that it held or was in possession of the 2nd Respondent’s educational certificates. The Petitioners will rely on the video clips/newspaper reports of the press statement issued by the Military through the then Director of Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Olajide Lalaye in January 2015. “The Petitioners further aver that the 2nd Respondent did not submit any academic qualification documents whatsoever to the 1st Respondent let alone fulfilling all the constitutional requirements for election into the Office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Besides the foregoing averments, the Middle School Katsina and Katsina Provincial Secondary School which the 2nd Respondent claimed to have attended in his Curriculum Vitae between 1953 -1956 and 1956- 1961 respectively were at the material time, non-existent. In this regard, the Petitioners plead and shall found on the archival documents of school system in Katsina, including Middle School, Katsina and Katsina Provincial Secondary School following: “The 2nd Respondent in Form CF001 filled and submitted by him to the 1st Respondent claimed at Paragraph C, Column 2, Page 3, under secondary, wrote “WASC”, thereby falsely claiming that qualification ostensibly obtained in 1961 whereas there was no qualification known as WASC as at 1961.  “The Petitioners contend that aver that the cumulative effect of the foregoing is that the 2nd Respondent was, at the material time, not qualified to contest election for the exalted office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The Petitioners further aver that all votes purportedly cast for the 2nd and 3rd Respondents on 23rd February, 2019 during the Presidential Elections and as subsequently declared by the 1st Respondent on 27th February, 2019 are wasted votes in that the 2nd Respondent was not qualified to contest the said election in the first place or at all. “The 2nd Petitioner had stated on oath by affidavit deposed to on 24th November 2014 and filed along with his Form CF 001 in respect of this election as follows:- “All my academic qualifications documents as filled in my presidential form, president APC/001/2015 are currently with the secretary military board as at the time of this affidavit. “The information submitted to the 1st Respondent by the 2nd Respondent is false and of a fundamental nature in aid of his education qualification, notwithstanding that he had declared in the said sworn affidavit as follows: – “I hereby declare that all the answers, facts and particulars I have given in this Form, are true and correct and I have to the best of my knowledge, fulfilled all the requirements for qualifications for the office I am seeking to be elected.” “The Petitioners contend that the 2nd Respondent did not possess supply any of the qualification he claimed to have possessed in his Form CF 001 (affidavit in support of personal particulars of persons seeking elections into the office of the President) sworn to on the 8th of October 2018) at the time of the election. The said form is hereby pleaded and shall be relied upon. The 1st Respondent is hereby given notice to produce the Form CF001 and documents submitted by the 2nd Respondent to it in respect of his nomination for this election. “The educational institutions the 2nd Respondent claimed to have attended and the certificates presented by him namely, Elementary School Daura and Mai Aduaa purportedly between attended by the 2nd Respondent between 1948 to 1952, Middle School Katsina between 1953 to 1956 and Katsina Provincial College (now Government College, Katsina) between 1956 to 1961 and mentioned by the 2nd Respondent in his curriculum vitae attached to Form CF 001, were not in existence as at those mentioned dates. “The Petitioners shall rely on the certified true copies of the relevant documents from the National Archives at that material time”. The petitioner in his reliefs is, however, praying the tribunal to declare that Buhari is not duly elected and ought not to have been returned and that the election is null and void. He also prayed that he (Atiku) be declared as the validly elected winner of the election having polled the highest number of votes as provided by the Electoral Act. He is also praying for an order of the tribunal to direct INEC to issue a certificate of return to him, having been validly elected by the majority of votes cast on February 23. In the alternative, the petitioner is praying the tribunal to nullify the February 23 election and order a fresh presidential election.  The hurdles In pressing the presumed futility of the petition, a former President of the NBA, Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) listed some of the factors that may work against the victory of Atiku at the tribunal, noting that proving that an election was rigged is no easy task. According to him, not only must Atiku prove that there were electoral irregularities, he has to show that they affected the election results. He said: “The former Vice President will face an uphill task, given the circumstances of challenging the election results. “My initial decision to charge the former Vice President not to go to court is based on the fact that President Buhari has subverted the Supreme Court by the removal of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Hon. Justice Walter Onnoghen, and the appointment of the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria. “My perception is that we need to resolve the status of the Supreme Court. I wonder what is taking the National Judicial Council (NJC) so long. I am also worried about the historical precedent, as no petition on presidential election result has ever succeeded. “As one of Nigeria’s experienced election petition lawyers, I know that the burden of proof to succeed in an election petition is unfairly huge. We first have to prove that there are electoral irregularities and in my view, once you prove this, you should succeed. “Unfortunately, even if you prove electoral irregularities, you will have to show how that affected the results of the election. Remember that the gap between former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and President Buhari is about four million votes,” Agbakoba said. He, however, emphasised that Atiku is constitutionally entitled to approach the tribunal to challenge results he said were “manifestly riddled” with electoral irregularities. “My personal advice has become irrelevant. I fully support and wish former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar every success,” Agbakoba said. Asides the submission of Agbakoba, from past experience, it is always difficult for presidential election petitions to succeed because of the legal requirements that must be met. Aside the fact that allegations of criminality are expected to be proven beyond reasonable doubt, a petitioner also has to prove non-compliance with the electoral law and show that such non-compliance substantially affected the election. Buttressing this, another Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Adebayo Adenipekun (SAN) said: “Presidential elections affect the whole country. It’s not easy to prove non-compliance in 774 local government areas, unlike governorship elections, and it also not easy to prove electoral offences beyond reasonable doubts.”  Tribunal’s loyalty  Another hurdle, Atiku may face in his petition against Buhari is alleged loyalty of the judiciary to the APC-led government.  From unfolding scenarios, analysts have observed that the suspension of Justice Walter Onnoghen as the Chief Justice of Nigeria and his consequent trial before the Code of Conduct Tribunal is to prevent him (Onnoghen) from appointing and influencing the tribunal members. Similarly, there are speculations that the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa will be presiding over the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal.  There are, however, revelations that the husband to Bulkachuwa is not only a card carrying member of APC, but also an elected Senator on the platform of APC.  It had also been alleged, though not proven, that the list of the presidential tribunal was approved by the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, “with the endorsement of the Buhari APC.”  Speculations reveal that members of the panel to include Bulkachuwa (Presiding Judge), Justice Abdu Aboki, Justice Peter O. Ige, Justice J. S. Ikyegh and Justice S. C. Oseji. It was further alleged that the list was drawn from a list of eight justices submitted to the Presidency for approval.  The Coalition of United Political Parties CUPP had called on Bulkachuwa, Aboki and Ige to immediately recuse themselves from the panel because they are likely to be biased in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari whose victory Atiku is challenging. According to CUPP spokesperson, Umo Ugochinyere, while Bulkachuwa is a wife of a senator-elect on the platform of the ruling APC, Aboki and Ige had rejected Atiku’s application for forensic analysis of the materials used for the presidential election. “It is based on the foregoing and the evidence in the custody of the CUPP that we immediately, categorically and unambiguously demand that Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, Justice Abdu Aboki and Justice Peter Ige recuse themselves from the panel. “The intelligence at our disposal, which formed the basis for all the views canvassed in this statement, is that these three Justices have already given their commitment to the Presidency that they will rule in favour of the President at the tribunal, hence they cannot dispense justice. “Justices Aboki and Peter Ige, in furtherance of this commitment, had already and, very strangely so, denied Alhaji Atiku Abubakar his application for forensic analysis of the materials used for the presidential election.” To CUPP, these allegations will not augur well for the stability of Nigeria and the institution/wheel of justice” As the Tribunal begins hearing of the petition any time soon, the whole world is looking forward to see how objective and fair it will be in handling the election dispute and how Atiku will scale these hurdles. At last, the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his party, yesterday completed the process of filing his petition against the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Atiku filed the petition, 19 days after… In “News” The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 election, Atiku Abubakar, and his party, yesterday, commenced legal process challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the polls. The applicants had, yesterday, approached the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting… In “News” The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja yesterday turned down the request of the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, for access to scan and conduct forensic audit on all the electoral materials, including technology used in the conduct of the February 23 election.… In “News”