With President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term in office already guaranteed, the Federal Government has said it was poised to unlock the full economic potentials in Nigeria’s agric sector. Taiwo Hassan writes  Indeed, Nigeria is on the march again following the successful conduct of Presidential election in the country with the incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari adjudged to have won another term in the office based on the poll results.
However, with the impressive performance of the country’s agriculture since assuming office, the President’s zeal to revive agriculture will once again be put to test, as stakeholders in the sector, local and foreign investors and Nigerians are keenly waiting in know whether this administration would still give the required attention to agric sector.
Indeed, the country’s agric sector has enjoyed enormous support from the current administration but reality checks have shown that it is yet to translate positively on Nigerians. Unlocking potential
Just recently, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, said that his ministry was already working on how to tackle key constraints in the agricultural value chain – from production to consumption-in order to unlock the full economic potentials in the sector.
He, however, said that effective collaboration was required among the tiers of government, the private sector and development partners to achieve the set agenda in the sector.
According to him, as part of the efforts to achieve sustenance in food security and sufficiency, in line with the global target of “zero hunger” by 2030, his ministry-FMARD was working round the clock to ensure that Nigeria fulfilled the dream towards eliminating hunger and poverty.
He said that this was crucial especially at a period when the impact of climate change had proved devastating on food production and food security world-wide, adding that concerted efforts are needed to fight hunger, extreme poverty and malnutrition.
Ogbeh stated these at the marking of this year’s World Food Day Walk Sensitisation programme, themed: “Our Actions are our Future- A Zero Hunger by the year 2030 is Possible”, in Abuja, recently.
He stressed that the policy regime of the current administration was built around a number of guiding principles including treating agriculture as business; adoption of agriculture as key to long term economic growth and security; food as human rights, adoption of value chain approach and prioritising crops among others.
The minister disclosed that some of his ministry’s policy interventions have started yielding fruits, particularly in the area of rice production.
“It is now evident that we are on the path to becoming self-sufficient in rice production,” he said. “Indeed, I have no doubt in my mind that Nigeria can be a model for Africa and the world if we join forces and act on evidence.”
Represented by the ministry’s Director, Planning, Policy Coordination and Monitoring Department, Mr. Nasiru Adamu, the minister said that no country can attain food security by depending on food importation.
According to him, agricultural productivity is currently boosted through time provision of fertilizer and other inputs.
“We are also working on the reduction of post-harvest losses and expansion of market access. The policy thrust is now focusing on deepening financial sector engagement with the agribusiness value chains,” he said. Framework policies
No doubt, the burden of fixing Nigeria’s economy has fallen squarely on Ogbeh’s agric ministry, as the oil industry has floundered and the revenue originating from it had taken a plunge until recently.
To begin with, a framework is already in place in the agric ministry that anticipated what Nigerians presently experience in the country.
Consequently, what Nigeria needs is how to harness the good policies that were met by previous administrations and blend them with those that are currently being fashioning out, in a coherent and consistent manner such that it will instill confidence in the citizens, investors, market operators, farmers, traders and other stakeholders along the various agricultural value chains.
President Muhammadu Buhari has given his support for the interventions that could move agriculture forward and contribute to re-positioning the economy, diversifying it away from over-reliance on oil.
Speaking on the role of his agric ministry, Ogbeh said: “We have taken up the challenge of boosting local production of food as we reduce our dependency on food imports, boost domestic food production, revive rural economy and expand export earnings. With the huge agricultural potential of over 84 million hectares of land, abundant water bodies, particularly the various rivers, all-year-round favourable weather conditions, and a variety of agro-ecologies suitable for agriculture, Nigeria is well positioned to feed its population as well as produce for export.
The low productivity that has characterised Nigeria’s agriculture for decades was partly a consequence of the misplacement of priority, with the oil sector taking the prime place. For this reason, agricultural research nosedived. The various outcomes of many research efforts ended up on the shelf, with no uptake by investors. The high level of importation had deprived the local farmers of competitive edge, and this has discouraged many, leading to mass exodus of rural agrarian population to the urban centres. Life in the rural areas gradually grounded to a near halt, while the urban centres continue to sprawl, with excessive stress on the limited urban infrastructure, increased crimes, growing unemployment and low quality of urban life for most. Last line
With stakeholders and Nigerians waiting anxiously on the policy thrust of President Muhammadu Buhari-led government, removing the constraints impeding growth and development will bring value addition in productivity to this very important sector. Nigeria’s agric was one of the key sectors that benefited immensely under this administration. TAIWO HASSAN looks at the successes and challenges in the sector Agric sector During his acceptance speech on May 29, 2015, at the Eagle Square in Abuja, president Muhammadu Buhari sounded it loudly that his administration… In "Agric" Nigeria’s agricultural sector has made relative progress but the continued herdsmen-farmers’ attacks and ravaging floods have impaired growth, Taiwo Hassan writes.   Performance of Nigeria’s agricultural sector since the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s regime can be described as mixed. Since his administration came into power, he has demonstrated his… In "Business" The renewed hope to resuscitate Nigeria’s moribund agriculture has orchestrated transformation in the sector. TAIWO HASSAN writes. Since Nigeria’s independence in 1960, agriculture had been the mainstay of the nation’s economy, providing the largest chunk of foreign exchange inflow into the country. Moreover, it contributed about 63 per cent to… In "Agric"