Barely three weeks after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared President Muhammadu Buhari winner of the 2019 presidential election, a coalition of Nigerians has demanded international pressure against the Nigeria government. The group described the outcome of the election as fraudulent and a violation of the people’s will.  The coalition known as ‘We The People of Nigeria (WTPN),’ described the electoral process that have risen to President Buhari’s re- election as illegal, corrupt and fraudulent, adding that it was categorically rejecting the declaration of Buhari as the winner because the process was skewed to produce a pre-determined outcome. Director of the group, Dr Loyd Ukwu, expressed concerns at the violence, intimidation, oppression and deaths that trailed the election, adding that such a chaotic process cannot produce a legitimate outcome.  He lamented that the last election was literally a war in which the government of the day and the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) deployed every weapon at their disposal to intimidate not just their opponents but voters, local and international observers as well as journalists.  Ukwu said that though the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is challenging the outcome of the presidential election in court, there was need for Nigerians to seek integration pressure on the government which conducted the sham elections in order to perpetuate itself in power.  According to Ukwu, idleness in the face of electoral injustice was not an option if democracy must grow and be sustained in Nigeria. The coalition therefore urged the United Nations Security Council to place Nigeria on a watch list pending the outcome of legal challenges to Buhari’s election.  It also urged the Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC) to open an investigation of Buhari and his Army Chief of Staff, General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, along with his agents and cronies such as INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu; Minister of Transport, Mr. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi; Mr. Asita Honor Asita; Mr. Tonye Cole and numerous others for crimes against humanity perpetrated in connection with the February and March 2019 election in Rivers State and elsewhere.