A witness of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulraheem Jimoh, yesterday narrated before Justice Mojisola Olatoregun of a Federal High Court in Lagos, how a former Managing Director of the defunct Intercontinental Bank Plc, Dr. Erastus Akingbola, used N8.6 billion depositors’ fund to pay debt owed by his companies. Jimoh, a Deputy General Manager and Head of Subsidiary Group at Access Bank Plc, made the narration while testifying at the resumed hearing of Akingbola’s trial over alleged fraud and abuse of office.  While being led in evidence by EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), the witness said he was appointed the Chief Inspector of Intercontinental Bank Plc in November 2009 to review the bank’s risk management procedure and processes, internal control mechanism, among other issues that had to do with the bank. He said it was in the course of carrying out his assignment that he discovered some manipulations in the bank’s General Ledger to the tune of N8.6 billion depositors’ fund.  “Eleven transactions were debited to the bank’s General Ledger and credited to Tropics Finance Limited and other companies owned by Akingbola, his wife and other stakeholders, between May 15 and June 30, 2009.  The funds were used to repay one debt or the other owed by these companies. We also traced the fund to First Bank,” the witness said. Jimoh also narrated how he investigated a ‘shady’ transfer of £8.5 million and £1.3 million by Akingbola to the account of a firm, Fuglers Solicitors in the United Kingdom, through the foreign account of the bank. Speaking on the transaction, he said: “The bank received a letter by way of e-mail from one of our correspondents, Dutche Bank in the United Kingdom and I was asked to investigate whether the transactions met the anti-money laundering requirements of the country.  “In the course of investigations, it was discovered that Akingbola only had £10, 000 in his domiciliary account as at the time the transactions were done. He did not also have any credit facility at the time. “When I interrogated the Head of Foreign Operations, Ayoola Ayinde, who was responsible for the transfer, she told me she only received verbal instruction from Akingbola for the transfer.  “Further investigations revealed that in order to regularise the transfer, a series of other transactions were carried out. One of such is Placement with Other Financial Institutions (POFI).” The witness said in order to regularise the earlier debit that was passed to the foreign account through the payment of the first tranche of £8.5 million, the sum of N3.5 billion was availed to a firm, Regal Investment through Intercontinental Capital Limited (a subsidiary of Intercontinental Bank Plc).  He said: “The bank availed Regal Investment the sum of N3.5 billion through Intercontinental Capital Limited. The money was handed over to a Bureau De Change (BDC) operator by Dr. Raymond Obiere (owner of Regal Investment) and it was converted to $4.7 million and later moved to the foreign account.”