Twelve presidential candidates in the February 23 presidential election yesterday in Abuja, congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on his re-election. Acting under the aegis of Forum of Presidential Candidates and Political Parties for Good Governance, the group said at a news conference in Abuja, that the victory was deserved. Chairman of the forum, Mr Shittu Kabir, said: “We are indeed not oblivious of the fact that only one candidate will emerge as president. “Now that the candidate in the election, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, not to contest Buhari’s victory in court. He advised Abubakar to put Nigeria above primordial sentiment at this crucial time by respecting the verdict of the citizens, who gave their votes to support Buhari’s re-election. “We urge the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to disregard the advice of those asking him to challenge the outcome of the election in court. “To borrow the popular adage in Africa, two litigants cannot resolve their differences in court and return to the same house as brothers. President Buhari and Alhaji Abubakar are brothers. “We strongly urge Alhaji Abubakar to drop the legal option in expressing his grievances. This is consistent with the counsel of many well-meaning Nigerians, including Chief Olisa Agbakoba and General Ibrahim Babangida.” ”We also believe that the former Vice President has made a mark among Nigerians of means who have positively impacted their communities. ”We think he has a lot more to contribute to developing humanity and promoting peace and progress in our nation, even without holding any political office. “At his age, he should now avoid any action and utterances capable of fanning the embers of discord, disagreement and violent conduct. Nigeria is greater than any personal or class interest,” he said. The chairman called on Buhari to include everyone in his government, including those who did not vote for him. He said that with the right investment environment, the government had put measures in place to attract investment into Nigeria in the next three years.