The performances of the security agencies in the last elections have raised some concerns. BIYI ADEGOROYE, in this analysis examines these and the legality of military’s involvement in election duties  When Kayode Egbetokun, the recently appointed Police Commissioner in Kwara State and Air Commodore A. Adamu, the head of the Air Force Command in the state said that a military jet would be deployed for aerial surveillance during the governorship and state house of assembly elections, they left no one in doubt about the interest of the military in the polls. Egbetokun, a former security aide of the All Progressives Congress’ National Leader, Bola Tinubu said: “A military jet will be used for surveillance, instead of the police helicopter that was used in the last election. But residents should not panic when they see it, because it is just to ensure their safety. They should come out en masse and exercise their civic rights. “The jet is to support our efforts at ensuring the safety of everybody. The military jet will do the job of surveillance better than the helicopter and we should feel comfortable with better equipment in use.” Also in Rivers and a few other states, the military, which had been involved in internal security functions were heavily involved in the elections, one of the six in the circle of polls since 1999. To those who subscribed to Prof. Maxwell A. Cameron’s mantra that politics is war by other means, such action was necessary to stave violent activities of politicians. Others have argued that the peripheral position of the professor of the Centre for the Study of Democratic Institutions, University of British Columbia, enjoys an aura of respectability of the Darwinian principle of survival of the fittest- this time between the two leading political parties in Nigeria. They argued that since every organised society must have a way of selecting its rulers – with two options: force (war) and persuasion (election). Political campaigns are the peaceful alternative to bloody civil war. Indeed, military strategies have argued that political campaigns have much in common with war, because very word “campaign” is a military term – taking the “field.” Campaigns are directed from a “war room,” and they involve both a “ground war” (contacting voters in person) and an “air war” (persuasion through the mass media). They demand “message discipline” as rigid as military discipline. Hence, from the onset, the security agencies left no one in doubt about their readiness to blaubet maximum security during the elections. In particular, the Service Chiefs did not mince words in reading out the riot act to would-be trouble makers, threatening to deal decisively with electoral criminals who might want to undermine the elections. As part of pre-election activities, the Acting Inspector-General of Police, Adamu Abubakar, whose agency was at the vanguard of election security warned offenders not to test the might of the police, just as the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai articulated army’s willingness to deal decisively with ballot box snatchers. Hence an Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security, comprising all members of the various security agencies was set up, and replicated in all states of the federation. The police, after a meeting with officers of the rank of Commissioner of Police and above, therefore, said adequate security measures had been put in place to ensure a safe, secure, and conducive environment for a peaceful and credible election. The police high command deployed a Deputy Inspector-General of Police to head election security in each of the six geo-political zones and moved other officers and men trained and under strict instruction to the states to abide by the standard operating procedures of the force. Sadly, election monitors recorded terrible security lapses and wanton killings during the elections. While over 25 people were reportedly killed in the Presidential and National Assembly elections, the serving federal lawmaker, representing Lagelu/Akinyele Federal Constituency, Oyo State, Hon Temitayo Olatoye (aka Sugar) and about 30 others lost their lives in the governorship and state Assembly elections Reports from Akwa Ibom, Ondo, Delta, Imo, Anambra, Bayelsa, Kogi, Katsina and Sokoto states indicated that the elections recorded fatalities of different numbers, owing to thuggery, ballot box snatching and other electoral crimes during the elections.  Widespread violence Six staff of INEC were kidnapped and later released in Lokoja, Kogi State during the state assembly election. In Sokoto, INEC Presiding Officer, Surajo Muhammad was also kidnapped while on official duty at Dangwandi village of Gebe District area as confirmed by the Secretary, Isa Local Government Council, Alhaji Muhammad Makwoshi. Makwoshi also said four people were penultimate Friday killed, many kidnapped along Sokoto Isa town in Isa Local Government headquarters of the state. In Ondo, two people were killed in Oba-Akoko in Akoko South West Local Government area of when suspected hoodlums stormed collaboration centres in order to cart away ballot boxes and 20 people were arrested. Delta was not left out, as Onicha Olona in Aniocha North Local Government of the state, as five persons were severely injured and rushed to an undisclosed hospital for life-support treatment. An unidentified election observer was killed at a polling unit close to the house of APC leader, Chief Anyaogu Eze, in Enugu State, while one person each was said to have been killed in Imo and Akwa Ibom states respectively. Security agencies had more than a fair share of fatalities as the Army lost at least one soldier, while the police recorded at least five men, two policemen, an Inspector and a Sergeant in Sokoto while in Ogun State one Corporal and another one in Katsina, were reportedly shot dead. However, the Nigeria Police Force said it arrested about 400 persons across the country for alleged electoral offences during the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections. Adamu said that the Special Election Investigation Team (SEIT) had been directed to investigate all the cases in liaison with INEC.  CLEEN cries out The Election Security Support Centre (ESSC) of CLEEN Foundation, in collaboration with the Police Service   Commission (PSC) and the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), which deployed 1,600 accredited domestic observers across the 774 local government areas, was bitter about the various homicides and other security infractions in the elections. It advised security agencies to ensure the safety of all citizens and the ballot boxes. It said: “There were reported cases of deaths in some states in the country including Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Ebonyi, Kogi and Zamfara states. For example, two persons were killed and three injured in Amagu Community in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State in a clash between rival political thugs. In its report signed by the Executive Director, CLEEN Foundation, Dr. Benson Olugbuo, the group said: “A prominent politician was shot dead at his hometown in Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State. Also, suspected thugs killed a voter at Polling Unit 006 at Ayingba, Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State. There were also unconfirmed reports of killing of voters and others sustaining various injuries in Rivers State.”  Soldiers’ involvement Though the police were the lead outfit for election security, the Nigerian Army was very involved. The soldiers deployed in aid of civil authority during the elections recorded some successes, but their conduct, according to some observers, fell short of expectations. In the March 9 Governorship and House of Assembly elections they rescued ad-hoc staff allegedly kidnapped in Abia and Cross River states, even as they arrested of 19 suspects in connection with alleged ballot box snatching, and other electoral offences during the exercise. The Acting Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Col. Sagir Musa, said the suspects were arrested Imo, Cross Cross River, and Abia, states. “Troops on patrol around power plant substation Odukpani Local Government Area, in Cross River State rescued Mr. Authur Nkama who was earlier kidnapped at Ikot Ansa, in Calabar Municipal Area Council, Cross River State.” Other troops also rescued INEC Staff abducted at Ohafia Technical College in Anna Village in Abia State. Four of the suspects were arrested while efforts underway to apprehend other fleeing members of the gang. The suspects have been handed over to the police for further action. In Rivers State, the army, in conjunction with other security agencies struggled to checkmate kidnappers, political thugs, ballot box snatchers from having a field day to perpetuate their selfish illegal activities, in some instances at the detriment of soldiers’ lives as witnessed in Abonema and Andoni in Rivers State. “Also, 34 Brigade troops on Operation Safe Conduct deployed around Osisioma junction, Abia State also arrested Mr Allwell Enwereji and five others conveying already thumb printed ballot papers in his vehicle.
“On questioning, he claimed the ballot papers were specimens for campaign. Investigation is on to ascertain the culpability of the suspects”. This was as he added thus: “Troops also intercepted and arrested suspected ballot box snachers at Air Force junction near Ngor Okpala LGA in Imo State on the 9th of March 2019. On sighting the troops, the suspects abandoned their vehicle and run (sic) into the bush. Items recovered included one Sienna Bus, one pump action gun with 11 live cartridge, voters’ cards and assorted ATMs bearing different names.” But in the same Rivers State where soldiers boasted of staving criminality, the conduct of the same troops were said to be unprofessional, and almost partisan. They were accused of various electoral offences which spurred violence in the state leading of the death six persons, before and during the election as soldiers mounted road blocks along major roads, and patrolled in their vans. Despite the heavy presence of soldiers, violence erupted during the election in some local government areas as soldiers and operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) hijacked ballot boxes at polling units. The soldiers, who allegedly moved from one polling unit to another, especially outside Port Harcourt, also allegedly chased away or harassed PDP agents and supporters that attempted to resist their interference in the election. In some polling units, the security operatives supervised the disruption of election and the carting away of electoral materials by armed thugs who thumb-printed on the ballot papers. At the collation centre in Emuoha Local Government Area, soldiers arrested and detained the council chairman, Chief Tom Aliezi, who was still detained at the time of this report despite party members launching a Free Aliezi Now campaign. At Abana Community in Okrika Local Government Area, soldiers allegedly stormed a polling unit, hijacked voting materials and went ahead to vote at a building very close to a chieftain of a party. At unit 17, Ward 3, a chieftain of one of the parties allegedly stormed the area with patrol van filled with about a dozen soldiers who stopped voting and attempted to snatch ballot boxes under the full glare of the supporters of the PDP and APC, who acted as agents for African Alliance Congress (AAC). Also on the eve of the election, soldiers reportedly arrested the youth leader of PDP in Ogbodo in Ward 1, Isiokpo, Mr. Chijemazu Wabali. In Bori in Khana Local Government Area, voters alleged that soldiers invaded the office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and beat up the agents of the PDP, before driving them out of the office, just as soldiers stopped voting in Ward 3, Unit 4, Ogu/Bolo Local Government Area. At Omuolo, Omagwa Ward 9, Unit 1 in Ikwerre Local Government Area, SARS operatives allegedly stormed the place and snatched ballot boxes after voting had been concluded, just as the SARS operatives supervised the destruction of electoral materials in Ward 9, Unit 8 by thugs. One Michael Abednego from Ward 8 was killed in unclear circumstances in Ahoada West, while another male victim was killed in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area.  Wike, Amaechi’s tantrums Governor Wike, whose two commissioners were arrested for electoral offences faulted soldiers’ involvement in the election. “The way the military acted discouraged people from turning up. The role of the military is to provide security. But it is unfortunate that they directly participated. Police have no role in the elections and the military appears to have taken over police duties. But the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, during the elections lauded the military, saying: “We are completely happy that the Army and the Police are everywhere maintaining the peace. We have held elections in Rivers State where over 15 to 20 persons were killed but this is the only election that has recorded peace and it is because of the presence of the military. “The militants have fled because of the presence of the military and we are voting peacefully. And you know, one thing about the soldiers is that they are apolitical, they are neither supporting APC nor AAC or PDP. What they are doing is to maintain peace and ensure that nobody disrupts the process. I think we will prefer to have this kind of election where everybody is having peace.”  Obi’s cries It baffled the opposition, however, that soldiers had unprecedented presence in Kwara and Rivers states. To the Vice Presidential candidate of the PDP in February 23 elections, Peter Obi, there is more to the presence of the military than meet the eyes. He expressed concern over the fallouts from some states in last Saturday’s elections, particularly in Rivers State – to which he drew the attention of the international community. Obi, a former Governor of Anambra State, said that the militarisation of elections to the extent of taking a collation centre to a military location and denying international observers access “is clearly unacceptable and a grave breach of democratic norms.” In particular, he said: “The needless involvement of the military has aggravated the situation in Rivers State… a very well-known strong PDP state,” and called on all persons who desire the growth and sustenance of democracy to rise and condemn the act. Obi said that Governor Wike “should be the last to face this type of harassment given his popularity with his people, which is as a result of his outstanding performance which earned him the title of Mr. Projects even from the opposition”.  Military’s role in election illegal – court While some have argued that soldiers role in election duties is important to strengthen the police, it is on record that such action is illegal and that most cases they go overboard and they have the tendency to pander to interest. On March 23, 2015, Justice Ibrahim Buba of a Federal High Court in Lagos declared that then President Goodluck Jonathan lacked the power to deploy soldiers for the conduct of election without the approval of the National Assembly. The judge held that the practice of deploying troops of the Nigerian Armed Forces in the conduct of elections when there is no uprising is “anti-democratic” and not in tandem with civil rule and constitutional democracy. A member of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos) had filed the suit before the court seeking a declaration that deployment of soldiers during elections in illegal and unconstitutional. Joined as respondents in the suit were Mr. Jonathan; the Chief of Defence Staff; the Chief of Army Staff; the Chief of Air Staff; the Chief of Naval Staff; and the Attorney-General of the Federation. The judge ruled that:“The armed forces have no role in elections. The time has come for us to establish the culture of democratic rule in the country and to start to do the right thing particularly when it has to do with dealing with the electoral process which is one of the pillars of democracy.” While some have argued that the political system has been bedeviled by violence, Buba noted “in spite of the behaviour of the political class, we should by all means try to keep armed personnel and military from being a part and parcel of the electoral process. “The state is obligated to confine the military to their very demanding assignment, especially in this time of insurgencies by keeping them out of elections. The state is also obligated to ensure that citizens exercise their franchise freely and unmolested.” Also, a Court of Appeal in Abuja upheld the decision of the lower court, and barred the use of soldiers in the conduct of elections, stating that it was a violation of Section 217(2)(c) of the Constitution and Section 1 of the Armed Forces Act. A former Inspector-General of Police, who does not want to be named, urged the need to respect the constitution and case laws, adding that the police, especially the Police Mobile Force and Civil Defence can handle elections security. The police boss, a lawyer, also lauded military leadership’s move to investigate allegations against soldiers.  