As Nigeria joins the rest of the world to celebrate yet another International Children’s Day of Broadcasting (ICDB) on March 3, most children in the country are not happy. They expressed anger and sadness over the manner in which matters relating to them were being handled. ESE OLOGE and REGINA OTOKPA, who spoke to a number of these children, report  The sun was in a scorching mode on Monday, February 25, but a young boy, Abdul Yahu, appeared not to have felt it as he dragged his visually impaired father through the streets of Agege, an outskirt of Lagos, begging for alms. In his desperate search for the proverbial daily bread, the nine-year-old takes on a huge responsibility of fending for his 68-year-old father, mother and four younger siblings through begging for alms daily on the streets of Lagos. Yahu, who is from Kano State, now believes that begging is the only means of survival for his family. He sees Agege, Lagos, as his promised land. He claimed to be making over a N1000 naira daily which his father usually splits to make sure his siblings benefit. He said: “I am from Kano State, where my family lives. I and my dad only came to Lagos for greener pasture. We came here to beg so as to be able to take care of my family. I have been out of school since I was six years old that was after my father lost his sight. “Now I beg to make money not only to take care of my blind dad but also my brothers and mum back home in Kano. I hope to go back to school someday if there is enough money so as to pursue my dream of becoming an accountant. We make about N1000 every day, walking around every nook and cranny of Agege begging for alms. I use the money to feed my father since he can’t see, pay our transportation sometimes and save the rest in order to send to our family in Kano.” However, Yahu is just one out of not less than a thousand children, who have somewhat become breadwinners for their families. Street begging, which seems to have also become a means of livelihood among most unemployed and poor citizens in the country, is daily being modified. Adult baggers now initiate children into it. Some poor parents too, whose duty and responsibility it is to train their children through school, are daily engaging their kids in the act. These children, who are constantly on the streets, are exposed to an array of hazards with many of them being moulded into mischievous acts. Most of them, aged between nine and 11 years, have come to see the streets as their home. They strive each day to make ends meet as they assume the responsibility of adults. Yahya Mohammed, 11-year-old beggar, also from Kano, wants to be a lawyer someday. He is from Niger State. He came to Lagos like Yahu with his visually impaired father when he was just seven years old, begging for alms to take care of him, his mother and two younger sisters. Mohammed experiences a lot of challenges from begging with his old father but consoles himself by the over N1,700 he makes on daily basis. “I have been out of school for four years now and would want to return back to school if I find someone that will train me. I am sometimes chased out from some places where I go to beg while holding my blind father. Some days I get as much as N1,700 but there are other days I get nothing. Most times, we stay hungry till the next day. It’s really painful when I have to sleep on an empty stomach with my dad. “Nevertheless I see myself becoming a lawyer someday. Although I don’t know how that will happen but I pray on a daily basis to God to send me a helper who will pay my school fees and take me back to school. My intention is to work hard to become a lawyer so that I could help some other less privileged children on the streets and in my community back home in Kano. “I cry most times when I see schoolchildren going and coming back from school. I feel so sad about my situation and I wish I could attend a government school and be like other fortunate children so I can achieve my dreams,” he told Saturday Telegraph, smiling. However, children at tender ages are meant to be catered for by their parents and not the other way round. But a situation where a child is being denied of these necessities breeds a lot of difficulties and destabilisation. Street begging deprives children of their rights to healthy lives, security and education; while exposing them to the ills and mishaps prevalent in the society. These children are affected psychologically, socially and physically. They are mentally abused by others, especially by adults, who verbally abuse them by often making them feel hopeless. Children used in this cycle will automatically guide their next generation into the same situations of begging. They experience a lot of challenges moving round cities while assisting their elderly parents or relatives. Like Yahu and Mohammed, they encounter a lot on the streets. They are often chased and beaten by street boys (street urchins) while begging with their parents. Sadly, they narrate how the money they receive would be stolen by unknown people while asleep beside the railways. According to Mohammed, “begging on the streets is not an easy thing. Most of the area boys chase my father and I with sticks from the railway where we usually sit to get some rest.” These children have a lot of dreams like every other privileged ones even if they are being neglected on the streets. However, the rate of homeless children leading blind adults to beg on the streets of suburb in Lagos like Agege, Oshodi, Mushin, Berger, Abule Egba, Iyana Ipaja, Ikotun is quite disturbing. These young children always look hungry and helpless while trying to feed or cater for their blind relatives on highways and dangerous pathways. It is really painful that these children have to go through this at their early stage in life. What they turn out to be in the future is also a problem in the society because they are exposed to a lot of negative things. Many see a situation where they are used to beg as demoralising. To see the children who will be leaders of tomorrow limiting themselves to begging negatively affects the country, others believe. There are also those who are of the notion that there is really no benefit of having children that one can’t cater for. They often grow up, according to this school of thought, depending on the public for survival and for their basic needs. They are also denied access to good education so as to fulfill their dreams and aspirations. The use of infants for begging is also common in other cities around the country but are predominantly in Lagos areas such as Railway lines, especially in Ebute Metta. They exhibit a new trend popularly known as child-support begging within the neighbourhood. Spotted in large number on this day were many women beggars with children. When Saturday Telegraph inquired from some of the occupants in that area, it was revealed that some mothers rent out their babies, including week-olds to total strangers, for street begging after bargaining for a ridiculous fee. For those with overflowing milk of kindness, always enthusiastic to give, they were easily taken in by the mother-child begging bond. Incidentally, those hapless children that laid helplessly on the mat with flies feeding fat on the mucus cascading from their nostrils to the mouth, were out to support their families, even as early in life as less than a year old. But, the mothers who engage in this despicable act, according to findings, see nothing wrong in it as they believe in using what they have to get what they want. There were others, who mill around the Oyingbo Bus Stop area. They were mostly girls and very young. They may not be up to six years of age. They were seen with babies strapped to their backs. Not minding the sea of humans swarming around, they would accost targets on their way, crying bitterly that they wanted something to eat. The little souls would cry very loudly at times, with mucus running down their nose, to attract attention. Most times the babies strapped to their backs would have fallen asleep. When asked where their parents were, they would innocently point to the back of a shop. This infuriated some women who followed them to where their mothers were only to discover they were taking a nap in a most unfriendly and uncomfortable manner in the dirty environment. There is also the evil crime of servitude that lurks in every corner of the country. So many young Nigerians live in modern slavery across the nation, who had been trafficked, coerced, or forced into terrible exploitation, labour, and domestic vassalage. The barbaric crime, according to those in the know, earns more for criminals than any other, apart from the illegal drug business. Sometimes around May, 2016, a young boy of 12, who identified himself simply as Steven from Idumu Ogo in Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State, was trafficked. He had been traded in many cities of Nigeria. He was first moved to a Southwest state before he was taken to another part of the country, where he worked as house help and on farm lands. As a house help, Steven was not remunerated. With what he went through, Steven has vowed to one day challenge the cultural acceptance of human exploitation for young Nigerians, who often end up trapped in abusive trade. “I would also challenge families who continually encourage their children to risk their lives in search of money and a better future,” he said. However, there are many like Steven, who were taken to other Nigerian towns and villages to work where they were being paid peanuts. While some were taken to farms as labourers and as house helps, others were moved to remote jungles across the country. They have been labouring away for years in expansive plantations. They could neither read nor write except to communicate in their native dialects, though some of them managed to speak Pidgin English as well. The boys live from the handouts offered by their “masters” who have arranged for their departures to the “Promised Lands”. “Now the land is cursing us, and we want to return home, but it is becoming increasingly difficult,” said one of them, amidst sobs, through an interpreter. These hapless children, adored in the African tradition and seen as a great asset to the family and the community, have been trafficked internally, becoming labourers in another man’s empire. Yet, what Steven and others were made to go through, starts with the promise of a better life. The parents are taken in and the children are persuaded. When they leave home they do so willingly, with some excitement, not fear. The traffickers often promise a good job, schooling, and regular income. But that is not how it works out usually. But the boys are not the only ones taken in as slaves in this modern time. For the young girls, the word on the streets is “hustling”. When they land in their destinations, they are taken to the sex markets and sold to bosses or madams. From accounts of some of the “freed slaves”, they are not paid; they are the ones that are indebted to their madams. Most of the girl prostitutes are on rented portions of roads, and their clients often make love to them in the bush or in their cars. They make daily returns to their bosses or madams who usually employ the services of cult members to enforce compliance. Also, the girls are expected to pay a certain amount of money to their madams per month to rent the roadside spot where they wait for clients in extreme weather conditions. They are equally expected to contribute a certain amount each on a weekly basis for their feeding and buying of indecent clothing. “When we don‘t earn the money our madams want, they would press a hot iron on our chests,” one of the rescued victims was quoted to have said. Others died on the streets while prostituting. Another of such “freed slave” who does not want her name mentioned, said her case was very complicated. She wept profusely when narrating her ordeal to Saturday Telegraph with tears sliding down her cheeks. She was paid nothing and had a terrible time. After some time, she escaped and lived for a while as a homeless prostitute on the streets. She later found she had contracted the deadly Human Immuno Virus (HIV) and has been managing to stay positive with the attendant discrimination from relatives and friends who now treat her like an outcast. Each year, more than 200,000 Nigerian children are said to be forcibly taken from their homes to be put to work. Some go with the permission of their parents, while others do not. Many, especially boys who may be as young as five or six, end up as household slaves far from home, or as agricultural workers, where they earn little or nothing. Others, especially the younger ones, die as a result or end up with terrible scars, both physical and psychological. Every child has a right to live and a right to the good things of life. World over, child’s right is a great concern seeking urgent intervention by government through the enactment of laws aimed at protecting the rights of the child. Rich or poor, male or female, abled or vulnerable, Christian or Muslim, no child need be discriminated against; they all have equal rights. These rights include the right to health, education, survival and development, family life, play and recreation, an adequate standard of living and to be protected from abuse and harm. However, in Nigeria, millions of children’s rights are denied on daily basis and their childhoods are stolen by acts of abuse, a consequence of exploitation and education gaps. Every time, one finds policies and decisions in government and the home that fails to consider or capture the best interests of a child. Though they have a right to be consulted, their views heard and respected in all matters concerning their rights. During the 2018 International World Children’s Day Celebration, marked every November 20, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) took a positive step by calling on world leaders to re-commit time and resources to child survival and development. It asked individuals around the world to sign a global online petition requesting for children to be put back on the agenda. In the country, the international body through various programmes has continued to reach the most disadvantaged children with a view to building a better world for everyone. According to UNICEF’s Representative in Nigeria, Mohammed Fall, most children in the country are confronted with numerous challenges and infringement of their rights which ought to be urgently addressed consciously by those in the corridors of power, well-meaning Nigerians, local and international development partners. He said: “For Nigeria to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030, we must invest in long-lasting institutional and community-based systems and policies for children’s survival, growth and development. Nigerian children have a huge role to play in the country’s national development. It is the generation of children growing up today who will take their place as leaders of tomorrow to really accelerate the progress we make now. “A lot has been achieved but there is still much to do to ensure that Nigerian children benefit from advances in child rights. At the moment, too many children are being left behind, and we need to reach them. No matter where a child is born whether into wealth or poverty they and their parents have the same hopes and dreams for their future. And we owe it to all children to give them a fair chance to survive and fulfill those dreams.” Fall noted that Nigeria has the world’s highest number of out-ofschool children, and one of the highest rates of maternal, child and infant mortality. More than four million children, he said, are unimmunised and tens of millions of Nigerians still do not have access to clean water and proper sanitation, putting children’s health at risk.More worrisome, according to him, are the preventable diseases like pneumonia, diarrhea, and malaria combined with underlying malnutrition, which is responsible for most of the deaths among infants and children in Nigeria. He highlighted that Nigeria’s burden of stunted growth among children is presently the second highest in the world, with 16.5 million affected, and an estimated 2.6 million children Severely Acutely Malnourished (SAM). Out of this figure, over 900,000 children suffering SAM are found in three Northeastern states of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe. A Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey (MICS5) conducted in 2016 and 2017 by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), UNICEF, and other key partners from 33,901 households in 2,239 enumeration areas across the 36 states and the FCT, revealed that the rate of malnutrition among children under the age of five in the country had worsened when compared to the last survey which was conducted in 2011. Child wasting (children who are too thin for their age) increased from 24.2 per cent to 31.5 per cent, while child stunting (children who are too short for their age) increased from 34.8 per cent to 43.6 per cent. According to Nutrition Consultant Dr. Davis Omotola, the rise in malnutrition indices was as a result of the insurgency ravaging the northern region resulting to poverty and crumbled economic structure, inadequate education, inadequate health services, maternal and child care. As Nigeria joins the rest of the world to celebrate yet another ICDB, Nigerian children in their numbers, have called on government, relevant stakeholders and parents, to change their attitude and respect their rights. They minced no words in demanding education, health care services and nutrition to be made a priority for all children including those in hard to reach areas. A section of them Saturday Telegraph spoke with, expressed anger and sadness over the manner in which matters concerning children were being handled in the country. For instance, a nine-year-old, Abayomi Olugbenga, appears to have a low perception about his country. Worried over the incessant killings of children in conflict areas, he said: “Sometimes I regret being a Nigerian. “Killings everywhere including children like me, who are innocent, they don’t know anything about what our parents are fighting about. My father always reminds us that we are the leaders of tomorrow but how can that happen when we are daily being killed and maltreated like sub-humans? “On Children’s day, we went to an internally displaced persons camp in town and a lot of the children were barefooted and wearing tattered clothes. I was wondering who cares for them when people don’t bring food and clothes for them; they don’t go to school too. I really wish government would do the right thing so that these children can have a normal life like some other privileged ones.” Olugbenga is not the only one feeling this way. Isabella Okerigbe is also not happy with the Nigerian government. “I hear stories about how children are treated in other countries and I also see for myself when we travel for vacations. Nigeria is the worst country to be born into as a child. We don’t have policies that protect us from harm; people take advantage of us because they see us as children. My parents don’t hit us, they correct us with love, but many other children are not so lucky because nobody holds their parents accountable if anything happens to them. They will say after all they are the parents. “When I hear stories of abused children sometimes I wonder what justice is served to those people responsible for the evil but I don’t get to hear anything, maybe I am not getting enough information on that, but I believe government is not doing enough for us. Some children don’t go to school, in other parts of the world that is an offense, because it is our fundamental human right. “Parents don’t even ask us what we want for our birthdays or our needs in general; they just assume we need this or that. Because I am a child does not mean there are things I want and things I don’t want or because my sister wants something I also must have that. We have a right to our choices, we need freedom to also eat what we want as far as it is healthy,” she said. George and Joshua Melekwe are also worried that some children in their school and church are not eating healthy because their parents are struggling to make ends meet.