 Palpable tension appears to have enveloped three states- Sokoto, Benue and Plateau ahead of today’s governorship supplementary elections, which will be conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Investigations carried out by our correspondents across the three states revealed that heavy security presence across the states ahead of the conduct of elections in the states have started creating fear and apprehension in the minds of the electorate. In Sokoto, it was gathered that a join Security Agents that includes, military, Police, Civil Defence and the Department of State Security (DSS) engaged in show of force in the state. Our correspondent in the state reports that the security agents in their procession and show of force were seen going round some major streets in the state, Thursday Saturday Telegraph in the state learnt that few days to the conduct of the election both the General Officer Commanding, 8 Division of the Army, Major General Hakeem Oladapo Otiki, that comprises Sokoto, Zamfara and Kebbi states of the Nigeria Army deployed in the state. The GOC stated that about 500 security personnel participated in the Thursday’s show of force exercise held within the state metropolis, while presently, the exercise is being extended to the identify flash points. Meanwhile, operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) have commenced intensive surveillance in the state. Our correspondent, who sighted some of the officials who were on patrol on Thursday, believed the anti-graft agents may have been drafted to move against vote-buying by Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs). The rerun exercise is scheduled for 138 polling scattered across the 22 local Government Areas of the state, with estimated 75,403 voters expected to participate. Earlier, there have been counter allegations of vote buying by the two leading political parties in the contest, (APC and PDP) during the last gubernatorial election which was later pronounced inconclusive exercise by the INEC. During a solidarity visit by the PDP national leadership to Sokoto on Tuesday, the state Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, had decried the intimidation and harassment of members of his political party, PDP by officials of the EFCC in the state. The Zonal Head, EFCC Office, Mr. Ahmed Lateef, could not be reached when contacted, but an official of EFCC in the state, who spoke with our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said the surveillance was part of the routine exercise of the agency. “Our surveillance has been a routine one and I can assure you that the exercise is never to intimidation any persons,” he explained. Similarly, the state Police Command would deploy 135 polling units during the state supplementary election to ensure full protection of the exercise. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Garba Danjuma, disclosed this at a stakeholders’ meeting with leaders of the political parties in Sokoto. Danjuma said: “We are fully ready for the exercise and I want to assure you that in each polling unit where the re-run election will take place we will assign a team of four to five security personnel for the election. “So, we expect the political actors in the state to maintain peaceful atmosphere by cautioning their supporters not to foment any trouble that could disrupt the polls. “Moreover, we don’t expect any incidents of thuggery before, during and after the polls; so, I urge you to work thoroughly to ensure peaceful election.” Also speaking, the Assistant Inspector-General in charge of Zone 10 Sokoto, Mr. Muhammad Mustafa, urged politicians to play the game according to the rules and assured them of the police neutrality. “We will not allow anybody to distract the peace of the people, no matter his position or political influence. No Nigerian is above the law of the land. “As such any one that breaks the law no matter his position or political party will surely be arrested to face the law,” he said. In Benue, a huge security presence was witnessed in Makurdi the State capital and other local government areas where the rerun is to hold just as strange vehicles carrying strange faces were spotted with security inscriptions boldly written on them. This is because the incumbent Governor, Samuel Ortom of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is set to square it up with his closest rival, Emmanuel Jime of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Ortom polled 410, 576 votes during the March 9 governorship election against Jime who polled a distant second with 329, 022 votes. INECs Returning Officer in the state, Prof. Sebastian Maimako, had said the reason for the cancellation of results of that election was that the margin of lead of 81,554 was below the total number of cancelled votes. He also put the total number of cancelled votes at 121, 091. On his part, the state’s Commissioner of Police, CP Umar Muri, at a media briefing, warned all intending violators of the electoral process to stay clear or face the severe consequences of the law. Muri said: “Our deployment has covered all Polling Units, Collation Centres and INEC offices. The command is calling on Parents, religious leaders and traditional rulers, to prevail on their children and subjects not to allow themselves to be used to disrupt the electoral process. “Voters are advised to come out without any fear of harassment or intimidation and exercise their franchise while conducting themselves in accordance with the Nigerian laws, particularly, the Electoral Act 2010 with 2015 Amendment and INEC Guideline for 2019 General Election.” Meanwhile, Plateau State Police Command, yesterday said it had deployed 5,000 personnel to ensure law and order during the elections. The Deputy Inspector of Police (DIG), Taiwo Lakunu, stated this during a lecture for police personnel ahead of the election in some parts of the state. He also disclosed that there would be total restriction of movement in all the 17 local governments. The governorship supplementary elections will take place in nine local government areas comprising 40 polling units, the Local Government where elections will take place include Barking Ladi, Bassa, Bokkos, Jos North, Kanam, Langtang South, Mangu, Pankshin and Shendam. While Langtang South State Constituency elections will hold in six polling units in four registration areas.