 First slash since Nov 2015  Experts, OPS hail policy Emefiele calls for rebasing of economy For the first time in almost four years and contrary to most analysts expecting rates to be kept on hold through to the middle of the year at least, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday surprisingly cut its benchmark interest rate to 13.5 per cent from 14 per cent. The cut is in an attempt to stimulate growth and signal a “new direction’. This is the first rate cut since November 2015. The rate has remained unchanged at 14 per cent since July 2016 to support the naira and curb inflation. The governor of the CBN, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, who announced the    cut in rate at a press briefing in Abuja at the end of its Monetary Policy Committee’s (MPC), a two-day deliberation, said that consistent tightening of Monetary Policy Rate (MPR)’s 14 per cent since 2016 and new shift represents a phase in consolidation of economy. He said members also believed that the Nigerian economy was ripe for rebasing. The last rebasing was carried out in 2010. “The committee felt that given the relative stability in key macroeconomic variables, there is a need to signal a new direction, in which case we are talking about being pro-growth,” Emefiele said. Basically, the 0.5 per cent shift (50 basis point) in MPR reduction, is to consolidate on stability recorded by the economy in all fronts; and to spur more lending by Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) in the direction of real and agriculture sector of the economy; two sectors believed to weigh enormous potentials for massive jobs creation, Emefiele explained. Of 11 MPC members in attendance, six voted to reduce MPR by 50 basis points that is 0.5 per cent, two members voted to reduce MPR by 0.25 per cent, that is 25 basis points; while one member voted to reduce it by 100 basis points, which is one per cent. Two members, however, voted to hold MPR at its current level, 14 per cent. Ten members voted to hold all other parameters constant, while a member voted to reduce the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) by 100 basis points from 22.5 per cent to 21.5 percent. In summary, MPC voted to adjust the MPR by 50 basis points from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent; retain the asymmetric corridor of +200/-500 around the MPR; retain CRR at 22.5 per cent and leave the liquidity ratio at 30 per cent.
Specifically, Emefiele said there is a nexus between MPC’s decision to loose tightening and make funding available for real sector. His words: “The committee was convinced that doing this will further uphold the bank’s commitment to promoting strong growth by way of encouraging credit flow to the productive sectors of the economy. “The MPC also felt that signal through loosening by a marginal rate, will serve to manage the sentiments in the capital flow market owing to the wider spread in yields in the emerging markets and the developing economies relative to the advanced economies. Moreover, the real interest rates will still remain positive. “Yes, there is a relationship between funding SMEs and reducing rate. There is a relationship between lending to not just SME, but to the agriculture, manufacturing and the real sectors of the economy and our decision today. “The reason being that, if you consider the fact that, for instance, in January 2017, inflation had attained the level of 18.72 per cent and by December 2017, as a result of the pressure on the foreign exchange market, reserves have dropped to about $23 billion; and by that same month, even what was accruing into central bank had dropped to about  $500 million from as high as over $3 billion sometime in August 2013/2014.
“If you also recall that sometime February 2017, exchange rate as a result of the pressure, had accelerated to as high as N525 to a dollar. But if you compare those numbers with where we are today, the inflation at 11.3 per cent; foreign reserves at close to $45 billion, and we feel this trend will continue. Exchange rate converging in all the markets at between N358 to N360, GDP being in positive trajectory consecutively for five to six quarters; then you will agree with me that there is relative stability. We have proved that there is a sustainability in the level of stability in the macroeconomic indices in Nigeria.”
In 2017 Africa’s top oil producer emerged from its first recession in 25 years, since when higher oil prices have helped boost state coffers: crude sales account for two-thirds of the country’s revenue and 90 percent of foreign exchange.
The governor said Nigeria should be able to lift growth to between 2.7 and 3 percent, up from 1.9 percent last year. “This rate cut is meant to signal that there is a need for us to move course a little further. To do so we need to begin to look at money supply, liquidity to push growth,” he said.
But traders polled by Reuters said they expected bond yields to decline at the next session on Tuesday due to the rate cut as investors watch out for where the rates will settle at the central bank’s next treasury auction.
The benchmark one-year treasury bill closed at 12.4 per cent on Monday, around the rate at which the bank issued it at its last auction last week. Bond buyers had hoped the CBN would start to increase liquidity to improve funding conditions, particularly with election risk out of the way. With stability in the economy over the last two and a half years, the CBN governor said he believes the cut in interest rate should be the next phase where growth should be consolidated. “This should be the next phase where you should be talking about how do we create more jobs and reduce the level of unemployment in our country for people,” he said. “We believe that should be the next phase where we should be talking about how do we diversify the base of the Nigerian economy? And that, in doing that; we will continue to keep our eyes on the stability that we have achieved so far in the macroeconomic environment – I mean we will continue to do what we have been doing; that is keeping inflation low, we will continue to do what we are doing that is keeping the exchange rate stable; we will continue to do what we are doing to ensure the reserves remain on positive trajectory at least comfortable level to be able to sustain the level of growth in our economy.”
Consumer inflation was 11.31 per cent in February year-on-year, down slightly from 11.37 per cent annual growth a month earlier.  Inflation has been in double digits for three years and the central bank has previously said it was targeting single digit inflation.
Emefiele, however, dismissed apprehension that the interest rate cut could reinforce pressure on naira, saying CBN can withstand any pressure.  “The answer is a capital NO,” he said. “I don’t see that. Like I just told you that we have seen stability in the market over the last two and a half years and there is no need for anybody to worry. We will withstand any pressure.”
Asked if Nigeria is prepared for any economic pressure, the governor said: “We have gone through it in 2015, 2016 and 2017, with the support of everybody, our management and MPC members were able to overcome such challenges and I do not think that there is any challenge that the management of the central bank cannot surmount. We would surmount them.”   Members of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) could, for the first time in two years, likely vote for a cut in interest rates at the end of their two-day meeting tomorrow, financial experts have predicted. Citing the need to contain inflationary pressure, the MPC… In “Business” Decision of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to cut its benchmark interest rate to 13.5 percent from 14 percent for the first time in almost four years, has been commended by experts including the Organised Private Sector (OPS). The governor of the CBN ,Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had announced… In “Business” Following latest data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) which shows inflation continuing downward trend to 12.48 per cent in April, ana- lysts at Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) have predicted that the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is likely to cut interest rates at its… In “Business”