The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said that up to 50 national microfinance banks will be operational in the second phase of launching of the national microfinance bank. CBN governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele gave the commitment Wednesday at Gwagwalada, Abuja when he embarked on a facility tour of Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending ( NIRSAL ) microfinance bank , an agribusiness initiative, which provides risk for framers.
He said the CBN’s target is to have national microfinance bank branches in all the 774 local governments in the country. “We are just inspecting one out of the first seven and we are scaling up to the next 50 in the next phase. We believe that before the end of this year, we would have moved substantially in making sure that they are set up and be able to provide finance to small businesses,” he said. “This is a collaboration between NIRSAL, bankers Committee and NIPOST and I want to say that we really need to set up microfinance Bank that will reach out to the unbanked.” He said the most pressing challenge facing small businesses is lack of access to cheap finance, noting that, with the presence of a branch in each local government across the country, the problem would be tackled. “The biggest problem small businesses always have, is access to credit; and am happy that with the establishment of this microfinance bank, which would be in at least one local government and we are talking about the 774 locations in all the country, we would be able to have a financial institution that will help deepen financial inclusion to make it easy for people to access credit particularly the small and unbanked people because we have always said that these are the very weak,” he said.  “We use this to improve access to credit and the technology that would be used will be a fintech technology. We have already set a target for ourselves that by 2020, the rate of financial inclusion must increase to 80 per cent from about 48 per cent a year and a half ago. So this is just part of our initiative to deepen financial inclusion in Nigeria.” On collateral for loans and interest rate, Mr. Emefiele said the hurdle has been removed, adding that, the business serves as the collateral. “We know that those who are weak in terms of those who are unable to access credit ; the big issue for them is inability to provide Collateral,” he added. “So they will be able to access credit without providing collateral. The asset that we are financing for them will act as the collateral, which will be registered in our national collateral registry as something that is eligible to serve as collateral for loan. “The loan is going to be disbursed from our AGMEIS scheme, which is five per cent of profit after tax that is being set aside by the banks to support the small and medium enterprises that will be in agriculture or those that are into different type of small businesses that badly need to raise finance to be able to set up an earn livelihood. Interest rate for this will be at five per cent and the loan will be for a tenure of seven years with two years moratorium.”