 The inability of Nigeria’s system to correct itself and ensure justice are some of the real reasons former Ogun State Governor Otunba Gbenga Daniel resigned his membership of the People Democratic Party (PDP) and called it quits with partisan politics, Sunday Telegraphy, has exclusively leant. A source close to the Director General of the Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign, confided in the weekly that Daniel is frustrated by the Nigerian system otherwise known as the ‘Nigerian factor’ and the last straw which broke the camel’s back was the candidature of the PDP governorship candidate in Ogun State Senator Buruju Kashamu “In Nigeria, one is frustrated by the inability of the system to correct itself and ensure justice. Going by his own experience, Nigeria still has a long way to go. Closely related to it is the lack of party discipline and supremacy. The case of Buruju Kashamu is very frustrating. The party said this is who they want, but somebody through legal means and by subterfuge had his way. The party said this is who they want, the court said no. He did the same thing in 2015. So why must I continue to waste my time,” he was quoted as saying.” It is something he has toyed with it is not a sudden decision,” the source added. Despite quitting partisan politics, the ex-governor stated that he has decided to rejuvenate his charity-based organisation, Gateway Front Foundation (GFF), to continue to dispense succour to people in need and assist in their health challenges.
His decision was contained in a letter to the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, which was dated March 14, 2019. The letter was copied to former Vice President and PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and the Chairman, PDP Board of Trustees. Daniel, who served as governor between 2003 and 2011, traced his political journey since he formally joined PDP on September 9, 2001 and bemoaned the condition of the opposition party in his home state. While alluding to the recent governorship election in the state which was won by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Prince Dapo Abiodun, the former governor stated that he had no regrets about his support for the winner. Daniel’s letter partly read: “I served as Governor of Ogun State for eight years and our administration till today remains a point of reference in terms of physical, social, economic, educational and human capital development since the State was created in 1976. “Notwithstanding these widely acclaimed achievements, however, our party, the Peoples Democratic Party ran into trouble waters towards the end of our administration (about the year 2009) which led to the sad loss in the election of 2011, and regrettably ten (10) years after the party has been unable to resolve those internal disputes and challenges. “Meanwhile, the PDP in Ogun State was confronted with a very difficult situation in matter of choice. Whereas the national leadership of our party, recognized one candidate for the 2019 election, by court pronouncements another candidate, and in compliance with those court orders, which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recognised was on the INEC list. “The candidates recognised by INEC were not acceptable to the national leadership of the party. Our situation was then compounded because the candidate which the court and INEC recognized and accepted as valid has also been expelled by the party. This was the dilemma we found ourself as we approached the March 9, 2019 Governorship and State House of Assembly elections. “Going forward, we have responded to the yearnings of our people and joined others in emplacing an administration that we believe will better serve the interests of our people than what currently exists. The rest they say is now history.
“I must say that looking back, I do not have any regrets over that patriotic choice and decision, especially as several of our citizens, leaders and stakeholders in the state and outside have commended that singular action. “Many stakeholders within and outside Ogun State feel fulfilled, excited and grateful about our decision to join others in putting a stop to a regime that was believed to be against the collective and general welfare of our people. “Let me also add, that in the last few months, I have had one of the rare privileges of traveling round the entire length and breadth of our great country on at least two occasions; the first being during my campaigns to become the National Chairman of our great party, and later as the Director General of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organization (APCO). “I must sincerely admit that in the course of all these travels, I have built a network of contacts, of friends and associates in a mutually rewarding relationships which I cherished most and greatly too. I am therefore persuaded that I have fewer points to make and prove in my political journeys in partisan politics. “My decision to quit partisan politics notwithstanding, I have decided to rejuvenate my charity based organization, the Gateway Front Foundation (GFF) which will literally continue to dispense succor to our people in need, address and assist in the areas of some of their health challenges; I also plan on resuscitation of the non-partisan Political Leadership Academy (POLA), which I established some years ago as a platform of political education to our citizens.”