About 150 students, workers and teachers of the Christian Mission School for the Deaf in Ibadan, yesterday protested alleged forcible acquisition of their 39- acre land meant for infrastructural development by the Oyo State government. The deaf students, who had protested a few months ago, went to the disputed land located on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, carrying placards with different inscriptions while pleading with Governor Abiola Ajimobi not to add to their problems. Some of the inscriptions read: “If you can’t help us, don’t add to our problems,” “We also have rights to education and sports,” “Our land is for the first university for the deaf in Africa,” “Please, do not oppress the deaf,” “We are also Nigerians, don’t cheat on us,” “We want our land for technical and vocational support for poor deaf,” among others. Ajimobi had in July last year told the protesting deaf that his administration had shelved the idea of taking over the land and would be ready to assist them during the construction of the proposed university. They othwere, however, surprised that government decided to renege, insisting on taking four hectares out of the land. Speaking on behalf of the hearing-impaired students and their teachers, Mr. Solomon Fasanya, Technical Supervisor for Andrew Foster Christian Mission School for the Deaf, who spoke through an interpreter, Miss Joseph Juliana, said the school bought the acres of land in 2004. “The government told us that the land has fallen into acquisition area. Since 2016, we have been writing to government to consider our condition and look elsewhere for land. What we are saying is that if government wants to acquire part of the land, we should sit down together to discuss. We have tried to meet the government but they have not deemed it fit to invite us for dialogue. We want the government to incorporate us into the land it has acquired.” The Principal of the school, Mr. Johnson Olalekan, said their present school at Onireke was too small for them. He said: “We have issues with a lot of our students who graduated from our school. Majority of them don’t learn further after their secondary education.”