Two months after a Federal High Court in Abuja sacked Chairman and Managing Director Bolingo Hotels and Towers Ltd., Cyprian Okechukwu Igweh, the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division, has also set aside consent judgment making him sole Administrator of the Estate of late Chief Joseph Uchechukwu Igweh. A three-man panel led by Mr. Justice Adamu Jauro, said the consent judgment of the Federal High Court entered on 11th October, 2006 in Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/237/2006 by Honourable Justice Binta Nyako was hereby set aside. A Federal High Court, Abuja had last year December granted an order of injunction restraining Cyprian Okechukwu Igweh from parading himself as the Chairman/ Managing Director or Chief Executive Officer of Bolingo Hotels and Towers Limited, Abuja. Justice Babatunde Quadri declared that by virtue of a notice dated 15th June, 2009 by the Board of Directors of the Bolingo Hotels and Towers Limited and the ordinary resolution dated 6th July, 2007 to the effect that Cyprian Okechukwu Igweh, should not only vacate his office as Director and Chairman/ Managing Director of the Bolingo Hotels and Towers, Igweh ceased to be the Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Bolingo Hotels & Towers Ltd. Also, the court ordered by a mandatory injunction that Igweh should render an account and disclose financial standing of the Bolingo Hotels and Towers, Abuja which he had unilaterally managed from 16th October, 2006 till date of judgments, December 14, 2018 within 14 days from the date of the judgment. Trouble, however, began when the late Chief Joseph Uchechukwu Igweh died on 22nd October, 2005 in the Bellview plane crash at Lisa village, Ogun State. At that time, two of his children, Chijioke Igweh and Chizoba Igweh were shareholders in the company. There was internal wrangling over who should take control of the company based on the perception that the widow, Dr. Mrs. Becky Igweh, was making moves to have exclusive control of Bolingo Hotels and Towers Limited. Following the development, Dr. Mrs. Bekky Igweh, filed a suit No.: FHC/ABJ/CS/237/2006 at the Federal High Court, Abuja wherein she sued three of the children and the Corporate Affairs Commission but, Cyprian Okechukwu Igweh, championed the course of his younger siblings and advised them to all go back to United Kingdom while he defend the suit filed by Dr. Bekky Igweh. However, both parties (Cyprian and Bekky) reached an agreement and terms of settlement were allegedly signed by Cyprian Okechukwu Igweh. The terms of settlement were made the consent judgment of the court on 11th October, 2006. The alleged part of the terms of settlement was that Dr. Bekky Igweh would relinquish her shares in Bolingo Hotels and Towers and be paid 10 per cent of the hotel’s value; set aside the Will of their late father while Cyprian Okechukwu Igweh would head the family and handle the Administration of the Estate; Dr. Bekky would hand over all title documents of the Estate to him and she will in turn be paid N250, 000.00 every month as upkeep; Cyprian Okechukwu Igweh will be transparent in handling the affairs of the Estate. Upon assuming those responsibilities and being granted letters of Administration, Cyprian Okechukwu Igweh allegedly turned around to say that the estate belonged to him and declared himself Chairman, Managing Director, Bolingo Hotels and Towers Limited. However, Joseph Igweh and Chuma Igweh, filed an appeal in July 2017 against the consent judgment of the Federal High Court, Abuja asking the appellate court to determine whether the lower court was wrong when it entered the terms of settlement dated 27th September, 2006 but filed in 28th September, 2006 when it was not signed by all the parties to the suit and no fact was placed before the court to show that they consented to the terms of settlement. The appellants also asked the court to determine that having regard to the provision of Section 251(1) of the Constitution as amended, whether the lower court was wrong to have entered the terms of settlement which inter alia nullified the last Will and testament of the late chief Joseph Uchechukwu Igweh, and also appointed the first respondent as the sole administrator as judgment of the court. Sued as respondents in the appeal No. CA/A/685/2017 were Cyprian Igweh, Corporate Affairs Commission, Bolingo Hotels and Towers Ltd and Mrs. Bekky Igweh. Delivering judgment in the appeal, Justice Jauro noted said “there is no evidence in the record of this appeal showing that the 2nd defendant (Cyprian) communicated the terms of settlement to the 1st, 3rd and 4th defendants in UK by phone or email and that they expressly consented to them. “There is no evidence in the record of this appeal that shows that 2nd defendant, upon taking over the management of the 3rd respondent in pursuance of the said terms of settlement appointed the 1st, 3rd and 4th defendants’ directors with executive portfolios and that therefore the 1st, 3rd and 4th defendants had benefitted from the terms of settlement. “The trial court wrongly assumed jurisdiction to grant reliefs 1 and 6 to 15 on the basis of terms of settlement as agreed upon by the parties. This is because the agreement or consent of the parties to submit those terms to it for adoption as its judgment cannot confer it jurisdiction to adjudicate on matters and grant reliefs outside its subject matter jurisdiction. “It is settled by unending line of judicial decisions that a court cannot exercise a jurisdiction it does not have and the parties to an action before a court cannot by their agreement or consent enabled a court to exercise jurisdiction that it does not have.”