The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), last week, released a list of 23 players for the last Nations Cup qualifier against Seychelles and the international friendly match against the Pharaohs of Egypt.  The two games are billed for the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba, Delta State. There were many issues about the list, but more importantly, we realised that only two players are fresh legs for the two high-profile encounters.  High profile because these are matches involving national teams. They are defender Valentine Ozornwafor of Enyimba, who may not be considered for the final run-in to AFCON proper and an attacker, Paul Onuachu of FC Midtjyland, Denmark.  We believe it will be interesting to see what the new invitees could add to the team. No doubt, the key subject of discourse about the list was that Rohr should have invited fewer overseas-based professionals since the encounter against Seychelles is a formality for Nigeria.  The Eagles have confirmed the country’s slot at the competition with the goalless draw recorded against South Africa. Two former internationals, Garba Lawal and Ifeanyi Udeze, argued that a maximum of six pros should have been enough. Lawal noted that there was need to reduce the financial burden on the federation, while Udeze argued that more home-based players should have been invited for exposure.  We are aware these two played the game at the highest level, including the World Cup, but their colleague, Ike Shorunmu, noted that it was great to use these two matches to begin the country’s preparation for AFCON.  We share the sentiments of the former Eagles goalkeeper, Shorunmu, because there will be no other FIFA window for friendly games before the continental football showcase in Egypt later in June. Rohr needs better understanding and cohesion in the team and that is why his invitation of Agrade players is good for the preparation of the team.  The Seychelles match should be taken seriously with full complement of the team while the friendly against Egypt also requires a serious approach to enable the Eagles’ handlers to determine the areas of weaknesses, which must be addressed before the AFCON finals.  The Egyptians are not coming to Asaba, venue of the match, with A-grade players, but it is important for NFF to think about more quality friendly matches for the team   before the competition.  It will be great if Eagles can play teams like Morocco, Senegal and Cote d’Ivoire during the run-in on AFCON finals, which will span two weeks. However, we frown at the non-inclusion of team skipper, Mikel Obi, in the list.  The former Chelsea player is currently doing well at Middlesbrough, but was not invited despite the manager’s insistence that he was still part of the team. Two youngsters, Taiwo Awoniyi, who has been scoring consistently in Belgium and Samuel Chukwueze, who has been impressive in LaLiga with Villarreal, were also not invited for the two games.  We strongly believe Mikel should have been called for these games because of his leadership role in the team and also because the preparation for Nations Cup finals should start with the two matches.  Chukwueze and Awoniyi have been on the rise in the past few months. Since they were not invited for these ties, their chances of making AFCON 2019 are very slim.   There were issues about the top players invited for these games and since Rohr has opted to go with his regulars, Mikel, Awoniyi and Chukwueze should have been part of the team.  With due respect, the noninclusion of Kelechi Iheanacho did not come as a surprise to us and many keen followers of the round leather game because the former junior international has been off form lately, both for his club, Leicester and the national team, the Super Eagles  We advise that one or two strong players should be invited to compete for places with the regulars. The midfield needs creativity, but if that cannot be achieved within the short time to the tournament, there must be efficiency and understanding such that chances will be easily created for the forwards.  It is also not late to bring in Chukwueze and Awoniyi during the final phase of camping for AFCON. We expect positive changes before the competition proper in June and we want to emphasize that the defence deserves to be better than it is because there are limited options in the centre.  We also believe that Nigeria is blessed with many talented footballers home and abroad with the potential to perform better and boost the pedigree of the country on the continent.  Three AFCON wins are not enough to justify the rich potential of Nigeria in global football. We charge NFF and Rohr to approach the forthcoming AFCON with all seriousness because after failure to qualify for the last two editions, it will be great to win the 2019 edition of the tourney.