Anyone one who has closely monitored activities and lifestyle of the man called Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will steadily agree the Lagos State-born politician is not one who promotes self-glory or given to what some might see as frivolities, such as throwing bashes for each and every accomplishment. This explains why Tinubu probably doesn’t throw parties on his birthday anniversaries and other notable events. For over a decade, Asiwaju’s birthday anniversary has never gone unnoticed as it is usually one that sets the whole place agog. This is never his making but efforts of many who see him as an institution and a worthy personality who deserves nothing but celebration, especially on a day like his birthday. On March, 28, Jagaban Borgu, as the former Lagos State governor is popularly called, added another year to turn 76. Expectedly, it has been torrents of encomiums and endless birthday wishes from different quarters, from the highest places to the lowest ebb of the society. Among those who have felicitated with him on his birthday is President Mohammadu Buhari. Referring to him as one of the strong pillars of democracy in a statement signed by his aide, the President recalled some of the sacrifices made by Tinubu to include standing up against injustice in 1993 when June 12 elections were annulled. While he said the best years of the APC national leader is still ahead, he however prayed God grant him long life, good health and more wisdom to keep serving the country he loves so much.  Meanwhile, in a bid to celebrate the political heavyweight who has over many years proven to be a master strategist and advocate of good governance, the usual yearly ritual to mark is birthday, a colloquium, held on Thursday 28th at the Federal Capital City, Abuja, where dignitaries led by President Mohammadu Buhari attended.  Osinbajo, Sambo, Dogara, Kalu, govs honour APC leader President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has raised the bar for several politicians in the country. The President stated this while congratulating Tinubu on the… In “News” One time senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and former governor of the Centre of Excellence, Lagos State, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, needs no introduction as he’s presently one of the most influential Nigerians. As it relates with what he’s mostly known for, politics, the dark skinned accountant turned politician… In “Body & Soul” The Asiwaju Bola Tinubu 9th Colloquium held in Lagos last week provided an opportunity for Nigerians to deliberate on measures to strengthen the economy through patronage of madein- Nigeria products, TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports Lagos, the Centre of Excellence, was agog last week as political gladiators, statesman, captains of industry, military… In “Politics”