Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State yesterday described former Vice President and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 election, Alhaji Atiku, as a politician who is hallucinating in defeat. Obaseki stated this while responding to claims by the PDP presidential candidate that he won election, defeating President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with about 1.6million votes as allegedly shown the server of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Also, the Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello declared that those pushing the former Vice President to challenge the victory in court were doing so to rip him off. The two governors spoke separately to State House correspondents after meeting with President Mohammadu Buhari at the presidential villa to congratulate him on his re-election. Obaseki said: “You heard the word, they are hallucinating” The Edo State Governor said that he was at the State House to congratulate President Buhari and also to discuss some developmental issues that have to do with the South-South and South East being the only APC governor in the area. He said: “I came to congratulate the President on his victory in the pools. If you understand the Nigerian politics, I am the only APC governor in the South South and South East. So, it means I must keep a very close relationship with my President.” On what he discussed with him, he said, “It is just issues pertaining to the region, economic development of the region, security and how to make progress in the next four years.” He said that his discussion with the President had nothing to do with politics. On his part, the Niger State governor noted that: “It is not unusual, when you lose elections, you go to court for so many reasons. It could be that you think you won or it could be that someone is telling you that you have won or it could be that someone is telling you some miracles can happen. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Hon. Charles Idahosa, has described Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, as a meticulous and transparent leader who means well for the people of the state.   Speaking with journalists at the Press Centre in Benin City, the former Commissioner for Information lambasted… In “News” A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Chief Charles Idahosa, speaks in this interview on the defection of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the 2019 elections, among other issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports   Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar recently… In “Politics” Nigerians will be going to the poll on February 16, to elect a new president from an unprecedented 73 candidates in the race for the country’s number one position, but out of this number, only a handful have, so far, presented themselves to the electorate since the presidential campaign started… In “Politics”