Nigeria spends over $8 billion annually to import over 400,000 fairly used automobiles, commonly called ‘ Tokunbo’, Managing Director, National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), Mr. Jelani Aliyu, has claimed.
To reverse the trend, he said NADDC has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Volkswagen conglomerate to begin the manufacturing of vehicles and cars in Nigeria.
Aliyu stated that the unwholesome practice of importing used cars by Nigerians negates efficiency, safety and provides economic backwardness for the nation. Speaking yesterday in Abuja at an interactive session with journalists, Aliyu said the council has also put in place several programmes to discourage the importation of vehicles into the country.
”If you watch closely, you will find that the National Automotive Industrial Development Plan (NAIDP) is working closely with the NADDC and have started to bring back all vehicle manufacturing companies into the country. Today, companies like Innoson Motors, Honda and Peugeot have begun manufacturing of vehicles in Nigeria, but we still don’t have the numbers of manufacturers we need,” he said.
According to him, NADDC is working hard to find lasting solution to challenges of infrastructure. ”We are also working with NAIDP to put in place Structured Development Plan. We are building three automotive industrial hubs in Kaduna, Osogbo and Nnewi. The one at Nnewi is in advanced stage with a master plan. We are working with the Bank of Industry (BOI) and several state governments to have our industrial parks to take care of infrastructures,’ Aliyu added.
He noted that the council has also concluded arrangements to establish Vehicle Financing Scheme that will make it easier for customers to buy vehicles with between five per cent and 10 per cent deposit while spreading the balance for several years for balance payment.
On skills acquisition, the NADDC boss explained that over 20,000 youths have already been trained in auto-electronics around the country, stressing that the council is currently working with the Presidency and the N-Power programme to further train another set of 1,200 on meta-electronics.
NADDC was established by Act number 83 of 2014 as a parastatal of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment with the sole aim of creating an enabling environment for the manufacturing of made-in-Nigeria vehicles of international standards at competitive prices using local human and material resources.