 FACE-OFF The crisis between the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and the management of the Federal University, Oye- Ekiti (FUOYE) in Ekiti State, last week, assumed a new dimension as a faction of the union petitioned the Minister of Education, calling for the removal of the Vice-Chancellor   There is no letup yet in the crisis rocking the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) between the management and the university chapter of the Academic staff Union of universities (ASUU) . This is as the already factionalised union has refused to sheathe its swords, but insisting that the Vice- Chancellor, Prof. Kayode Soremekun should be removed. But, members of one of the two factions of the union, which are singing a discordant tunes, are sympathetic to the university management, while the other faction, led by the Chairman of ASUU branch, Dr. Akinyemi Omonijo, which is said to be loyal to the Akure Zonal Chairman of ASUU, Prof. Olu Olufayo, has vowed not the see eye to eye with the Prof. Soremekun-led management. Trouble was said to have begun few months ago, when the ASUU-FUOYE faction loyal to the Zonal Chairman and Omonijo, the embattled Chairman of the chapter held a press briefing in Ado- Ekiti, Ekiti State capital, where they levelled some allegations of misconduct against the Vice-Chancellor. Some of the allegations, are that the Vice-Chancellor refused to pay the pensions of academic staff as at when due; that the university management unduly promoted some members of staff of the university and non-payment of staff allowances, among other allegations. But, the group loyal to the Soremekun- led management had since debunked the allegations, saying members of staff alleged to have been promoted were already on the Level before they came to the institution. Rather than witch-hunting the Vice-Chancellor, they pointed out that FUOYE under the watch of Prof. Sore-mekun had witnessed tremendous growth in terms of academic and infrastructural development, which has placed the university the best among its contemporaries that were established by the Federal Government at the twilight of the President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. However, the crisis assumed a new dimension recently, when the warring faction of ASUU-FUOYE, led by Omonijo had in a petition to the Federal Ministry of Education, called for a visitation panel to the federal institution to unravel some of the allegations against Prof. Soremekun, the Vice-Chancellor. In the fresh allegations against him are failure to provide infrastructure in the institution, illegal recruitment and misappropriation of funds, all of which were said to have been denied by the Vice- Chancellor in his response to the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu. In his reply, Soremekun was said to have told the Minister that the petitioners failed to consult the ASUU Congress before sending the petition through the national body of the union, saying that there was a deliberate attempt to mislead the Minister about the happenings at the university. According to documents, the Vice- Chancellor pointed out that “if the National President of ASUU, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, had taken time to make consultations, he would have been able to get accurate facts about the actual situation, rather than relying on the lies furnished him and the national executive of ASUU by the chairman of the local chapter of union. The Vice-Chancellor was quoted as saying: “Contrary to allegations of inadequate infrastructure at the institution, the present management had embarked on the construction of over 30 various infrastructural projects in which many of them had already been completed, and which indeed has led to the accreditation of all academic programmes offered in the university, preparatory for the current academic session. “As a result of some of the feats and innovations at FUOYE, it ranked the best among those that were established at the same time and 14th among all the universities in Nigeria in the last ranking exercise carried out by the National Universities Commission (NUC). “Currently, the university has gotten approval for the commencement of Law programme from the NUC, and only awaiting the nod of the Law regulatory body, that is, the Council of Legal Education, while the accreditation of the College of Medicine is underway. “FUOYE remains the only university among six others that were established in 2011 by the Federal Government that is running two campuses; one at Oye-Ekiti and the other one at Ikole-Ekiti, while the management ensured that necessary infrastructure for the convenience of the students are being put in place aggressively so that those campuses are not starved of necessary infrastructure. Following the development, the Federal Ministry of Education has intervened to address the tension created by the crisis in the institution. This was as the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oladapo Fasina, who disclosed this at Oye-Ekiti, added that the supervising ministry, after receiving the petition of local chapter of ASUU and the response from the Vice-Chancellor, decided to intervene in order to nip the crisis in the bud. But, Oladapo, however, declined further comments on the decision of the ministry because of the sensitive nature of the matter. Meanwhile, the Federal Government, through the ministry, New Telegraph learnt, had waded into the feud between the local chapter of Academic Staff Union of Universities of the university and the Vice Chancellor. The decision to step into the crisis as part of moves to resolve the dispute came on the heels of the petition and based on the response from the Vice- Chancellor in order to ensure seamless academic activities in the institution. The ministry, it was further learnt was alleged to have exonerated the Vice-Chancellor from the various allegations levelled against him by both the national leadership and local chapter of ASUU, describing the allegations as baseless. In the meantime, the faction of the union loyal to the university management had also condemned the Akure Zonal Chairman, Prof. Olufayo, a lecturer at the Ekiti State Univer-sity (EKSU) for “poke-nosing and meddling unduly” in the affairs of FUOYE, instead of using his position to correct the imbalances in the state university. However, the Vice-Chancellor and the faction vehemently dismissed the allegations, describing their claim as frivolous, baseless and unfounded. Members of the faction opposed to Omonijo’s group, include Prof. Omolayo, Dr. Oppoola Bolanle and others, however, insisted that remitting of staff’s pension was never the duty of the university management, but that of the Federal Government through the Single Treasury Account (TSA) policy. The anti-Omonijo’s faction, which claimed to be in the majority, further insisted that the embattled ASUU Chairman of the institution by his action, had committed impeachable offences by working against the unity, progress and success of the FUOYE chapter of the union. They also accuses him of his highhandedness and for not carrying them along in decision making, among others. In view of this, impeachment process was therefore commenced against Omonijo in the union’s last Congress held on the campus in October, last year. Disturbed by this development, some members of FUOYE-ASUU under the aegis of the “Forum of Concerned Academics, however, passed a vote of no confidence on the leadership of Akure Zonal ASUU, led by Prof. Olufayo. The group said: “We have lost confidence in the Akure Zonal executive, and should the situation allow to linger on, we are determined to use all available conventional avenues to assert their responsibility and defend the image which the zone seems determined to destroy.” The group also alleged that Omonijo and his faction were running FUOYE- ASUU as a cult, and worse still, as his personal estate.” The Forum of Concerned Academics, led by Prof. Sola Omotola and Dr. Wasiu Oyedokun Alli, as the Secretary with other members, while addressing newsmen in Ado- Ekiti on March 13, said the body was dissociating itself from the last press conference held in Akure, Ondo State the previous week. But, the concerned lecturers have, however, expressed worry over the silence of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the National ASUU on the crisis in FUOYE- ASUU, saying they assume this stems from gross misinformation from the Zone, which has been compromised. “We want to use this medium to call on the ASUU NEC to send in an independent team that is completely neutral and objectives to assess the development and situation in the university,” the group said. The body further debunked the claims by Akure Zonal ASUU on the appointment of Professors without PhDs in the university, saying such a thing never happened, but that the case in question was that of Professor Borokini, who was elevated to a Professor at Benson Idahosa University in 2012 and delivered his inaugural lecture in May 2015, but joined FUOYE as a professor. Reacting to allegations of his impeachable offences, Omonijo told newsmen that he had not committed any offence for which he could be impeached by the congress, even as he accused those asking for his head of insubordination. According to him, they had also tabled other matters that were outside the agenda of the meeting, he had empowered them to hold while he was away for national assignment on behalf of the union. The concerned lecturers insisted that embattled chairman of the chapter must first step aside before any congress could be held on campus, which resulted to the disruption of a congress under the supervision of Prof. Olufayo by the concerned members, who stormed the venue to stop the meeting. A leader of the union and Dean of Faculty of Arts, Dr. Opoola Bolanle, who spoke on the disrupted congress, noted: “There was to be a congress, but there was because our members felt strongly that Prof. Olufayo, who has been part of our problem in this chapter should not come to foist any congress on us and we insisted that he cannot hold any congress when the chairman of our chapter that he is imposing on us has committed impeachment offences. “There has been a resolution on ground that the chairman has committed impeachable offences and should go,” he added. The concerned members noted that Omonijo had been suspended without pay and he had appeared before an investigative committee of Council, where he was asked to do two things. According to the lecturers, FUOYE is a nascent, but fast-growing university. The university management deserves commendation for the giant strides it has taken to leapfrog the institution among its contemporaries in many respect. But, while debunking the allegation that he was meddling in FUOYE’s affairs and taking steps that could undermine the university, Prof. Olufayo said the lecturers lack the locus standi to pass vote of no confidence on him. The ASUU chair added that he inherited the struggle to reposition FUOYE from his predecessor and that it would be wrong for his colleagues in the institution to brand him as agent of destruction or unnecessarily antagonistic to the authorities. He said: “We did not mean to cause crisis in the university, but we became confrontational when the Vice-Chancellor started victimising those who were fighting for good governance at the institution for which two lecturers were sacked and they are now in the court. “They are condemning the Akure ASUU Zonal leadership for their self-serving blackmail and destruction of FUOYE and we are saying this is totally unacceptable. “If the Vice-Chancellor is sure of himself, let him allow an independent panel from the Federal Ministry of Education to probe all our allegations against him so as to lay to rest the lingering crisis.”