The Nigerian Youth Coalition Against Electoral Violence (NYCAEV) Sokoto State Chapter, has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rescind its decision that declared the state’s governorship poll inconclusive. NYCAEV wants INEC to immediately declare the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, incumbent Gov. Aminu Tambuwal, winner of the March 9, governorship poll in Sokoto State. The state Coordinator of the group Mr. Dalhatu Kagara, made the group’s position known during a news conference on Wednesday in Sokoto. Kagara said the group was making the demand based on the fact that the conduct of the elections has been generally peaceful and orderly. “The conduct of the elections has been generally described as peaceful and orderly with only a few reported cases of rowdiness that were ill-intentioned by unscrupulous elements in the state. “Thus, while members of the general public followed with keen interest the process of collation and reporting of election result at different levels showing steady lead by the PDP, the conclusion of the process was deliberately returned inconclusive. “We are deeply pained that INEC ought to apply the rules fairly and without fear or favour, but has been engaging in selective application of the electoral law and its rules and regulations,” he said. Kagara further commended Tambuwal for his show of patriotism by resisting all attempts by some unscrupulous elements to instigate violent confrontations at various levels of the state’s electoral process. “His resolve to go to court and challenge the decision of INEC is an indication of his commitment to the promotion of the rule of law and good governance in Sokoto and Nigeria at large. “We therefore, call on INEC to rescind its unpopular decision and immediately return the peoples mandate by declaring Tambuwal, winner of the just concluded election in the state.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that INEC had on Sunday, declared the March 9, governorship election in Sokoto State inconclusive. The State Returning Officer, Prof. Fatima Muktar, said the decision was because the 75, 403 cancelled votes in 136 polling units was higher than the 3, 413 margin of difference between Tambuwal’s score and that of his closest rival, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate Ahmad Aliyu. Muktar, the Vice Chancellor of the Federal University (FUD) Dutse, Jigawa, had declared that Tambuwal polled 489, 558 votes while Aliyu scored 486, 145. (NAN)