Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, yesterday declared that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) cannot lose the Governorship and State Assembly elections in the state because Rivers people are firmly with the party. Wike also said that the coming elections would be used to end the illegal activities of ‘the political monster of Rivers State.’ The governor, who spoke yesterday at a town hall meeting with leaders of Rivers East senatorial district in Port Harcourt, charged the people not to be intimidated by soldiers, as they had a duty to vote for him and other PDP candidates. He said: “There is no way that the PDP will lose Rivers State and they tell the world that the elections are free and fair. “Even if we want to play politics, how would they explain to the international community that PDP lost to an unknown party that did not campaign? “How many soldiers will they deploy to implement the rigging? I am not worried about thier bringing more troops from Sokoto and Kafanchan, God is our security. During the Presidential and National Assembly elections, they struggled for 25 per cent, but they did not get it.” The governor said Rivers had passed the stage where a failed politician would direct the people on who to vote three days to the election, noting that nobody would play God in the state. “Nobody should be afraid, come out and vote for the PDP. Your votes will be counted. Your votes will be protected.” The governor urged traditional rulers to insist on credible polls across the state. “We will win on Saturday, because we know that God is with us. Those who think they have the power will face God. They want to disrupt the elections to instigate postponement. Do not fall into their hands,” he said. He also noted that the illegal arrests by the military would not stop the victory of the PDP during the Governorship and House of Assembly elections. “If they arrest 2, 000 persons, they will see more 10, 000. Our people should be security conscious about their movement because these people are very desperate,” he said.