 Following the decision by the Federal Government to stop life insurance operators from retaining annuity funds in their custodies, the underwriters have lost N77.77 billion to various Pension Fund Custodians (PFCs), New Telegraph has learnt.
According to a document made available by the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), about 12 life insurers received various sums of money for that purpose out of the 27 firms currently in operation excluding the two Takaful operators.
The amount represents the premium paid to some life insurers during the 2017 transaction period.
A breakdown of the premium received showed that, as usual, Leadway Assurance Company Limited topped the table with N56.15 billion, and distantly followed by Custodian Life Assurance Limited with N7.71 billion.
Others are FBN Insurance Limited, N6.76 billion; AIICO Insurance Plc, N3.22 billion; ARM Life, N2.72 billion; Axa Mansard, N258.11 million and Ensure (now Allianz), N402,000.
It also includes Great Nigeria Insurance Plc., N16.73 million; LASACO Assurance Plc., N68.73 million; Niger Insurance Plc., N135.84 million; Royal Exchange Prudential Life Plc., N18.06 million, and Standard Alliance Plc., N683.91 million.
Recall that a few years ago, the Federal Government, through the National Pension Commission (PenCom), had arrived at a decision to ensure that all funds under annuity arrangement in the custody of life underwriters be moved transferred to Pension Fund Custodians for safe keeping. The development, which generated friction between PenCom and National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) was later resolved in favour of the former based on a section of the reviewed Pension Reformed Act 2014.
According to PenCom, the decision to move annuity assets from life insurers PFCs is to ensure consistency with Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014 and strengthen the processing of administration of retirement benefits.
A circular entitled: “Strengthening the Administration of Retirement Benefits under the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014”, with reference number PENCOM/INSP/CIR/TECH/16/17, issued on November 3, 2016, to pension fund, the pension regulator noted that in line with the PRA 2014, it resolved that the custody of retiree life annuity shall henceforth be domiciled with PFCs as provided for in Section 56 of the pension act.
PenCom mandated all life insurance companies currently providing life annuity for retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) to open an operational account jointly with a PFC of their choice and advice the commission.
It maintained that all life insurance companies currently providing retiree life annuity under the CPS should transfer the corresponding assets in their possession/custody to the PFC of their choice.
The commission also noted that the approval of new request for annuity should be put on hold with immediate effect, until life insurance companies meet the custody and transfer conditions. PenCom said life insurance companies were required to open an account with the custodian of their choice and also execute custodial service agreement that shall state the terms and conditions of the contract between the parties.
At the early stage of the crisis, NAICOM as well as NIA had protested the move following plans to transfer over N145 billion to the PFCs.
The directive had denied the underwriters’ annuity premium for the first quarter of 2017 due to the crisis, as no annuity request was approved during the quarter due to the fact that life insurance companies were still in the process of opening operational accounts with PFCs.