Soldiers from the Six Division of the Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt yesterday patrolled some major streets in Port Harcourt and some communities outside the capital, creating panic among some residents. A team of soldiers have targeted some chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for arrest, including the Commissioner for Education, Dr. Tamunnosisi Gogo-Jaja, who was arrested and detained by the army. The movement of the soldiers along major roads has created panic among some Port Harcourt residents, while some chieftains of the party have gone underground for fear of being arrested and detained. It would be recalled that soldiers on February 23, during the Presidential and National Assembly elections arrested some members of the PDP, including a Rivers State lawmaker, a serving commissioner and other government officials for alleged electoral offences. Meanwhile, the PDP Campaign headquarters has condemned the manhunt on PDP members, just as it listed some PDP members that the army has pencilled down for arrest. In a statement signed by Emma Okah, its media director, PDP noted that the arrest is aimed at causing crisis in the state. The statement added: The essence of the arrests is to precipitate crisis and cause the INEC to postpone the elections in Rivers State. Failing this, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, will use the vacuum created by the absence of arrested leaders and rig the governorship election and force a candidate of his choice against the will of the people. “We have been saying it repeatedly that the Minister of Transportation has been commanding the army in Port Harcourt to do unprofessional things and the crises are spreading. “He has been boasting that he has brought soldiers from Sokoto and other states to carry out his political agenda of disrupting or rigging elections on Saturday. “A lot of prominent persons have been pencilled down for arrest. Some of them are former Governor of Rivers State, Sir Celestine Omehia; former Deputy Speaker of House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Austin Opara; PDP state chairman, Felix Obuah; elder statesman Chief Ferdinand Alabraba, former Chairman of UBA and others.”