 As members of the House of Representatives-elect begin subtle moves in the scramble for leadership positions ahead of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly of the Fourth Republic, seven contenders for the position of speaker may have emerged. This is even as the outgoing speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, who has won election for the fourth time to represent Bogoro/ Dass/Tafawa Balewa federal constituency of Bauchi State in the North-East is not leaving any stone unturned to retain his position, when the 9th National Assembly is inaugurated. Although, there are indications that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may have concluded plans to zone the position of Speaker to the South-West, lawmakers- elect have commenced secret meetings to lobby colleagues ahead of inauguration in June. Dogara, who became speaker in 2015 under controversial circumstances and is now a member of the minority Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), is said to be banking on the anticipated split in the APC and his goodwill amongst the lawmakers to stage a comeback. Dogara is said to have set machinery in place to dislodge the candidate that may be endorsed by the ruling APC. One of his closest confidants disclosed to New Telegraph that “if the APC zone the position of speaker to North-East, it will be easier for Dogara to scale through because of his network of friends, and if it is South-West, he can still thrash them.” Another key player in the Dogara camp and a two-time lawmaker, who is unfortunately not returning confided in our correspondent that “the speaker (Dogara) cannot abdicate the exalted seat without given a fight. We are sure that the APC being what it is will attempt to foist an unpopular candidate on the lawmakers and that will work in favour of Dogara.” However, the major contender for the position of speaker is the House leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, who, incidentally narrowly lost to Dogara in 2015. Gbajabiamila is one of the longest serving members of the House as he has represented Surulere 1 federal constituency of Lagos State, since 2003. Many believed that should the party zone the position to the South-West, Gbajabiamila will naturally be the torch bearer due to his closeness and loyalty to the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. In 2015, Gbajabiamila was in the line to winning the election before last-minute political trading cost him the number three position. The Lagos lawmaker was said to have lost to Dogara due to his inflexibility. One of his colleagues told New Telegraph that “in terms of competence and the ability to deliver, no lawmaker can fault Gbaja because he has the depth and the needed experience to deliver.” Gbajabiamila has performed well as House leader in spite of the fact that Speaker Dogara was not well disposed to working with him as House leader, having contested against him. Analysts are of the view that the House leader may have learnt from his mistakes and better positioned to lead the House in 2019. Another serious contender for the position of speaker is Hon. Mohammed Tahir Monguno from Borno State. Monguno is a fourth term lawmaker and has been representing Marte/Monguno/ Nganzai federal constituency of Borno State since 2007. However, he was previously elected to the House of Representatives in 1992 and served briefly before the annulment of June 12, 1993 presidential election swept him off the National Assembly. Between 2007 and 2011, he served as chairman of different committees including agriculture, which he headed in the 7th Assembly. Monguno is currently chairman of the North-East caucus and also chairman, the House committee on agricultural production and services. He is seen as one of the most committed lawmakers in the House. A former attorney general of Borno State, he ran for the position of Deputy Speaker alongside Gbajabiamila in 2015, but lost out to Hon. Lasun Yussuff. However, it was learnt that this time around Monguno is battle ready, but is said to be waiting for the party to decide on where the positions should be zoned. Like Gbajabiamila, Monguno is a lawyer and a very competent lawmaker whose views always carry weight in the House. Similarly, the spokesperson to the House, Hon. Abdulrazaq Namdas, who represents Toungo/ Ganye/Jada/Mayo Belwa federal constituency of Adamawa State is said to have expressed his willingness to vie for the position of speaker. Namdas is the lawmaker representing the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar’s constituency. He is said to be consulting pending when the APC makes known its zoning formula. Namdas, who until his election to the House in 2015 was a practicing journalist and had unsuccessfully contested as a deputy governorship candidate in his home state, will be spending his second term from June. As the chairman of the media and public affairs committee, Namdas has been able to warm himself into the hearts of many of his colleagues and is banking on his popularity to push for the position. Also in the race is Hon. Mohammed Umar Bago, chairman of the House committee on marine transport. Bago represents Chanchaga federal constituency of Niger State in the North-Central and has been in the lower chamber since 2011. A young, vibrant and outspoken lawmaker, Bago is touted to be the candidate to beat should the position be yielded to the North-Central. One of his close colleagues described him as “gregarious, jovial, easy going but a serious minded legislator with an eye for innovation and good governance.” Bago, will however have a competitor in the deputy leader of the House, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, representing Wase federal constituency of Plateau State, also in the North-Central. Like Bago, Wase is also a ranking lawmaker having been around since 2007. His maturity and calmness are the factors going for him. Curiously, the second female speaker may be in the offing as chairman of the committee on aviation, Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha is said to be interested to being the next speaker. Onyejeocha, who represents Isikwuato/ Umunneochi federal constituency of Abia State is coming back to the House for the fourth time having been first elected in 2007; and has served as chairman of Aviation Committee since 2011. Sources said that should the position of speaker be zoned to the South-East, Onyejaocha would be in forefront among the contestants because “she is the highest ranking lawmaker in the House from the majority APC in the South-East” According to the source, “the South- East has a genuine claim to the position of speaker in order to balance the power sharing formula. The president is from North-West, vice president from South- West and since the South-East has no ranking senator to vie for the position of Senate president, it is only natural that it is handed the position of speaker.” He noted that “if the party zones the position speaker to the South-East, Hon. Nkiruka Onyejeocha, who is the highest ranking representative from the zone and also for gender balance will be good for speaker.” It would be recalled that the first ever female Speaker of the House, Hon. Patricia Etteh, was unceremoniously forced to resign after only four months in office, when allegations of illegally spending N625 million for the renovation of the residences of speaker and deputy speaker in 2007, against her refused to abate. A returning member of the House from the South-East however told New Telegraph that “the South-East must get either speaker or deputy speaker this time around. Our support for President Buhari and the APC has improved tremendously and we need to be encouraged. After all, the president has promised an all-inclusive administration in his second term.” Onyejeocha, who is said to be a close loyalist of former governor of Abia State and Senator-elect, Dr. Uzor Orji Kalu, had been in the PDP until late 2018, when she defected to the APC. She also served as a commissioner under the administration of Kalu in Abia State. New Telegraph also reliably gathered that the chairman of House Committee on Finance, Hon. Babangida Ibrahim, is also interested in succeeding Dogara. Ibrahim represents Malumfashi/Kafur federal constituency of Katsina State from the North-West. But, many are of the belief that his candidature may not fly owing to the fact that President Buhari is also from Katsina.