As the rift between the Federal Government and international oil companies (IOCs) over $20 billion tax arrears continues, Adeola Yusuf looks at the implications.  Shell’s Head of Upstream, Andy Brown, abhors claims by he Federal Government that some IOCs, including Shell, owe $20 billion in tax arrears and he took the opportunity offered by the International Petroleum Week Conference in London to air his view.
Government – through the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) – had last January, written the xoutstanding royalties and taxes for oil and gas production. Specifically, Royal Dutch Shell, Chevron, Exxon Mobil, Eni, Total and Equinor were each asked to pay the Federal Government between $2.5 billion and $5 billion. Stating that Shell, the largest IOC in Nigeria in terms of oil assets and production volume, would likely dispute the charges, Brosn declared that the oil firm would need to resolve the issue before taken a Final Investment Decision (FID) decision on its major project.  The beginning The Federal Government had, in a letter to the companies earlier this year via a debt-collection arm of government, cited what it called outstanding royalties and taxes for oil and gas production. Industry and government sources who saw or were briefed on the letters were quoted by Reuters as saying that Royal Dutch Shell, Chevron, Exxon Mobil, Eni, Total and Equinor were each asked to pay the Federal Government between $2.5 billion and $5 billion.
Norway’s Equinor, which produced around 45,000 barrels per day of oil in Nigeria in 2017, confirmed the request. “Several operators have received similar claims in a case between the authorities in Nigeria and local authorities in parts of the country,” an Equinor spokesman was quoted as saying. The decision by the Federal Government to compel IOCs to settle about $20 billion tax arrears owed states, industries and governments will in the words of the Shell boss, delay the FID on Shell Bonga SoutWest project till 2019. “It is something that has gone through the courts in Nigeria, which relates to an original clause within the original PSCs (production sharing contracts),” he said in an interview.
We will have to take it seriously but we think it has no merits, said Brown, who steps down from his role this year.  The deep cut Shell’s Bonga Southwest deepwater, one of Nigeria’s largest oil fields is expected to reach 180,000 barrels per day production Shell has made progress with the government on some basic terms for operating the field but a decision on its development was now unlikely to be made in 2019. “Bonga Shouthwest’s FID may slip into next year.” Brown said. Norway’s Equinor, which produced around 45,000 barrels per day (bpd) of oil in Nigeria in 2017, confirmed the request. “Several operators have received similar claims in a case between the authorities in Nigeria and local authorities in parts of the country,” an Equinor spokesman said.
Like Shell, the second biggest oil company in Nigeria, ExxonMobil also reacted to the tax tussle. Exxon “is currently reviewing the matter,” a spokeswoman for the U.S. company said. ‘Appropriate reforms in Oil and Gas sector is the gateway to prosperous economy in Nigeria’.  Sealed lips Shell, Total, Eni and Chevron declined to comment, as did the Presidency, petroleum ministry and NNPC. The charge came after the Federal Government and states settled a dispute over the distribution of revenue from hydrocarbon production. The sides agreed last year that Abuja would pay the states several billion dollars, three companies and government sources said. The companies were expected to dispute their respective payment claims. “Equinor sees no merit to the case,” the company spokesman said. A source at another company said: “This looks like an internal dispute between the federal and local governments. “The Federal Government is simply trying to shift to the IOCs (international oil companies) money it owes.”  Implications of tax tussle The charge to pay $20billion, it would be recalled, came after the Federal Government and states settled a dispute over the distribution of revenue from hydrocarbon production. The sides agreed last year that Abuja would pay the states several billion dollars, three company and government sources said. The tax demand adds a fresh challenge to energy companies investing in Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil and gas producer, which have been negotiating Production Sharing Contracts with the government to develop and operate giant offshore fields. Oil theft, massive oil spills and corruption further complicate operations in the country. Nigeria, a member of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), produced around 2.1 million bpd of oil last year, compared with 1.86 million bpd in 2017, according to the NNPC.  Last line Both the Federal Government and the oil majors have a lot to do to help this dire situation. Instead of resorting to threats to halt FID on major projects in Nigeria, the IOCs should ensure that every issue is treated based on their merits. Are they owing such humongous amount in taxes or not? The answer to this question should be adequately separated from need or otherwise to cut investment on projects. Government should, on its part, have a round table discussion with IOCs on the need for tax payment and the modalities for payment. Thie Joint Ventures (JV) cash call tussle was settled through negotiations and not face off. To jaw jaw will, any day, be far better than to ‘war war’.