An imate of the Kirikiri Prison,  Lagos Oluwaseyi Davies, yesterday asked an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court to compel Prisons’ authorities to relocate him from a condemned cell to a cell commensurate with an alleged offence committed. Davis, who is standing trial for allegedly defiling a 16-year-old girl, told the court that his incarceration in the condemned cell alongside criminals on death row has impacted negatively on his psychologically well-being. According to him, his life is now in danger following threats by the condemned inmates who had persistently desired to ram his anus. The awaiting trial inmate accused the officials at the Ikoyi Prisons of whisking him and four other inmates from Ikoyi Prisons, where they were initially remanded to Kirikiri Medium Prison without any notice or information to their lawyers or their families. He further lamented that the Ikoyi prison authorities secretly swapped him with some inmates, who were listed to be transferred from Ikoyi to Kirikiri Prison, dragged him into a bus and then dragged him straight into a cell which is solely meant for condemned inmates know as “Angola”. Narrating before the court, he said, “I was conducting Christian prayers with other inmates in my cell on Saturday, when one of the prison officials came, holding a list in his hand, and handpicked me out of the rest. The official also went to another cell and picked out four other inmates. “I asked him why he picked me out and he replied that the five of us have been selected for transfer to Kirikiri Prison . And I was shocked, while asking for the reason behind the transfer. He didn’t respond further. “The list had nine names on it but my name wasn’t included. The other inmates whose names were included began shouting at him, asking him why he would pick the five of us and exclude the actual people on the list. “When he refused responding to them, they began screaming out the names of those the official had intentionally omitted. One of listed inmates mentioned one Kehinde and Tolu as part of those whose names were swapped with ours. He said that they were all being transferred for drug trafficking and that we are not part of their gang. “They further insisted that the prison authorities had early informed them of the transfer and that they had already prepared themselves. “Despite their objections, I was still taken to Kirikiri on Saturday without carrying any of my properties and placed in a cell for condemned people called Angola. They said it’s because they brought us from Ikoyi that’s why we must be kept there. “The money I had intended to give my lawyer is still in my bag, including my clothes. I have not slept since Saturday.  The inmates I met in the cell had threatened to deal with me if I did not open my ‘yansh’ for them to explore. “My Lord my life is in danger as I am not safe.  My family members are not even aware am in Kirikiri Prisons,” Davies said. The presiding Judge,  Justice Sybil Nwaka who expressed displeasure on the development summoned a prison official to explain why the defendant was transferred to Kirikiri Prisons despite a court order stating that he should be remanded in Ikoyi prisons. A Prison officer, who did not state his name to the court, said he was not told the reason behind the defendant’s  transferred to Kirikiri. He said, ” The officials at Ikoyi did not tell me the reason they transferred him. But maybe he committed an offence there because that is likely the reason. My Lord, the defendant is very stubborn, so I think his lying.  There are separate cells for different inmates and he was not placed among condemned inmates. “He has been misbehaving claiming that he has business to do in Ikoyi and classes he was attending over there. We are still investigating the matter, ” the prisons official said. Justice Sybil Nwaka thereafter ordered the prison official to investigate the matter and instructed the defence counsel, Samuel Adeyemo to report back to court after visiting his client in prison. The judge thereafter adjourned the matter till March 27 for hearing of the pending bail application of the defendant.