Former Nigeria goalkeeper, Joe Erico, wants the Super Eagles to take advantage of minnows Seychelles in today’s 2019 African Cup of Nations final round qualifier at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba by recording a big win. Erico, a former goalkeeper coach of the Super Eagles, described the match against the Pirates as a sure banker and wants Gernot Rohr’s team to be ruthless against the Indian Ocean Island nation. “It’s not just a dead rubber match as it has been referred to but a sure banker for Nigeria to win. However, this is one match that the players should make memorable for Nigerians in years to come as they have the chance to score as many goals,” he said Seychelles’ poor form is highlighted by their 3-0 defeat to Ethiopia’s U-23 team in their final tune up game early this week and Erico said the Super Eagles should exploit Gavin Jeanne’s side weakness to optimal level. “If there is one match that one can safely say we will win, it is this kind. The Seychelles team pose no threat. They are part time footballers who have their jobs on their mind unlike our players who are full-time professionals. What would be the excuse for not having a very good result? What experience has the Seychelles team got and what could be their joker to threaten us? Nothing as far as I’m concerned. “This is a match that Rohr should have called we exinternationals,” he jokingly added. Jogo Bonito as the former NEPA of Lagos shot stopper is fondly called recalled Nigeria’s 7-1 crushing of Burkina Faso in the qualifier for Senegal ’92 which ranked as one of the best wins for the senior national team. “If we can score 8,9 or 10 goals then let’s go for it,” he pointed. While Nigeria who had a dismal start with a home defeat to South Africa have booked their place in the 24-team event in Egypt, Seychelles have been out of the equation since the fourth round of matches. Although they managed a goalless draw against South Africa at home barely four days after losing 6-0 to the same opponents. Nigeria won the first meeting last September 3-0 with stand-in captain Ahmed Musa, Chidozie Awaziem and Odion Ighalo on target.