In recent time, highly-regarded institutions and groups had ‘singled-out’ the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) for commendation awards, in recognition of the gains recorded against insurgency in the North-East. EMMANUEL ONANI reports  Officers and personnel of the Nigerian Army could not hide their joy over last week’s “commendation award”, bestowed on the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, in recognition of the sustained onslaught against suspected terrorist elements in the North East.
What triggered celebrations at the Army Headquarters (AHQ), was the conferment of an award of commendation on the COAS by The African Leadership Magazine. The Chief of Civil Military relations, Major General US Mohammed, was in Johannesburg, South Africa, to receive the prestigious award on behalf of the COAS. It fell under the category of, “African Persons of the Year 2019” awards. A senior officer, who disclosed this to Inside Abuja, said: “The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, has bagged another commendation award, “The African Leadership Magazine conferred the award on the COAS in far away Johannesburg, South Africa at its African Persons of the Year 2019 ceremonies. “The award is in recognition of the efforts of the Nigerian Army in tackling security challenges in Nigeria”. The two-star General, who chose to remain anonymous, quoted the chairman, board of African Leadership Magazine, Mr. Joe Beasley, as saying that the choice of Buratai was arrived at, after intense scrutiny and critical assessment of the Army’s nationwide operations at ensuring the sanctity of the nation’s sovereignty and corporate existence. He was further quoted to have expressed confidence that with the operational and administrative qualities exhibited by the COAS, the country, nay Africa, can solve her problems. “Speaking at the ceremony, the Mr Joe Beasley, chairman of the board of African Leadership Magazine, stated that the award seeks to self examine, ask tough questions which may only be answered by actions on how the world would remember and on which side posterity would judge.
“He further stated that the award seeks to make a bold statement which is “Africans can solve Africa’s problems…. choosing to see possibilities and limitless opportunities where others see threats. “Also speaking at the ceremony, Mr Kingsley Okeke, noted that in considering the COAS for the award, the organizers among other themes considered promotion of sustainable peace and development and the promotion of Africa’s image globally.
“Okeke observed that COAS since his appointment has promoted security as precursor to development, hence the award”, the senior officer said. Responding on behalf of his boss, Maj-Gen. Mohammed, charged the audience in the compelling need to approach the Army for information in the ongoing counterterrorism and counter-insurgency war in the North East. He maintained that clearance operations by troops of Operation Lafiya Dole, had been sustained, with a view to taking out remnants of the suspected fighters. “The Chief of Civil Military relations, Major General US Mohammed who represented the COAS used the medium to correct the so many misinformation about the war on terror in the country.
“He also emphasized on the respect for human rights and other programs which help to win the hearts and minds of the communities. “The African Leadership magazine Person of the Year Award is another feather in the highly decorated cap of the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai”, he said.