The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Senator Jeremiah Useni, yesterday accused Governor Simon Lalong and the All Progressives Congress, (APC) candidate of spending N20 billion rehabilitation funds released to the state on his reelection campaigns. Useni spoke during a press conference in Jos, where he accused APC administration in the state of going around spending a lot of money on vote-buying.  He said “N20 billion was given to Plateau State by the Federal Government to help in the rehabilitation of internally displaced persons that were affected during the crisis in the state, but Lalong has spent the money in buying Plateau voters, and we all know that Lalong’s government has not done anything. “Lalong lied to Plateau citizens that he has rehabilitated over 2,000 of those affected, but we were all aware of the protest that followed that statement, for the past four years, he has not done anything good for Plateau State.”  He said as the flag bearer of the PDP, he did not expect an inconclusive election. “The Plateau PDP State Campaign Council, stakeholders and all supporters of the PDP worked very hard for an outright win; the results released by INEC showed that PDP maintained very good scores across all the local government areas. “This is in spite of the widespread thumbprinting, vote-buying and outright intimidation by some security men, who had absolutely no business with the election.  In one instance, I personally went to Tudun Wada Collation Centre and freed voters who were made to lie down on the ground by some security men. According to him, civil servants and traditional rulers were threatened to either deliver for APC or lose their jobs or be dethroned. “Votes were simply allocated to APC or bought with large sums of money; in some places, PDP supporters were not allowed to vote, or their votes were torn to shreds. The former FCT minister also accused APC of recruiting youths as thugs without any regard to their future well-being, saying they even burnt up some ballot boxes.  “The card readers were not used in many polling units while in some units they were reported even stolen and results were declared without any regard to the choices of the people who voted. It is no wonder that we are having a re-run in nine local government areas of the state. Useni, however, cautioned that he would not accept rigging, saying that he had promised the people of the state that he would stand by them and protect their votes