It was set up alongside other electricity distribution companies in 2013. The Enugu Electricity Distribution Company, (EEDC) is facing challenging times like others of its kind. But the company insists that it was headed in a better direction in 2019 as KENNETH OFOMA writes from Enugu  There is no doubt that the task of providing stable electricity to the country has been the major challenge of successive administrations in Nigeria. This has been so because stable electricity is viewed as the backbone of any nation’s industrial development. Many experts believe that if Nigeria can achieve up to 80 per cent stability in power supply, the nation’s quest for scio-economic and industrial development would have been achieved by 50 per cent. In 1962, the Niger Dams Authority was established in Nigeria by an Act of the Parliament, with the responsibility of construction and maintenance of Dams and other works on the River Niger and elsewhere, generating electricity by means of water, improving navigation and promoting fisheries and irrigation. That eventually led to the establishment of the Electricity Corporation of Nigeria (ECN) and the Niger Dams Authority (NDA) both of which were merged to become National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) by Decree No. 24 of 1972. The objective has remained provision of power to the populace. Of course, NEPA was to develop and maintain an efficient, as well as co-ordinate an economic system of electricity supply for all parts of the Federation. The Authority generates electricity through two major sources: Hydro and Thermal. The Hydro Power stations are Kainji Hydro Power station with capacity of 760MW, Jebba Hydro Power station with 578.4MW capacity, Shiroro Hydro Power Station 600MW. The Thermal Power stations are: Afam Thermal Power station with 696MW, Lagos thermal power station, Delta IV thermal Power station with 600MW and Sapele Thermal Power station 1020MW. However, the need to reform the electricity industry necessitated the transformation of NEPA into the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) in 2004. The Electricity Reform Act of 2005, therefore, unbundled PHCN into 11 Distribution companies, one Transmission Company and six Generation companies. This Reform Act gave birth to Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC). Based on its profile, EEDC stands on three pillars known as the company’s core values, namely Integrity, Customer Service and Performance. “EEDC’s primary function is to effectively distribute and market Electricity in the five (5) South Eastern states of Nigeria, namely; Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo states,” according to the company’s profile. Right from her take over from PHCN in provision of electricity within its market sphere, South East, EEDC has been striving to live up to its goal and responsibilities by investing in equipment and human capital development. Although the power company has severally demonstrated its determination to provide satisfactory Customer Services, it has equally stressed the need for customer support and cooperation through regular payment of bills and guarding against vandalism of power installations. As part of its determination to improve electricity supply to the zone, the company last December, held an Award Night for its staff in Enugu. But it was not just Award Night, the occasion provided opportunity for the management to reward hard work and excellence, and also sound the warning for indolent ones to shape up or shape out. The power distribution company declared that it would no longer condone incompetent staff. The company vowed that such staff would be disengaged and new ones recruited to meet the company’s target of quality service to the people. The chairman of the company, Chief Emeka Offor, who made this known at the occasion, said the company on her part would always reward hard work, and will never shirk her responsibilities with regard to welfare of workers. Offor commended the 22 members of staff selected for recognition, for their efforts at improving service delivery to customers, urging them to double their efforts in supporting the company. Offor, who lamented the huge amount invested in the company without any dividend for five years, disclosed that the company has only achieved 6 per cent of its target in five years. He said that some staff contributed to the loss as they connived with customers who don’t want to pay their bill and turn their eyes from what they were supposed to do. “Today, we are at the final stage of 2018; we took over this company in November 2013. When the Federal Government was handing over the company to us, the intention was that the Disco will make progress and since then, we have been having a lot of issues. “From 2013 to 2018 is five years and we have been able to achieve 6 per cent of our target, which means what we are achieving is not acceptable to me… We have a lot of issues that we are passing through  because you have people who are not doing exactly what they should do,” he said. Bemoaning the high rate of power theft, he said: “We have members of staff who connive with customers who don’t want to pay their bills; we have some who are neck deep in corruption; we have some who turn their eyes in what they are supposed to do and do illegal connections. That is what is causing these problems. “By next year, the game is going to change and it must change for good. We have people who are doing these works and you can see that some other people are inefficient and not doing what they are supposed to be doing. We will have no option; instead of keeping these people, we will look for competent hands to support the company or else we lose the investment”, Offor said. Earlier in an address, the Managing Director, Okey Nwosu, commended the beneficiaries of the award for their effort towards achieving success and urged those who couldn’t meet the criteria to show more commitment. Nwosu regretted the death of one of the staff in the line of duty and disclosed that the company had launched safety initiative to make sure that the staff would be completely accident free while discharging their duties. He pointed out that the company would make the safety tips discussion as the first interaction in any gathering by the company to allow the staff internalize the important of safety. Nwosu, who disclosed that the company would become the number one electricity distribution company in the country, stated that they would use all the indices to attain success. 