 As states and houses of assemblies election rounded off in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital (FCT), Abuja yesterday, prices of yam and fresh tomatoes have remained relatively stable in the Mile 12 Market, Lagos, South West Nigeria.
Some consumers, who spoke to the Sunday Telegraph in different interviews on Friday said they expect the situation to change soon with the early return of the rains. They said, however, that if the price of tomatoes can remain low throughout the year in the country, its effect on the health of Nigerians and the economy will be immense. They wondered why the country cannot in modern times be able to produce tomatoes and food crops all year round. But Alhai Dodo Abdulmalik, a tomatoes dealer and leader of a section of the tomatoes sellers in the market, said though the price of fresh tomatoes has remained low in the market since last November last year, traders continue to record huge waste, due to the rotting away of unsold produce They blamed the situation to lack of storage facilities in the markets. He called on the Federal Government to include Mile 12 in the markets it will build the small-size out-of-grid power plant that could help power storages facilities when they are available in the market. He emphasized that the traders need the intervention of the Lagos State and Federal Government in providing storage facilities in the market. He said though people now buy more because of the low prices of yam and fresh tomatoes, they still record wastes. “Except for the lull we are experiencing due to the elections, people are now buying yam and tomatoes in large quantities, though we continue to lose much of our tomatoes which spoil every day. We are expecting customers come to the market in large numbers on Monday as they will not able to come on the Election Day.” He is not sure the price of the two food items will remain low when the rains fully return. He said that the high price of food items in the country is due to the seasonal nature of their production, while the imported ones depend on the value of the naira. Speaking, a consumer Mr. Amos Ebiri said unless their a turn around in the economy that the capacity of Nigerians to buy certain food items like cornflakes, sugar, milk and others had long been reduced, and the turn over of the traders must have also reduced. He said: “It is now difficult the normal basic needs of the at home. Children now do without the quality foods their bodies need to develop properly. No parents can be happy seeing that he or she cannot be able to feed their children properly. We hope the economy gets better in Buhari’s second term. I believe the misquoted him, it will not be tough for us more than this in Jesus name!” Sunday Telegraph further observed that food, items like sugar (1 bag), flour 50 kg, vegetable oil ( 25 kg, which were selling at N13,000; N10,800 and N13,000 now sell at N20,000, N13,350 and N27,000 respectively.
Mrs. Bunmi Makinde, a member of the Market Women’s Association, told Sunday Telegraph the the price of most foodstuffs who rose by over 25 per cent last year have not recorded any increase during the election period but demand has been poorer than ever. “We hope consumer will return as elections ends on Saturday.”
She said the purchasing power of consumers had declining before the election, a development she said, has made the volume of sales to be falling everyday. She added that the standard of living in Nigeria deteriorated over the years. “We hope this lull is not a sign that the bad situation has worsened,” she said. “Untill in the last tow or three years, food items weren’t this costly for us to purchase from suppliers, before the high price was manageable and we had a high turnout of customers but these days, it is the reverse is the case, people don’t seem to capacity to cope anymore.” Richard Ogbonna, a dealer in electrical appliances at the market, said that the electronics market is no longer profitable as it used to be. He said: “Nigerians won’t purchase appliances that they are not familiar with, like Thermocool, LG which they liked. “These popular products are expensive for the consumer to buy. An LG (43 inches) which was sold for N90, 000 now sells at N95, 000 in the market, (22 inches) sold at N28, 000 before now sells at N33, 000. Philip pressing iron now goes for N6, 000 as against N5, 500”, he said. He noted that the cause of the high cost of electronics is the high exchange rate of the naira to the US dollars as against the exchange rate in 2015. He also stated that the price of the products would vary in different markets.