The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the governorship election in Plateau State inclusive.
The Returning Officer for the election in the state, Prof. Richard Kimbir, announced this yesterday in Jos, after collating results from the 17 local government areas of the state. Kimbir, who is the Vice Chancellor of Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, said the total number of votes cancelled is more than the margin of difference between the two major contenders hence he was constrained to declare the polls inclusive. According to him, Governor Simon Lalong of the All Progressives Congress (APC) scored 583,255 votes, while his closest opponent, Lt.-Gen. Jeremiah Useni (rtd) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) polled 538,326 votes.
Lalong won in Jos East, Kanke, Kanam, Mikang, Pankshin, Bokkos, Mangu, Jos North, Wase, Qua’an Pan and Shendam, while Useni won in Barkin Ladi, Langtang South, Langtang North, Jos South, Riyom and Bassa.
Kimbir said the total number of votes cancelled in the state is 49,347, which is above the total difference of 44,929 in the votes scored by the two major candidates. He said: “In line with section 179, sub-section 2 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), I am constrain to declare this election inclusive. This is because the total number of cancelled votes is above the difference that exists between the votes polled by the two major candidates. So, in line with the Electoral Act, a supplementary election would be conducted in the affected areas within 21 days.” The local government areas where votes were cancelled include Shendam, Barkin Ladi, Bassa, Bokkos, Kanam, Jos North, Langtang South, Mangu and Pankshin.
Governor Lalong has called for calm, following INEC declaration of the governorship election in the state as inconclusive.
Lalong, in a press statement by the state Commissioner for Information and Communication, Yakubu Dati, urged citizens to conduct themselves in a peaceful manner as they await a new date for the re-run election. The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP Alhaji Atiku Abubakar appears to be an early lead in Plateau State New Telegraph reports from the INEC Presidential Election collation Centre on Saturday in Jos shows that Atiku has already won in four local government Councils out of the five… In “National news” Member Representing Langtang North, South Federal Constituency in the National Assembly Hon. Beni Lar has alleged that thugs have been imported into Langtang North and Langtang South Local Government Areas of the to disrupt the Presidential and National Assembly elections in Plateau State. Briefing Journalists in Jos yesterday Lar said… In “News Around Nigeria” The immediate Former Governor of Plateau State and Senator representing Plateau North in the National Assembly Senator Jonah Jang has pledge that the state will deliver two million votes for the PDP presidential flag bearer Atiku Abubakar, come February 16, 2019 in the state. Jang describes the APC administration in… In “News Around Nigeria”