The Aso Rock Presidential Villa Council chambers was today thrown into a hilarious atmosphere when President Muhammadu Buhari asked the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi and his communications counterpart, Adebayo Shittu, to pray at the opening of the Federal Executive Council meeting. Ministers began to laugh loudly in the chambers as soon as President Buhari announced Amaechi’s name to offer the Christian prayer. A member of the council shouted “no election,” amidst the laughter. The President who referred to Adebayo as “minister of communications, Oyo State,” also elicited laughter among the ministers. Our correspondent gathered that the laugher may not unconnected with the recent outcomes of the presidential and governorship elections in the country. Both ministers who were asked by the President to pray could not deliver their areas during the polls. Vice President of Nigeria and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar won the Presidential election held across the 33 Local Government areas in Oyo state. Atiku won with 366,640 to defeat Buhari who scored 365,229 votes. The APC in Oyo State also lost the governorship poll to the PDP. The APC candidate, Adebayo Adelabu, backed by the incumbent Governor Abiola Ajimobi, lost scandalously to his PDP’s counterpart, Seyi Makinde, with a margin of 157, 635 votes. While Makinde polled 515,621 votes, Adelabu came second with 357,982 votes. The PDP presidential candidate also won in Rivers State, he  scored 473,971 to defeat Buhari who had 150,710 votes. The Independent National Electoral Commission had stopped the announcement of results of the governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections in Rivers State due to the violence that engulfed the state. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday received a standing ovation from members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) at the presidential villa, Abuja. The President was attending the council meeting for the first time since he returned from London, United Kingdom (UK) after a medical sojourn. He returned to Nigeria on August… In “News” ...approves South-West office   Coordinator: President is a saviour   Ministers confirm Amaechi’s appointment as campaign DG   APC woos PDP lawmakers with return tickets   President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the opening of his first campaign office in the South-West. This is coming ahead of his final declaration for… In “News” President Muhammadu Buhari today received a standing ovation from members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) at the presidential villa, Abuja. The President was attending the council meeting for the first time since he returned from London, United Kingdom (UK) after a medical sojourn. He returned to Nigeria on 19th… In “Top Stories”