The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), has said the rise in drug abuse in the country was poising a huge challenge to public health and national security. Director General of NAFDAC, Prof Moji Adeyeye, who made this known during the formal launch of the 2018 International Narcotics Control Boards (INCB) Annual Report and Precursors Report 2018, said based on the 2018 Drug Use Survey, there was a considerable level of drug abuse in the country. “The past year prevalence of any drug use was estimated at 14.4 per cent or 14.3 million people; compared to the 2016 global annual prevalence of 5.6 per cent amongst adult population. This clearly indicates a real and serious threat to public health. “The products of major concern include Cannabis and the non-medical use of Tramadol and Codeine amongst other prescription pharmaceuticals, including the sleeping pill, Flunitrazepam,” she said. On his part, the Chairman, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Col. Muhammad Abdallah (rtd), who noted that Nigeria used to live in denial that it was a transit country as far as drug abuse was concerned, revealed that his agency has discovered 16 metaphitamin clandestine laboratories across the country. Represented by Femi Olorutogba, he explained that the laboratories, which in outlook was simple as a kitchen, were being used in the manufacture of drugs that were worse than cocaine and heroin. He, however, insisted that: “We are no more a transit country, we are a consuming nation and again, the Nigerian challenge has been further compounded in the sense that in the last six to seven years, Nigeria has discovered about 16 metaphitamin clandestine laboratories. “That has actually overheat the drug situation in Nigeria that nobody needs to deny and that has also been the reason why frontline agencies like NDLEA and NAFDAC must continue to work together. It is disturbing that in 2018 alone we got three of such laboratories,” he said. While explaining the tricks hard drugs manufacturers use to get the raw materials, the NDLEA chairman said: “Talking about diversion of raw materials for drugs, what happens exactly is that when NAFDAC approves, for example, 500kg of a particular of raw materials for the production of cough syrup, the criminals will bring in the 500kg legally but then 200kg will go for the manufacturing of cough syrup and used the other 300kg or even more will go to these clandestine laboratories because it is more profitable for them. That is the challenge.