Chizoba Ezeani attended Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, where she obtained her LL.B in 2016. She was called to Bar on 13th December, 2017. Ezeani shares her journey into the law profession with JOHN CHIKEZIE   Background My name is Chizoba Ezeani. I am a Christian from Ichida in Anaocha Local government, Anambra State. I attended Simmic Angels Nursery and Primary school, Abaranje, Ikotun, Lagos and Secondary school at Remade High School Egan, Lagos where I obtained my SSCE/WAEC certificate. I gained admission into Madonna University Okija, Anambra State to study law, but left after two years and later gained admission into Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra state, where I obtained my LL.B in 2016. I was posted to Abuja Campus of the Nigerian Law School where I obtained my B.L in 2017. I was called to Bar on December 13, 2017. Why law? My parents actually did. They wanted me to become a lawyer, I wasn’t so sure about it at first even but when I started, I realized there’s no other course I’d rather do. I’m the very first person in my entire family (nuclear and extended) to become a lawyer. The journey so far Well, the journey has been interesting. Law practice turned out to be more fun than I thought it would be, of course this doesn’t mean it’s not frustrating, stressful and challenging sometimes.One of the challenging aspects I would like to talk about is the attitude of members of the civil service working at the courts both at state and federal level. It surprised and shocked me how they expect you to tip or compensate them whenever they do their job. It does not make sense to me because they’re paid to do this job. Unfortunately, they would expect you to give them ‘something’ if not they won’t attend to you or they’d keep you waiting for a while before they eventually do. It also baffles me how they act like it’s their right to get this tip. It’s also heartbreaking when you see respected senior members of the bar indulge or encourage this attitude. Does this attitude affect judicial activities? Yes, it does. It affects the filing of cases, trying to obtain CTC of rulings, judgement, proceedings and other judicial activities you can think of Which part of the legal profession interests you the most and why? Currently, I find litigation interesting. I enjoy applying the law to real life situations, doing in-depth research on those situations to discover the law that is most suitable, appearing before Judges and Justices and proving to them that they can grant a particular order or ruling in my client’s favour because a particular law or enactment has given them the power to do so. Choosing between the Bar and the Bench Well, this is a tough one. The jobs of both the Bar and Bench is quite tasking. Though I think they’re equally tasking but I’d rather stay at the Bar. I feel it’s more exciting being in the Bar than on the Bench. Well, it’s like being on the field, you get to explore the different parts of law through the different situations clients find themselves. Some of this situation may not even be litigation. Litigation is only one aspect of law which is likely the only aspect the Bench deals with. As a practicing lawyer, there are so many areas of practice you get to experience but it’s mostly when dispute arises that the court becomes involved. So, being at the Bar is more exciting. How would you evaluate the dispensation of justice in Nigeria in terms of criminal adjudication since your call to Bar? Our criminal justice system is still really slow in the dispensation of justice as cases still take forever to be concluded. Although compared to 10 years ago, we’ve made progress, though little but its progress still. There’s still a lot to be done. All of us, both at the Bar, Bench and everyone in the society, need to do more. Judiciary’s integrity I’m a firm believer in doing what is right irrespective of who might get hurt. However, the arraignment and prosecution of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Chief Walter Samuel Onnoghen and President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN), was merely a witchhunt. It absolutely had nothing to do with justice but simply a dictator doing whatever he wants and making democracy a complete joke. Section 36(5) of the 1999 Constitution provides that every person is presumed innocent until proven guilty. If the CJN had been found guilty, then by all means remove him. But there’s a constitutionally provided means of removal, unfortunately our president has no regards for the Constitution and citizens of Nigeria as a whole. Therefore, the issue isn’t really about the integrity of the judiciary but the personal wishes of our dictator president. Observation on the 2019 elections Although about elections generally, I’d like to say that I’ve noticed that we Nigerians are used to suffering, that we’d choose to keep giving power to the same people that have made our lives hell since before our parents were born. So, I want to appeal to everyone, especially the youths, that it’s time to put a stop to the suffering. We deserve better, having 24-hour power supply, basic health care, good roads, clean water and food is our right. We need to choose someone who truly and genuinely cares. Therefore, we should use the next four years to find a befitting candidate who would do better and vote for that person and vote out this mess of a government. Future ambition I want to reach the highest level of the legal profession within a short-time span and most importantly leave the judiciary and the world as a whole a much better place than I met it. Mrs. Patricia Chinweoke Arinze-Umobi is an indigene of Umuneri Village, Isuaniocha in Awka North Local Government Area of Anambra State. She was called to the Bar on 15th December, 2015. She tells JOHN CHIKEZIE how her passion for justice drove her into the legal profession     Background My name… In “Law” Thelma Ojika was called to Bar in November 2016 after obtaining her LL.B from Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. She tells JOHN CHIKEZIE how her journey into the legal profession began   Background Hers is a law dynasty. Thelma Ojika’s parents are lawyers. While her father, Chinedu Moore, plies his law… In “Law” He is an indigene of Anambra State. Okigbo Philip Ikenna attended Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka where he obtained his LL.B. Ikenna was called to Bar in 2012. He shares his foray into the legal profession with JOHN CHIKEZIE   Background My name is Okigbo Philip Ikenna and I am from… In “Law”