The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) recently engaged to review their tact of breaking financial fraud cycle. Abdulwahab Isa reports  Nigeria’s economy is significant to the Africa continent and Europe. Given her huge population size of about 190 million people, blessed with array of natural resources, the economy no doubt remains attractive to both external and local investors. Regrettably, this huge financial market size flourishes at a painful cost. The economy loses, at a quick intervals, huge resources to various financial crimes. Relevant government institutions, privately owned establishments with link to financial systems forge partnership to counter frauds that stick to the economy and, by extension, the banking system. A few agencies of government and some privately owned establishments are significant in taming financial crimes. They are the EFCC, CBN, Office of the Attorney General of the Federation (OAGF), Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and the banks. Total elimination of financial fraud is a mirage. But it can be reduced to a tolerable level. This is what the apex bank, in partnership with other stakeholders, EFCC, banks, ICPC and the judiciary are rallying efforts to achieve. Collaboration Financial fraud is the greatest threat to any economy. A deliberate and intentional act of deception involving financial transactions for the purpose of personal gain, financial crimes still thrive despite the tight noose fastened on financial institutions by the CBN and other anti- fraud agencies. The apex bank and the EFCC are varying their tact of reining in high level of financial crimes in Nigeria’s economy space. A strategic meeting of two eggheads manning the institutions held recently at Abuja’s headquarters of the banking watchdog. A statement by Director, Corporate Communication of CBN, Mr. Isaac Okorafor, said more stringent measures aimed at strengthening the fight against economic crimes dominated the discourse. Other areas where the two agencies are collaborating include anti-money laundering and the monitoring of politically exposed persons in the country. The inter-agency meeting chaired by the Director, Governors’ Department of the CBN, Mr. Jeremiah Abue, agreed to improve the level of information-sharing and surveillance of the financial sector. Prior to the duo’s meeting, the Bankers’ Committee had vetoed a binding resolution that any individual or corporate body found of complicity in economic crime or attempts to circumvent economic laws and regulations of the country may be barred from operating bank account(s) in Nigeria  Significance of NFIU The controversy involving Nigerian government and Egmont Group over re- designation of Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has been resolved. The argument was rested following President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent to NFIU Act. With the Act signed, NFIU ceased to be a dependent of the EFCC. NFIU is now domiciled at CBN, but will remain “autonomous and independent.” With NFIU at the CBN, the fight against financial fraud, money laundering and related crime will be more biting with effective coordination. Its assent by the president will strengthen the recently signed Executive Order 6, which is aimed at consolidating the fight against corruption in the country. The Egmont group, an informal network of 156 financial intelligence units, had suspended Nigeria due to alleged inability of the country to grant autonomy to the NFIU. National FIUs collect information on suspicious or unusual financial activity from the financial industry and other entities or professions required to report transactions suspected of being money laundering or terrorism financing. Such information is then shared with relevant anti-crime or regulatory agencies.  Judiciary and anti-money laundering laws The fight against financial crimes is a holistic one. It entails all hands to be on deck including and more importantly, putting in place laws and sanctions to deal with violators. On this, Office of the Attorney General of the Federation (OAGF) has a major role to play. Interestingly, the office has had an interface with the CBN on anti-money laundering and terrorism financing. One of such collaborations between the apex bank and OAGF recently approved new administrative sanctions regime against banks and their staff, who fail to comply with OAGF on anti-money laundering. The new rule, signed by CBN Director, Financial Policy and Regulations, Kelvin Amugo, requires that where the board of a financial institution, a director or officer responsible for ensuring anti-money laundering compliance with any relevant provision of these regulations has been penalised in three consecutive examination cycles and the breach continues, the CBN may suspend or remove the board, director, or officer of that institution. The framework further spelt out other monetary sanctions against Banks and Other Financial Institutions as well as their staff and boards that fail to comply with the set rules. CBN said the new rule was in line with the requirements of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) recommendations 35 on effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions and the Inter-Governmental Action Group against Money Laundering in West Africa (GIABA) 2007 Mutual Evaluation recommendation that Nigeria’s Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) sanctions regime should be reviewed and made to be proportionate and dissuasive. The administrative sanctions regime has been gazetted to give it legal effect and ensure compliance with FATF and GIABA requirements. The gazetted regulation was signed by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. The action also aligns with the powers conferred on OAGF by Section 23 (2) (e) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) and are made in furtherance of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (as amended) and CBN (Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism for Banks and Other Financial Institutions in Nigeria) Regulations, 2013. Amugo said the sanctions given to any bank that violates anti-money laundering regulations would depend on how quickly, efficiently and effectively the financial institution or person concerned in its management brought the contravention to the attention of the CBN or any other relevant regulatory authority to the crime. The new rule also requires that any bank that fails to establish written AML/CFT policies and procedures will attract N20 million fine; failure to approve the AML/CFT policies and procedures will attract N1 million fine on each member of the board and N20 million for the bank. Also, failure to review/update the AML/CFT policies and procedures at least every three years will attract N750,000 fine on the Executive Compliance Officer in the first instance and N750,000 for each year that the contravention continues. It will also attract N500,000 on the Chief Compliance Officer in the first instance and N500,000 for each year that the contravention continues and N5million on the bank in the first instance and N1,000,000 for each year that the contravention continues. Also, failure by a bank to communicate the AML/CFT programme of the organisation to employees will attract N750,000 fine on the Executive Compliance Officer and N500,000 on the Chief Compliance Officer as well as N10 million on the bank.  Last line CBN and EFCC collaboration on financial fraud is a welcome development, as there can’t be a better time for the duo than now that the economy is convalescing from recession. In this regard, other relevant agencies should be encouraged to work closely with CBN in winning the battle.