The Vice-Chancellor of the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), Prof. Abdalla Adamu has explained that with the current enrolment of 516,000 students, the Open Distance Learning institution was being repositioned to attain the one million students’ population target by 2023.  The Vice-Chancellor, who pointed out that students of university are admitted through the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), said the students were recorded and captured by JAMB, but only that they do not sit for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME).  Adamu, who doubled as a Professor of Mass Communication, and also a Professor of Science Education, said the era of missing results had gone, saying NOUN has taken over the handling of the result process, which was hired out to a consultant before.  On whether the institution has any policy to subsidise the school fees of students with disabilities, the Vice-Chancellor, while fielding question from newsmen during a press conference addressed by the Pro- Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the university, Prof. Peter Okebukola, said: “There is no specific policy for subsidy for those students living with disability. If later there is the need for such students, we shall look into it.”  The Vice-Chancellor, who also expressed delight that there was no issue of sexual harassment at NOUN like in other conventional universities, noted that March 22 and 23 had been approved by the Council for the 2019 convocation of the university, where at least 18,000 graduating students will receive their scrolls for the award of degrees and postgraduate certificates.  As part of activities lined up for the event, Okebukola hinted that the Central Warehouse and Printing Press that had already been completed would officially be commissioned during the ceremony. As part of efforts to reposition the institution, as the leading open distance learning institution in Africa, NOUN, according to him, had embarked on setting up mechanisms to implement the recently-granted World Bank Africa Centre of Excellence in Technology Enhanced Learning.  Besides, he said the Council had lifted that ban on the NOUN Alumni Association (NOUNAA) with effect from February 28, this year, adding: “Special line of funding would be extended to the African Centre of Excellence in Technology-Enhanced Learning (ACETEL) to ensure sustainability of the project, after the World Bank intervention