IGBEAKU ORJI takes a look at the outcome of the Presidential and National Assembly elections in Abia State and the prospect of the parties in the governorship election on Saturday  With the presidential and National Assembly elections over in many states, tension is less or at least now localised. Though the National Assembly elections has not been concluded in some states including Abia, at least attention in most cases has shifted to Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections. While the results of Abia North and Central senatorial districts have been declared in favour of two former governors, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and his successor, Theodore Orji of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) respectively, Abia South has problem. In Abia South Senatorial district, and Aba North and South Federal Constituency, for instance, the results are still hanging one week after the election. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Public Affairs Officer in Abia State, Bamidele Oyetunji, National Assembly elections for both Abia South Senatorial district and Aba North and South Federal Constituency would be conducted in the entire senatorial district and federal constituency on Saturday alongside the governorship and House of Assembly elections. He said the reason the results were not declared with others from the Abia North and Abia Central of the state was because violence erupted in the area, which put a wedge to the collation of results.  “There was violence in Abia South and in Aba North and South. Election is going to be conducted in 92 polling centers. There was election but the violence did not allow result collation,” Oyetunji said. The lessons from the presidential and National Assembly elections would inevitably shape outcome of the March 9, elections. Many parties and candidates have called for the cancellation of the election. Some people have also rejected the outcome, alleging manipulation. Abia State Inter-party Advisory Committee (IPAC) chairman who doubles as the chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Rev Augustine Ehiemere, has warned that unless the bad eggs among INEC staff were removed the outcome of the next elections may be worse than what happened in the previous one. Election manipulation in whatever guise must be inveighed. Therein lies the retardation or otherwise of both political and economic development of any nation. As it is expected, the Saturday election is by all permutations going to be an epic battle in the 29 states in which governors would be elected. In Abia State, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, who running on the platform of PDP, will square up with two major opponents, APC candidate, Sampson Uchechukwu Ogah and APGA flag bearer, Alex Otti.  From the pattern of the February 23 elections one can with near accuracy predict the direction the election would go. To a large extent, PDP has lost Abia North. It is noteworthy that President Muhammadu Buhari scored higher in Abia State than he did in 2015 just as the PDP, though it won the presidential election in the state, scored less than it did in 2015. Moreover, APC has snatched two of the three House of Representatives seats in the zone, namely Bende and Isuikwuato/Umunneochi.  The situation in Abia South is dicey. The trick of conducting the Abia South Senatorial election the same day as the governorship election may be the only way PDP can have its way in the senatorial district. The Ukwa bloc has stretched in vain for the senatorial slot of the South since the Ngwa brothers have the governorship. Since the days of former Senate President, Senator Adolf Wabara, the Senate and governorship seats are held by Obingwa sons, in the persons of Enyinnaya Abaribe and Okezie Ikpeazu. The Ukwa have pleaded that the much-sung equity that brought the governorship office to Abia South should be allowed to trickle down to every level. If the results of the senatorial election were declared before the governorship election in favour of Abaribe, the Ukwa would have protested by withdrawing their support for the governor. The APGA senatorial candidate, Chris Nkwonta is optimistic of victory. He fought gallantly in 2015 but at the end of the day, Abaribe snatched the victory through the advantage of Obingwa votes, the same that gave Ikpeazu the victory over Otti in 2015. The APC senatorial candidate in Abia South, who is the sibling of former Senate President, Mac Wabara, is also from Ukwa. Ukwa has two local government areas, which have been used to advantage by the Ngwa. And like Nkwonta said recently, the outcome of the senatorial election would have been critical to the political relationship of the two neighbours. If Abaribe wins the senatorial election, he would be serving the fourth term in the Senate, thereby relegating Ukwa to the background for the next four years with neither the Senate seat nor the governorship. They would show their disenchantment by voting a candidate other than Ngwa son.  Evidently, APGA has lost steam. But in Aba it is strong. The passion of 2015 has largely fizzled out especially with the coming on board of the APC candidate, Uche Ogah and the goodwill the party now enjoys in the state. As it is, APGA not only failed to protect and secure the mandate the people gave it in 2015 but still have not shown capacity presently. It lost most of its House of Assembly members either to defection or litigation. Obviously, the support is not as widespread as it used to be. Then it was only APGA and PDP, now APC has made significant impact that cannot be dismissed with a wave of the hand both at the federal and state levels. Today, it has two House of Representatives members and a senator from Abia State. It must be stated that majority of the Ngwa bloc will vote their son, Okezie Ikpeazu in spite of cries of salary arrears and poor performance because to them it is a matter of equity.  With the Ngwa votes and pockets of support from other parts of the state he is confident of victory. And he would have had it so if not the Ogah’s factor. Ogah will give Ikpeazu the fight of his life. And even if he is declared winner after the election, Ogah will wrest it at the courts. In the hurry to get victory the PDP and its supporters would forget to cover its tracks. That would be costly. The battle will narrow down to APC and PDP eventually. It should be recalled that Ogah was actually the preferred candidate in 2015. He refused the pressure to dump PDP for another party as his supporters demanded. Now that he finally pitched his tent with APC his supporters are still with him. On the other hand, APGA has tested its strength. In 2015 Abia people wanted by all means to get rid of PDP. They voted for APGA even without knowing the candidates. At the end, APGA had 11 out of the 24 member PDP dominated House of Assembly. The election will indeed be interesting.