The All Progressives Congress (APC) has won 15 seats in the Ogun State House of Assembly, losing 11 other constituencies in the state to opposition political parties. Of the 26-member legislature, the Allied People’s Movement (APM) secured victory in seven constituencies while the African Democratic Congress (ADC) won three seats. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won only one seat, Ijebu North I state constituency. According to the results of the March 9 governorship and House of Assembly elections released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and made available to reporters yesterday, four incumbent members of the House were also reelected. The returning lawmakers include Olakunle Oluomo (APC), Ganiyu Oyedeji (APM), Oludare Kadiri (APC) and Jemili Akingbade (ADC). A former member of the House, Oludaisi Elemide, who served between 2011 and 2015, also staged a return by winning his election on APC platform. Apart from winning the governorship, the APC had earlier won the three senatorial seats and six federal constituencies during the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections. The state assembly seats won by APC include Abeokuta South I, Abeokuta South II, Ado-Odo/Ota I, Ifo I, Ijebu East, Ijebu North II, Ijebu North East, Ijebu-Ode, Ikenne, Obafemi-Owode, Odeda, Odogbolu, Ogun Waterside, Remo North and Sagamu I. The APM won in Abeokuta North, Ado-Odo/Ota II, Egbado South, Ewekoro, Ifo II, Ipokia and Sagamu II while ADC clinched Egbado North I, Egbado North II and Imeko-Afon state constituencies. New Telegraph reports that the state Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mrs Modupe Mujota, and Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s nephew, Yusuf Amosun, won in their respective constituencies on the APM platform supported by the governor. Meanwhile, power blocs in the APC may have began moves to zone the Speakership of the House of Assembly to Ogun Central Senatorial District of the state. Ogun Central, comprising Egba people, has six local government areas and eight state constituencies. Sources said following the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun during the Saturday’s governorship election, top chieftains of APC, including former governor Olusegun Osoba, have started to weigh the options of having the position of Speaker zoned to Ogun Central. The incumbent Speaker, Suraj Adekunbi (APC), hails from Egbado North I in Ogun West Senatorial District. In the race for a new Speaker, APC leaders were said to have settled for Ogun Central Senatorial District because the governor-elect and his running mate, Mrs Noimot Salako-Oyedele, hail from Ogun East and Ogun West respectively. The ensuing permutations have thrown up Olakunle Oluomo (Ifo I) and Oludaisi Elemide (Odeda), who were elected for third and second terms respectively, for the task of leading the 9th Assembly in the state. Below is the list of the Ogun State House of Assembly members-elect and their constituencies and parties. 1. Abeokuta North – Mujota Modupe Onikepo (APM) 2. Abeokuta South I – Adejojo Yusuf Temitope (APC) 3. Abeokuta South II – Adeyemi Ademuyiwa (APC) 4. Ado Odo/Ota I – Yusuf Sheriff Abiodun (APC) 5. Ado Odo/Ota II – Lamidi Musefiu Olatunji (APM) 6. Egbado North I –  Adegoke Olusesi Adeyanju (ADC) 7. Egbado North II – Haruna Abiodun Wahab (ADC) 8. Egbado South – Bolanle Lateefat Ajayi (APM) 9. Ewekoro – Amosun Yusuf Olawale (APM) 10. Ifo I – Olakunle Taiwo Oluomo (APC) 11. Ifo II – Ganiyu Alani Oyedeji (APM) 12. Ijebu East – Adams Isaac Olushola (APC) 13. Ijebu North I – Abiodun Sylvester Niyi (PDP) 14. Ijebu North II – Oludare Kadiri (APC) 15. Ijebu North East – Fasuwa Abayomi Johnson (APC) 16. Ijebu-Ode – Oduwole Kemi Olaitan (APC) 17. Ikenne – Olakunle Sobukola (APC) 18. Imeko-Afon – Jemili Akingbade (ADC) 19. Ipokia – Sikiratu Ajibola Olawunmi (APM) 20. Obafemi-Owode – Soneye D. Kayode (APC) 21. Odeda – Elemide Oludaisi (APC) 22. Odogbolu – Bello Atinuke (APC) 23. Ogun Waterside – Akeem Agbolade Balogun (APC) 24. Remo North – Osho Solomon Oluwaseyi (APC) 25. Sagamu I – Abdul Bashir Oladunjoye (APC) 26. Sagamu II – Adeniran Ademola Adeyinka (APM) APC = 15
APM = 7
ADC = 3
PDP = 1