Chief Willy Akinlude is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State. He speaks in this interview on the 2019 general elections, the performance of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the reason for the loss of PDP in Lagos. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  What is your overview of the 2019 general elections?
My perception about the just concluded 2019 general elections is that the current administration has not been able to portray any sense of respect for democracy as a system of government. They didn’t show that they are interested in democratic ethos and principles. You can see the manner by which the election went, it is very unfortunate. For example, when former President Goodluck Jonathan lost the elections in 2015, he quickly congratulated the winner, the incumbent. But look at what is happening now. Look at Rivers, Sokoto, Kano and others, we are just plagued by a harvest of inconclusive elections. If you can remember, they started this thing about inconclusive election in Osun state, but its taking another dangerous trends now. What justification is in the killing of a soul for an election? The desperation level is to high and this is unnecessary. Let those fomenting troubles and playing politics with human lives know that the APC and Mr. President wont be there for life. The present administration must work towards bequeathing sustainable democracy to those coming after them. Do you think the PDP actually performed quite well in the election?
Yes! The PDP did well in the elections. If you look at the outcome of the governorship election, you will agree with me that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar actually won the first election. You can now see from the votes that Nigerians now understood PDP better than before. Look at the turnout for the PDP in the South-East and South-West. We gave the election our all despite the intimidation, without any federal might behind us, no security, nothing. Despite of everything, people still voted for us. The PDP is back and results show that. We now have Oyo and Imo states. We are on course to take Bauchi and Adamawa. Are you worried about the spate of inconclusive elections as announced by INEC?
I am worried and I think the INEC should be ashamed of themselves. Why can we have this number of inconclusive elections when there are a voters’ register and a device like a card reader? Why are they having it in opposition states or states where the opposition is in the lead? What INEC is doing is very suspicious and it can be dangerous for this country. I feel we still we have responsible people in APC, and I want them to come together, tell Mr. President the bitter truth of what is happening. When the Peace Committee heard Atiku out, they were shocked and they had to visit Mr. President. Are you in support of Atiku’s move to challenge the outcome of the election?
That move is just to expose the ills from the election. The truth is that they started planning for this thing before the election; I guess some are even saying that the suspended Chief Justice of the Federation was got out of the way because of this. What we witnessed at the election is so bad for democracy in this country. Can you assess the 2015 and 2019 elections? Have we been able to build on the successes of previous elections?
This current INEC hasn’t performed at all because their process is flawed. We didn’t build on the success we had in 2015, rather, we retrogressed. We are yet to hear results of elections in more than five states after one week. We were even blaming Prof. Attahiru Jega then, little did we know that the one after him wont even be close to his benchmark. Nigerians are not happy but we are always patient. They must be careful in Rivers and Kano state especially. What happened to Lagos PDP that it failed to fly again?
The forces of intimidation against the party’s governorship candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, were just too much. Don’t forget the threats against the non-indigenes not to vote for the PDP. But we are doing some soul searching already to organize the party. But I think the National Headquarters of our party should dissolve the state executive of the PDP in Lagos because they are not performing and their so-called godfathers are only there living in past glory. I see no reason why the PDP shouldn’t compete better than we are doing. We have an inept state executive and that affected us at the turf. Jimi Agbaje tried for the party but the state executive didn’t support him. I am using this opportunity to call on the National body to dissolve the executive because they are the problem of the party. Bode George group has 65 per cent of the exco and Agbaje has 35 per cent, but Agbaje still won the primary from George. Because of that, the 65 per cent who are loyal to Bode George didn’t work for Agbaje in the governorship election. We know them in Mushin local government and their argument was that Agbaje was not from the 65 per cent group. 