Recently, Mrs. Patience Maseli retired from the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) as a Deputy Director after 35 years of meritorious service. Maseli who holds a Bachelor of Science (BSc) degree in Botany from the University of Benin and a Master of Science degree in Petroleum Geology from the University of Port Harcourt, is an amazon in the oil industry. She operated in a male dominated terrain and never compromised but worked twice harder, developed herself to get to the pinnacle of her career. Now a consultant in the industry, Maseli, told journalists about her sojourn in the oil industry. Oluwatosin Omoniyi writes  You recently retired from the Department of Petroleum Resources after 35 years of Meritorious Service, how do you view retirement?
I am retired but certainly not tired. Still full of energy and have a lot more to contribute to the petroleum industry. For now I will like to take a break and get recharged for the next phase and catch up on things I could not do because of my hectic work schedule. I am also spending time with my family who are spread over the world. How did you get into the Oil and Gas Industry, the journey so far and specifically in the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR)?
My journey into the industry began in 1982 after my graduation from the University of Benin I was sent to Rivers State for the mandatory National Youth Service Programme.
My primary assignment was in NNPC , Research and Development Division, where I worked as a palynologist within the geology laboratory.
My performance earned me an employment into the organisation in 1983, and was deployed to the Petroleum Inspectorate Division in which today is the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR)
With a career spanning 35 years, through diligence, hard work and grace of God, I rose through the ranks from Petrophysicist in 1983,Senior Geologist in 1992, Chief Geologist 2003, Assistant Director 2006 to occupy the position of Deputy Director and Head, Upstream In 2017 up till November 2018 when I attained the mandatory retirement age.
Upon my promotion as an Assistant Director in 2006, I was responsible for the Resources Management Branch of the Upstream Division Of DPR. In 2014, i was redeployed to the Exploration Branch and also doubled as the National Data Repository (NDR) where all oil and gas industry data is kept in safe custody. It’s actually called the Industry data bank. One of the remarkable achievement is that under my leadership the standard of the facility was raised to international standard.
In 2015, I was thereafter deployed to the Domestic Gas Obligation Branch of the Gas Division to strengthen the regulation and monitoring of the domestic gas sector.
During this period the domestic sector went through a commendable level of Gas revolution in alignment with the seven big wins programme. This gave rise to the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation project which will be a big leap towards actualising the flare down programme by the Petroleum Minister.
Having effectively established the Domestic Gas Branch, I was then redeployed to Head the Upstream Division in 2017.
Within these periods , I have represented DPR in many forums, locally and internationally, Norway, France, UK, US, South Korea, Italy etc.
It’s been an interesting experience.
You have done extremely well as a geoscientist in a male dominated field. You also pioneered alongside other women and served as the first steering committee chairperson for Women in Geosciences and Engineering (WiGE). What challenges do women in that field face and how were you able to surmount them to get to the peak of your career?
To get to the peak in a male dominated industry, glass ceilings has to be broken down. When I was recruited
Women hardly went to the rig because the infrastructure was not gender sensitive and we were relegated to the office, this was disadvantageous as young Engineers and Geologist were expected to be in field and build capacity.
We pushed for the change and today women are in there with the men. The modern rigs have been built to accommodate both genders.
Also getting a female mentor was a challenge since the women were few was a challenge and had to cope with challenges with having male mentors.
Women had to work twice as hard as the men to get to the top. That was tough because as a woman you had to take care of the home as well.
I was at the drilling site when Shell’s Agbada 59 and 60 wells were drilled, and did one week on and off in the late 80’s
That experience helped me a lot in my career.
Navigating to the top required hard work, DPR sent me on several training programs locally and international in addition to self development.
I belong to several professional bodies like Nigerian Association of Petroleum Explorationist ( NAPE) where I am a fellow, Nigerian Mining and Geosciences Society (NMGS),
American Association of Petroleum Geologist (AAPG) and Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE).
A lot of capacity is built from participating in the technical meetings of these associations and attending international conferences as well.
What is your advice for women aspiring for the field, how can they navigate through the male dominated and challenging endeavour?
For students in the secondary institutions they have to take some the of the STEM subjects.
Those already in the field, I will advise they must be hardworking, professional, focused, dedicated and committed and also develop themselves without relying solely on the organisation.
They should make their voice heard, contributing at meetings , putting their opinions across and not allow themselves to be relegated to the background.
That would you say are your secrets for the smooth balance between family and work, seeing that you have excelled in effectively managing both ?
Effective Planning, Family support especially from my spouse, my mother and domestic wards and God’s grace.
Some say life begins at 40, others say 50, but for you it seems life begins at 60 because you still look young and energetic?
It takes a lot of discipline to be healthy and fit. The secret lies in eating fresh foods, fruits and vegetables, exercise, avoiding frizzy drinks and packet juices
Active for God, for instance I have been singing in the choir right from primary school till date from Church of God Mission (Late Archbishop Benson Idahosa’s Church) and the Redeemed Christian Church Of God, Promised Land Parish, that brings a lot of refreshment to the body.
I am also happily married, that takes a lot of stress off me. What about the fashion sense?
It was inherited from my father of blessed memory. Singers are usually stylish too, that put together and having very good designers projected my fashion.