It was built for the development and progress of the community. But some disgruntled elements have vandalized the training centre built by the Amnesty Office in Kaiama, Bayelsa State. PAULINE ONYIBE, reports from Yenagoa  Militancy started in the Niger Delta after some years of oil exploration by multinational companies after the discovery of oil in Oloibiri in Ogbia Local Government area of Bayelsa State in the 1950s.
That was necessitated by the refusal of the oil companies exploiting the people to develop their host communities.
That led to the carrying of arms by the militants.
Along the line, there was Kaiama Declaration in 1998 and eventually the laying down of arms by the militants after the Federal Government agreed to grant them amnesty, train and reintegrate them into the society.
That gave birth to the Presidential Amnesty Programme initiated by the then President of Nigeria, the Late Umaru Musa Yar’adua and the former President, Goodluck Jonathan, then his deputy.
The government pledged its commitment to institute programmes to assist their disarmament, demobilization, rehabilitation and provision of reintegration assistance to the militants.
These were major preconditions to addressing wider development challenges in the Niger Delta.
As a result, training centres were built in some states where starter packs were also kept to be disbursed to the trainees after being trained, most of them abroad.
One of such centres was built at Kaiama, the home town of Isaac Adaka Boro, the father of agitation for the emancipation of Niger Delta.
Of course the centre has been functional since 2015 with Esther Boro, the daughter of Isaac Boro overseeing the activities of that place.
Information gathered showed that the place has been properly managed by Esther Boro until petitions upon petitions were written to the head office which led to her removal and replacement.
The centre was officially commissioned on the February 14, 2019 by Professor Charles Dokubo, the current Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Chairman of the Presidential Amnesty Programme.
But before then, it was gathered that the looting of the state packs kept in the centre have gradually been leaving the place even days before the official commissioning of the centre.
Esther Boro, having worked and lived on the premises as the Centre’s Supervisor since its conception in 2013, it was gathered, has had many running battles with workers, building contractors, and equipment suppliers.
New Telegraph learnt that early this year, after series of petitions against her, while preparations were ongoing for the official commissioning of the Centre, she was removed as the Facility Manager and replaced with Jude Tabai from Delta State.
The centre is said to be equipped with the state-of- the-art training equipment, designed to provide trainings in Plumbing, Catering, Fashion Designing, Building and interlock blocks making techniques, Shoe/leather works, Carpentry and Joinery and others.
Also there were fully furnished classrooms, Hands on Practical Training Block, Administrative Block, Library Centre Clinic, 60 room Hostel for 120 students, Multipurpose Hall, Cafeteria, among other facilities.
The centre, no doubt, would have opened doors of opportunity for the Niger Delta Region where they would have been to collaborating with international bodies to bring development to the region.
When New Telegraph visited the centre some days later after the final looting, it was evident at the centre that all have gone, leaving only rubbles.
One of the security men, who took this reporter round, revealed that the starter packs of the Niger Delta were housed there.
Recounting what happened at the centre, one of the security men (name withheld) said: “Abuja has the number of the agitators. So, as Abuja came with the list, you will come with your own list. They will reconcile and give you your things.
“These things are meant for ex agitators. So, one day, the host communities just woke up and said the things are in their land and they are meant for Niger Delta.
“When the community people were disturbing, they now gave them 80 chances.
“On the day of the sharing at the community, as they brought the things, they started fighting within themselves.
“They now came straight to this place. From there, King brought list, Chiefs brought, Women leader all brought their own lists.
“From there, the community people said they will not agree and broke the fence and from there the army started shooting. Nobody can give account of these things.
“As they came with that, though the army refused them, they came by force and vandalized everything.
“Some people that came to loot the equipment died of suffocation from the chemicals, including some women that backed their kids and went there to go and struggle of the loads.”
The security man said even though they were up to five of them, they couldn’t do anything because the people were over 2,000, scampering for the goods.
He said: “The security was not enough. The army men can’t do anything. How can 10 army men face more than 2,000 people?
“They were more than 2,000 people. Men and women in as much as you are from Niger Delta from Calabar, Ughelli, Delta were there.
“As the army were busy securing this gate, the other side has been busted.
“If they had shot any of the host community person, they would have burnt down this place.
“But they can’t even shoot because the order was not given to kill. Only some died out of injury sustained during running.
“When they were driving them from this side, they had broken through another side to enter.”
Lamenting that for four months, they have not been paid their salaries, he said: “Oga said that we should be on duty because for four months, they have not paid us.
“If not for work, I won’t be here. Oga just found me small five thousand naira to be here. We are supposed to be two here.
“There is no food here. So, the other man has gone to look for food and five people used to be here in the night.
“Some of the suppliers of these items did with their own money and the office has not refunded them.”
Disclosing that all were taken away, he said: “We are guiding these two power machines and the transformers. If we don’t stay here, these roofs, they will come and remove them. Don’t you see them breaking the windows?
“We, the security people that are not being given stick, talk more of matchet, what can we do?
“I’m not armed but they can’t do me any thing because they cannot kill their brother. After all, I know your papa house.
“The people came to renovate this place before this incident. They came to commission the place. After the commissioning, the vandalisation started.
“From here to Opokuma junction, it was goods both left and right. Not even up to five days that they evacuated all of them.
“If they collect from here, another stronger people will hold them on the road and collect them from them.
“They even beat up a security man, telling him that soldiers are here, they have not talked, is it you that want to come and talk?
“Police and army had to use diplomacy because if they had shot anybody, they would have burnt down this place and they would have done something to me.
“They dropped all the barb wire and gained access through the fence. They don’t know the value of this. If not, they won’t loot the things.
“Look at the big generators that gives light to the whole compound. They wanted to lift it but no way. They now opened it and removed some components.
“I have guided this place for three years. The frame, the iron doors they collected everything.
“We are here by God’s grace. Although their intention was to loot here, they have finished their intention.
“You have this kind of structure, you cannot secure here with your local vigilantes.
“It is a shame to them. In some communities, this is supposed to be a university.
“When Esther Boro was guiding this place, there was nothing like this. Everybody began to talk and petition against the woman until they removed her. They thought they can handle here.
“If she was the one that was here, nothing like this would have happened.
“The head of this place now is Jude Tabai, former Boy loaf’s secretary; the supervisor, also Mike and Ekiyor from Patani.”
He disclosed that as a way of empowering the youths of the community, they were always used to offloading the items before the unfortunate incident.
“My people don’t have patience. If not, this thing would not have happened.”
On how the people got the information, he said: “They are the suppliers. Many are married to this place. Here, the Igbo are staying here, Calabar, Delta and all manner of people.”
Meanwhile, when New Telegraph contacted Esther Boro, she vehemently declined to comment on the matter but rather referred this correspondent to the media person of the amnesty presidential office, Mr Murphy Gana Gana.
All calls put across to Gana Gana and all the text messages were not responded to as at the time of filling in this report.
Reacting to the unfortunate incident, one of the ex-agitators, Prince Layefa Tomkumo, alias Three Lions of the Niger Delta from Arogbo said: “That thing that they did, anybody that they arrest, let them kill them.
“Why will development come to their community and they will destroy the development?
“We want all the oil companies to develop our Niger Delta and that is how they will do the oil companies office.
“You cannot destroy the development in our community because of your grievances.
“If it is like that, oil companies should not come to our terrain to work. We need all the oil companies to come down to Niger Delta but is this how they are going to treat them?
“Our own in Arogbo where I coming from, we are going to protect our own. Nobody can destroy them.
“They built in Kaiama, Gelegele; they built in Asari Dokubo’s town. Bayelsa is always destroying. We are fighting for development in the Niger Delta.
“We did all those things till amnesty came on board, developed so many people that are abroad today.
“We told the government to come and build amnesty office in our terrain. We don’t want them to use Abuja office but Arogbo, Kaiama, Buguma, Gelegele and Burutu.
“We are planning to get other ones. Now Bayelsans are destroying their own. Are they not looking for development?
“If you destroy that place, who is going to take care of your terrain? Let them arrest those boys and execute them.
“We that are militants in the struggle are going to handle this matter. Let them find these people out.
“Look at some machines there. If it is N300,000, they are going to sell them for N40,000.”
Also, the chairman of Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Council, Hon Tolumoye Bikikoro, condemned the act.
Describing the unfortunate incident as a setback in building youth capacity within the Niger Delta region and Bayelsa State, he said that the invasion of the multimillion naira vocational educational centre was occasioned by the shameful conduct of some persons who do not mean well for the region.
Tolumoye said that the centre was earmarked for commissioning by the president while on his campaign tour to Bayelsa State but having failed for sundry reasons, some miscreants took advantage, broke in and carted away with the materials.
“We cannot allow such an unwholesome practice to thrive in KOLGA. That is why we are calling on security agents to take proactive steps at prosecuting the perpetrators of this dastardly act, whose actions have disenfranchised genuine beneficiaries and further increased the employment deficit in the state.