The Baale-elect of Ogombo community in Eti-Osa Local Government Area, Lagos, Prince Musiliudeen Abiodun Ogunbo, has appealed to the Lagos State Government to assist his community with some developmental projects. Prince Ogunbo, made the appeal during his conferment as the 16th Baale of the community, on Tuesday. The new Baale who has being the community’s Secretary for several years, appreciated the people of community for their support and for choosing him to lead them. He also called on the outgoing governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwumi Ambode and the newly elected governor of the state, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, to come to the aid of his community in the are of infrastructural development. Prince Ogunbo said: “am using the occasion to appeal to the Lagos State government to come to our aid in the area of education, health roads, drainages and other infrastructure. “We in this community overwhelming voted for All Progressive Congress (APC) at the last election and I believe that the best way we can be compensated is to assist us in developing our community. “The secondary school we have in the community only stops at Junior Secondary School (JSS), we want the government to assist us in raising it to Senior Secondary School (SSS). “We also want the Lagos State government to give us a general hospital. Anytime we need medical treatment, we travel to Ibeju-Lekki General Hospital for treatment. Also, we need the assistance of government in the area of drainage construction. Anytime it rains, our children face a lot of difficulties in getting to schools. All these we want the government to do for us”. Prince Ogunbo who has sponsored over 40 candidates both indigene and non-indigenes of Ogombo community, since 2007, thanked Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for his efforts in restoring peace in the community when they were being disturbed by land grabbers. He also thanked Honourable Noheem Adams, an elected member of Lagos State House of Assembly, and others political office holders, who ensured that he was installed as the new traditional head of Ogomboland.