 The Super Eagles have already booked their place in the 2019 African Cup of Nations but pride and ambition to stay atop Group E of the qualifying series will galvanise them to victory over Seychelles when they clash at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba today. The Pirates are the whipping boys of the group but the Super Eagles only managed a 3-0 victory over the tiny Island country in the reverse fixture in September 2018 but the three-time African champions will be looking to emulating Libya who defeated Seychelles 8-1 and South Africa who beat them 6-0. Ahmed Musa, Chidozie Awaziem and Odion Ighalo sealed a 3-0 in Mahe last year and coach Gernot Rohr will unleash his best legs, as a high –score win would put the Eagles in good and great mood for Tuesday’s prestige international friendly against seven – time African champions Egypt at the same venue. The desire to maintain their unbeaten run since after the 2018 World Cup will also motivate the Eagles. Nigeria crashed out in the group stages of that competition following a late defeat to Argentina, but have since won three and drawn two of their five outings across all competitions. However, their past two matches have ended in draws – including a goalless stalemate with Uganda last time out – and a repeat of that score line on Friday may not be enough to guarantee them top spot. A friendly with AFCON hosts Egypt will follow after Friday’s match, but the Seychelles match will be Nigeria’s final competitive fixture before this summer’s tournament gets underway. Stand –in skipper Musa, who has led the Eagles brilliantly during this qualifying series, told thenff.com: “Yes, we have qualified already, but there is something called pride. And also, we need to be in the mood for the match against Egypt, and again take this as part of the preparation for the Cup of Nations. The Cup of Nations is less than three months away so our preparation has already started. The bigger picture is the thing.” CAF has named Cape Verde official Fabricio Duarte as referee for today’s match. His compatriot, Jose Carlos Alexandre Pina Mendes is the assistant referee 1, with Delgade Fernandes Wilson Jorge as assistant referee 2 and Delgado Rocha Lenine as fourth official. The match commissioner is Martin Gomez from Gambia, while Togolese Latre- Kavi Edzona Lawson Hogban will be referee assessor. The match starts at 4pm.