Tuberculosis (TB) is a major public health problem in Nigeria, and a threat to achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. TB affects and kills citizens, especially those within the ages of 15- 44 years. The Federal Government, World Health Organisation (WHO) and experts in the health sector are certain this burden can be overcome only if conscious efforts are put in place. REGINA OTOKPA reports  The 2018 World Health Organisation (WHO) Global Tuberculosis (TB) report, ranked Nigeria first in Africa and 6th globally amongst countries with the high burden of TB. As if that was not bad enough, Nigeria is also among the 30 high TB burden countries and the 14 countries in the world on all the three WHO lists of high burden countries for TB, multi-drug resistance tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and TB/HIV. According to the report, the disease burden caused by TB is falling globally, but not fast enough to reach the first milestones to End TB Strategy in 2020. In the WHO African Region, declining cases of TB cases per year placed it second among all WHO regions over the period between 2013 and 2017. Even though TB is preventable and curable, it is worrisome that despite the significant progress made over the last few years through the efforts of the government and developmental partners, about 18 Nigerians still die of TB every hour. This sad development is not far fetched from the silent attitude of the citizenry when ever they fall ill, or the unhealthy habit of self medication rather than seek professional medical help at health facilities. According to the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, out of the estimated 418,000 new TB cases in 2018, only 106,533 TB cases were notified, leaving over 300,000 cases undiagnosed. This large number of undiagnosed cases poses great risk to the country, given the danger of having one person with an untreated lung tuberculosis infect between 10 to 15 persons. One would wonder why such negative TB figures continue to roll out despite an increased number of health facilities providing free treatment services from 7,389 in 2017 to 9,625 in 2018, an increase in TB microscopic centers from 1,148 in 2010 to 2856; and an increase in the number of the basic TB diagnostic equipment called the GeneXpert machines from 32 in 2012 to 397 in 2018. Also, there have been a scale up in the use of a digital tool for TB case notification, National Electronic TB Management Information System (NETIMS) to all the states.  At the occasion of the 2019 World TB day celebrated every March 24, Adewole noted that the fight against TB has encountered some challenges; the current proportion of health facilities in the country with TB services is barely 26 per cent, and access to TB diagnostic services was still a challenge.  “The current LGA coverage of GeneXpert which is the first-line test for diagnosis of TB is 41 per cent. This implies that the 394 GeneXpert machines in-country are in only 315 out of 774 local government area (LGA’s) in the country.  “This is a far-cry when compared to the national target of at least one GeneXpert machine per LGA. Another worrisome trend is that of funding. The catastrophic cost survey conducted in 2017 showed that 71 per cent of TB patients and their household are affected negatively by the catastrophic cost due to TB.”  The minister however noted that in order to step up in the fight against TB, President Muhammadu Buhari at the first-ever United Nations (UN) high level meeting (UNHLM) on TB held in New York and United States (US) in September 2018, made a firm commitment alingside other world leaders, to eradicate TB in the world.  Keeping to that commitment, the federal government has launched a road map and report of the catastrophic cost survey to end TB in the country, bearing in mind the theme and slogan for this year’s celebration, ‘It’s time’, ‘Keep the Promise! Find TB! Treat TB’!. “Our plan going forward is to: Integrate TB services into Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health Services (RMNCAH+N); Rapidly expand TB treatment and diagnostic services in both public and private health facilities;
Create an increased demand for TB services through awareness campaigns on TB in health facilities, schools and communities. “Ensure improved social protection packages for TB patients and families; Ensure a more robust engagement of professional associations and civil society organisations, ensure the expansion of GeneXpert services to ensure equitable access; ensure the training of health care workers on diagnosis and management of TB; and ensure the provision of drugs for preventive treatment of TB as well as drug resistant TB patients. “Addressing the needs of vulnerable populations such as the PLHIV, Children, IDPs, Slum dwellers, among others. Part of the plan is to strengthen intra-facility linkage for TB services by ensuring every OPDs attendees are screened for TB in all health facilities, facilitate mandatory reporting of TB cases by all health facilities in line with the resolutions from the 2017 council of health meeting and strengthening of TB surveillance activities in more states,” Adewole said. But the World Health Organisation has cautioned that while reflecting on progresses made in the fight against TB over the years and its advances, it is more important for countries, especially those in the African continent, to be focused on what needs to done to finally put an end to TB.  In her message on the World TB Day, the WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, disclosed that to sustain the advances that has so far been made, current levels of investment by national governments where TB is endemic must be increased as they currently fall short of requirements needed to end TB by 2030.  According to her, the solution to ending the TB is to ensure core TB control services are funded from domestic resources, regional governments speedily implement universal health coverage to ensure quality assured preventative, diagnostic, treatment and TB care services and most importantly, countries must access WHO recommended rapid molecular tests as first-line tests for diagnosis for all presumptive TB cases and adopt the new WHO recommended drugs and drug combinations for treating drug-resistant TB.  ‘‘Efforts must be made to identify and remove the challenges that are slowing down progress, as well as adopt and roll out the most cost-effective policy options and interventions.  “Building on the successes of the recent past and fulfilling the commitments made by our political leaders, national governments need to adopt policy and programmatic actions to foster a multisectoral response to end the epidemic.  ‘‘The measures should include initiatives to look for and effectively treat all existing cases, and scaling up preventive treatment for high-risk populations, especially people living with HIV and child contacts of known TB cases.  “Civil society organisations and community systems need to be strengthened to provide diagnostic support and care where patients live and work, as well as facilitate access to needed services, and to assist governments in scaling up services,” she said.  Joining in this fight, the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), recently pledged to provide a simplified medication that would conform with the adequate regimen in order to ensure compliance and a total cure of the epidemic before the year 2030. The PSN President, Pharm. Mazi Ohuabunwa, noted that one of its technical groups, Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), has been mandated to take up the Directly Observed Therapy (DOT) programme to ensure proper pharmaceutical care for patients of TB since chemotherapy remains the main cure.  “If ending the TB Epidemic by 2030 is one of the health targets of the sustainable development goals, then prevention, diagnosis and early treatment with first line TB drugs should be given all the seriousness it requires.  TB resistance stems from ignorance, poverty and corruption.  “Non compliance to the adequate regimen and duration may lead to resistance to the first line TB drug such as Rifampicin and Isoniazide. The second line TB drugs are expensive and have undesirable and debilitating side effects.”  With a call to the federal government to leverage on the availability of community pharmacies within every pole in the county to fully implement the DOT programme, the PSN is positive such an action will help ensure proper counselling on the TB regimen, and lessen the burden on patients who may need to travel miles to refill a prescription for the long duration of treatment which, may be up to six months.  However, it is pertinent to note that with all these in place, if Nigerians do not imbibe a self consciousness to carryout medical check-ups for TB when they notice two weeks of uninterrupted cough, all these efforts would be in vein.  No wonder the Global TB Ambassador and wife of the President of Nigeria, Dr. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari recently made a plea to Nigerians to ensure they take advantage of the free TB screening and treatment when they notice persistent coughing. “We should not be caught unawares. Once you notice a cough that has refused to go after two weeks, visit a health facility and consult a doctor.”  But the Coordinator of the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy program, Dr Adebola Lawanson, recently said no one needs to die as BITUB syrup, a new product which has been utilised in different countries, was strategic in treating Tuberculosis.  Although, the day set aside to mark the world TB day has come and gone, there must be consistency by all stakeholders to push to raise public awareness about the devastating health, social, and economic impact of TB on citizens and the country at large. When people are fully sensitised, they will be able to go for testing once they suspect any case of TB, thereby reducing spread of the disease.  