Mrs Helen Ezekiel Afon is the wife of the late Hon. Ezekiel Afon, member representing Pengana State Constituency in the Plateau State House of Assembly, who was recently re-elected, but died on Sunday a few hours after he was declared winner. MUSA PAM had a brief interview with the wife in Jos  “My husband was a caring man, God-fearing person, lover of all people and he didn’t discriminate against anybody. He took care of his family seriously, he was indeed a father to us. We got married in 1990 about 29 years back. ” I don’t know how to describe my love, my husband, but he is a father to us, so loving, so caring, he doesn’t want us to lack anything, so he provided for us at all times. Whenever he was away from the house he was not himself, he always wanted to be with us his family, all the time. He was actually a committed husband to me and father to us at home. It would be recall that the member representing Pengana State Constituency in the Plateau State House of Assembly Hon. Ezekiel Afon and the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) died 24 hours after been declared winner in his re-election bid last Sunday in the afternoon. Afon was said to have died after he slumped and was rushed to the hospital on Sunday afternoon. He was 55 years old. Afon until his death was the Chief Whip in the State House of Assembly and was survived by his wife Mrs Helen and four children. While speaking to Saturday Telegraph Helen said her husband died without any sign of illness and was celebrating with his family, friends and supporters at home. “On that Sunday he was hale and hearty and was full of life while rejoicing over his winning the election, on Saturday night. We didn’t sleep because we waited for the outcome of the election and he was receiving calls to get details from his constituency. “So, I was with my husband in the parlour, only the two of us were answering calls, sometimes the calls were coming through my own phone then I would give him to answer. After the last conversation we had on the phone from the constituency we didn’t get any calls again, so we slept off at the parlour. I was the first to wake up in the morning and then woke him up. I told him to go to the bedroom while I continued with the domestic work. ”But later on, the news that he won the election woke him up, and we continued with the celebration. He later told me he was hungry, then I prepared food for him and some other guests that came to celebrate with us. He was okay after eating, no sign of pain in him, but much later I was called that I should come and attend to him, when I came he couldn’t talk to me, he was just silent,” she recounted in tears. Saturday Telegraph gathered that the late lawmaker was among those the APC was considering for speakership position in the state since the seat was already zoned to the northern part of the state. Afon who was one of the principal officer of the State House of Assembly was favoured to get the speakership because of his experience. The majority of APC members are first timers. The speaker of the state House of Assembly Rt. Hon. Joshua Madaki and members of the state assembly have consistently visited the House of the late principal officer to sympathise with the family. Madaki described the demise of late Afon as a sad moment for the state. “We the members of the entire 8th Assembly, are indeed saddened with the demise of one of our own to the great beyond, May God comfort the family. Also the state Governor, Mr. Simon Lalong, who also visited Afon’s family described the lawmaker’s death as a great lost to the state and Nigeria at large. Meanwhile, the burial arrangement for the late lawmaker has been slated for March 21 after the valedictory session which will be held at the chambers of the state assembly.