Ex-Nigeria international Mutiu Adepoju has urged the Super Eagles to take their inconsequential 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Seychelles seriously. The three-time African champions currently lead Group E with 10 points from five games and have already booked their spot in the continental competition but they still have the first spot to fight for as they are a point above second-placed South Africa. They welcome Gavin Jeanne’s men who are rooted to the bottom of the group to the Stephen Keshi Stadium on Friday.  And Adepoju who scored six goals in 42 international outings for the Super Eagles has advised Gernot Rohr’s men to see the encounter as part of preparation for the Afcon finals in Egypt. “It is a dead rubber encounter and we have qualified already but that does not mean we should forget the importance of the game because it is a qualifier which we have to play as if we have not qualified,” Adepoju told Goal. “We have to take it seriously because if we have qualified and we’re looking forward to going to the tournament which is the Africa Cup of Nations, we have to play with all seriousness and field the available key players. …says team will miss Ighalo   Ex-international, Mutiu Adepoju, has tasked the Super Eagles to complete the qualification job when they face the Bafana Bafana of South Africa in Johannesburg this weekend in the African Cup of Nations qualifiers. Super Eagles are currently top of the table after recording… In “Sports” ...say Eagles must beware of Seychelles   Ex-internationals, Felix Owolabi and Austin Eguavoen, have warned the Super Eagles preparing to take on the Pirates of Seychelles in the ongoing African Cup of Nations qualifiers scheduled for Satursday, to be wary of their opponents and avoid the same mistakes that cost… In “Sports” Former international, Mutiu Adepoju, has declared in clear terms that the players invited to represent the country against Seychelles should not use the absence of the captain of the team, Mikel Obi, and others not available for the African Cup of Nations qualifiers as an excuse for failure.  … In “Sports”