The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has mocked the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over his failure to deliver his state, Edo, to the ruling party in the February 23 presidential election. “If truly the APC is a political party, that should bother them that they have a National Chairman who woefully failed to deliver his state to his party,” PDP’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said in a statement issued yesterday. PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, defeated President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC in Edo State with 275,691 votes. Buhari secured 267,842 votes to come second. PDP also won two senatorial seats against APC’s one. The PDP said as a policy, it doesn’t “take the factional chairman of APC or even his utterances serious in any manner.” He said the mood of Nigerians since the result of the presidential election was announced was an indication that it was the wishes of Nigerians to have Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as their president. “The mood of the nation since the announcement of that result by Prof. Mamhood Yakubu was manifestly clear as to the wishes of Nigerians. “The wishes of Nigerians were to get Atiku Abubakar elected. And now that they have used the instrument of power to rig us out, we will take the matter to the next level,” he assured. He told Oshiomhole that he was not the one to tell Nigerians who is electable or not. Ologbondiyan recalled that the APC National Chairman promised that he would deliver 100 per cent vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in his ward. “What did that tell you? That is pure rigging because there is nowhere in the whole world that everybody will be in one political party. It showed manifestly how much rigging Oshiomhole is capable of. “Is it not strange that a sitting National Chairman, it doesn’t matter whether he is a factional or not, that cannot deliver his state for his party, in spite of the fact that he has a sitting governor? Will it not bother him? That is a question that should bother his mind. “I don’t think anybody takes Adams Oshiomhole serious in this country going by the manner he conducted primaries in his party and lack of internal democracy in his party, going by the manner their presidential candidate was pelted in Ogun State with stones and water. “I don’t think he will go down in history as a respected National Chairman who conducted the affairs of his party very well. It is rather unfortunate. “In the PDP, we do not take the factional chairman of APC or even his utterances serious in any manner,” Ologbondiyan stated.