President of the National Council for Unity Government (NCUG), Chief Perry Opara has condemned those that who had initiated suits against Imo State Governor-elect, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, describing them as enemies of the state. Opara, who is also the National Chairman of National Unity Party (NUP) and member of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), described Ihedioha’s election as not only divine but a process that would liberate the people of Imo state. Briefing journalists in Abuja, Opara did not only condemn purported litigation by 47 political parties against Ihedioha as the winner of the governorship election held on March 9 in Imo State, but said Imo people through their votes had asked Ihedioha to liberate them from the shackles of bad governance and ineptitude. He said: “At the announcement of Ihedioha as the winner of the governorship election, Imo people went agog and jubilation rented air. Weeks after the result was announced, there are still jubilations in Imo state. Men, women and youths are happy to say bye bye to family business. “lmo State is not a limited liability company owned and run by one family. “Ihedioha is a patriot and a nationalist. He has capacity and national exposure. He has a blueprint to develop all parts of Imo State. He has assured us that all parts of Imo State will receive even distribution of amenities and infrastructure. Ihedioha’s administration will be likened to that of Mbakwe, Jakande and Wike of Rivers State. “Ihedioha is the first Governor-elect in Nigeria to openly welcome all-inclusive government even before he is sworn in. From day one, Ihedioha will kick start his good governance programmes in Imo State. “Those parties in court are not true sons of Imo State. They are those that are confused and have gaseous ideas about their importance in the scheme of things. “Every right thinking Imo man is happy and wants change. Retrogressive people will never see anything good out of Israel.” Imo State indigenes in Abia State yesterday at the Aba Sports Club adopted the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Emeka Ihedioha, as their sole candidate for next week's governorship election. The indigenes who appeared in diverse groups from the 27 local government areas of the state stated… In “News” The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo state yesterday took steps to address growing rivalry among its governorship aspirants including an unhealthy rivalry between a former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Chief Emeka Ihedioha and Senator Samuel Anyanwu. Speaking to newsmen yesterday in Owerri, the Imo state capital,… In “News” UPP: Governor paying price for pauperizing Imo Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo has said that the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Hope Uzodimma should be blamed for the party’s inability to win the governorship election in the state. He… In “News”