Following suspension of the Director-General, Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), members of the party in Eke Ward, Udi local government area of Enugu State, at the weekend called on the party’s leadership to lift the suspension tag. This is as the ward executives passed a vote of confidence in Okechukwu. Arising from their meeting at the APC office in Ekeh, the ward executives affirmed their confidence in the VON DG whom they described as a consistent and principled member of the party whose contributions to its growth in the state was unequalled. A resolution released after the meeting which was signed by the chairman, Nze Philip Ogechukwu and 26 others reads: “The All Progressives Congress (APC) Eke ward in Udi L.G.A, Enugu State, at its ward meeting held on Sunday, 3rd March 2019 notes with dismay, disbelief, disappointment and disapproval, the news of the suspension of Mr. Osita Okechukwu, the DG VON, by the National Working Committee (NWC) of our great party for alleged antiparty activities. “The APC, Eke Ward also notes and states that Mr. Osita Okechukwu is not only a registered member of the APC, Eke Ward, but also the major life wire of the APC who has nursed the party both in Eke Ward, Udi L.G.A and Enugu State in general. “The APC, Eke Ward, further states that there was no report of anti-party activities against Mr. Osita Okechukwu presented to the ward executive or did the ward executive or any member of the ward make any report of anti-party activities against Mr. Osita Okechukwu to any other higher organ of the party either at the local government, state or Federal levels. “The APC, Eke ward, further states that we have asked our major sustainer, Mr. Osita Okechukwu, whether he was queried or confronted with any allegation/ complaint and he said no, therefore we are at a loss as to how a foundation member and member of the merger committee that midwifed our great party can be suspended without fair hearing.” However, the ward urged the National Working Committee (NWC) to rescind the suspension as it created an impression that the reward for nursing the party in Enugu State was suspension. Meanwhile, APC yesterday suspended chairman of the Eke Ward of the party in Udi Local government area of the state, Mr. Philip Ogechukwu and members of his executive. They were suspended for issuing a statement compelling APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to reverse suspension Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria, Mr. Osita Okechukwu who is from the ward. The Ogechukwu-led executive had on Sunday after its meeting in Eke sought the reversal of Okechukwu’s suspension as pronounced by the National Working Committee (NWC) recently over alleged antiparty activities. In a statement issued yesterday in Enugu and signed by the state chairman of the party, Dr. Ben Nwoye, the party apologized to the National Chairman over the utterances of the suspended members, saying a ward executive had no authority under the party’s constitution to speak for the leadership of the party in the state. The statement regretted that a ward chairman would order the national chairman of his party to reverse a decision taken by a higher body such as NWC of the party without recourse to the party’s leadership in the state. Nwoye, however, warned those engaging in all manner of misconduct to desist from doing so as APC under his watch in the state would no longer tolerate indiscipline or unnecessary rascality. It reads: “This morning we are forced to respond to a press statement coming from the chairman of Eke Ward, Philip Ogechukwu where it is alleged that he is ordering the National Chairman to reverse the suspension of the DG of VON.” “First of all, the Enugu State APC appologizes to the office of the National Chairman and the National Working Committee over the unguided statement.”