As part of its strategies to tackle examination malpractices, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), has unveiled ongoing plans to embark on a biometric re-verification exercise for everyone who has sat for the Unified Tertiary Examination Examinations (UTME) within the last 10 years. Speaking during a stakeholders meeting ahead of the 2019 UTME yesterday in Abuja, the Registrar of JAMB, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, noted that the re-verification exercise would expose a lot of persons in high places who either hired someone to write the examinations for them, or indulged in the act of writing for others. While explaining that some persons specialised in writing UTME for different people at a fee, he revealed that the names of all culprits would be published for all to see, even as those who were presently in school would be expelled and certificate of those who have already graduated withdrawn because they were acquired through fraudulent means. According to him, some impersonators bear the name of the candidate they are impersonating, but use their own pictures and biometrics for registration. To this end, he revealed that the board would match the biometrics to a face to determine how many names were attached to that biometrics, which was proof of how many times he/she has impersonated. “We are going to shock the nation very soon. We are processing all biometrics of all candidates who have written JAMB since inception. You will find that one person has written JAMB more than 10 times for different persons. “This re-verification will count from the last 10 years. We will expose those in high places and we will publish the names of all impersonators.” Oloyede further noted that about N60 million has been spent in upgrading the facilities of selected schools under Bwari Area Council in Abuja, to enable its staff under the Test Department responsible for setting its questions, assess and determine if the questions set by the board were too difficult or simple for its candidates. “We sent our staff in the Test Department where they set examination questions, to the worst schools in terms of structure and performance, to go and teach there but we needed to upgrade the facilities so we set aside N60 million to improve on the facilities of these schools such as classrooms, staff rooms to make the environment conducive for teaching and learning. “We brought in Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) to certify our staff to have a certificate to teach in those schools. They have been setting questions for years; they will have firsthand experience to how students react to some of this questions and that will reflect on the kind of questions they are setting to see how our items interact with what they are doing,”