Consumers have expressed happiness over the stable price of tomatoes and food items in the Mile 12 Market, saying they expect the prices, saying with stability returning to the polity after the 2019 general elections, the prices are expected fall further. Some of the consumers told Sunday Telegraph in different interviews on Wednesday said their fear is if the herdsmen/farmers crisis that has kept farmers out their farms in recent years, does not continue. Iya Tolani, a trader in the market said most consumers are buying tomatoes and yam now in large quantities. “People are now buying yam and tomatoes in large quantities, though we continue lose much of our tomatoes which spoil every day.” She said that she is not sure the price of the two food items will remain low during the rainy season this year, blaming high cost of other foodstuffs to inflation and fall in the value of the naira. She said the economic situation has reduced the purchasing power of the average Nigerian consumer to less than half of the 2014 levels. Also speaking, Amos Ebiri, a civil servant, concurred with Iya Tolani, saying the rate at which consumers buy certain food items like; cornflakes, sugar, milk and others has been low unlike the situation few years back. They blamed the Buhari administration for the situation and further said that the economy and hoped that the economy would improve. Sunday Telegraph observed that food items like sugar(1 bag), Flour 50 kg, Vegetable oil( 25 kg, which were selling at N13,000; N10,800 and N13,000 now sell at N20,000, N13,350 and N27,000 respectively. She further complained that “customers who were our only source of income are now always complaining that the price of goods is outrageous in the market”. Mrs. Bunmi Makinde, a member of the Lagos Market Women’s Association, told Sunday Telegraph that the price of goods which rose by over 25 per cent in 2018, has remained stable at that high price. Consumers have expressed happiness over the fall in the price of tomatoes and food items in the Mile 12 market, saying they expect the prices to further fall after the 2019 general elections in the country. Some of the consumers spoke to Sunday Telegraph in different interviews on Friday said… In “News” Few days into the New Year, consumers have continued to express happiness over the fall in the price of tomatoes and other food items in the Mile 12 market and other parts of Lagos. They said that they are expecting the prices to further fall after the 2019 general… In “Business” Tomato sellers in Mile 12 Market have said that no movement order on the election days will elapse by 3:00pm, saying their customers who normally come from all the nooks and crannies of Lagos State, will not be able to make to the market when the restriction is lifted by… In “Business”