KUNLE OLAYENI reports that gladiators and power blocs in the politics of Ogun State have again taken up the gauntlet as the race to elect a new Speaker for the state House of Assembly gathers momentum.   The legislative arm in Ogun State is currently headed by Hon. Suraj Adekunbi, who incidentally is the longest serving speaker in the state.
Adekunbi, representing Egbado North I state constituency, has served two uninterrupted terms from 2011 and 2015. Apart from his own political savvy, the lawmaker has been able to maintain the speakership due to the huge support from the incumbent governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun.
The current eighth Assembly will wind down in June. But in the emerging battle to choose new principal officers for the ninth Assembly, there are strong indications that the state may face serious hurdles, especially in finding a suitable successor for the incumbent Speaker.
The battle for the number three position commenced shortly after results of the March 9 governorship and House of Assembly elections were announced. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) won the governorship, with its candidate, Prince Dapo Abiodun, defeating 40 other contestants.
Abiodun polled 241,670 votes to beat his closest rival and gubernatorial candidate of Allied People’s Movement (APM), Hon. Adekunle Akinlade, who polled 222,153 votes.
The African Democratic Congress (ADC) governorship candidate, Prince Gboyega Isiaka, came third by polling 110,422 votes while the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) standard bearer, Senator Buruji Kashamu, scored 70,290 votes to emerge fourth.
Apart from winning the governorship, the APC had earlier won the three senatorial seats and six federal constituencies during the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections.
However, in the legislative elections, the APC won 15 out of the 26 seats in the House. The party lost 11 other constituencies to opposition political parties.
The state constituencies won by APC include Abeokuta South I, Abeokuta South II, Ado-Odo/Ota I, Ifo I, Ijebu East, Ijebu North II, Ijebu North East, Ijebu-Ode, Ikenne, Obafemi-Owode, Odeda, Odogbolu, Ogun Waterside, Remo North and Sagamu I.
The APM, on the other hand, secured victory in seven constituencies. These include Abeokuta North, Ado-Odo/Ota II, Egbado South, Ewekoro, Ifo II, Ipokia and Sagamu II.
On its part, the ADC won three seats, including Egbado North I, Egbado North II and Imeko-Afon while the PDP clinched only one seat, Ijebu North I state constituency.
Four out of the 26 current members of the House were re-elected in this year’s general elections. This was a clear departure from the 2015 elections in which only 11 members of the House were re-elected.
Now, the returning lawmakers include Olakunle Oluomo (APC), Ganiyu Oyedeji (APM), Oludare Kadiri (APC) and Jemili Akingbade (ADC). Also, a former member of the House, Oludaisi Elemide, who served between 2011 and 2015, staged a comeback by winning his election on the APC platform.
Essentially, the recent elections have thrown up five ranking lawmakers and consequently changed the composition of the state legislature. Therefore, barring any unforeseen circumstances, the next Assembly will be a four-party legislature.
Due to the unstable political environment, the House has gradually transformed to a multi-party institution. As a microcosm of the complex, sophisticated political configuration of the state, the legislative arm usually catches the cold whenever contending gladiators sneeze in the polity.
Since the return to democratic rule in 1999, lawmakers in the hallowed chamber have hardly succeeded in insulating themselves from the web of intrigues and permutations that often characterize the politics of the Gateway State. This much was revealed ahead of the 2019 electoral expedition when many members lost party tickets.
From the ashes of the G-15 and G-11 dichotomy in the days of former Governor Gbenga Daniel’s administration, the legislature in the Amosun regime was inaugurated in June 2011. Then, the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) won 17 seats; the opposition PDP and the Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) had six and three members respectively.
Three PDP legislators later defected to the ruling party, thus giving the APC a majority of 20 members. Subsequently, the feud within Ogun APC took its toll on the party’s lawmakers as they were polarised along the camps of Governor Amosun and former Governor Olusegun Osoba.
In the current legislature, the APC started with 17 members who emerged at the 2015 polls while the PDP had nine members. Of course, some of the lawmakers changed camps and parties in subsequent years.
Under Adekunbi’s leadership, the House has been largely peaceful, except for the major crisis that occurred in March 2013. At that time, the legislative symbol of authority, mace, was broken amid factional strife and disagreement over the composition of Tenders Board.
The incident started when the Speaker suspended four members during a rowdy session. Shortly after, the four suspended lawmakers, along with 10 other members, reconvened the House and reversed their suspension. The group, which claimed that the four lawmakers were illegally suspended since there was no secondment of the motion, went further to suspend the Speaker and some principal officers.
It, however, took the intervention of Governor Amosun and some prominent personalities in the state before normalcy could return to the Assembly. Since then, the House had continued to trudge on with its affairs though still divided along pro and anti-Amosun sentiment.
Adekunbi has been a major saving grace for the governor. The Speaker has so far foiled several attempts to covertly use the legislature against the executive. His leadership style and cordial relationship with the executive arm, sometimes, are misconstrued. Some critics even accused the House of being a rubber stamp.
But Adekunbi would never agree that his style had tied the House to the apron of the executive. To him, the legislature should complement the executive and not necessarily be confrontational.
“What is important to us as members of the Assembly is about Ogun State, not about any party,” Adekunbi said in an interview with our correspondent.
“Of course, we could have our moments, it’s normal in any setting because the way we perceive issues differs and I want to believe that when we have our issues, we disagree to agree and everybody understands that it has been one system. We always ensure that everybody keys into what we are doing,” he added.
Having such kind of a supportive speaker in the next Assembly would not be a bad idea, some analysts have reasoned. But who would fit the bill?
Ahead the inauguration of the new assembly slated for early June, chieftains of the ruling APC have began moves on the choice of Speaker. The position has reportedly been zoned to Ogun Central Senatorial District.
APC leaders were said to have settled for Ogun Central, in the race for a new Speaker, because the governor-elect and his running mate, Mrs Noimot Salako-Oyedele, hail from Ogun East and Ogun West respectively.
Ogun Central, comprising Egba people, has six local government areas and eight state constituencies. Permutations have, however, thrown up Olakunle Oluomo and Oludaisi Elemide as front runners for the speakership out of the five ranking lawmakers.
Oluomo, representing Ifo I state constituency, is the current Deputy Speaker of the House. He was elected for third term. On the other hand, Elemide, representing Odeda constituency, was elected for second term. Both contenders are members of APC.
Another ranking lawmaker from Ogun Central, Ganiyu Oyedeji, may have been tactically eliminated from the race due to party affiliation. The lawmaker, representing Ifo II state constituency, emerged on the minority platform of APM.
Findings revealed that while Oluomo is pushing hard his ambition, some party chieftains, especially those loyal to ex-governor Osoba, have lined up to back Elemide for the speakership. The Osoba group, which is said to be basking in the euphoria of producing majority of the APC members-elect, wants to stamp its control in the scheme of things.
Amid the intrigues and politicking, Oluomo was said to have convened a meeting, last week, ostensibly to propagate his aspiration and woo major stakeholders in the party. This move, it was learnt, did not go down well with some Osoba’s loyalists who felt the Deputy Speaker was putting the cart before the horse by allegedly not consulting with the former governor on the issue. Consequently, they have stepped up their game to counter his threat.
Yet, in the unfolding scheming, the political interests of the governor-elect cannot be fully gauged. Whether he would support either of the two front runners or shop for his own candidate may go a long way in determining the leadership of the Ninth Assembly. But this can only be known in the fullness of time. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has won 15 seats in the Ogun State House of Assembly, losing 11 other constituencies in the state to opposition political parties. Of the 26-member legislature, the Allied People’s Movement (APM) secured victory in seven constituencies while the African Democratic Congress (ADC) won three seats.… In “News” The All Progressives Congress (APC) has won 15 seats in the Ogun State House of Assembly, losing 11 other constituencies in the state to opposition political parties. Of the 26-member legislature, the Allied People's Movement (APM) secured victory in seven constituencies while the African Democratic Congress (ADC) won three seats.… In “News” Some leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State have called on Governor Ibikunle Amosun to anoint the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Suraj Adekunbi as his successor. They advised the governor against settling for any gubernatorial aspirant in the ruling party that had never contested… In “News”