Again, Nigerian underwriters have another opportunity this year to delve deeply into the growing property industry to boost their premium. Sunday Ojeme reports  The dawn of every New Year is usually deployed by investors to consolidate on their businesses and also delve into new frontiers. As it is for every investor, the insurance operators are usually more prominent in this regard, as the year opens a new calendar for them to either renew transactions with their clients or prospect new businesses. Although the industry had faltered for years due to several factors ranging from public apathy to poor policy implementation, the operators have also lagged behind as far as taking advantage of the growing real estate sector is concerned in the country. Investment As part of their assets, the local insurance sector has invested not less than N103 billion into real estate. Unfortunately, the operators have, however, failed to explore opportunities in the same sector even with the compulsory insurance policy providing the leeway for them. Recall that investment in the sector has been experiencing boom, as it increased by N5 billion from N98.11 billion to N103.51 billion within a period of one year. Market boom However, going by the opportunities embedded in the compulsory insurance policies, wherein public buildings and those under construction are expected to be insured, it is rather an irony that underwriters have not been able to measure up in terms of boosting their premium through this sudden expansion. On a daily basis, hospitals, schools, structures meant for offices, shopping malls, hotels, recreation centres and many more are not just spreading everywhere but also occupied as soon as they are fully ready to be taken or in the case of more desperate situation, the potential tenants pay ahead of completion. For a country with a population of over 180 million and endowed with the best in terms of human and natural resources, it remains an aberration for the yearly premium to be less than N400 billion in the last five years. As part of efforts to ensure safety and financial security of construction workers and occupiers of public buildings, the Federal Government had instituted the six Compulsory Insurances to among others to give Nigerians a sense of belonging and also to boost the nation’s insurance sector’s fortune. Policies According to the Occupiers’ Liability Insurance, the policy is taken up against liability of the members of the public for loss or property damage, death or bodily injury occasioned by fire, collapse, storm, earthquake, storm, flood or any allied peril. The cover is required to be purchased by owners or occupiers of every public building. Under the Nigeria Insurance Act 2003, a building is public when the owner does not use it fully (i.e. 100 per cent) for residency purpose. Examples of public buildings include hostels, tenanted buildings, residential buildings occupied by lodgers, tenants, etc. Also, a public building is one in which people enter and exit for educational, recreational or medical services such as schools, hospitals, malls, etc. A maximum fine of N100,000 or one-year imprisonment or both is the punishment for defaulters. Sealing-off or demolition of the affected building is the sanctions under the National Insurance Act 2003 and the Lagos State Building Control Law 2010. Apart from Lagos State, which has made efforts in this regard, no concrete report has been given of any other state that is making the law actually compulsory in their domains. NAICOM’s drive The lack of interest shown by the states propelled the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to open up discussions with state governors on the need to embrace the policy. So far, the Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari, had visited some of the states in this regard with the governors promising to be parties to the deal with the commission also inaugurating a technical committee. The committee was inaugurated by Kari with membership drawn from NAICOM, the Federal Fire Service (FFS) from all the zones and the Nigeria Insurance Association (NIA). At the inauguration, Kari said it was the responsibility of the committee to advise the steering committee on how public building funds would be effectively and efficiently disbursed in the country. According to him, under the National Insurance Act 2003, NAICOM has the responsibility of ensuring that public buildings and buildings under construction were insured. “By public buildings, we mean all schools, hospitals, hotels and offices, and they have the responsibility to show evidence that they have complied with Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003,” he said. “We have the responsibility for collecting of funds, monitoring and also disbursing the funds for the purpose of improving fire activities in Nigeria. “0.25 per cent of premium collected with respect to public buildings are supposed to be accumulated in the fire funds. But over time, these funds have not been forthcoming because the process for collection is not put in place.” Positive step On its own, Lagos state, which has experienced the highest number of recorded col-lapsed building incidents, took the bull by the horns two years ago by ensuring all public buildings in the state are insured. Although the state government is yet to come out with a position paper on compliance, Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr Hakeem Dickson, while making the decision public, said it was to safeguard against building collapse in the state. He said that the commission engaged in proactive activities to ensure safety in construction sites by ensuring that materials were properly piled and separated in a safe manner to prevent injuries and accidents. Another important aspect of the policy is the Builders’ Liability Insurance, which provides compensation to victims (workers and the general public) for loss of property, death and bodily injury. This cover is usually taken up by owners or contractors of structures/ buildings under construction of more than two floors. The policy responds when there is building collapse and other risks related to building construction. Under the laws, (Federal and Lagos) failure to comply with the policy attracts a penalty of N250,000 in addition to three years’ imprisonment, sealing and demolition of the affected building. Expert advice Commenting on the importance of the policy, Deputy Commissioner for Insurance (Technical), Mr. Sunday Thomas, advised stakeholders in the construction industry to take appropriate steps to ensure compliance with the extant laws to stop the needless loss of lives and property and the resultant problems for the families. “This is not the time for the blame game but indeed a time for sober reflection and a call to action. “Those who are vested with the power to enforce the laws of the land owe it a duty to ensure that laws are obeyed. What is more,” he quipped rhetorically. “The Lagos State government had domesticated the law on Insurance of Buildings under construction. What remains is for the law enforcement agents to enforce the law. “The nation cannot afford to waste its citizens and its assets given the robust insurance arrangement opportunities provided by the insurance Act 2003. Enough of this waste! Take Insurance to cover your risks and be assured of better tomorrow in case the unexpected happens.” Last line As the year is just starting, there is need for the industry operators to re-approach the real estate sector with an unprecedented zeal. It is expedient for them to push for proper enforcement besides the appeal made to state governor by the leadership of NAICOM. Also very important is the need to design products that will appeal to property owners at all levels so as to arrive at a win-win situation between the operators and their prospective clients.