The United States (U.S.) at the weekend surged hunt of America investors for $120 million modular Eko Petrochemical and Refining in Lagos, Nigeria. Acting Director of the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA), Mr. Thomas Hardy, who, according to a statement, declared this during a project inspection of the 20, 000 barrel per day production capacity modular refinery located at Tomaro Island Port in Amuwo – Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos, expressed satisfaction over level of works on the installation. “We will continue to help in sourcing for financiers through companies in America that will support the project for speedy completion of the refinery. We are proud to support this project and this will lead to infrastructure development and economic growth in Nigeria,” Hardy said. The project, according to him, represents an excellent opportunity for U.S. businesses to export technologies and services in support of refining goals in Nigeria. Hardy explained that in 2017, USTDA invested in the engineering design of Eko Petrochemical Refinery Project. This financial decision, he added, was to make the vision of Chief Executive Officer, Eko Petrochemical and Refining, Capt. Iheanacho, a reality. “The idea is bringing jobs into the Nigerian economy by expanding the petro-chemical industry in the country. Generally, strengthening the Nigerian economy became paramount to the success of this project,” he added. Hardy said that the move by the US government was also to see a closer bilateral co-operation between the United State and Nigeria. “Most importantly, invest in private companies and leaders in the business community. They can move the project to generate jobs and growth in the Nigerian economy. I am impressed with what I saw. When we got involved in the very early stage, we knew that there was going to be hurdles. “So, we decided to invest and bring technical experts into Nigeria to help Iheanacho lay forth the plan he needed to move forward to get the finance to move this project for implementation. This is exactly what we intended to do. Our investment is going to be making those connections to finance the sea contracts. “Anything that can help him achieves his vision for Nigeria and growth of Tomaro Island is our goal right now,” Hardy said. The Country Manager, Sub-Saharan Africa, USTDA, Ms Shannon Roe, added that the decision by the agency to visit the refinery was geared toward creating value and ease refining project in Nigeria. She also expressed the  hope that the proposed 200, 000 bpd production refinery would attract more investments to the country and develop  the host communities. “The grant in 2017 was meant for detailed engineering design and development of the proposed refinery in Tomaro Industrial Park in Lagos. I feel honoured to be part of the success story. I also promise to support the projects to actualiasation,’’ she said. Capt. Ememnuel Iheanacho, Chairman, Eko Petrochemical Refinery Company,in his remarks lauded the USTDA’s support to the growth of the refinery. Iheanacho said the agency had the mandate to help local companies and trading entities to develop contact with their equivalent counterpart in America. He said that the company had completed  the planning stage, completed drawing-up of the feasibility map and the detailed work-front engineering which met both the Department of Petroleum Resources’ and America’s specifications. The refiner said that DPR had given the approval authority to construct, adding that “in the scheme of our current national priorities, the requirement to develop indigenous refining capacity on Nigerian soil is very high indeed. “Local refining capacity will allow us realise our ambitions with respect to import substitution potential, leading to great savings in scarce forex requirements. Local refiners will facilitate the goals of value addition to our oil trade as well as lead to lower costs of consumed refined products in the country. “We intend to have recourse to traditional and special funding sources in our search for investment funds for our refinery development project,’’ Iheanacho said. He said that 120 million US dollars was expected to complete the refinery, adding that they were awaiting some companies that had shown interest in financing the project and handling the Engineering Procurement and Construction (EPC). The chairman said that the company would soon embark on the construction of the crude distillation unit which cost about 32 million US dollars while it continues to look for funds to do the civil and all other engineering structures associated with the refinery. “The fabrication will cost us 32 million dollars which will take us about 6 to 7 months and art of the refinery would be ready. “We appeal to Nigeria Government for support toward actualisation of the refinery, we want to say to government that what we are doing is absolutely unique and to tell them to try and understand the sacrifices we are making. This is not about making money but to realise that Nigeria must move away from  being net consumers to  being refiners of the  product; to build people who can refine their crude and export and to generate more jobs for ourselves. The United States (U.S.) at the weekend raised hope of American investors for the $120 million modular Eko Petrochemical and Refining in Lagos, Nigeria. Acting Director of the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA), Mr. Thomas Hardy, who declared this during a project inspection of the 20, 000 barrel per… In “News” The United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) has raised its investments in the Nigeria’s oil and gas technology with $800, 000 feasibility study supporting technologies. Acting Director, USTDA, Thomas Hardy, who disclosed in Lagos in a statement, said that the grants would aid the development of an implementation plan… In “Business” ...as Kachikwu moves to save integrity The Federal Government at the weekend declared new incentives for any of the 55 licensed modular refineries in the country that scale the hurdles to begin production before the end of 2019. The Ministry of Petroleum Resources, investigations by New Telegraph at… In “Business”