A Prosecution Witness in the ongoing trial of former Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Umar Dikko, yesterday told Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal High Court, sitting in Abuja how the defendant was converting N558.2million monthly into personal use. Dikko is standing trial for offences bordering on money laundering and procurement fraud to the tune of N9.7billion. The witness, Hammadama Bello, an investigator with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, led in evidence by prosecution counsel, Sylvanus Tahir, gave insight into the activities of the team that investigated the former AVM. On the fourth charge preferred against Dikko by the EFCC, Bello noted that a case of alleged money laundering was established against the defendant following the results of investigations into properties linked to the former Chief of Air Staff. Furthermore, on the circumstances surrounding the purchase of a property at No. 14, Audu Bako Way, GRA, Kano State, Bello stated that although Dikko had told the EFCC that he purchased the property through Yushau for N130million – paying in tranches of N90million and N40million from his personal savings –, investigations revealed that the property was actually bought for N250million from a relocating Nigerien, with payment made directly from the NAF Camp Finance account. This revelation, Bello said, was confirmed by the then NAF Director of Finance and Accounts, Air Commodore Yushau (PW1). On the circumstances surrounding the purchase of yet another property in Kaduna, Bello said, “Although the defendant (Dikko) claimed he bought the property for N35million, investigations revealed that the property was originally a guest house for Air Force which had been sold to one AVM Lex. Upon questioning, AVM Lex confirmed that he had been approached by Yushau, who told him that the buyer preferred to stay anonymous. Eighty-five Million naira (N85 Million) was paid to AVM Lex for the property, and another N75million paid for renovation of the same.” According to Bello: “Dikko claimed that he withdrew money from his account to pay (all respective) owners from his savings but he failed to provide evidence of this. He, however, stated that Yushau was aware of all the transactions and Yushau confirmed this to be true.” Bello further stated that investigations had revealed that the former Chief of Air Staff came from a humble background, rising from the position of a teacher, then a library assistant before becoming a serving officer and then the Chief of Air Staff. “He (Dikko) was not a business man while in service and, by consequence, would have had to be Chief of Air Staff at his last grade level for 250 years to be able to afford the properties linked to him. Investigations revealed that during his tenure, he received N558,200,000million on a monthly basis which he converted into dollars. “Yushau was also offered N120 million on a monthly basis but he refused, stating that his conscience could not allow him take the money,” Bello stated.