The Lagos State Building Control Agency (LABCA) has commenced the removal of distressed buildings already marked for demolition on the Lagos Island Central Business District (LICBD). This is coming three days after a four-storey building caved in on Marcy Street, Itafaji, Lagos Island, killing scores of school-children, staff and residents. As at yesterday (Friday), six distressed high-rise buildings were demolished out of 20 scheduled for the day. The houses already demolished by the officials of LABCA were located on 60a Freeman Street, Epetedo; 30, 28, 15, 11 Apatira Street and 47 Smith Street, Lagos Island, respectively. Some of these buildings, Saturday Telegraph gathered had been marked for demolition since 2013, while occupants were asked to move out. According to representative of the General Manager, Lagos State Building Control Agency, Mr. Omotayo Fakolujo , who led the team, over 150 buildings had been marked for demolition on the Lagos Island Business District (CBD), adding that 20 houses would be removed on Friday. He said: “What we are doing is to remove all distressed buildings in Lagos so that no live is lost anymore. Presently, we got cleared cases of 80 houses that we are ready to remove,” adding that the houses are going to be removed in phases “And for others that are still being occupied, we are going to force the residents out because their lives are not safe in these dilapidated structures.” Most of the houses being demolished were already overwhelmed with different signs of distresses ranging from cracked walls, exposure of reinforcement and dilapidated structures. Fakolujo stated that before now, the agency had removed 10 houses between Ajeromi and Ifelodun Local Government Areas, adding that as at the time the last building collapse incident happened in Itafaji Street, the agency had removed buildings within Ijora axis of Lagos. On how to identify distressed buildings, he said: “Some time you know that through the exposure of reinforcement, cracks and scientifically, the building must the subjected to integrity test by the Lagos State Material Testing Laboratory. Another official of LABCA, who spoke on condition of anonymity said that 50 houses were served demolition notices last Thursday, giving their owners and residents some 48 hours to relocate, since they already had pending notices. Surprised by the action of the government agency, an old woman, who refused to mention her name, living in the distressed building marked for demolition on 60a, Freeman Street, said all other tenants had moved out except herself who lacked the wherewithal to rent an accommodation. She could only plead with the authorities to allow her pack her belongings. Another woman on house 47 Smith Street, said the building belonged to her late father, J.A Thomas family. She said the house was given to one developer, who she identified as “Mr. Awe” to develope and return after 30 years. The agreement, she said, had expired and that when the family asked the developer to renovate and return the property, he refused. She said the case had been in court for three years now. Asked whether government served the occupants of the building a demolition notice, she answered in affirmative, saying that the building had once failed integrity test by government. “They have informed us that they are going to demolish the building, but there is a pending court case over it,” the woman said. However, some residents at Apatira Street were not happy with government’s action, saying they were not given enough time to find another accommodation. Some of them said their rents had not expired, while others said they just paid their rents. Other neighbours on Lagos Island supported demolition of distressed buildings in the area, urging government to continue with the exercise until the CBD is rid of poor structures. They also called on government to ban fake developers masquerading as professionals from engaging in building production process in Lagos State.