An alleged rapist, Oluwaseyi Davies, who is remanded in Kirikiri Prison for defiling a 16-year-old girl, has cried to the judge at Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, to save him from the hands of hungry homosexual inmates.
Davies, who was frantic with worry when he was brought to court, begged the judge to change his prison because some homosexuals were threatening to rape him.
He further urged the judge to compel prison authorities to relocate him from a condemned cell to the one commensurate with the alleged offence he committed.
Davies is standing trial for allegedly defiling a 16-year-old girl. He told the court that his incarceration in the condemned cell alongside criminals on death row had impacted negatively on his psychologically well-being.
According to him, his life was now in danger following threats by the condemned inmates who had persistently displayed an unflinching desire to have sex with him.
The awaiting trial inmate accused officials at the Ikoyi Prisons of whisking him and four other inmates from Ikoyi Prisons, where they were initially remanded to Kirikiri Medium Prison without any notice or information to their lawyers or families.
He alleged that the Ikoyi prison authorities secretly swapped him with some inmates, who were listed to be transferred from Ikoyi to Kirikiri Prison. He said that prison officials dragged him into a bus and then straight into a cell solely meant for condemned inmates known as “Angola.”
Narrating his ordeal in court, Davies said: “I was conducting Christian prayers with other inmates in my cell on Saturday, when one of the prison officials came, holding a list in his hand. He handpicked me out of the rest. The official also went to another cell and picked four other inmates.
“I asked him why he picked me, and he replied that the five of us had been selected for transfer to Kirikiri Prison. I was shocked and asked him the reason for the transfer. He didn’t respond. The list had nine names on it, but mine wasn’t included. The other inmates whose names were included began shouting at him, asking him why he would pick the five of us and exclude the actual people on the list.
“When he refused to respond to them, they began screaming out the names of those the official had intentionally omitted. One of the inmates mentioned Kehinde and Tolu as part of those whose names were swapped with ours. He said that they were all being transferred for drug trafficking. But we are not part of their gang. They further insisted that the prison authorities had early informed them of the transfer and that they had already prepared themselves.
“Despite their objections, I was still taken to Kirikiri on Saturday without being allowed to take any of property. I was placed in a cell for condemned people called Angola. They said it’s because they brought us from Ikoyi that’s why we must be kept there. The money I had intended to give my lawyer is still in my bag, including my clothes. I have not slept since Saturday. The inmates I met in the cell had threatened to deal with me if I did not open my ‘yansh’ for them to explore. My lord, my life is in danger as I’m not safe. My family members are not even aware I’m in Kirikiri Prisons.”
The presiding judge, Justice Sybil Nwaka, who expressed displeasure on the development, summoned a prison official to explain why the defendant was transferred to Kirikiri Prisons despite a court order stating that he should be remanded in Ikoyi Prisons.
The prison officer, who did not state his name to the court, said he was not told the reason behind the defendant’s transfer.
He said: “Maybe he committed an offence there, which was the likely reason. My lord, the defendant is very stubborn, so I think he is lying. There are separate cells for different inmates and he was not placed among condemned inmates. He has been misbehaving claiming that he has business to do in Ikoyi and classes he was attending over there. We are still investigating the matter.”
Justice Nwaka thereafter ordered the prison official to investigate the matter and instructed the defence counsel, Samuel Adeyemo, to report back to court after visiting his client in prison.
A prison source, however, revealed that Davies had every reason to be scared, explaining that another name for Angola was a “death cell”. According to the source, Angola is a cell inside Kirikiri, where inmates, who had committed an offence while inside prison, are sent to as a mark of punishment. He alleged that most times, inmates could be killed and nothing would be done about it.
He said: “Angola is at medium Kirikiri. It is where inmates are punished. It is for those who are in prison that violate certain laws. It’s a single cell. It is inside Kirikiri, but isolated. Angola is the most dangerous place in the prison. You can be killed, maimed or ‘homosexualised’ in Angola. It is supposed to take care of some certain prisoners and a notorious criminal is the head of Angola. They can sodomised and stab; they can do anything.
“Angola, however, is for special cases of inmates that violate laws in the prison. Money can exchange hands for an inmate to be moved to Angola. If that happens, the inmate is in trouble or is finished! It’s a single cell, barricaded from the main prison. It’s like a building within a building; a prison within a prison. An inmate must commit serious offence within the prison before he could be moved to Angola. It’s also a place that people are arranged or paid to punish some people.