The outcome of the 2019 General Elections has elicited a lot of debates among political analysts and opinion leaders across Nigeria. In the interview, a lawyer and former Head of Legal Services, Nigeria Army, Brig. Gen. Idada Ikponmwen (rtd) scores the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) low and declared the deployment of the military during the election as unconstitutional. Ikponmwen, a security strategist, spoke with ONWUKA NZESHI  What’s your assessment of the 2019 General Elections? I am not going to tell you that the election was not good or bad, but it will suffice to say that this election has been like all other elections we have had in Nigeria since independence before and after military interregnum. Perhaps the only one that was somewhat different was the 2015 election which brought in President Muhammadu Buhari.  In terms of details all manner of electoral irregularities reared their head in the last election:- Vote buying, use of thugs, ballot snatching etc. Power of incumbency, involving illicit cooperation between ruling parties, electoral umpires and security officials were observed in several places.  In all these, the truth is that Nigeria is getting what it deserves. It can hardly be otherwise because neither the governments nor the politicians nor even the electorate (voters) have come to terms with what democracy truly entails. In Nigerian today, election is survival of the fittest and success is determined by how much the candidate can offer.  In Nigerian, all candidates and parties seek to rig. They would rig where they have sufficient power to do so. This has been the trend over the years, so this is not a question of bashing the present government. The truth is that most past presidents have rigged elections in one place or the other. Until Nigerians decide to embrace true democracy in every respect, it would remain wishful thinking to expect electioneering in compliance with true democratic tenets to avail. Despite postponement of the elections, re-run elections were declared in many places and inconclusive elections in several states after the Presidential and National Assembly results were released. This election witnessed the largest number of voided votes in the history of electioneering in Nigeria yet INEC has not been able to explain the reason for such a trend. The last but not the least is the election of March 9, 2019; not a few people believed that election were declared inconclusive mostly in areas were the opposition parties appeared to have a strong base. I personally don’t want to believe the military played a biased role in the election process but the contradicting statements or press releases from the presidency and the military authorities appear to a point convincingly to the fact that the military got involved in the election process, which is impermissible in view of the provision of our constitution and prevailing judicial pronouncement in Nigeria.  What’s your reaction to Buhari’s victory over Atiku Abubakar? In line with our existing disposition and the level of our democratic culture and in in-view of the ways our past elections have always gone, it is not a surprise that Muhammadu Buhari was declared winner over his main rival. As I stated earlier incumbency with all its trappings had always been an advantage of the incumbent over his rivals; the sitting president would always do something, everything imaginable within his power to retain his position or that of his choice successor. In the current situation, the pronouncement of the sitting President while he was being interviewed few days to the election that he would not congratulate anybody because there is no way he would lose, has not removed any inference of desperation. After all, all his predecessors in office have always done two terms, so why wound he not be readily convinced by his die-hard supporters that a second term for him should be imperative  Some international election observers have condemned the spate of violence during the general elections. Do you share their concerns? I am unable to actually locate the real position of the international observes in the just concluded election in Nigeria. In one breath they decry violence and lament the deaths; in another breath they declare that the election was essentially free and fair. Based on the position of the observers most countries in Europe, American and even Africa accorded recognition to the declared winner, President Buhari. Although I know that the issue of the recognition is a totally different ball-game in the realm of international politics and diplomacy, I think that the overall picture in this regard does not fall in line with the level of commitment the international community places on the importance of democracy in the new age. I think that violence and killings are not trademarks of true democracy. As far as we have not yet come to terms with the true spirit of democracy in all its ramifications, violence and killings will remain intractable. We need true democracy to properly terminate them and grow in our politics. Without this it will remain nonsensical to expect that we can have election without violence. As part of the growing process of democracy in our country and considering the peculiar nature of our country, presidents and governors contesting election should pave way for a short interim administration that ensure that they do not interfere with the function of the INEC and play less roles in the appointment of INEC officials. Furthermore even though it is clear from our laws that the military should have no business in election process and even though the involvement of military by proper interpretation of our constitution, is improper and illegal. It has become imperative, for the avoidance of doubt and to give flesh to our constitution that the National Assembly urgently make laws to moderate the power exercisable by the President as the Commander-in-Chief such that any form of involvement of the military in electioneering will be obviously and manifestly criminalized as is the case in the USA where the POSSE COMITTUS ACT US CODE 1385 expressly proscribes involvement of troops in elections. We need that law even more than the United State of American whose pattern of government we have adopted. Finally, since drastic situations deserve drastic measures, our laws particularly our Electoral Act must proscribe very serious punishment not only for those actually perpetu ating violence but must extend, vicariously, to the candidate on behalf of whom the violators act.  What is your view on the decision of the Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar to challenge the results of the election in court? As a lawyer and true adherent to the concept of democracy, I support the legal option because it is in line with due process and the fundamental principles of our constitution. Legal option is clearly preferable to any other idea. I therefore do not subscribe to the idea of some persons that Atiku Abubakar should abandon the legal option. For all I know, this court option, whether it fails or succeeds in the end will bring to the full glare of the public whatever transpired in the just concluded electioneering process. No one will doubt the great contribution this development will make to our growing democratic process. In spite of all the skepticism and the opposition that visited the recent handling of the Chief Justice of the Federation, Onnoghen’s case and not being unaware of the level of lack of trust in our judiciary over the years, I still believe that this court process will be further test the independence of the judiciary.  What are some of the issues, you would want Buhari to focus on in his second tenure? The election that brought Buhari to power in 2015 was unique and spectacular. It was a reminder of the Moshood Abiola election on June 12, 1993 when Nigerians from every part of the country voted for Abiola and his running mate (Babagana Kingibe) not minding tribe and religion. In 2015 Nigerians believed that Buhari would be the solution to all their problems, whether economic, security, anti-corruption, democracy and everything else. It is no longer a matter for argument that in all the three major areas of the Buhari/APC Campaign the expected goals have not been fully achieved during the first term. The important issue now is repositioning of this country through constitutional, legal, attitudinal and political reforms. It is my position that this re-positioning, re-arrangement and re-organisation need to be kept in focus in line with President Buhari’s campaign promises and the ideals of our founding fathers who believed in justice, equity and good conscience without ethnic or religious bias. The employment opportunities for our young men and women are yet to be properly addressed; the long advocated reform of our security architecture, the issue of our porous borders which is a catalyst to cross border crimes; the question of too much involvement of government in religious matters as well as the issues of our wrong criteria for Honours and Awards are some of the several other issues which any serious President would need to address. We must also mention the serious problem of our worrisome rate of population growth which is bound to result in crises shortly as our facilities cannot cope even with the present population. Government must look seriously into this and strive to improve on the attempt of erstwhile President Ibrahim Babangida to peg the number of children in any family to four. We must make a law to restrict our astronomical population growth. Without doubt, at the onset, President Buhari had a great number of Nigerians, indeed majority of Nigerians that saw him as the solution to the numerous problem of this country. This was not unconnected with the perception of him as a distinguished military leader, a former Military Head of State and his numerous personal qualities. Now that he has been declared the incoming President, I will strongly suggest that he stays focused on the cardinal principles of this erstwhile campaign promises and address seriously all the problems. The president must know that the evolution of this country was based on true secularism, the concept of true democracy and social justice. It is pertinent to stress that the entire country is his constituency and he cannot neglect any of the component parts. Not of any less importance, President Buhari must do everything necessary to give effect to the strict separation of powers and allow for the inbuilt checks and balances, which are essential to our democratic environment. The President must come to terms with the fact that the presidential system that we have imbibed demands far more devolution of powers from the centre to the constituent states. Finally, the anti-corruption fight to which many have been inclined to read a lot of bias must give way to visibly serious and consistent fight against corruption. He must ensure that the other two arms of government, namely Legislature and Judiciary, are indeed lobbied, to be willing partners in the anti-corruption fight. Furthermore, he must not allow Nigeria to be destroyed by corruption in keeping with his inaugural speech in 2015 and to that end, the anti-corruption fight must be total and multi-dimensional.  In 2015, it took six months for President Buhari to constitute his cabinet. What advice do you have for him this time? When a President or governor is elected into office, there is a presumption that he already knows what the problems of the country or state are and should have a good idea of the kind of persons who have the capacity to help him achieve his set goals for the benefit of the society. In-view of this, the six months delay in appointing ministers into his government in his first term is hardly defendable. He may have had his problems due to the nature of the political associations that formed his party but that is now a matter of the past. When he is sworn in, in May God willing, it is expected that he will hit the ground running. Nobody would expect the formation of his cabinet to be delayed for more than a month because the executive arm of government is not made up of the President and the existing or permanent executive structures alone. The ministers, advisers and heads of inter-ministerial departments ought to come on board without undue delay.  What do you make of President Buhari’s declaration that the next four years would be tough? The remark “my administration in the next four years would be tough” ought to be given a positive and a progressive meaning. It cannot mean that he would be ruthless with the opposition or wage war with the other independent arms of government or that he would embark on any departure from due process or rule of law. In my usual optimistic view, his statement should mean that he will embark on all necessary measure to ensure the progress and prosperity of Nigeria in line with the proper tenets and requirements of our laws. It should also mean that he would embark on measures even against his friends, relations and political associate who run fowl of the law and the imperative of true democracy and social justice.  What advice do you have for PDP and Atiku Abubakar as they approach the courts to reclaim what they call their stolen mandate? They have a right to feel aggrieved if they have noticed or observed or noted any form of serious irregularity in the just concluded electioneering processes that culminated in the February 23 and March 9 elections. The issue is not personal to the candidate alone; it is of importance to his supporters, party members and Nigerians at large that our election must be good and proper. Therefore the only proper way the validity or the truth of their contention rest in the courts of the land. Anyone advising them to resort to other measures is an anarchist, a detector, ignorant, a cheat or an opportunist.  How would you rate the performance of INEC during the general elections? From my observation in my ward, local government area and my state, I am unable to give a pass mark to INEC: – Their officials in the field did not display sufficient control, management or handling of the voting process. They were easily intimidated; they rendered themselves vulnerable to intimidation by party supporters and agents and in some cases appeared to have played to the gallery. I will expect better training, better orientation, more confidence building measures and more commitment in future. I do not believe that INEC staff justified their name of independent National Electoral Commission during the just concluded elections because they rendered themselves amenable to all forms of external influence Furthermore, I find it irresistible to mention the ongoing drama wherein virtually all the states where elections were declared inconclusive were the known strongholds of the main opposition party. The other intriguing point is the curious development where members of the ruling party were declared winners in all (as in Edo State) or virtually all the seats in the respective state assemblies. This situation clearly contradicts one of the key elements of checks and balances typical of our Presidential Executive System. In this regard, there can be no gain saying that such a phenomenon is prone to executive tyranny. These lend no credit to the electoral processes we just had in our country.  What is your position on the deployment of the military for the elections? The provisions of the 1999 Constitution, particularly Sections 217, 218, 305 together with those of Section 216 relating to the functions of the Nigeria Police, point unequivocally to the impropriety or illegality of involvement of the Nigerian Armed Forces in the conduct of elections. Even though the National Assembly has failed over the years to enact the appropriate laws to regulate the power of the Commander-In-Chief with regard to his deployment of the Armed Forces, the constitution is clear enough about the illegality of troop involvement in election processes. Military men should not be seen at all in the process of election not to talk of their being involved in control of access to polling units or collation centers. I think the President and the Military Service Chiefs must investigate the alleged involvement of troops in any location in the just concluded election. For the avoidance of doubt, as long as the President and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces remains on the seat and has unfettered control over the Armed Forces so long would the yearning for proper electioneering and by extension, proper democracy involving the proper choice of rulers, remain like chasing shadows.    