Since the re-emergence of the Lassa fever disease in some parts of the country, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has been working round the clock to control a further spread. REGINA OTOKPA writes on activities, successes attained and possible ways to reducing the disease burden  Going by the level of measures put in place by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and its key partners in 2018 to ensure the burden of Lassa Fever was dismantled to the barest minimum to ensure Nigeria is delisted from Lassa fever endemic countries, it was a sad moment when an outbreak of Lassa Fever was declared in the country on January 21st, 2019. Several questions that arose have been around what possibly went wrong after so much effort. But in reality, the answers are not far-fetched. Nigeria, though blessed with abundance of resources, can be characterised as a destination where dirty environment and non-compliance to hygienic practices is the order of the day. At almost every street in the country including high end areas in the Abuja the nation’s capital, the high level of uncleanliness practiced by Nigerians is witnessed on a daily basis. Piles of refuse dumps, dirty drainage systems, open defecation a bitter consequence of non-availability of mobile toilets, improper and delayed disposal of wastes, poor care of waste bins as well as dirty kitchens littered with food stuffs seem to have become a normal sight to behold as the case may be.
Sadly, these have continued to be a breeding ground for rodents, which in turn infect humans directly and indirectly with an infectious diseases, especially Lassa Fever. The argument on possible link of rodents to Lassa Fever has however been rested, as the NCDC has revealed that the preliminary results of 42 Lassa Fever virus sequences indicate that rodent to human transmission as observed earlier in 2018 at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, was still the dominant route of transmission. This transmission could be direct, eating food or drinking water contaminated with urine, faeces, saliva or blood of infected rats. It could also be transmitted person to person through direct contact with blood, urine, saliva, throat secretion or semen of an infected person. By implication, this means that any neighbourhood that is home to rodent is at risk of a Lassa Fever endemic because rodents would have access to utensils and other materials, they would have food when left uncovered as well as foodstuffs and grains that are spread to dry out. Unfortunately, majority of the citizenry do not seek professional healthcare immediately they fall ill. This makes it even worse for persons infected with Lassa fever which happens to share same symptoms with malaria, the most common ailment known to man. The NCDC armed with this knowledge, have been spreading its tentacles carrying out various advocacy activities and community engagement on Lassa Fever causes, effects, prevention and management. The Director General of the NCDC, Chikwe Ihekweazu, explains that immediately after the declaration of Lassa fever outbreak in January, which have so far recorded 420 confirmed cases and 93 deaths across 21 states, a national response coordinated by the national, multi-sectoral, multi-partner Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) and a Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) were promptly activated to among other things, support affected states in making drugs, personal protective equipment, laboratory reagents, and other supplies required for case man agent and diagnosis of the disease available. Luckily, this smart move has helped in a massive decline in the number of cases recorded within the last five weeks even as the discussions around development of a Lassa fever vaccine is making substantial progress. Although the process of developing a new vaccine takes series of steps such as; developing ingredients that are safe, animal trials followed by human trials, the NCDC boss notes that “we are working with few private sector developers to do those vaccine trials in Nigeria. It’s a complex process but we will start trials before the end of this year and if that goes well we will have a new tool.” But before the vaccines are available, preventive measures such as storing grains and other foodstuff in rodent-proof containers, proper disposal of garbage far from the home, maintaining clean households, frequent hand hygiene, avoiding contact with blood and body fluids while caring for sick persons must become a way of life. Besides supporting states and local governments with a stipend to boost community and individual confidence to ensure there was no onward transmission by supporting their psychosocial needs, the Centre has trained over 1,000 health workers in the six geopolitical zones on Lassa Fever management, diagnosis and surveillance. According to the NCDC’s Case Management Killer Lead EOC, Dr. Winifred Ukponu, the trainings have been yielding positive results. “In the last couple of years and recently, we identified more health facilities that have become treatment centres for Lassa fever. Prior to now, we had about 18 of them across the country in some states we had two treatment centres and we have been supporting them in terms of training, providing what they need for the treatment of Lassa fever cases and how not to infect themselves. In this outbreak we had three treatment centres who have managed Lassa fever cases.”  As exciting as these responses might sound, a whole lot of work goes into it especially in the area of contact tracing and the mandatory 21 days follow up to ensure everyone who had contact with an infected person is free from the disease. The Incident Manager Lassa Fever EOC, Miss Chioma Dan-Nwafor, maintains that the psychosocial care offered by the agency is very important in reassuring and helping families who have a Lassa fever infected person on the steps to take in order to control human to human infection as well as help in early detection to manage further spread of the disease. Expressing satisfaction with the level of case management as far as Lassa fever is concerned, the Infection Prevention and Control lead of the NCDC, Dr. Tochi Okwor, notes that although Lassa fever cannot be totally eliminated at the snap of a finger, individuals and the communities have a huge role to play in ensuring none dies from Lassa fever. Is this possible, “Yes”, only if people begin to consciously practice good hygiene and sanitation, clear the environments of dirt that could attract rodents, make themselves available to be monitored and follow up when they have access to an infected person and the health workers doing the right things. The things we need to do to prevent Lassa fever will also help to prevent other infectious diseases that are out there or lurking in the shadows.  According to Okwor, “It is probable, as we continue to push our response, for every day that passes there is an opportunity for innovation; there is an opportunity for new things to happen. We can control it and that means we must make sure we do everything possible to prevent rats from having contacts with humans. “Everybody needs to come together to examine this issues that encourages human rats interaction like how do rats have access to our homes, how do rats have access to our utensils and food, how do they operate within our space. If we understand that, then everybody can work together to come up with solutions and strategies that is most appropriate. “The people at the communities have the key because they understand their community better. Also, early reporting to the health facilities, health workers with high index suspicion picking these people and referring them for treatment gives them a good chance of survival.” As the battle wages on, it is important for everyone to understand that although government has a responsibility to protect its citizens from harm including infectious diseases such as Lassa fever, the first responsibility falls on individuals, families and communities to simply do the right thing. Committed to making a lot more difference, the NCDC is appealing: “We have made a lot of progress we are not where we want to be but we now have a team that understands Lassa fever better than anywhere in the world and we are working towards improved prevention, improved detection, and improved care “Ninety-three Nigerians are too many to die from Lassa fever virus. So, we must keep pushing this message of prevention to ensure it is preached across the country.”