‘The people who cast the votes don’t decide an election, the people who count the votes do’ – Joseph Stalin  Thirty-nine days away to three years, precisely on April 21, 2016 barely 10 months into the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and his ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and few weeks into the appointment of Prof. Mahmood Yakubu as Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), I mused on the above title as published below. The musing was informed by the outcome of the elections conducted by the new commission in November and December of the same year in Kogi and Bayelesa states.  That was even before the September 2018 inconclusive charade reared its head in Osun State gubernatorial election and then the shame of grand election fraud this year that produced seven inconclusive states, I cannot but re-publish this piece which aptly foretold what the nation witnessed on February 23, 2019 Presidential and National Assembly and March 9, 2019 Governorship and State Assembly elections. It’s either Prof. Yakubu and his team came prepared with an agenda from inception or that their incompetence was such that they could not improve on their mistakes.  Are we not a nation that knew that danger is coming and yet waited to harvest it? Happy reading: The title of this piece is a coinage that is not original to me. I picked it up on the social media where an aggrieved Nigerian citizen was ridiculously seeking for a change of name for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to now be Inconclusive National Electoral Commission (INEC). According to the social media adherent joker, such new name would aptly reflect the current status of the nation’s electoral body.  His argument derives from the fact that the new INEC has not been able to conduct one election conclusively since its inception. There are numerous issues to be concerned about in this country since the All Progressives Congress (APC) entered the nation’s political horizon brandishing answers to every problems.  Ten months into the driver’s seat, the story of the party is far from being a palatable one.  Today, the musing is going to center on a deficient area of this administration that is very critical to the sustenance of democracy in the land. World over in any democratic setting, the act of voting is the defining moment and in all, it’s usually the votes that count. When Nigeria was globally placed on top of democratic ladder in 2015, enjoying all the accolades, it was because it conducted a credible election that saw the defeat of an incumbent political party through a free and fair poll.  That landmark poll produced a new President in Muhammadu Buhari and a new ruling party in the APC. That election was certainly the country’s defining moment in its democratic evolution. But 10 months hence into the new government, the electoral commission that achieved that feat has remained only in name and certainly not in character and honour. The ruling government itself has not helped matters as it has been unable to produce an enabling environment that could allow the electoral body demonstrates its independence as enshrined in the status that established it.  The fallout is the fact of the commission having records of questionable performance that warranted fun seeking social media activists baptizing it with such humorous label to suit its current weakness. Why not? With some disturbing empirical evidence to show.  From 1999 under the watch of the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), INEC recorded steady progress up till 2015, but with APC administration, the electoral body is now on the path of regression and a shadow of its enviable, trustworthy commission under Professor Jega – even though Jega was not perfect. INEC at the moment appears to have been presently constituted with untested hands whose neophyte status is being compounded by a ruling party that cannot let its independence be.  The image of the current INEC can be measured in this joke making the round in the social media, that the acronym INEC now means, Inconclusive National Electoral Commission of Nigeria. The joke stands because it fits in adequately and those behind it have verifiable evidence to support their position. For instance, on November 21, 2015 at the Kogi State gubernatorial election, INEC failed to conclusively conduct the election.  We are all witnesses to the political mess Kogi State is thrown into which has its root in the failure of INEC to conduct free, fair and credible elections. An anomaly that is followed by illogical and provocative constitutional interpretation of the legal logjam in the state, consequence upon which the state is still embattled. Following from this, on December 5, 2015, Nigerians had expected that lessons learnt from Kogi State gubernatorial election would equip INEC to do a better job in Bayelsa State gubernatorial election; but what did Nigerians see?  Another inconclusive, messier situation, all avoidable if INEC had been on top of their game, ditto Rivers State on March 19, 2016 State and National Assemblies elections which also fell far below the minimum standard; recording another inconclusiveness, this time with an indefinite postponement of the polls.  Not even a mere local government election in a more sophisticated environment like the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja on April 9, 2016 could make INEC produce a more credible election. Rather the nation for the umpteenth time witnessed other inconclusive elections. Should we not worry that an electoral body that is expected to conduct an integrity proof election nationwide in a general election is unable to conduct a conclusive election in as small as isolated gubernatorial or local council polls? That is the question.  What assurance is this INEC giving democratic watchers that it would be able to conduct a credible general election? If an examiner cannot conduct credible class text, how do we expect such a teacher to do well at bigger and more complex public examination; or what kind of performance are we expecting from a football referee who cannot do good officiating at a local match?  Do we in all honesty expect such a referee to do justice to a much bigger tournament? The nervous performance of INEC under the watch of Prof. Mahmood Yakubu should worry any lover of democracy, especially against the backdrop of the global mileage the country recorded in 2015 general election.  The importance of credible election in a democracy cannot be overemphasized hence the concern of democratic watchers and analysts at the low rating of the current INEC. Can unsteady electoral body make votes count and meet up the assertion of the 36th President of the United States of America, Lyndon Baines Johnson, who in a speech, after signing the voting rights bill in 1965 said: “the vote is the most powerful instrument ever devised by man for breaking down injustice and destroying the terrible walls which imprison men!”  Whither Nigeria! God bless Nigeria.