Dear Reader, today’s column is basically for the youth out there who are aspiring to be great in life. If you fall into this category, kindly get a bottle of wine or coke or even water, depending on your capacity, grab a chair and let’s cruise. There was a man in the Bible called Peter. One day, he met a beggar and instead of giving him money, he said to him – “I have no silver and gold, but what I do have I give to you.” The end of the whole has it that the beggar, who was used to begging for alms as a result of his sickness got healed, stood up and became whole. And I’m very sure he stopped begging. I suspected he must have been employed by top company existing those days afterwards. Lolz. I hope today’s column will lift someone’s spirit and make you great. So like Mr. Peter, silver, gold and money I have none to give you, but such as I have I will give to you today. By the grace of God, I have been privileged to be close to and even worked with some great personalities; I still do though. There are several things I’ve learnt from them and still learning, which I thought could be of help to our great youths out there. I want share some of the secrets of great people. Aspiring Great Youths in the house, kindly take note of the following: •Consistency: If you want to be great in life, you must be consistent in whatever you do. Great people are always consistent. Consistency is like rhythm, once there is a break, it affects the flow. You remain consistent in good and bad times. I mean consistency when it is convenient for you and when it is not. Do not begin a thing and stop half-way, only to start over again. That is not the attribute greatness. Even God Almighty is consistent; morning and night have never ceased since time immemorial – You can’t have night, night then morning; it is always day and night. To be consistent also mean to be focus. You must never shift attention from the goal. You must be deliberate about your intentions and don’t lose focus. •Great people aren’t moved by praise, just as they are not moved by critics. This may sound strange to many out there, but believe me, great people are not often time moved by people’s praise; although, they appreciate it, like anyone would. And because they are not moved by praises, criticisms from haters do not get to them. Do not measure your life based on praises you get from people. People who will praise you are the same who will first crucify you once you make the minutest mistake. Do what you do not because you want to impress anyone but because you want to do it. •Arrival mentality: When you meet any great person today and have a chat with them, you’ll discover that they are not even satisfied with the feat they’ve attained. Sometimes, they tell you that they are behind their schedules or plans. And this is what drives them, not the achievement of the past. Never have an ‘arrival mentality’. Once you start believing you’ve arrived, you will soon fade from the system. Celebrate your achievements but never get carried away. Always remember that there are more grounds to cover. The world is waiting for you. It’s too early to have the ‘arrival mentality’. •Treat everyone well: Do not treat people well just because you want to get favour from them. Treat people well because you need to treat them well. Never look down on anyone. A house help today can become the wife of a President tomorrow. A driver today could be the next governor of a state. Never look down on anyone. On a lighter note: How was the election at your end? Trust it went well? Hope your candidates won? Irrespective of the outcome of the results, please let’s stay positive and let’s always confess positive words over the leadership in authorities and the nation as a whole. Have a great week.