 Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George has charged Lagos Governor-elect, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to modernize Lagos Island just as his predecessors developed both Surulere and Epe areas of the state  Speaking during a visit to victims of the recent building collapse at Ita Faaji area of Lagos State at the Lagos Island General Hospital where he empathized with them and commiserated with those who lost loved ones, George blamed the collapsed building on incompetence, saying those responsible for the negligence should face the law.  He said: “What’s going on? Who are the people responsible for this approval? It is an eyesore. The governor cannot come and be inspecting everything. So, whatever we have to do, do it right in the right way for right reasons.  “Now, those who died now because of the incompetence, the greed, the lack of commitment of those workers who are supposed to approve or disapprove, look at what it has led us. And I am sure none of their children was involved. But I am sure whatever you sow, you would reap.
“Sanwoolu has the duty to turn Lagos Island into a modern area like Fashola and Ambode did in Surulere and Epe respectively.  “There is need for a change and the challenge we give because Sanwo-Olu too has his family house on Omidundun Street. The outgoing governor, Ambode, if you go to Epe, the place is no longer the sleeping village. He has modernized it. Fashola headed to Surulere, it is no longer the old Surulere.  “I am throwing a challenge on the face of Sanwo-Olu to also modernize Lagos Island. The first Local Government in Nigeria was City Hall. I hope he would have the nerve, the gut, the drive, this would be a pointer to whatever legacy he would leave and we would hold him fully responsible for it.  “When I went recently for the election in Lagos Island, I saw what Fashola has built in the area. Now, in the interest of the humanity because his father is also from that area, he has built a lot of houses empty in the past five or six years. Let him show some modicum of humanity and let some of these victims stay there until they can get alternative accommodation and they won’t forget him, not to sit down in Abuja…That’s what is called a sense of belonging I wish I have houses there.”  Meanwhile, Professionals, certified artisans and technician groups in Lagos State under the platform of Association of Lagos Artisans and Technicians (ASLAT) has congratulated Governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on his electoral victory in the March 9 governorship polls. Speaking through its Executive Secretary, Akinyemi Adesina (ASLAT) urged Sanwo-Olu to implement policies and programmes that will promote the activities of professionals, artisans and technicians in the state.  He said: “During the last governorship election, the member of association of Lagos Artisans and Technicians (ASLAT) adopted Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dr. Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat as the Governor and the Deputy Governor of Lagos State because we believe he was the best among all the governorship candidates.  “We met and interact with some governorship candidates. During the exercise, we realised that Sanwo-Olu will include us in his policies. His knowledgeable and experience of governance, management and public administration cannot be quantified. His opponents were not in any way matched his dynamism. “We adopted Mr. Sanwo-Olu and voted massively for him because we believed that out of all governorship candidates, he is the only one that recognised the pains and agonies of Lagos artisans and technicians and have genuine mind to find solution to our long time suffering.  “It is our belief that the fundamental works and the modern Lagos master plan that had been put in place by successive progressive governments in Lagos State, which started with the legend himself, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in 1999 can only be sustained and continues to flow when those who are trustworthy uphold the flying banner.”  