The presidency yesterday said that President Muhammadu Buhari and his government would not allow the emergence of saboteurs in the leadership of the ninth National Assembly (NASS). A senior aide to the President, who prefers not to be quoted in print, told New Telegraph that the President will ensure that only persons selected by the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) emerge as President of the Senate and other presiding officers of both the red and green chambers.  According to source, although the President has no preferred candidates for the position of the principal officer of the parliament, he is ready and willing to support the decision of the leadership of the party in line with worked out zoning arrangements. He said the presidency had never had it smooth with the relationship that existed between it and the leadership of the eighth National Assembly and will, therefore, not sit to fold its arms while another set of unfriendly characters emerge in the next dispensation. “Be rest assured that the President will not micro-manage the process electing the National Assembly leadership, but he will not allow the lawlessness that happened in 2015 to repeat itself. “The President will allow the decision of the party to remain supreme. Once the party zones the positions, he will give maximum support to it. “It is not like before, now, the decision of the party is supreme. You see what has happened to the two governors. In the past, this won’t have been possible. “What I can tell you is that the President doesn’t have any preferred candidates,” the source stressed. Both Senate President Bukola Saraki and House of Representatives’ Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, emerged in eighth parliament against the arrangement of the APC leadership. It is feared that since the National Assembly is a strategic arm of government critical to achieving the APC’s change agenda for the country, allowing persons who would sabotage government’s efforts in the next four years is not healthy.