The Governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, has fired back at his would-be successor in office, Emeka Ihedioha, who allegedly issued a directive to banks and financial institutions not to honour any further dealings with the state government. Okorocha, who frowns at the purported action of the governor-elect, also said Ihedioha had no constitutional powers to issue directives to any financial institutions to reveal official dealings, until he is sworn in. In a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, the outgoing governor also asked the incoming helmsman of the state to stop harassing people before exercising his executive powers while asking the institutions to ignore the order. The statement reads: “Emeka Ihedioha, who was declared winner of the governorship election in Imo State by Prof. Francis Ezeonu-led INEC in Owerri, does not have the right or locus yet to harass or give directives to the financial institutions in the state over their dealings with the state government. ‘The media report quoting Ihedioha as having given such directive is unfortunate and a sign of ugly things to come. Otherwise, Ihedioha should not have been the first of all the governors- elect in the country to issue such directive. “We are also not surprised at his issuing the directive because as a PDP man, his interest, first and foremost, will be the treasury of the state, and the policy or the slogan of ‘Share the money’ will soon come back. But he should exercise patience and wait till he is sworn-in. “He shouldn’t be in a hurry. There is a government in place and until May 29, 2019, that government should continue to work in the interest of the state and her people and also continue to carry out programmes and policies for the same purpose, until the end of its approved life span. “To begin to harass or give directives to financial institutions in the state is an act of hostility and he should know that. “The financial Institutions in the state should disregard such directive and continue to do the right thing and take the right action since the best he can do is to confront the outgoing government when he takes over on any financial transaction he has reservations at.”