The Lagos State Task Force has impounded 115 motorcycles belonging to Gokada, an on-demand motorbike hailing service and other commercial motorcyclists for flouting the 2012 Lagos State Road Traffic Laws. Hence, the agency ordered owners/operators of commercial ‘Gokada’ and ‘Maxokada’ to immediately comply with the Lagos State Road Traffic Laws of 2012 to avoid frequent arrest by its officials. Speaking during, enforcement operations on motorcyclists operating on restricted routes, the Chairman of the Agency, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, arrested motorcyclists were apprehended for taking one-way around Ikeja, Ojota, and Maryland. According to him,  out of 115 motorcycles impounded during the enforcement operations, 23 were branded commercial ‘Gokada and Maxokada’. He confirmed that activities of these newly branded commercial motorcycle operators are illegal, adding that many of them were operating without any valid documentation from the State government. The Chairman reiterated that in accordance with the law no commercial motorcycle operator is allowed to operate around 475 restricted routes including highways and bridges across the State. He said: “The government enjoined members of the public to henceforth desists from patronising commercial motorcyclists on all restricted routes as passengers are as well liable for prosecutions. “It was an eye-sore seeing operators of these newly branded commercial motorcycles (Gokada/Maxokada) competing for right of ways with motorists on highways and bridges across the State” The Chairman, however, stated that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Zubairu Muazu has directed that 10 arrested riders be immediately charged to court for prosecution. One of the arrested ‘Gokada’ rider (Mr. Ayeni Francis) who claimed to be paying N3000 per day to their authority said they were not aware of any documentation with the government. Another arrested rider Mr. Adebayo Adeniran said that he collected one of the newly branded commercial motorcycles ‘Maxokada’ on higher purchase from the management after he presented a guarantor.