...fixes Monday for opening of defence     The Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja yesterday threw out the no case submission filed by the suspended Chief of Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, against the six-count criminal charge filed against him by the Federal Government. Onnoghen had filed the no-case submission after the prosecution called three witnesses to give evidence against him in the said charge. A no-case submission is filed by a defendant in order to show the court that the prosecution has not established a prima-facie case against him. The tribunal had earlier in the day heard Onnoghen’s application as argued by his lead counsel, Chief Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN) and the objection argued by the prosecution counsel, Aliyu Umar (SAN). In a dramatic twist, however, the tribunal after hearing the application stood down the matter for two hours to deliver its ruling. The tribunal returned at 1:36pm to deliver its ruling read by its Chairman, Danladi Umar. In the ruling which none of the other two members neither agreed nor disagreed with the tribunal held that the prosecution had presented exhibits before it which warrants the defendant to open defence, if he has any. The tribunal held that the Standard Operating Procedure SOP of the CCB which the defendant argued was not followed had not been passed. He noted that the Procedure was put together by a former Chairman of the Bureau, Sam Saba, for personal gains and not in the interest of the public. “The present board has not adopted it due to observed contradictions.” The tribunal equally held that the Fifth Schedule of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) was the guiding operation of the Bureau at the moment, adding that it was superior to the SOP. The tribunal also noted that the confessional statement of the defendant that he forgot to declare his domiciliary accounts with Standard Chattered Bank was not obtained under duress. The tribunal held: “The Evidence of PW1, PW2, PW3 and Exhibits 1-6 are weighty enough to call on the defendant to enter defence immediately because all the exhibits are materials before the tribunal. “Tribunal hereby ordered the defendant to enter defence if any. The no case submission is hereby discountenanced and refused.” After the ruling, the tribunal chairman adjourned till Monday for the defendant to open his defence. Counsel to the defendant, Awomolo passionately pleaded that the matter be adjourned till April 5 in order to have time to prepare for defence if any, a plea that was refused by the tribunal. Meanwhile, the defendant had approached the Court of Appeal, Abuja division, with a Notice of Appeal challenging the whole decision of the tribunal. In ground one, the Onnoghen argued that the tribunal erred in law when it dismissed his no-case submission that the CCB and CCT are bound by the 1999 Constitution and Standard Operation Procedure and which the process that led to the institution of the criminal proceeding against him violated and disregarded. In ground two, the appellant argued that the chairman and members of the CCT erred in law when they overruled his no-case submission where there is uncontroverted evidence before the tribunal that there was no valid and lawful investigation of the allegation against the appellant and thereby occassioned a grave miscarriage of Justice. In ground 3, Onnoghen contended that the tribunal erred in law when it dismissed his no-case submission and when it refused to consider , accept the submission that the elements of the offence in Count 1 was not proved by any legally acceptable and credible evidence as the totality of the evidence were hearsay. Earlier, while moving his no case submission, Onnoghen had demanded an apology from the Federal Government for dragging him before the tribunal for trial over his alleged failure to properly declare his assets. Justice Onnoghen, who was suspended from office by President Muhammadu Buhari on January 25, owing to allegations against him, said he deserved an apology since the Federal Government failed to tender any credible evidence before the tribunal to establish that he committed any offence known to the law. He described the totality of exhibits FG adduced to support the six counts it preferred against him at the CCT as “hearsay, irrelevant and useless evidence.” He said: “There is nothing proved”. Consequently, Justice Onnoghen, urged the Umar led three-member tribunal to discharge and acquit him of all the allegations that were levelled against him in the charge, insisting that he had no case to answer. Specifically, in his application, Onnoghen relied on Section 303 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, ACJA, 2015. He argued that FG failed to establish a prima facie case that was capable of warranting the tribunal to compel him to enter his defence in the charge against him. He also argued that though FG alleged that he did not declare his assets, “there is no report of investigation before the tribunal to show that this is true”. He said there was no evidence that he did not file declaration of asset forms between 2005 and 2016. Besides, Onnoghen, challenged the evidential value of some of the exhibits Federal Government tendered before the tribunal, including his bank statements. He also argued that the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), which purportedly recommended his trial, did not substantially comply with the constitution that it derived its powers from. Awomolo argued: “There is evidence on record that the CCB did not substantially comply with the law. Even if there was non-declaration, there must be verification. That was not done. There is no offence known to the law in this matter.” More so, he noted that some of the exhibits were irrelevant to the case before the CCT since they were procured by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He further argued that neither the EFCC nor the Department of State Service (DSS), has a role to play in relation to proceedings before the CCT. “It is our submission that this document addressed to EFCC in the tribunal’s proceeding is illegal and your lordship should not countenance an illegal document”.  Tribunal adjourns till March 18   CJN challenges CCT's refusal to deliver ruling on objection   The on-going non-asset declaration trial of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja was yesterday stalled due to toothache and high… In “News” The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, yesterday, refused to appear before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja, where he was billed to be arraigned by the Federal Government over alleged non-declaration of his assets. The Federal Government had filed a six-count criminal charge against… In “News” The Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) has issued an arrest warrant against Walter Onnoghen, suspended chief justice of Nigeria. At its resumed trial on Wednesday, the tribunal ordered the nation’s security agencies to arrest Onnoghen after he failed to appear before it. Aliyu Umar, lead prosecution counsel for the federal… In “News”