Governor-Elect of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. Sanwo-Olu, who was accompanied by his deputy governor-elect, Babafemi Hamzat told State House Correspondents after the meeting that they were on a courtesy visit to congratulate the President on his re-election. The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the February 23 governorship election in Lagos scored 739,445 votes to defeat Jimi Agbaje of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled 206,141 votes. Speaking yesterday, Sanwo- Olu said Lagos state truly needed regeneration especially the Lagos Island areas. According to him, the idea of regeneration Lagos state was part of what his campaign team promised the people before the election. ”So, it’s to have a conversation right round all of a families and we’ll see the kind of redevelopment that is important as it’s built on in a lot of other big cities like Lagos.” He went on: “Well, it’s really not that it’s been a challenge, but because we have not been able to see it through to the end. When you want to take people’s properties and you want to regenerate, they must first see a sincerity of purpose – what are the additional plans that you have for them? ”Before you could regenerate, there must be a stop gap – in the next two to three years what are the plans you have for them? And you need to do what we call proper enumeration. Once you can enumerate properly and determine who the original owners, and you sit and have an agreement, then the regeneration will start. You can do it in two ways: “It could be in form of which when you come back, you have part of it; or you turn it into equity. So it depends on whatever model you are working round to ensure that it works.” On what he intended to bring on board when sworn in, the Governorelect said he was aware of the many challenges facing Lagos as someone who had been in the system. “We will certainly be bringing about solutions that will solve various challenges in Lagos very quickly. “We know that with a mega city of our status, it comes with a lot of challenges but we are lucky that we have been part of it before now and we are excited that the solutions we are bringing up – that we’ve identified on the campaign trail will very quickly, be able to bring about positive development that will improve the quality of lives and ease all of the challenges that we currently have in Lagos.”