KENNETH OFOMA reports on factors that influenced the landslide victory of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State in the 2019 general elections  There was no victory for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Enugu State at any level in the just held 2019 general elections that was not predicted. The outcome also proved members of the party in the state, who they boasted that “Enugu is PDP and PDP is Enugu,” right. But, as with every election, the 2019 polls did not come without the usual tension and anxiety. However, at the end of the day, it proved to be motion without movement for the main opposition party in the state – the All Progressives Congress (APC). The outcome of the elections, including presidential, National Assembly, governorship and state Assembly, showed that PDP won each with a wide margin. The party won the presidential elections, the three senatorial seats, eight House of Representatives seats, the governorship position and the 24 state Assembly seats. The presidential election result showed that candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, scored 355,553 votes against that of the APC candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari, who came distant second with 54,423 votes. In the senatorial election, Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu of the PDP defeated his closest rival, Mrs. Juliet Ibeakaku-Nwagwu of APC with 86,088 votes against 15,187 for Enugu West seat. Senator Chukwuka Utazi also of the PDP defeated former Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly of APC with 146,458 votes against 22,229 to win Enugu North seat, while a former governor of the state, Dr. Chimaroke Nnamani (PDP) defeated Prince Lawrence Ezeh of APC with 128,843 votes against 14,225 to win Enugu East seat.  For the House of Representatives seats, Martins Oke of PDP scored 35,756 votes to defeat APC’s Chukwuma Jonathan, who had 5,799 for Igbo/Uzo-Uwani federal constituency; Dennis Amadi scored 37,755 votes to defeat Mmamel Joseph of APC for Ezeagu/Udi federal constituency; Nnaji Nnolim of PDP scored 38,460 votes to defeat Anthony Okwudili of APC who scored 3,452 votes for Nkanu East/Nkanu West federal constituency, while Toby Okechukwu of PDP scored 50,173 votes to defeat Obiora Ilo of APC with 8,354 votes for Aninri/Awgu/Oji River federal constituency.  Other House of Representatives results showed that Simon Atigwe of PDP scored 45,247 votes to defeat Kentus Eze of APC, who scored 7,179 votes for Igbo-Eze North/Udenu federal constituency; Ofor Chukwuegbo of PDP scored 38,603 votes to defeat Mduka Alum of APC, who scored 13,921 votes for Enugu North/Enugu South federal constituency; Patrick Asadu of PDP scored 60,863 votes to defeat Ikechukwu Ugwuegede, who scored 12,106 votes for Nsukka/Igbo-Eze South federal constituency, while Cornelius Nnaji of PDP scored 36,191 votes to defeat Kate Nnamani of APC, who had 9,222 votes for Enugu East/Isi-Uzo federal constituency. It was a similar scenario in the House of Assembly elections as PDP cleared the 24 seats. Among the winners are Okwu Chinedu (Aninri), Eneh Jane (Awgu North), Chukwuobasi Johnson (Awgu South), Ugwu Hilary (Enugu East II), Ubosi Edward (Enugu East I), Ibenaku Onoh (Enugu North), Sam Ngene (Enugu South I), Ugwu Onyinye (Enugu South II), Obieze Chima (Ezeagu) and Akadu James (Igbo-Etiti East). Others are Ezenta Ugochukwu (Igbo-Etiti West), Ugwuanyi Ethel (Igbo-Eze North I), Ugwu Innocent (Igbo-Eze North II), Madu Emeka (Igbo-Eze South), Ugwu Chijioke (Isi-Uzo), Nnajiofor Paul (Nkanu East), Aniagu Iloabuchi (Nkanu West), Nwamba Christian (Nsukka East constituency), Ugwuwerua Emma (Nsukka West), Mbah Geoffrey (Oji River), Ezeugwu Ikechukwu (Udenu), Ugwu Uche of (Udi North), Eneh Chukwuka (Udi South) and Okika Josephat (Uzo-Uwani). Given the results of the respective elections, it was clear that the contest was mostly a two-horse race between PDP and APC, even though APC placed a distant second. But, the reason for APC’s abysmal performance is not far-fetched for those who followed developments ahead of the elections. The Enugu State chapter of APC was encumbered by so many factors, especially internal strife arising from multiple court cases over the state congress as well as primaries. For instance, three persons laid claims to the chairmanship of the party, but the national leadership recognised the state exco led by Dr. Ben Nwoye, while Deacon Okey Ogbodo and Adolphus Udeh went to court to contest the position. Secondly, two candidates emerged for most of the elective positions, including the governorship, and they were all in court all through campaign period, seeking to upstage one another. It would be recalled that a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, had two weeks to the governorship election sacked Senator Ayogu Eze as the APC governorship candidate in the state and ordered INEC to replace him with Barr George Ogara, who challenged Eze’s nomination by the party. But, following an appeal, the Court of Appeal, just two days to the election, ruled that Eze remains the candidate of the party. Reacting to the development then, Nwoye and Eze called on INEC to postpone the governorship election in the state as well as the resignation of the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state Mr. Emeka Ononamagu, over alleged infractions. The election was however held as scheduled though the APC governorship candidate had to announce his boycott of the poll on election day. But, in spite of APC’s protest, it was as clear to those who follow Enugu olitics that there was nothing stopping Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s second term bid on the platform of PDP. Many believed then that the opposition showed signs of putting up a very weak and feeble challenge to the PDP and Governor Ugwuanyi. The governor, a three-term member of the House of Representatives, came into office in 2015. A lot of factors favoured him then and still favoured him during his second term bid. Right from his days in the National Assembly, Ugwuanyi’s generosity and philanthropy were legendary. Many political analysts, who have followed his political career progression, will easily attest to the fact that this singular act of giving is one of his strongest points. This is complemented by his unequalled humility. That was what put him ahead of other contestants in 2015 and made him a consensus candidate of all the political gladiators then. Many observers also believe that even in office, Ugwuanyi’s generosity has grown exponentially as he has always carried along both members of the PDP as well as the opposition. The governor does not only take care of the financial needs of other politicians, including leading members of main opposition party in the state, the APC, but also settles them with appointment of their protégées or relations into political positions. Ugwuanyi is also a team player, who does not harbor bitterness against political opponents or even those who offended him in the past. He believes good ideas could come from anybody and such should be harnessed for the good of the state. Little wonder that his political philosophy, which also embodies inclusiveness, is yielding dividends of peace, harmony, security and development in the state under his regime, unlike what the state witnessed under his predecessors. This explains why prominent members of APC still have their relations like wives, brothers or cronies appointed into public positions as commissioners, special advisers or local government chairmen. In some cases, the APC chieftains made the recommendations. Another factor that worked in favour of Ugwuanyi’s re-election was the issue of zoning. Based on power sharing arrangement, power came to Enugu North senatorial district from Enugu West, after Enugu East had a stint. Ugwuanyi’s predecessors Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu East) and Sullivan Chime (Enugu West) spent eight years in office, respectively. So, for majority of the citizens, it was better for Ugwuanyi to complete his second term for Enugu North zone, so that power will shift to Enugu East in 2023, than gamble on another Enugu North person (Eze), who will likely seek a second term that will make the zone occupy the office for 12 years as against eight years. Performance also contributed to the governor’s re-election. There is no doubt that despite the shortfall in the revenue profile of the state, no thanks to the economic recession and reduction in the foreign exchange earning of the federation as a result of crash in the price of crude oil, Governor Ugwuanyi has managed to post impressive performance. In the area of road infrastructure, he has done massive work at Nsukka urban roads as well as massive rural access roads across all the 17 local government areas of the state. Above all, the critical factor that favoured all PDP candidates in Enugu State and the South-East geopolitical zone in was the poor rating of APC in the zone and the peoples’ feeling of marginalisation by the APC-led Federal Government. Also, the fact that PDP adopted Peter Obi from the zone as the running mate of its presidential candidate, Atiku, added fillip to PDP’s sterling performance across the states in the zone, and Enugu was not an exception.  