A Kwara state High Court has remanded a man in prison custody for alleged vote-buying during the March 9, 2019 governorship and House of Assembly election in the state. The accused,  Abdusalam Abdulkadiri was arraigned before the court by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He was alleged to have conspired with one Oye Obalola now at large,   to provide N120,000 with the intend of corruptly influencing persons to vote for a particular political party on the election day. Abdulkadiri was also accused of providing N120,000 for the purpose of using same at polling unit 007 in Kwara state College of Education, Ilorin contrary to Sections 124/5 and 130/8 of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended. The accused however pleaded not guilty to the count charge, a development that made the EFCC counsel Nnemka Omewa to ask the court to remand him prison while a date would be picked for his trial. However,  counsel to the accused, O.S Mohammed objected and prayed the court grant his client  bail as the offence according to him is bailable. He urged the court to remand the accused person in EFCC custody as opposed to prison custody. Said Mohammed: “The issue of bail is a purely the discretionary power of the court no matter the severity of the offence or the punishment. Once the court is satisfied the accused person will make himself available to stand his trial, he may be admitted to bail. “There are other conditions which the court will take cognizance to admit the accused person into bail pending trial. One of such is the criminal record of the accused person. “I urge the court to admit the accused person into bail pending his trial, because at this stage and going by Section 36 sub-section 5 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended, he is still presumed innocent. “I also submit that Section 170 of the Kwara state Administration of Criminal Justice Law 2018 provides a defendant that is charged with an offence which its punishment is less than three years shall be entitled to bail unless the court sees reasons to the contrary. This offence is not capital in nature. Therefore, I urge the court to admit him into bail on liberal terms.” Reacting again, EFCC lawyer said “granting bail is entirely the discretion of the court. But this discretion is not exercised in a vacuum. Applicant seeking permission for bail had to place material facts before the court to enjoy that discretionary power. “It is also trite that the court in exercising its powers had to do it judicially and judiciously. I further submit that the applicant had
not placed material facts before the court to warrant the court exercise its discretion.” Presiding Judge, Justice Sikiru Oyinloye declined to grant the prayers of the defendant hinging his reasons on improper procedure for the bail application. Justice Oyinloye added that the defendant counsel had not placed before the court material facts to guarantee the granting of the bail application. The court therefore  ordered that the accused be remanded in Oke-Kura prisons, Ilorin till March 28, 2019 when the case will come up for further hearing. An Ilorin Magistrate Court on Thursday remanded a man, Akeem Jiddah, in prison, accused of defrauding one Tolu Bankola of N1.8 million. The prosecutor, Insp. Folorunsho Zacheaus, told the court that the accused fraudulently collected N1.8 million from Bankola under the pretext of selling 12 plots of land to him… In “Metro and Crime” For allegedly swindling a businesswoman, Mrs Sherifa Adeyemi of N34.5 million, Oyo State High Court sitting in Ibadan yesterday remanded in prison managing director of Mega Bolex Quarry Ltd, Mrs. Iyabo Okoh.   Okoh and her company, Mega Bolex Quarry Ltd were arraigned yesterday before the court by the Economic… In “News” Staff and students of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, yesterday staged violent protest on the premises of Osun State High Court, Ede. The protest followed Justice David Oladimeji’s order that a former acting Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Anthony Elujoba, and the Bursar, Mrs Aderonke Akeredolu, be remanded at… In “Metro and Crime”