Just when it seems that the Confederation of African Football was finally put its house in order, bringing transparency to its dealings, it appears that this it may be business as usual regarding the sale of its lucrative TV rights according to the findings of broadcasters with knowledge of live transmission.  Speculation has been rife that it has become business as usual in the management of TV rights despite the fact that Lagardere and its associate LC2 have apparently taking a back seat in the televising of the forthcoming African Cup of Nations. There were widespread reports of alleged malpractice involving Lagardere and former beleaguered CAF President, Issa Hayatou but many industry watchers were hopeful things would change when current President, Ahmad Ahmad, assumed office two years ago on an anti-corruption ticket, promising greater transparency in its dealings.  Last week, a tender was issued for an agency to manage CAF’s free-to-air rights in Africa, starting with AFCON 2019, in a move that signalled an end to Lagardere’s hold on these rights.
However, there are doubts already about the sincerity of the current leadership of CAF in the ongoing bidding process for the AFCON 2019 free-to-air rights in Africa.  A broadcaster told our correspondent: “Some are questioning whether this is all a front. Sports management giants Infront Media and Sports have been invited by CAF to bid for these rights. Infront was formed in 2002 in order to broadcast the FIFA World Cup 2002.”  Another aggrieved broadcaster said: “Given the recent history of the sale of the AFCON rights in Africa, the latest development may lead to questions as to whether there is really an open tender process. Some may go further and question whether this tender process is not an affront on CAF’s pledge to transparency, an affront on football fans and the whole of Africa.”  Investigations revealed that a top CAF official has had links with Infront in his past. He was the CEO of French marketing outfit TVMS and partnered with Infront as recently as 2016 in selling TV rights to the Olympics in Africa.
Our correspondent learnt that national broadcasters across Africa might boycot the transmission of AFCON again like they did in the 2015 and 2017 editions when only 13 countries took it because of alleged shady deal between CAF’s former regime and LC2.