Director, Right Path Arabic Institute, Ustadh Yunus Al- Imam, has called on government at all levels to encourage religious education in the country’s institution of learning to teach the youths the dangers inherent in embracing terrorism and also for the achievement of peaceful coexistence among different ethnic groups in Nigeria. Al-Ìmam made this assertion at a pre-event press briefing held in Lagos where he announced that third edition of annual haflah (graduation) ceremony for students in the intermediate and advanced classes of the institute will hold Sunday 31 at the Lagos State New Secretariat Mosque, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos with Sheikh AbdulMajeed Imran Eleha as the guest lecturer. Al-Imam asserts that no nation or individual can attain peace without the adequate understanding of and adhering to the teachings of the noble Qur’an and hadith of Prophet Muhammad. He said “The knowledge of the Qur’an and hadith instil morals in a Muslim. It tames and guides him to the right path and it prepares an individual to be useful to himself, his family and the society. It is only by adhering to the words of Allah and the teaching of Prophet Muhammad that a Muslim can find peace in this world and the hereafter. No true Muslim will kill fellow Muslims in the name of driving home his point. Terrorism is alien to Islam. This is our focus at Right Path Arabic Institute. We train our students to be good moral agents, to be dutiful to themselves, their families and the society they live in therefore if the government could give adequate support and encouragement to religious learning by way of investing and prioritising It, the society will be the better for it as cases of youth restiveness, terrorism and other vices will be a thing of the past. If the government know the value and importance of religious institutions to the society, they will support its cause and invest in them to promote peaceful and secured environment. The huge amount of money government spend to fight crime and insurgency is avoidable If only they could channel it to positively shaping the minds of our children early in life. I am not advocating islamising the country, but it is for religious houses either Islam or Christianity to inculcate positive moral and religious values in our children and not preaching love of this world against the hereafter. ” Commenting on the recent killing of over 50 Muslims in a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, Al- Imam said “As regards the killing of Muslims in New Zealand, the perpetrator of the terrorist act is not a Muslim and this tells us that violence doesn’t have a place in Islam. If you are a Muslim and you understand the Quran and hadith very well, you wouldn’t want to harm anyone either they belong to your religion or not.”