Former Nigerian track and field international, Deji Aliu, has told CHARLES OGUNDIYA that the country’s rave of the moment, Divine Oduduru, has what it takes to break the sub-10 seconds 100m record while also advising him to put in more hard work to excel. Excerpts…   What can you say about the performance of the country’s athletes recently, especially at the last National Sports Festival? Despite the lack of management of athletes and all the shenanigans going around, I was very pleased with the performance of the sprinters at the festival. It was very heart-warming especially seeing athletes running 10.4secs to qualify in the heats; it showed that we are stepping up. The future looks really good on the part of the athletes and we have to replicate that in management so that we can balance the two for maximum results. So do you see the country performing well at the All Africa Games and the World Championships? Although it is not going to be what I want, they are going to perform well and achieve podium finishes, especially at the African Games. Recently, there have been issues with the men not performing well, do you see this changing this year? The men are really coming up; when I was talking about performances in Abuja, I was particularly referring to the 100m men’s event. Seeing about four or five guys returning under 10.4secs shows we are gradually coming up, and looking at those athletes, they are young with years ahead of them. Any time I check the result, it gives me so much joy and hope for the future. As a coach with Making of Champions Track and Field club, how are you preparing your athletes for the 2019 athletics year? I already doubled my efforts as a coach and now my experience as an ex-international is coming to play. The expectation is very high now especially with what we were able to achieve last year. We need to do more and as at now we have doubled the training and every other thing we are doing. I can categorically say that I am looking at 2019 with so much expectation; I know the standard is going to be very high and I think we are ready. We have done all we need to do and all that remains for the team is to go out there and show the world what we have been doing in the last couple of months. All eyes were on Joy (Udo-Gabriel) at the Sports Festival especially after what she achieved in 2018? Were you and your team disappointed with her bronze medal finish in Abuja? I have to be honest, I was not disappointed but very happy with what she did. The festival came at a time that athletes were back to their build-up training for the new season. It was the off season for the athletes and it was difficult to manage most of them, especially after competing in so many championships during the year. I did a lot to make Joy compete at that level and I was able to do that because of the experience I had in the past. I was so happy that she was able to get something from the festival. Joy in 2018 had so many competitions. While other athletes were resting, Joy was at the University Games competing for her school, so there was pretty little time for her to really prepare. We have already started preparation for the year, working so hard for her and others to perform beyond expectations. Are you saying there would be more athletes coming out from MoC this year apart from Joy? It is going to be more than Joy; I can say I am going to have at least four athletes representing the country. I am not ready to mention names, this year is going to be great for MoC. Would you say lack of Sports Festivals has affected so many talents that would have emerged over the last six years? Definitely. It has messed up a lot of things, it has made a lot of athletes to go into extinction. However the return of NSF is going to bring a lot out of the young athletes and we will start to see some of the hidden talents in the country. It is going to do us a lot of good, but I will like to advocate for a date more conducive than December when athletes are going through their build-up for the new season. Let it be on a very good date when the season is still on and probably make it a yearly affair. Let it be a real festival and it is going to bring a lot of potential out that will make the country proud. One of the country’s bright lights in athletics, Blessing Okagbare, recently said she actually pushed herself through injury and other issues last year, what can you say about this young lady who has done so well for the country ahead of the new athletics season? It’s really sad that Blessing is still pushing herself at this stage of her career. That means she is not getting the maximum support needed at this time. She is not an athlete we can push over; she has done so well for the country and if she is in any situation that needs attention, then we should give her the maximum support to get the best out of her. I can understand her when she said she was pushing, although a layman out there wouldn’t understand. I don’t think athletes of Blessing’s status should be pushing at this stage. If she is not fit, we should make sure we do everything possible to make her fit. Blessing should be 100 percent fit anytime she is stepping on the track and never at any time should we allow her to step on the track halffit; she has gone beyond that stage. What’s your take on the recent impressive performances of Divine Oduduru? He has been a standout athlete for me this year. He has been improving for a while now and I am impressed with what he has achieved since last year and how he started the year. Since your generation, it’s been difficult for any of Nigeria’s athletes to break the sub- 10secs time, do you see Oduduru doing that soon? Definitely, I was actually expecting him to have done that last year. If he eventually achieves that this year, it is no big deal. His performance last year was top notch and I was expecting him to break that time. He has been around for a while and the experience is there for him now. Surely, he is going to break it. He has been performing well in the 200m, will you advise him to concentrate on that or work hard to combine both 100m and 200m? I think he should work harder in both. The standard in both for him at the moment already puts him at an advantage. He has what it takes to excel in both. Combining both will do him a lot of good. What is your take on athletes/coaches relationship, especially with regard to some recent scandals? I am a little bit shocked with this question. For me I don’t think it’s a welcome development, not something I will want to involve myself in. Such love affairs will affect the performance of such athlete and any coach who wants the best from his athletes should not even think of such things. It’s not a good thing, especially if you really want to get the best out of the athlete. It should be a no-go area.