 High demand by the local beer and livestock feed manufacturers has inhibited Nigeria from earning N716 billion ($1.96 billion) as foreign exchange from sorghum, New Telegraph has learnt.
Sorghum is an important crop used for malt, beer, beer powder, sorghum meal, sorghum rice, livestock feed and foods in the country.
Nigeria, which is current the highest producer of sorghum in Africa had exported only 100,000 tons or N6.49 billion ($17.8 million) out of its 11 million metric tons produced in 2018.
The global price of the crop is $178.5 in the global market.
It was learnt that sorghum farmers had almost doubled production under the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s anchor borrower in 2018.
The high demand and patronage by the brewing industry and livestock has spurred more farmers to take on production of the crop.
It was learnt that there has been increased private sector participation by Nigerian companies in sourcing 80 per cent of the crop from more than 41,000 local farmers and processors.
In 2016 alone, Nigeria produced 6.88 million tons but production has almost double because of CBN support to farmers.
Already, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development had said that the country produces 11 million tons a year.
Despite the production record, Nigeria currently has a sorghum demand gap estimated at five million tons.
Findings by this newspaper revealed that the country had not been importing the grain for some years because it was cheaper to get it locally.
It revealed that Nigerian production represents over 18 per cent of total global production, making it the second producer of the grain after United States.
Already, China has become one of Nigeria’s top trading partners as it accounts for approximately 20 per cent of Nigeria’s total imports.
Meanwhile, the Kano State Chairman of Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Faruk Rabiu, has said that 14,000 sorghum farmers had registered for the Central Bank of Nigerian (CBN)’s loan to produce sorghum under the anchor borrower’s programme.
He had said in Kano that farmers had been directed to register with their respective associations to enable the apex farmers’ association to compile a list for onward submission to CBN.
The chairman said that farmers would be given loan under the anchor borrower programme to enable them produce sorghum in commercial quantity.
Besides, he said that the loan would be extended to seed growers for massive production of quality seeds for sale to farmers in the state.
He explained that registration free forms had already been distributed to farmers in the 484 wards across the 44 local government areas of Kano State.
However, the chairman said that the loan facility was not free, explaining that those who benefitted from it should be ready to repay after the harvesting period.
He advised farmers to make the best use of the opportunity being offered by CBN. Restriction in importation has led to massive production of sorghum valued at N858.2billion in the last two years, New Telegraph has learnt. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) through its anchor borrower scheme is supporting the production. Nigeria currently has a sorghum demand gap estimated at five million tons,… In “News” Other African countries are banking on Nigeria and South Africa to lift growth in the sub-Sahara Africa (SSA) in 2018. The two countries, according to the latest report from Bismark Rewane-led Financial Derivatives Company (FDC), account for over half of SSA’s economy. “Nigeria and South Africa are expected to lift… In “Business” Nigeria is expected to save about N289.2 billion ($803.3 million) from importation of corn this year because of high cost and scarcity of foreign exchange, New Telegraph has learnt. This amount is 33 per cent or 2.4 million tons of the 6.8 million ton of the projected demand by consumers… In “Business”