Following Federal Government’s plan to increase Value Added Tax (VAT) in order to meet up with the payment of N30,000 minimum wage, organised labour under the aegis of trade Union Congress (TUC) has kicked against the plan, saying it should be totally forgotten.
While commending the Senate for finally endorsing the new wage, the leadership of the congress described the VAT angle as an evil counsel.
Recall that the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udo Udoma, and the Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service, Mr Babatunde Fowler, had said the Federal Government was considering an upward review of the VAT by 50 per cent.
They said the increment was to, among others, enable the Federal Government fund the new national minimum wage.
President of Congress, Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama, said the new wage would in no small measure give the workers a sense of belonging.
Comrade Kaigama, however, noted that while the organised labour appreciates the approval of the new wage, it is also instructive to note that inflation has seriously affected its purchasing power, adding that prices of commodities went up even when employers have not commenced payment.
According to him, “the N30,000 monthly National Minimum Wage that we are even asking for to a family of six actually amounts to less than N50 per meal per person. It is exclusive of utility bills and school fees, among others.
“Given our extended family system as Africans we are also expected to once in a while extend hands of fellowship to parents, in-laws, relations, friends who have lost their jobs, brothers and people of the same faith.
“We recall that some lawmakers promised to give the wage bill supersonic attention whenever it was brought before them and they have kept to their word. To us it means we still have men and women with milk of kindness left in them.”
He, therefore, called on the 9th Assembly and well-meaning Nigerians to prevail on governors to pay workers their salaries and pension as and when due to avoid crisis in the industrial sector. The workers have endured enough, after all, “we warned those who feel they cannot pay the new wage to stay away from politics.”
The TUC boss appreciated the Federal Government, lawmakers and Nigerian Employers Consultative Association (NECA) for seeing reason with the workers.