It is a decisive weekend for Governors Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Samuel Ortom (Benue) and Simon Lalong (Plateau) as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) conducts supplementary elections in their respective states to conclude the March 23 governorship polls. The gubernatorial polls, in six out of the 29 states, were declared inconclusive by INEC due to over-voting, non-usage of card readers to accredited voters and violence, among others. The affected states are Benue, Sokoto, Adamawa, Bauchi, Kano and Plateau and the major contenders are the candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). However, INEC has suspended supplementary elections in two of the six states – Adamawa and Bauchi, citing a court order and interlocutory injunctions. Those who are squaring up against the four incumbent governors as the supplementary elections hold tomorrow are Ahmad Aliyu (APC, Sokoto), Abba Yusuf (PDP, Kano), Emmanuel Jime (APC, Benue) and Jeremiah Useni (PDP, Plateau State). Given the number of cancelled votes in the affected states, a total of 374,195 voters will decide the fate of the governors and their contenders. A breakdown of figure shows that Kano State tops the chat with 128,324 votes. Benue follows with 121,091, Sokoto with 75,403 and Plateau with 49,377 votes Among the governors battling for survival, only Lalong is sure of victory. Though the Plateau State governor was not able to secure a margin higher than the number of cancelled votes, in the March 9 polls, he led Senator Useni by 44,922 votes. Cancelled votes in Plateau State after collation of results of the governorship election stood at 49,377, which is 4,448 higher than the margin of lead. Lalong polled 583,255 votes, while Useni trailed closely by 538,326 votes, but there were cancellation of votes in about nine local government areas, with a total of 20 registration areas and 41 polling units. The affected local government areas are Mangu, Barkin Ladi, Bassa, Jos North, Bokkos, Kanam, Langtang South, Pankshin and Shendam. Mangu has the highest number of cancelled votes of 26,135 across three registration areas. Jos North has 4,157 cancelled votes, Kanam (2,627), Barkin Ladi (570), Bassa (3,078), Bokkos (5,314), Pankshin (1,144), Langtang South (5,501) and Shendam (851). In Benue State, Governor Ortom is confident that he will win. He polled 410,576 votes to lead his closest rival, Jime, who scored 329,022 before the poll was declared inconclusive by INEC, which cited that the margin of lead was below the total number of cancelled votes. Going into the supplementary election, the governor is enjoying the support of key political stakeholders in the state. They include former Senate president, David Mark; former governor, Gabriel Suswam and former Minister of Interior, Comrade Abba Moro, among others. Ortom won in 13 out of the 23 local government areas of the state in the March 9 election, while Jime won in 10. The councils where the governor won are Gboko, Guma, Ukum, Logo, Vandeikya, Agatu, Kwande, Buruku, Konshisha, Ado, Ushongo, Gwer West and Gwer East. Those won by Jime are Makurdi, Tarka, Ado, Otukpo, Katsina Ala, Apa, Ohimini, Ogbadibo, Okpokwu and Obi. The total number of cancelled votes was 121,091, while the margin of lead between the two candidates was 81,554 votes. The local government areas where the supplementary polls will hold are Gwer West, Gboko, Ukum, Logo, Okpokwu Agatu, Apa, Buruku, Otukpo Tarka, Tsekeleke, Makundu, Saawuan, Kpanye and Dzegeor, Konshisha and Oju. Sokoto State governor, Tambuwal, also has a slim advantage over his challenger and former deputy, Aliyu, as he leads by 3,413 votes, whereas 75,403 votes were cancelled in 136 polling units across the state According to the results so far declared, Tambuwal polled 489,558 votes, while his closest rival, Aliyu, scored 486,145 votes. Tambuwal has been criss-crossing the Sokoto State in the past days mobilising support for the rerun election. In Kano State, it is a different scenario as Governor Ganduje walks a tight rope. He trails his challenger by 26,655 votes. The PDP candidate polled 1,014,474 votes, while Ganduje scored 987,819 votes. However, cancelled votes stand at 141,694. The supplementary elections will be conducted in 234 polling units, in more than 88 registration areas (wards) of 22 local government areas. Among the local government areas mostly affected are Gaya, Bunkure, Kura, Dala, Nassarawa and Bebeji. Already, there have been alignments and realignments of political forces ahead of tomorrow’s polls. For instance, Governor Ganduje is said to have embarked on rehabilitation of roads and distribution of empowerment kits in areas where the supplementary polls will hold. The PDP camp, led by the governor’s predecessor and senator representing Kano Central in the National Assembly, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, is not leaving anything to chance to consolidate on its lead in the March 9 poll. Ortom, who urged voters in areas where the supplementary polls will hold in Benue State to turn out and exercise their civic duty, also told the electorate to brave all the odds, including real and imaginary unusual security deployments as well as protect their votes. He also urged all stakeholders in the electoral process to resist all forms of inducements to subvert the system by demonstrating the highest level of patriotism even as he reiterated his pledge that the state government will support the security agencies to maintain law and order in all parts of the state. The Benue governor said he knows that from the results of the last elections, the people of the state have indicated their clear preference for the PDP and all its candidates and expressed confidence that the people will seal the renewal of the mandate they gave to him in 2015 by consolidating on his lead at the March 9, governorship poll. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will this Saturday conduct supplementary elections in five states of the federation. The states include Sokoto, Adamawa, Benue, Kano and Plateau states. That of Bauchi State has been cancelled. The elections come after governorship elections results in 22 of the 29 states’ in the… In “Editorial” A total of 609,197 votes will decide last weekend’s governorship elections in six states declared as inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The affected states are Benue, Sokoto, Adamawa, Bauchi, Kano and Plateau and the major contenders are the candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and… In “News” ...says party members upset over inconclusive polls   The Presidency yesterday declared that President Muhammadu Buhari would not influence the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to change results in favour of any candidate in the forthcoming supplementary elections scheduled for Saturday, March 23. Buhari, in a statement by his Senior… In “News”