The Nigeria Police, Osun State Command yesterday said it had fortified security in the state to prevent any breakdown of law and order ahead of today’s Election Tribunal judgment on Osun 2018 governorship election. Police spokesperson, DSP Folashade Odoro, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the Commissioner of Police, Mrs. Abiodun Ige, had directed officers to be at alert to forestall any violence that might erupt after the judgment. “The commissioner of Police had fortified security to avoid any breakdown of law and order. “Officers have been placed on red alert and are pro-active to prevent any kind of violence or demonstration in the state. “We will, however, want to urge people of the state to maintain law and order and go about their lawful businesses without fear,’’ she said. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, had challenged the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Governor Gboyega Oyetola at the Osun 2018 Governorship Election at the election tribunal. The Osun Election Tribunal, which was moved to Abuja in November 2018, after it was initially inaugurated in Osogbo, has now fixed today for its judgment in the suit filed by the PDP and its candidate. IG deploys 30,000 policemen, Sniffer dogs 2 helicopters, 5 APCs, 10 armoured, 250 patrol vehicles deployed DIG, 4 CPs, 8 DCPs, 18 ACPs to coordinate security Politicians’ orderlies barred from voting points FRSC to deploy 500 men, 24 vehicles, 3 ambulances     In what appears unprecedented in the… In “News” Police yesterday said they would arraign the 33 suspected members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) for murder and terrorism. The suspects were allegedly responsible for the killing of a police inspector, inflicting injury on a Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and some other police personnel. The Force Public… In “Metro and Crime” With less than three weeks to the conduct of the 22nd September, 2018 governorship polls in Osun State, the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr Ibrahim Idris, has disclosed that 30 Commissioners of Police would be dispatched to the thirty local government areas of the state to oversee the conduct… In “News”