 If signed into law by President Mohammadu Buhari, the new housing bill passed by the National Assembly that imposes over 200 per cent of personal income tax on low income earners will become a law soon, New Telegraph has learnt. The new housing law, the National Housing Fund (Establishment) Act 2018, has as parts of its key provisions, the mandatory 2.5 per cent contribution of monthly income by employees earning minimum wage and above in public and private sectors; 2.5 per cent of income by self-employed individuals; and 2.5 per cent on cement, locally produced or imported. According to its provisions, employers are expected to deduct and remit the contributions monthly, while penalty for non-compliance of up to N100 million for corporates and N10 million for individuals. Sanctions for defaults include cancellation of operating licence of banks, insurance companies and Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) for violations.  As part of provisions of the law, withdrawal by contributors who have attained the age of 60 years or 35 years of service, should be at interest rate of two per cent per annum “The Fund and any refund of contributions are exempted from payment of taxes,” the bill stated. New Telegraph gathered that consultation about this new housing law is on-going with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) before President Mohammadu Buhari signs it. One of the stakeholders in the sector, Mr Festus Adebayo, described the new housing law as “a serious matter” that all stakeholders, as a matter of urgency, should critically look into it before it becomes operational. A lot of professionals in the housing sector have not seen the bill. However, analysts from pwcnigeria.typepad.com have given 10 reasons why the proposed law “is a bad idea.” According to them, the contribution is regressive as it taxed the poor more than the rich. “For instance, minimum wage earners will pay about 250 per cent of their personal income tax (PAYE) to the NHF monthly,” they said. Besides, they said the law, which would make all employers liable to deduct and remit contributions monthly (without a threshold) would worsen the ease of doing business and Nigeria’s paying taxes ranking. Analysts said “cost of borrowing will increase, as banks are required to invest a minimum of 10 per cent of their profits at one per cent above current deposit rates. “Increasing the tax burden without addressing other fundamental issues such as land regulation, REITS framework, among others, is not consistent with the 2017 National Tax Policy.” According to the pwcnigeria analysts, imposition of the 2.5 per cent levy on cement was a tax on property development, which would make housing even less affordable. They criticised 12 years statute of limitation, saying it would be too long, aside from increasing the risk to employers, while encouraging laxity on the part of government. Still faulting the provisions of the law, the analysts described the penalty regime as “draconian, excessive and not commensurate with the violations.” “The requirement for PFAs to invest pension funds in the scheme means less returns for pension contributors, which will erode value for pensioners,” they said. Also, they pointed out that return of two per cent per annum for contributors withdrawing after attaining 60 years of age or 35 years of service was far below inflation rate and grossly insufficient to compensate for time value of money. “The exemption from tax clause is badly worded, it means refunds are exempt but contributions are taxable,” analysts said. It would be recalled that the National Housing Fund (NHF) was established by the NHF Act of 1992 to facilitate the mobilisation of funds for the provision of affordable housing for Nigerians. However, 27 years after the NHF Act, affordable housing for Nigerians remains a dream. The PWC analysts pointed out that while the proposed law might be well intentioned, availability of funds would not address the myriad of challenges facing the housing sector, which centre mostly on policy and regulations.