The Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) has commenced distribution of consumable goods seized from smugglers. The chairman of the NCS sub-committee on distribution of relief items to orphanages in Zone ‘A’, Comptroller Yakubu Salihu made this disclosure recently in a press briefing. Salihu said that at the completion of the first phase of the exercise, distribution of the relief items reached a total number of 134 orphanages with a cumulative number of 7,350 orphans in Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti states. He disclosed that over 32,576 bags of rice, 1794 kegs of 25 liters of vegetable oil, 327 bales of cloths and 24 bags, including 47 bags of sugar were distributed to the orphanages. Also distributed to the orphanages were: 2,675 pairs of used shoes; 98 cartons of tomato paste; 6 cartons of seasonings; 13 cartons of soaps/detergents, and 11 bags of foreign flour. Sunday Telegraph learnt that some of the orphanages that benefited included: Little Saints, Raco Child, Vigilant Heart, Jesus kids and Stella Obansanjo Children Home, among others. Salihu disclosed that in carrying this assignment, the sub-committee was strictly guided by the directive to ensure that the items given to only registered/ recognised homes. “The allocated items were escorted with landing certificates which must be signed by operators of the homes upon receipt of the items. This is to ensure that all allocated items get to intended recipients.” He lamented that as noble as the intention of Federal Government is, “we have discovered that some unpatriotic elements are trying to cash on this exercise by going to orphanages pretending to be working for the service, collecting documents, supposedly for the committee.”
He said that the obvious criminal intention to either extort money or some of the items for “facilitating” the allocation is not lost on the committee.
“Already two people (a man and a woman) impersonating the committee have been arrested and detained at Seme border. “For the avoidance of doubt, the service has not permitted any person or organisation to contact orphanages, IDPs or indeed any vulnerable group on behalf of the committee. We have our own way of identifying and verifying such homes or groups that qualify for the ongoing distribution.”
He said as the committee moves to Zone B, Kaduna and other north western states of the country in this ongoing distribution, they are determined to ensure that those that fall within the sub-committee’s mandate get the items in a transparent manner.