Indications have emerged that Kano state students may no longer enjoy their yearly scholarship if Abba Kabir Yusuf the governorship candidate of the peoples democratic party (PDP) wins the rescheduled supplementary poll next week. The move, which has become a source of concern to well-meaning citizens of Kano, was allegedly endorsed by the former Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, Abba’s godfather. An source said that the PDP would likely jettison the idea of paying the scholarship for indigent students studying in various institutions in the state. Kwankwaso is accused of preferring to see more indigenes go to foreign schools, noting that due to paucity of funds the PDP if elected  will not be able to shoulder the two responsibilities at the same time. The former defense Minister frowned at the “huge” sum the Ganduje administration is spending on the payment of local scholarship. It could be recalled that during his second tenure as the Governor of the state, Kwankwaso sponsored many students to abroad for their post-graduate studies. Meanwhile, Dr. Mamman Inusa, a scholar welcomed the idea of foreign scholarship but frowned at Kwankwaso’s idea of planning to discontinue paying internal scholarship. “The idea of sending our people to Foreign countries to study is good, but I’m particularly worried about Kwankwaso’s initiative”, he said. “I remembered vividly during his second tenure how he was sending people to go and read History, Mass communication and so on in foreign universities that are not even recognized. “I thought he would encourage people who want to study engineering, medicine and other science related courses to study abroad instead of what he did. “For goodness sake this is 21st century and for him to disregard our local students is to say the least the height of ignorance and wickedness with due respect”. The Federal High Court sitting in Kano has sacked the Kano state gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Abba Kabir Yusuf. The judge,  Justice Ambrose Lewis, said the elections of Abba Kabir Yusuf as Kano PDP Gubernatorial candidate is illegal and an exercise in nullity. Justice Ambrose Lewis… In “National news” The national headquarters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has recognised and adopted candidates presented to it by former Kano State governor, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, including its gubernatorial candidate, Kabir Abba Yusuf.   Speaking to our Correspondent in an exclusive interview, the dissolved Chairman of the party, Senator Masaud Jibrin… In “News” Indication emerged yesterday that the crisis rocking the political group of former governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, the Kwankwasiyya movement, worsened yesterday.   A member of the group and former deputy governor Hafiz Abubakar had picked the governorship form on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party… In “News”