Fresh information has emerged on how a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), in-charge of Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), Bayelsa State, Kolawole Okunola, was saved before he could be beheaded. Okunola was abducted by armed youths in Bayelsa State during the last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. He was alleged to have been repeatedly tortured and just as the youth were deliberating on how to end his life, divine intervention came. Trouble for the DCP started after the armed youths in large numbers attacked officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The officials had just arrived Bassambiri community in Nembe Local Government Area with electoral materials when the youth stormed the venue. An eye witness claimed: “The youths hijacked and carted away the electoral materials meant for seven wards in the area and took them to a popular hotel where they manipulated the results. After they returned the fake results to INEC office, another opposing group, alerted of the development started protesting. While they were protesting, youths that had earlier hijacked INEC materials, insisted that INEC officials must authenticate the manipulated results. “The DCP, who was on duty in that area was alerted. There was also heated argument between party agents and INEC officials. The DCP tried to calm everyone but his efforts failed. In order to avoid breakdown of law and order, the DCP informed the Balyesa State Commissioner of Police, who ordered that both officials of INEC and the materials should be moved to the state capital, Yenagoa, for safety. This was agreed with the military officers on duty.” In the process of embarking on the journey in a jetty, one of the party candidates led youths in their hundreds and attacked the officer, dragging and assaulting him with threats to kill him and anyone who failed to compel INEC officials to return to the office and continue collation of results. The INEC officials were finally forced back to continue with the collation of results under a tense atmosphere with sporadic shootings going on. Earlier, however, after the youth abducted Okunola, he was dragged to an unknown place, where he was repeatedly beaten. His uniform was torn and the mob chanted that Okunola must die. The youth compelled him to sit down on a wooden box, brought out daggers and said they were going to behead him. It was gathered that while they were waiting for their leader to give them the final go ahead, news came that INEC officials had returned to authenticate the manipulated results. The jubilant youths rushed back to the polling unit. Okunola regained his freedom around 11am that same day. He was rescued by Marine Police units, who were already combing the areas, searching for him. After his rescue, he was taken to AGIP. Security sources revealed that a night before the DCP abduction, armed group invaded Bassambiri with the aim of scaring away all opposition party members and the electorate. One of the source said: “All through the night of that fateful Friday, the hoodlums shot sporadically, maimed several persons and killed one person.” The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, decried the attack on Okunola and ordered arrest of those involved in his abduction. Adamu said that under his watch such brazen acts of impunity wouldn’t be condoned.