Following the call by the North Central caucus of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House of Representatives asking the leadership of the party to zone the position of speaker to the area, some lawmakers have begun lobbying for the candidature of deputy leader, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase. Wase, erstwhile chairman of the House Committee on Federal Character represents Wase federal constituency of Plateau State from the north central. New Telegraph gathered reliably that a group of returning lawmakers and some members-elect met at a popular five-star hotel in Abuja to drum support for the speakership aspirant.  The coordinator of Hon. Wase’s campaign team, a lawmaker from one of the North West states, confided in our correspondent that many of the members they have contacted were  at home with the candidature of the fourth time lawmaker. He said:“Wase’s leadership qualities, humility and grasp for legislative work stand him out among other contestants. “He has all it takes to lead the House peacefully because he enjoys that support and understanding of almost all returning members”  According to the campaign coordinator, who prefers anonymity pending the unveiling of the APC’s zoning arrangement, some contestants were ready to sacrifice their ambition for Wase. Speaking further about the candidate, the lawmaker said:“Among all the contestants, Wase appears to be more matured and he knows how to handle people. He is very calm and a gentleman that can fit the position of speaker very well. “I can assure you that  most members are comfortable with Wase because he never had issues with anybody. Besides, he has listening ears. “He ensured fairness and correction of imbalances when he served as chairman of federal character committee. He operates an open door policy. He was always listening to members each time they come to him with an issue.  “He is someone that doesn’t raise his shoulders despite the fact he is one of the ranking members of the House. So, many members are really ready to see that he becomes speaker” The member who disclosed that the meeting will reconvene this weekend to strategise on how to carry out the campaign for Wase, expressed confidence that “Wase is gaining more support from our colleagues. He is really a good man and everybody among our colleagues can attest to that. He doesn’t have problems with anybody and he has helped us in many ways.”