Operatives of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) have arrested a 51-year-old civil engineer for impregnating his 15-year-old house help. The engineer, Oluwadare Adesanmi, based in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, was alleged to have sexually abused and impregnated his underage house help. The victim, a Junior Secondary School Student (JSS) of a government school in the Dutse area of the FCT, was hired by the family as a house help about two years ago and has been living with them in their one-bedroom apartment before the incident. Head, Press and Public Relations Unit of NAPTIP, Adekoye Vincent, said the victim, during her painful narration, disclosed that the Ondo State-born Adesanmin forced her to have sexual intercourse with him on two occasions in the sitting room where she sleeps. On the two occasions, he threatened to deal with her if she talked to anyone about it. Vincent said: “According to her, the first time was when his wife travelled and the man sneaked into the parlour where she was sleeping, touched her and forced his way into her after covering her mouth so that she wouldn’t shout out. That was the day he deflowered her and it was the man who cleaned up the blood stains and took away the bed spread she used to cover herself. “The matter came to the open after one of the teachers in her school noticed some of the changes in the girl. She was now taken to the hospital where a pregnancy test was done and it came out positive. Upon interrogation, the man confessed but maintained that he only slept with her once.” The development came on the heels of warning by the Director-General of NAPTIP, Dame Julie Okah-Donli, that parents, henceforth, would be held responsible for any reported case of child abuse or defilement. She said: “It is the responsibility of parents to protect and shield their wards from any form of abuse.” The NAPTIP boss gave the warning while reacting to the report of increase in the cases of child abuse and sexual exploitation across the country.