Success Adegor is a 7-year-old pupil of Okotie-Eboh Primary School (1), Sapele, Delta State. Recently her video went viral on social media on the inability of her parents to pay examination fees and the little girl was driven away from school, a school believed to be government-owned where tuition fee is said to be free. If a prophet had told the management and staff of the primary school that sending Success home would trigger up controversies and bring both the old and present Delta State government under public knocks and criticisms, the ‘Aunty’ who drove out the little girl won’t have ventured into it. To the school pupils, the parents of Success and community, it is a good omen, but to the school teachers and the state government it is something that has come to question the free education policies of Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa’s government, and the authenticity of the programme in the state. In this exclusive interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN, the little girl, her parents, some members of the community, the teachers and the PA to the local government council chairman, shared their views on the matter.  Could you tell us why you were driven away from school by your ‘Aunty’? I was driven away from school because of examination levy. Have you been paying exam levy before? Yes. How much have you been paying? I paid N900. My mum said that my ‘Aunty’ should give her a little time to look for the money. I will still pay, but they are making someone to vex What is the name of the ‘Aunty’ who drove you away? Name (withheld) But my Aunty did not want to drive me. It is the headmaster, and the headmaster said that there is another person on top that says that they should drive pupils (who have not paid) because exam levy is not free. How did you get that boldness to say this your pako (substandard) school self, who taught you to say it? Nobody taught me anything. It is God that inspired me to say it and exposed the bad character of teachers in our school. Every time is money, money, money. My parents have no work. My brother also pay money every time. Could you say exactly what you said after your ‘aunty’ sent you home? Speaking in pidgin English: I never pay (fees) no be say I no go pay, instead of dem to flog person, dem go dey pursue person, make dem flog me, dem go flog me-eh dem the cannßing go tire dem, dem go tire for flogging. Dem go flog flog dem go tire as dem say dem stubborn, I go tell dem say I stubborn pass dem. What do you want to become if you grow up? When I grow up, I want to be a pastor and lawyer so that I can punish bad people. Sir can you tell us your names? I’m Mr. Godwin Adegor, the father of Success. What can you say about Success and the school matter? Yes they pursue my daughter Success because of examination fees. When they drove her away from school, she started to complain that they should have flogged her rather than sending them away. So as she was grumbling home, my neighbour in the same area saw her and ask her why she was talking alone and grumbling home, she now told my neighbour that she was driven away from school by her ‘Aunty’ for not paying examination levy. She asked her how much was the money, Success replied that it is N900.00. And before this time, we have paid some money, we have also told the ‘Aunty’ not to be sending the children away that I will look for the money to pay. Are you happy with the situation of things right now? When my neigbour put the story on the net, people have been coming to greet us and render assistance to us. Some people also made some promises that they have not been able to fulfil. What do you want from government as it is now? It is because of Success alone, people in this community are really suffering. You can see the kind of place people are living, dilapidated building, bad drinking water, bad and old houses, when rain falls it is danger for us. You can also see the kind of school children here go to. The roofs are begging for a change, yet nobody is doing anything about it. People come here to take picture and promise to do something for the community, yet we are not seeing them. Sapele local government chairman promise to give Success scholarship we have not seen anything. This issue is very good to be coming at this time, because it has come to expose many things, and is drawing the attention of the government to this area that has been forgotten for years. The school is actually worse than Kpako school. But Delta State operates free education programme, how come you pay fees? I don’t know, they say is free education, but we pay all kinds of money every time, today it will be broom and toilet tissues, tomorrow it will be another thing. If you look at it very well all the money we pay in every term is more than ten thousand. Even my son in the secondary school it is the same thing. We are going through difficulties in this country, anyone that does not have money his children cannot go to school. Government should help us out it is too much in Delta State.