Foreign vessels operating on Nigerian waters illegally are being combated with global measures to discourage fish pillaging. BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports  It is estimated that Nigeria loses about $70 million annually to illegal foreign fishing vessels. Also, no fewer than 50 lives are said to be lost annually through sinking of fishermen’s boats and outright shooting by sea robbers. Worried by these developments, the Federal Government said that Nigerian vessels operating on the nation’s waters must be installed with tracking devices such as Automatic Identification System (AIS) and Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) so that they could be monitored by the appropriate agencies. With the steps taken so far, the Federal Department of Fishery and Agriculture said that there had been a drastic reduction in pirate attacks against fishing trawlers because of its partnership with Nigerian Navy, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and Nigerian Customs Service (NCS).  Illegality According to the Nigeria Navy, Nigeria loses huge sums of money and resources annually to Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing due to activities of some Chinese fishing vessels in the country’s maritime domain. However, with the introduction of Ports State Measures Agreement (PSMA) and tracking devices, some foreign vessels operating illegally have been prevented from bringing fish caught without authorisation into the ports. PSMA was introduced to prevent, eliminate and deter illegal fishing globally among countries, which have ratified the agreement. It is the first binding international agreement to prevent vessels engaged in IUU fishing from using ports to land their catches. The provisions of the PSMA apply to fishing vessels seeking entry into designated port of a state, which is different from their flag state.  Report Hitherto, FBNQuest Capital’s report explained that the country spent $800million yearly to import fish for her 3.3million metric tons fish demand. The report added that Nigeria’s per capita fish consumption was 13kilogrammes, significantly lower than the global average of 21kilogrammes. It was learnt the some trawler operators, who could boost fish supply in the country had lost their vessels to robbers and pirates. According to some members of the Nigerian Trawlers Owners Association (NITOA), 45 trawling companies in the past managed a total of 350 vessels but the number was reduced to about 230 vessels operated by only 10 firms. The decline, it was gathered, had threatened about 4,000 direct jobs and 500,000 indirect jobs in the industry value chain. The President of the association, Mr. Amire Akinbola, who is a former director of fisheries in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, explained that the sub-sector had been neglected for a long time.  Turning point However, Akinbola said that no incident had been reported this year by any of their members, adding that it was the hope of trawler owners that the negative menaces that had chased some operators out of the fishery business would no more be prominent in the country’s maritime domain. The president said that the relative peace experienced now in the fishery sector had also increased the rate at which aquatic products from Nigeria were exported. He added their businesses were booming in the sector outside Lagos maritime domain. Abimbola explained that people were mistaking pirate attacks for sea robbery, saying that they were not exactly the same. He noted: “What we have mostly on fishing vessels is sea robbery. There are times we had pirate attacks but in recent years, it is not witnessed. It is possible for the two to happen with the vessel. If for example, the vessel is attacked within the territory and the vessel is taken as a platform to go and attack other vessels, it is piracy.” Also, the Deputy Director at the Fishery and Agriculture department of the ministry, Mrs Bola Kupolati, said that the number of attacks on fishing trawlers was very insignificant in recent time due to government measures. Already, she noted that the ministry had licensed a total of 143 fishing vessels allowed to fish marine products in the nation’s territorial and coastal waters for the year 2019. The deputy director explained that fishing vessels were licensed on yearly basis with a view to monitoring the activities of these vessels. Kupolati noted said that more vessels got licences for catching shrimps as against fishes. She added that fishing trawlers were allowed to catch fish within five nautical miles from the shore of the nation’s coastal waters, adding that five nautical miles away from the shore was considered as inshore shrimping and fishing. Kupolati disclosed that N500,000 is charged to license vessels for inshore fishing and shrimping, while N1million is charged for vessel that are involved in distance water or deep sea fishing.  Last line It is imperative for government to provide enabling environment for trawling firms and local fishermen in order to reduce illegal vessels from encroaching on Nigerian waters.