A police sergeant, Damilola Adeojo, attached to the Lagos State Task Force and some civilians were alleged to have been injured during a clash yesterday at the Mile 12 Market area of Lagos State. According to the police, the sergeant was attacked with machetes and broken bottle. Adeojo was rushed to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, (LASUTH) for treatment. The cause of the mayhem is not yet clear and has different versions. While one version claimed that street urchins were fighting with traders of northern extraction, another version said mobile policemen and street urchins were actually those fighting, leading to many sustaining injuries. The mayhem caused commercial activities to be grounded for a while. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, did not respond to enquiries on the issue.
The task force Chairman, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, said some suspected cultists attacked the policemen.
He disclosed that seven among the cultists and their leader were arrested. Egbeyemi explained that the suspected cultists inflicted machete cut injuries on Sergeant Adeojo, leaving him critically injured.
Trouble, the chairman said, started after task force policemen went to Mile 12 to carry out a raid on the market and its environs.
He said: “The enforcement operation around Mile 12 was carried out to get rid of cultists and miscreants disturbing innocent members of the public around the area. The agency was responding to the series of ‘Save our Soul’ messages from the residents of Mile 12 who had petitioned the task force to come to their aid. “During the attack, an officer of the agency, Sergeant Damilola Adeojo, was seriously injured with cutlasses and broken bottles. He is presently receiving treatment and undergoing series of tests on his head at Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). “No responsible and responsive government would tolerate miscreants and cultists disturbing innocent residents at any parts of the state. Enough of these killings by cultists and miscreants, especially at Mile 12, Bariga, Somolu and Lagos Island areas.”
Egbeyemi said the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, had directed that all those arrested be charged to court for prosecution. Residents of Gowon Estate, Egbeda, Lagos State, have expressed worry over escalating activities of cultists, homosexuals and lesbianism in the community. Many, who spoke with New Telegraph Newspaper, did so under the condition of anonymity. They fear reprisal from cult members in the community. The residents claimed to know most… In “Metro and Crime” Tension enveloped Lagos State yesterday following bloody clashes in two parts of the metropolis. The clashes, which left two dead and many injured, occurred at the Idioro- Mushin and Ijegun areas. At Mushin, over 30 youths were arrested after boys from Alamutu and Alaka Elegba streets engaged in a deadly… In “Metro and Crime” Street urchins otherwise called area boys unleashed terror on residents of Iyana-Ipaja area of Lagos metropolis on Tuesday night. When the dust of the clash between different groups settled, one person was dead and a policeman’s head was broken, while several others were also injured. The policeman, attached to the… In “Metro and Crime”