Minister seeks $461.8m for completion of new terminals  Foreign airlines operating into the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, have raised concern over safety matters at the airport, alleging congestion at its apron, which makes it difficult for arriving aircraft to have a place to park to disembark their passengers.  Two of the European carriers who spoke to New Telegraph under the condition of anonymity, stated that they had filed petitions with the Minister of Transportation and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) on the need to pull some domestic airlines’ aircraft that are not serviceable out of the tarmac to allow operational aircraft use the area. One of the aircraft is blocking a CCTV camera from monitoring the environment, they said. A stationed aircraft can  become a target for anything, according to a top official of FAAN. The Authority has serious capacity constraints, as non-flying aircraft permanently sitting on the apron is a serious issue. According to an airline chief, “this is becoming unbearable for us as an airline. We are having a lot of issues. We fear that an accident could happen under this situation. We notice that there are aircraft that are not serviceable that are parked for months in sensitive area of operations. This is too dangerous for aircraft manoeuvring.” Aside the tarmac area for commercial aircraft, uncleared cargoes at the Murtala Muhammed Airport cargo apron have left that section congested. The result is that the tarmac can no longer accommodate large cargo aircraft on account of limited space. Until the uncleared cargoes are removed from both the tarmac and apron, the area will remain a no-go-area for big cargo aircraft, including Boeing 747 and Boeing 767. The permanently-stationed aircraft, all wide-bodied, are reported to be occupying the little available space for all aircraft operating in and out of the terminal. One of the aircraft is parked on the open bay at the hajj and cargo terminal belonging to Medview airline. Three other aircraft, including a Boeing 777 belonging to Air Peace and an Airbus belonging to Arik, are parked on the apron at the passenger terminal.
Arik’s Airbus airplane had been parked in the area for over two years with vandalised engines and other parts. While aircraft are not meant to be parked permanently on the apron, the management of MMIA says these aircraft were parked without prior notice that they would be there for as long as a year or two and even beyond. According to the Manager, South-West Airport, who also doubles as the MMIA Airport Manager, Mrs. Victoria Shinaba, one of the aircraft on the passenger apron had spent over five years, while others had spent a year and a half or over. She said some of the aircraft were brought in without prior notice to the airport authority and they were put in a difficult position on arrival to quickly look for a parking space for the aircraft. “We are not against new airlines operating here, we welcome new operators and we are not hostile, but prior notice should be given when an aircraft is coming in,” she said. “The international airlines always notify us whenever they are bringing in a bigger aircraft to enable us provide space for them, this is not a garage that you just come and dump your car and go away, it’s not done.” She said 32 airlines were making use of the only 14 functional avio-bridges at MMIA on daily basis, adding that one of the aircraft was currently blocking the active bay. According to her, due to space constraints, other airlines using the apron often find it difficult to get a place to park and manoeuvre, citing the wings collision incident involving Emirates and a stationed Hak aircraft at the domestic wing of the airport a few years’ back.
The MMIA Airport manager said a permanently stationed aircraft could constitute a threat to the airport. The onus of securing the aircraft still rest with FAAN, though the airlines have the primary responsibility to their aircraft. Shinaba, however, assured that plans were on to increase the capacity of the apron, but it will be a long time plan.
According to investigation, Emirates cargo is planning to stop flights into the airport due to inadequate space and Arik Air whose aircraft is said to be occupying space on the apron is planning to remove its aircraft, as talks had been open between them and FAAN management. Although the figures are not officially out, the owners of the abandoned aircraft in Nigeria airports could be losing over N30 billion with their inability of not knowing that the abandoned aircraft parts could be resold or converted to other uses, New Telegraph has learnt. Former Commandant, Murtala Muhammed Airport… In “News” Welcome to the unlikely epicenter of one of the few booming sectors of the global aviation industry –dismantling, recycling and crushing of aircraft that are no longer needed by airlines with older, inefficient jets that cannot be filled or sold. WOLE SHADARE writes   Thirteen jets for boneyard Landing in… In “Aviation” Wizkid, Tiwa Savage lose bags FAAN denies incident   The security lapses at the country may have found expression at the nation’s airports, particularly at the Murtala Muhammed Airports, Lagos as bandits have continued to rob airlines taxiing to their final stops. A private jet carrying two top Nigerian musical… In “News”