  Ondo State Government yesterday said it would sign the death sentences of convicted murder suspects in the state, including the one passed on Mr. Adeyemi Seidu, who killed Khadijat, the first daughter of former Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo. The state’s Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Adekola Olawoye (SAN), said the state would implement the sentence as the state had no plan to abolish death sentence. The disclosure emerged following renewed calls across the state for the state government to abolish such plans even as the government insisted that it had no plan to abolish the death sentence. An Akure High Court had on Wednesday sentenced Seidu to death by hanging for killing Khadijat, who was strangulated to death by Seidu, who was her boyfriend. After strangulating her, Seidu buried her remains in a shallow grave in his room in Okearo area of Akure, the state capital. The decomposing body of Khadijat, who until her death was a final year student of Adekunle Ajasin University in Akungba Akoko (AAUA) was found in Seidu’s room in June last year. Speaking on the death sentence issue, Olawoye said Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu would soon sign the death warrant of those who had been sentenced to death in the state. Olawoye argued that it was imperative for law to take its course, and that anybody who kills should also be killed. He said: “Life is not a property of anybody, nobody has the right to take the life of fellow men, except as allowed and permitted by the law. “Even in advanced countries where they advocate abolition of death penalty, they still execute people found guilty of murder. “Like the judgement we heard somebody killed his girlfriend and removed her body parts and buried her in his room. “How do you expect us to abolish death sentence with that? This is the rule of law; no sentiment about it. “When a case of this nature gets to the Supreme Court and it is confirmed that such a person should be executed, then the aspect of the governor, who has the constitutional right to confirm and sign the death sentence, will come into play. “We have so many of them that have been convicted, but I want to assure you that my ministry will do things proactively to see that these convicts will be executed. Mr. Governor will sign their death warrant.” While commending the judgement of the high court, which sentenced the killer to death, Olawoye said it was” a victory for the rule of law.” However, Oluboyo has said the death sentence passed on Seidu had rekindled his hope and that of his family members on the nation’s judiciary. Also, Oluboyo said the death sentence passed on the killer would serve as deterrence to other young men who are looking for money through dubious means. Although the former deputy governor said he did not participate in the trial of Adeyemi Seidu, he said the verdict gladdens his heart as the killer did not go scot-free after he killed Khadijat for money-making rituals. He said: “The judgementhighlights the fact that there is judiciary in the country. I made a pronouncement that what has happened has happened. I said I did not have interest in the prosecution. Despite the fact that I did not participate in the trial, the judiciary still did its job as expected. “This judgement will serve as deterrence to others. You cannot kill somebody and just go away free like that. The boy thought he would go away with the murder and that was the reason he did everything to cover his track. “This will teach our ladies the lesson that whenever they are going out, they should let people know. It is because we knew on time the whereabouts of Khadijat that we were able to get her killer. “Parents should monitor their children. If not that we monitored the movement of Khadijat, the guy would have got away with the murder. Khadijat left school on Thursday, I was able to know that she was not in the school on Friday. “I sent money to her account and she did not call to thank me as usual. That was how I became suspicious. “The guy knew that we were able to trace Khadijat to him and he became restless after we asked him about the movement of Khadijat. He told us that he saw Khadijat but that she had gone to Lagos. “Khadijat was not a wayward girl, we knew of her relationship with Adeyemi. It was because of this that led to his arrest and eventual conviction. I appreciate the journalists for the role they played in unravelling they death of Khadijat.” An Akure High Court yesterday sentenced to death by hanging, Mr. Adeyemi Seidu, for killing Khadijat, the first daughter of former Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo. Khadijat was choked to death by her boyfriend, Adeyemi. The convict also buried her remains in a shallow grave in his… In “Metro and Crime” Suspected killer of Khadijat, daughter of the immediate past Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo; Seidu Sakiru Adeyemi was remanded in prison custody on the order of an Akure Chief Magistrate Coirt. Seidu was remanded in prison custody by Chief Magistrate Victoria Bob- Manuel Victoria after he was… In “News Around Nigeria” …as friends, varsity mourn     The Ondo State Police Command has said delay in charging Adeyemi Saidu (Alao), the prime suspect in the murder of Khadijat Oluboyo, daughter of immediate past deputy governor of Ondo State, Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo, to court is due to the uncooperative attitude of the… In “The Mega City / Life”