 In order to bring succour to children living with disability as well as include them in communities and the society at large, the Festus Fajemilo Foundation (FFF) has raised 170 advocates to help the disabled in different schools break all barriers of negative perception from parents and students. The 170 advocates passed out of the training programme during the Closing Ceremony. Breaking All Barriers Project which held in Oko-Oba, Agege in Lagos recently. The theme of the programme, organised by the A Voice (OXFAM/HIVOS) in partnership with FFF and Centre for Youth Studies is, “Sexuality Education For Young Persons with Disabilities: Raising Awareness of Their Sexual and Reproductive Health (SRH) Rights and Challenges”. The objectives of Breaking All Barriers Club is to create awareness for sexual and reproductive health right of young persons living with disability, promote respect and human rights of young persons with disability. The club has been able to train about 170 students known as Adolescent Advocates in 17 private schools. Similarly, FFF said it would also raise advocates among young persons with disability in order for them to know their sexual and reproductive health rights. Some of the topics that was treated at the training programme were based on life skills which helped to show the behaviour of persons living with disability and raise their self-esteem. The topics include sexuality education, national and international laws that protect the rights of children with disability. These advocates with the title “BAB Spirit” have become role models in their various schools, said Mr Afolabi Fajemilo, the founder of FFF. Disability is a state of being disabled; deprivation or want of ability; absence of competent physical, intellectual, or moral power. Speaking furthere, Fajemilo said 170 secondary school students have been trained, referred to as “Adolescent Advocates,” 12 young persons with disabilities has also been trained by these advocates and 69 of their peers. “Out of the 17 schools we worked with about nine of them has started admitting children with disability,” he said. According to Latifat Ashimiwo, one of the children living with disability said she wass an advocate of herself and she has learnt to have a good self – image, believing in herself and loving herself. “I am also special,” she added. The programme has helped parents to understand that their children should be released and not to be caged because of the condition they’re in. The parents of the special children urges the government and citizens to come to their aid because they are special children,and they need special care . In an effort to help adolescents living with disability to attain their potentials, especially their sexual and reproductive health rights (SRHR), a facilitator with Festus Fajemilo Foundation (FFF) and Project Team Member of Breaking All Barriers (BAB), Mrs. Anthonia Bakare has called on public and private organisations in Nigeria, to… In “Health” Participants at a recent media training in Lagos have called for the inclusion of persons with disability (PWDs) in programmes on sexual and reproductive health (SRH) to enable them uptake services on HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention. These are the high points of the training on Increasing Uptake of Sexual and… In “Health” With a restrictive abortion law in Nigeria, thousands of sexually active adolescents and married women die needlessly from unsafe abortion. Rather than provide succour, the United States (US) President, Donald Trump’s Global Gag Rule has further tightened the noose on women, especially in developing countries. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports The ordinary man in… In “Health”