Comrade Oladimeji Odeyemi, a security analyst and counter-terrorist expert, is the Convener of the Coalition of Civil Society Groups against Terrorism in Nigeria. He is also one of those who mobilised Nigerians across the 17 southern states to re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari. He speaks, in this interview, on the conduct of the election and his expectation in the next four years. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  What is your general overview of the February 23 presidential election? The presidential election was substantially free and fair as adjudged by local and international observers. Expect some few places where we had little disturbances. But the general overview is that the elections were credible and represents an improvement on our previous elections. If you look at the total number votes returned from some parts of the country, you’ll realise there were reductions, compared to 2015, and that shows that we are beginning to curtail incidences of overvoting, and the card readers have been more efficiently used in this election. Do you think the election was actually free and fair? Yes, we must agree that even in so-called advanced democracies, there has never been a perfect election anywhere in the world. But the significance of this election is that it was conducted in an atmosphere devoid of interference by the Presidency, unlike what we used to experience in the past. Several stakeholders, both locally and internationally have come to confirm that the election was credible, free and fair. The candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, has rejected the result and might head to the court. Do you think he has a point to make? The rejection of the election results by the candidate of PDP, Atiku Abubakar isn’t a surprise at all. It would turn out to be an academic exercise that would make our history and judiciary robust. There can’t be enough evidences to upturn the election. It is an open reality that Nigerians vote en masse for President Buhari and this has been evident, even before the election, going by the acceptance and popular support he has continued to enjoy amongst the ordinary Nigerians, who coincidentally constitutes the larger percentage of our voting population. There has been criticism of the action of the military in the elections by some people, especially in Rivers State. What is the true picture of things? The military has played a crucial role of stabilising the security apparatus during the election, especially in Rivers State. There could have been a lot of massacre in that state, if not in the whole political region if the military were not available to douse the few pockets of violence. You must also remember that in the course of maintaining law and order during this election, the Army lost one of its personnel to those brigands who nearly turned an election into war, in Rivers State. Therefore, those criticising the role of the army are not been sincere. Do you think the INEC has done well in the discharge of its duties? The INEC performance was above 80 per cent during the last elections considering the evil plans of the political parties to ensure their victory at all costs. But the uprightness and doggedness of the electoral body led by the savvy professor Yakubu saw the nation through the difficult terrains all over Nigeria. We believe there can always be improvements and this we look forward to in the other elections that are days ahead. What are your expectations of President Buhari in this second term? Our newly re-elected president must hit the ground running with the continuation of the fight against corruption and insurgency, consolidate on his effort at getting the economy back on ground track to lead the masses out of the woods, as he has demonstrated with his first term in office. His resolve to focus on agriculture is the best way to go in order to get the nation from being a mono-economy. In achieving all this also, the support of Nigerians becomes imperative and this we believe every patriotic Nigerians will continue to give, as we look forward to a greater country in the years ahead.