A 28-year-old man, Dankaratu Kareem, was on Monday brought before a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State for allegedly stealing an unregistered motorcycle, valued at N240,000. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Kareem, whose address is not stated, is facing a two-count charge of stealing and stabbing with knife. The Police Prosecutor, ASP. Akpan Ikem, told court that Kareem committed the offences on March 10 at Tobiko Winners Bus Stop in Badagry. Ikem said that the accused stole the motorcycle, a cell phone and N5, 000 cash, property of one Sanni Mohammed. “The accused also stabbed Sanni with knife, causing the complainant bodily harm to his neck. “The offences contravene Sections 285 and 244 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015,” the prosecutor said. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Chief Magistrate, Mr Patrick Adekomaya, admitted Kareem to bail in the sum of N200, 000 with two sureties in like sum. The magistrate said that the two sureties should be gainfully employed. He adjourned the case until May 6 for further hearing. (NAN) A 28-year-old man, Chukwuka Okaka, who allegedly stole N1.7 million, was on Monday docked before a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State. Okaka was arraigned on a three-count charge of stealing, obtaining under false pretences and breach of peace. The accused, whose address was not given, however, pleaded not… In “Metro and Crime” Three men, Jide Shittu, 41, Saidu Wahabi, 50, and Biodun Sekolo, 40, were on Wednesday brought before a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos State, for allegedly stealing property worth N2.2 million. The three men, who have no fixed address, are standing trial for conspiracy and stealing. The Prosecutor, Akpan Ikem,… In “Metro and Crime” The police on Monday arraigned a 26-year-old man, Toyin Sunday, at a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court, near Lagos, for allegedly stealing a mobile phone worth N7,000 from a church. The accused, whose address was not mentioned, is facing a charge of stealing. The prosecutor, Inspector Akpan Ikem, told the court… In “News Around Nigeria”