Honourable Charles Idahosa is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State. In this interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN, he spoke on the general elections. Excerpts:   What steps are you taking to placate aggrieved members in Edo South, where some people are openly hobnobbing with the PDP? We have heard all these over and over before and I have reacted to this just last week. Somebody raised alarm that many of our party members are staying behind to sabotage and I said we know them. We know the people that are doing this thing. In politics there is usually a game of contestation and what you need after the game you try as much as possible to keep to the party programme. But in this part of the world people just feel they must keep the enmity going. This is the only place in the world that I see 10 people aspiring to be a council chairman knowing that one person would win. So, that is what we are having now. But the truth of the matter is that Godwin Obaseki has since moved on. As far as I am concerned, he has done very well as a governor. It is the spillover of the primaries into the House of Representatives and the House of Assembly. Those who won and those who did not win, everybody is just complaining. But as party leaders, we are aware and we are trying to address the issue and monitor all those aggrieved people, we are appealing and talking to them. How would you then stop the exodus? Just the same way there are aggrieved people in the APC, there are also aggrieved people in the PDP who are cross-ing over to join us. So, it is something that happens regularly in politics. We are appeasing those we can appease and I hope that we would be able to speak with one voice. Also, we have our own internal mechanism to checkmate those that we don’t have absolute confidence in. I am unwilling to disclose what we are going to do. I can assure you that we have identified them, we know them and we are watching them. How do you see the coming election? I am sure that we will win because of the job that Obaseki is doing. I can see his appeal directly to the ordinary people. You see it yourself. They are very happy with him. They think he has done very well. Even if you go round Benin you will feel it. If you go round the state you will see it. There is normalcy. People have a sense of governance around them that there is a government. Go and look at Ring Road. Having driven along Mission Road and Akpakpava I was shocked. The smooth traffic, everything was moving, people are more law abiding. He has changed the face of governance here. He is doing okay and that is going to help us a lot. If you go to Esan areas that were no go areas before you will be shocked at the response of people. There are rumours making the rounds that political leaders in APC are already shopping for a replacement for Governor Obaseki, how true? I would not like to react to that because as far as I am concerned it is just a figment of the imagination of those people. There is nothing like that. Nobody is shopping for any person. We are concentrating more on the presidential and national assembly election. Obaseki’s election is next year. When we get to the bridge we will cross it. I don’t think we should bother ourselves about that now. Neither I nor other genuine leaders of the party and the governor is bothered about such distractions right now. After this election we will now start thinking about Obaseki’s election which is coming up in 2020. When we get there we know what to do. But right now no cause for alarm. Like I said, the governor is doing very well and like Harold Wilson, the great British politician and Prime Minister said, ‘two weeks is a life time in politics’. It is a very long time away. So, we won’t be distracted by that. Let them be shopping. There are lots of shopping malls in Benin.