Sokoto State Governor, Rt. Hon. Aminu Tambuwal, yesterday secured a slim re-election victory after surviving a tough challenge from the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Aliyu and his estranged godfather, Senator Aliyu Wamakko. Announcing the result of Saturday’s governorship election in Sokoto yesterday, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer for the supplementary election, Prof. Fatima Batula Muktar, said Tambuwal secured 22,444 votes while his opponent polled 25,515 votes. Tambuwal was, therefore, returned elected with a total vote count of 512,002 against Aliyu’s 511,661 votes with a 342-vote difference. The margin of victory was the slimmest so far in the 2019 governorship elections. “PDP candidate, Aminu Tambuwal, having scored the highest votes in the election, is hereby declared winner and returned elected according to law,” Mukhtar said. Although Tambuwal lost in the collated result for 35 polling units in Kebbe LGA, he was able to edge his opponent, his former deputy, by retaining the lead he got from other local governments, thereby not making the margin of APC’s victory in Kebbe change the final picture. Mukhtar, who is the Vice Chancellor of Federal University, Dutse, Jigawa State said the votes were tallied along with previous ones recorded after the March 9 election. The supplementary election took place in 135 polling units from 22 local government areas of the state. Recall that after the initial election held a fortnight ago, Tambuwal had scored a total of 489,558 votes while Aliyu got 486,145 votes. The March 9 election was declared inconclusive because the vote difference between Tambuwal and his challenger was lower than the cancelled votes. The statistics of the election indicates that the total number of registered voters was 1,887,767 while 1,083,413 voters were accredited. Also, the total number of valid votes was 1,036,332 and the total number of rejected votes was 31,662. The number of total votes cast was 1,067,994. Mukthar further explained that 49 candidates from other participating parties shared the remaining votes cast. Speaking after his declaration, Governor Tambuwal said he would run an all-inclusive government during his second term to enable wide range contribution to the transformation of the state. The visibly elated Tambuwal, who spoke to a jubilating crowd of PDP supporters who gathered at the State House, Sokoto, shortly after the declaration, said his government will complete all on-going projects and would initiate new ones across the state. While admonishing party supporters to celebrate the victory moderately and peacefully, Tambuwal urged them to consider that in elections, there is no winner or loser, adding that the victory is for the people of Sokoto State. However, the Sokoto State chapter of APC has rejected the declaration of Tambuwal as winner of the governorship election in the state. Addressing a press conference in Sokoto, the APC spokesman, Alhaji Bello Danchadi, rejected the declaration on the ground that the process was flawed with irregularities, which he said were duly reported to electoral body. Danchadi said the margin of 342 votes was far less than the registered voters in polling units where elections were not held; a development, which he said contravened the electoral law. He said the party had also registered its complaints to INEC, which included alleged outright rigging perpetrated by the PDP. He alleged that some eligible voters at some polling centres were denied voting, and in some places repeated voting were recorded. “We draw the attention of INEC to a number of polling units that were cancelled as result of violent attacks by thugs, while others were arbitrarily cancelled to please certain political party interests. “In view of these, we deem it necessary to express our disagreement with the action taken by INEC to declare a winner without giving us a fair hearing in our position in the electoral processes,” he said. Meanwhile, Senator Wamakko has urged APC faithful in the state to remain peaceful, resolute and calm. Wamakko said: “The party’s leadership, membership and the entire electorate in the state should not despair in anyway. “We have jointly struggled, fought and won. We are never losers. All and sundry have done their possible best, by coming out en masse and massively cast their invaluable votes for our candidates at all levels. “In this direction, we are really appreciating and cherishing the immense sustained support of the members of APC as well as the electorate in general.” Wamakko promised that the APC and its leaders would remain religiously committed to the welfare, security and general comfort of Nigerians.