A socio-political organization in Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Ibom Liberation  Movement, AILM, has alerted the world to hold the National Chairman of  All Progressives Congress, APC, Adams Oshiomhole for any violent in the state before or during the forth coming Governorship and State Assembly elections. This is sequel to the recent inciting comments by the party chairman when he visited the State on Monday where he declared, “It will be our shame if we allow an established, biased umpire to superintend and steal the votes of Akwa Ibom People.” The group wondered why a party chairman who could not deliver Edo state for his party during the last presidential and National Assembly elections, could have the impetus to incite his party men against the peace loving people of the state. In an open letter signed by the leader of the movement, Prince Emmanuel Sam, the group said they had expected Adams, as a onetime governor, to possess some level of morality. The group warned that, in spite intimidation, harassment by the APC war lords, Akwa Ibom people, who believe in PDP, will return all the candidates of the party in Saturday’s elections. “From the recent ranting of Adam Oshiomole about the elections that took place in Akwa Ibom during their condolence visit to the state party after their whooping failure, it may not be too wrong to deduce that the national leader of the APC is making waves so as to instigate their members to act ultra vires in the forth-coming state elections. May be, this is coming as the result of the fact that without needing the services of a prophet, they already have a premonition of another round of colossal collapse and outright defeat, which will render the face of the APC, a shattered visage in Akwa Ibom State. Because, like one man puts it:“AkwaIbom people know what they want and they will go for it”; we want the peace that is sweeping through this state to remain. “It is a priceless commodity that we cannot sale out by selling our votes. We want a terror-free tenure and people-oriented governance. Hence,AkwaIbom people want to vote in the coming elections under a peaceful atmosphere devoid of intimidations. “Let Adams Oshiomolebe thereforewarnedto desist from every effort and attempt to instigate violence during the coming elections in AkwaIbom state.  He should know that there is no way they will be able to use federal might to hijack the will of the people in the state elections, because the Almighty will break any moves of federal might. If their plan is to release their APC underdogs to cause mutiny against the restful state of things in this election season, they should know that it will only amount to fighting Only God, and they will not stand it. Already, the senatorial election in IkotEkpene Senatorial District has proven that nobody puts himself in the place of the Majesty on High and survives it. “Nebuchadnezzar tried it, became an animal and ended in the forest like other lower creatures. The man that built the titanic ship said even God cannot sink it, but till today we cannot forget 1912. And APC in Akwa Ibom is trying it and the result has reflected in the first phase; and the second is about to happen and history to be made that God rules in the affairs of men. Former Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, be warned!!!”