The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) recently initiated some measures towards reinvigorating fire fighting and safety in Abuja. CALEB ONWE reports  After nearly 17 years of its separation from the Federal Fire Service, the Federal Capital Territory Fire Service (FCTFS) appears to have risen to the occasion and set to confront the challenges of its mandate. As at November 2002, the FCTFS operated as a division under the Directorate of Road Traffic Services. Then it was headquartered at Gwagwalada, in Gwagwalada Area Council. Due to the presence of the Federal Fire Service in the City Centre, FCT Fire Service operations were restricted to the Area Councils, until 2005 when it moved to the city centre to augment the efforts of the Federal Fire Service. Stakeholders said that provision of more firefighting equipment in the nation’s capital was not just necessary, but imperative owing to the fact that the city is witnessing an influx of people on a daily basis. Inside Abuja gathered that the administration was also being proactive in addressing the menace of fire outbreak which gradually had raised a lot of concern. FCT Minister, Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello, who commissioned some of the refurbished fire appliances and vehicles, noted that the initiative of the fire service was exemplary, but must be sustained. He said the actions taken by the FCTFS have not only saved the FCT Administration substantial sums of money but have also freedup much needed resources, which will now be channeled into equally important and pressing areas. Bello charged the management team of the service to ensure that the refurbished equipment were maintained and also used for the right purpose. The Minister also cautioned residents of the FCT against storing highly inflammable items particularly, petroleum products in their homes and place of business in order to avoid fire outbreaks He directed Fire Service to embark on an aggressive enlightenment campaign to re-educate residents of the FCT on the dangers inherent in storing highly combustible materials in their homes and business premises. Inside Abuja also learnt that apart from the refurbished equipment, men and officers of the service had been trained and motivated for the task of firefighting. The Director, FCT Fire Service, Opetunsin Julius, said about 120 officers of the department had been trained on various firefight  ing techniques and other operational skills. He also noted that one of the gestures from the government that had repositioned the service as well as encouraging its staff to give their best was the approval and upgrade of the salary structure to that of a para-military agency. According to him, the directive of the minister, that a fire station be established in Zuba to give fire coverage to Zuba/Deidei and its environ had also been actualize too. He said that the proactive measure to refurbish the aged fire appliances was for the purpose of extending its operations to Zuba and Kaura Fire stations which is about 90 per cent completed. However, he also enumerated some of the challenges of the department to include: lack of hydraulic platform and other specialised fire-fighting equipment considering the springing up of high rise buildings in FCT. According to him, there is also lack of modern personal protective wear (Assault Gear) to protect officers and men during firefighting and rescue operations while there has been encroachment of FCT Fire Service land by some organisations and individual developers and inadequate backup water tanker to assist the firefighting Caleb Onwe Following the resurgence of Okada and Keke riders in some of the prohibited areas within the Federal Capital Territory, the Minister, Malam Mohammad Bello, has warned that the ban is still extant and that defaulters would be punished accordingly. The Minister, who expressed displeasure over the development, reiterated… In “News” Two weeks ago, two gas explosion incidents occured in two communities at different times in the Federal Capital Territory, shattering peace and livelihood of the people. CALEB ONWE reports   It was a black Tuesday for residents of Jahi 2, a village, located within the Abuja city centre. Many of… In “Inside Abuja” Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mallam Mohammad Musa Bello, recently flagged off this year's farming season. across the six area councils of Abuja. CALEB ONWE reports   As the rain heralds the farming season for this year, nothing excited a rural farmer like getting unfettered access to land, farm… In “Inside Abuja”