• I wish they’ll stay, it’ll affect us –Landlady  The frequency with which buildings are collapsing on the Lagos Island is currently sending cold shivers down the spines of some traders who are rethinking leaving Island for safer locations, even as others who do not fancy the idea, however, beleive taking such drastic steps will make them lose their customers. Instead, they argued, vulnerable buildings should be avoided. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports that even the landlords do not want the traders to relocate as it’ll impact on their earnings  If the utterances of many Lagos Island traders, who spoke to Sunday Telegraph, on fear of possible collapse of more buildings on the Island, are anything to go by, then there will be a mass relocation of traders from Island to where they deam safer in order to forestall further loss of lives that accompanies the disasters. Thus, Lagos Island-based traders are currently being threatened by cases of frequent building collapses on the Island even as the Lagos State Government had marked 80 distress buildings on the Island for demolition. Some reports put this figure as high as 150 distress buildings. While a number of them said they would move away from Island in search of safety, others insisted there was no cause for alarm, adding that instead of running away from the place where they get their daily bread, they would rather look for safer houses to rent. Their fear and reactions are necessitated by frequent building collapses on the Island, where they ply their trade, killing scores of people and destroying their wares running into millions of naira. Just few days after a four-storey building at 53 Massey Street, Ita-Faji, Lagos Island, collapsed on March 13, killing 20 persons including school children, injuring 40, and rendering over 60 others homeless, another three-storey allegedly collapsed but this was a subject of contention as the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) said the building was under controlled collapse by the agency and didn’t collapse on its own. This controversial two storey building on ….., preceded another residential building, which collapsed at Kakawa Street on Monday barely two weeks after the Ita-Faji incident and this made some traders scampering for safety in other locations. According to Igwe Nelson, it’s he who is alive that will go to work or look for money, adding it’s only the living that will be talking about business and money. “I can’t say because I’m making money to fall victim of these old buildings. It’s he who fights and runs, that lives to fight tomorrow. It’s at the backyard of a weak man that you point the compound of a strong dead man. I have to run to be alive to make that money. This is my position. I don’t know about others,” he said. He added that though money is what brought him to Lagos, yet there is the need for him to be alive to make that money and send it home. “Anywhere you are you will sell if God says so. After all, people changed their line of businesses and still make in life,” he insisted. For Joseph Agbedo, who deals in hospital and surgical equipments, his building is old and some times, parts of the decked roof falls off upon pressure from hard object or when generator is running. But this didn’t occur to him that it could be a sign of distress until the news of frequent building collapse started filtering into his ears. He said: “Now that I have known that these are signs of weakness of the building, there is the need for me to move. The state government has also warned traders and other residents to avoid distress buildings, especially those marked for demolition. I need to move; I have families that I’m taking care of. “But I have a problem here. Most times you don’t know the buildings that are marked for demolition because some of them will be marked and the next second, it has been unmarked. This is the reason it’s more important to avoid most old and non painted buildings.” According to Mrs. Mojisola Alabi, who deals in different brands of table wines, she will run to a safer place but she has the problem of rent which she said has increased inconsiderably. “I have two shops here, as you can see. My own building is not too old but buildings around it are old. They do not even give the building a breathing space. They are my concern. See the way they are gummed together. If any of them falls, it will affect me. Ah, I will run oo,” she said.   “To tell you how bad it is; you can’t see very well inside my shop until you put on light. These houses are together and air does not come in. Really, I’m tired of the shops but the rent is my problem. It’s too much to pay for agency and agreement again, though life is the ultimate,” she lamented her continuous stay.
Wilson Edafe went down a different lane in responding to the question whether he would be forced to relocate to safer places in the state while plying his lace business, saying that native intelligence should guide anybody living in Lagos as the government has compromised in doing what it should. He said: “Everybody has to be careful in Lagos since the government has decided not to do the right thing. I smell tribalism playing out here. If those houses belonged to another tribe in the state, especially the Igbos and South-South people, they would have been pulled down long ago but because the owners speak their language and settle them, they didn’t. “If you are expecting government to do this, it will hurt you because it lacks the will to do so when the crime is committed by their people. The best thing for us to do is to avoid these old buildings if the government doesn’t want to pull them down. “We also hear that those buildings that collapsed were already marked for demolition and later, they cleaned up the paint and did minor renovation. Where has it landed us? If we abandon these buildings and it doesn’t yield revenue to the owners, they will want to pull it down do better ones. As for me, I have no business with any old building. “My brother as you see me so, I don waka teete. Na only me my mama born and I no wan kpeme. But no bi say I go leave Island kpata kpata because na here my market dey sell,” Clifford Agundu said in pidgin English meaning that he has gone long ago but will not be leaving Island completely as his wares sells on the Island. Clifford, said it will be difficult for traders to abandoned Island as many foreigners that come to Lagos to buy products mainly come to the Island. He noted that the volume of transactions on the Lagos Island surpasses any other market in Lagos, which will make it almost impossible for anybody to say he wants to leave the Island on the basis of fear of building collapse. He noted that Togolese, Malians and Ghanaians among other people from African and Asian countries do visit Balogun Market, Ebute Ero and other markets to buys goods and pay in hard currencies. Sequel to this point, and many others, it became clear that it would be difficult for these traders to really move from Island to mainland as there are no other markets in Lagos as the ones on the Lagos Island. Instead, they talked hard on abandoning the old buildings. Even those who said they would relocate for the fear of building collapse, planned to relocate within the markets on the Island. This is so because each market has its devoted targets. According to Chinedu Ibezi, abandoning old buildings on the Island in order not to end up like 20 other persons who died in the calamity is a good thing to do but not leaving the Island entirely since he has wide customer clienteles on the Island. “We will not run away from the Island because this is where we feed our families from but we have to move from old buildings to newer ones. Life worth more than any other thing; so we have to protect it. If you decide to relocate, where will you go to? There is no safe place in Lagos; all we need to do is to pray to God always for protection. “There are better ideas to follow. We need to do our own and let government do hers. In some cases, the government takes money from landlords whose buildings are bad and still allow the houses to stay. If the government demolishes those ones that didn’t scale through the fitness test, then we are safer. “But relocating now is not an easy stuff. One thing people don’t understand is that you will lose customers and you need huge amount of money to pay as rent. Besides, in Lagos, you need to consider the material you deal on and where such materials have its consumers. “Clothes and drugs are traded exclusively on the Island; if you are dealing on medical and surgical, will you relocate to Yaba because of building collapse. It does not make any business sense. “We need the government to do their parts while we move to newer houses. Even the newer houses are not safe since landlords want to use wrong mixture of materials to save money. It’s God that protecting His people.” Olufemi Adekanbi said those who said they were going to relocate because of the incidents are not being realistic because they are not going to anywhere. He noted that misfortunes have always plagued the state but doesn’t change much as the news will die down within few weeks. “These are the initial actions and fear but they know that their businesses are on the Island. We are in Lagos, I tell you, with one months of this incident, another thing will happen and attention will be shifted. “It is initial fear which is normal when three buildings collapsed in one month. It is frightening but it can’t stop you from filling your stomach with food. It’s sad these are happening in the state and nobody cares for the lives of citizens dying on regular basis.” Chidiebere Atuzie said she is not relocation to any other place to continue her jewelry business rather she will stay and continue her business to the Glory of God. “There is no need to run. God is with me. There is no cause for alarm,” she quipped. However, while the traders are threatening to leave, some landlords said their relocation will affect them as rent earnings will drop. “We depend on their rent. We do not work again. Most of us are pensioners. Like me, this is what my mother left for me. So, I make my daily bread from here. I wish they will not go. They pay well where they sell but residential people will not pay as high as what they pay,” said Alhaja Kudirat Molade. Corroborating her, another elder statesman man and pensioner, Alhaji Mufu Palamole said the traders’ planned relocation will affect them as their houses are sources of their income, especially for the pensioners. “We are old and we can work again and these tenants are helpful to us. They help us in many ways not only the rent. They support you physically and some times, run errands for you. We need them and we feed from the rent paid by these traders and other tenants. It’s what we are falling aback to,” he said. Earlier, the Lagos State Government had urged occupants of marked distressed buildings across the state to immediately vacate them pending the arrival of the demolition team of LASBCA. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Mr. Rotimi Ogunleye, made the appeal just as a distressed three-storey building located on 50, Kakawa St., Campos, Lagos Island, collapsed on Monday without any casualty. Ogunleye, in a statement, also said relief and resettlement centres had been opened to accommodate those affected. He said the building in question had been identified as distressed by the officers of the LASBCA and all the necessary statutory notices had been duly served.
According to Ogunleye, the building was one of the defective structures marked for removal by the agency. He said: “Fortunately, occupants had been evacuated before the incident occurred. Immediately the state rescue team and LASBCA were alerted, they moved to site promptly to check all adjoining buildings so as to evacuate the occupants to avoid any further hazards.” He said already, 25 buildings had been demolished by LASBCA, as the government had stepped up measures to rid the state of distressed buildings so as to prevent loss of lives and property due to sudden collapse. Meanwhile, experts have said that except the government makes a commitment to go tough on enforcement of relevant laws, the scourge of building collapse may not end soon in the State. Former President of Building Collapse Prevention Guild, Mr. Kunle Awobodu, described the problem of building construction on Lagos Island as huge, adding that those in the government knew the unfortunate situation. He noted that by the information he got from the sites of collapsed buildings on Lagos Island showed that they have similar causes and the major reason is that the buildings were not properly constructed. He stated that all of them were lacking in the area of workmanship and material in terms of quality. Awobodu said: “Lagos Island also, especially this Ita Faji area, used to be a swampy area which should not take five-storey buildings. So, how could a serious government official allow some kind of development in that area? I believe it is either as a result of compromise or they have some other issues we don’t know about. “I think there has been so much negligence in the area of regulations. The government has closed its eyes to illegal development. Regulation became too tolerant to have encouraged shoddy development.” He urged the Lagos State Government for the matter of urgency, to suspend construction of any kind of building, especially residential on Lagos Island to obviate further tragedy.”