Since Nigeria returned to democracy 20 years ago, the European Union Election Observation Mission (EUEOM) has been monitoring elections in country. In this interview, Chief Observer and leader of the EUEOM for the 2019 Elections, Mariah Arena, tells ONWUKA NZESHI that there is need to re-examine the role of security agencies in Nigerian elections.  What’s your view about the low turnout of voters in the governorship and state assembly elections? It is not only about the low turnout in the election in Nigeria but what I see is that democracy is a very long process. We can never ever take democracy for granted. It is important to know that in Europe too sometimes we have elections where the turnout is not so high. It is difficult to really understand what happened or what was responsible for the low turnout during the governorship and state assembly elections but there are different points to work on to improve turn out during elections. For example, trust is really important. How is it possible to build trust? It is also important to have inclusiveness in the process. We also have to talk about gender equality for the women. I think that there are some of the things that we need to consider when we are talking about factors responsible for the low turnout in this election. So inclusiveness is important; integrity, responsibility and information are all important in building trust in the electoral process. Perhaps, these are some of the things that you need to address in this conference or national discourse which you will have here in your country. You need to sit down with the civil society and with all the stakeholders with shared responsibility on this. I really support and encourage you to hold this discussion about the future of democracy in Nigeria. It’s really not easy to have an answer for the low turnout.  After every election you make recommendations on what Nigeria should do to improve the quality of our elections. How many of the recommendations made in 2015 have Nigeria implemented? After every election, there can always be improvements. So in 2015, the EU Election Observation Mission made 30 recommendations for improvements. This covered a number of different areas. Of course, this election process is ongoing but from what we see so far, only four of the 30 recommendations that we made in 2015 have been implemented. Two of these were priority ones that have to do with having continuous voting rather than the separation of accreditation and voting and also the establishment of time, deadlines for pre-election petitions. However, what we see from this is that there are a number of other areas of reforms that were not addressed. For example, we also recommended that there should be more transparency in the result process including polling unit results being made public after every election process. That’s why at this point, we think it is critical that Nigeria used this time ahead of it in order to make reforms so that future elections are better. It is critical that this starts early because it takes time to have conversations with different stakeholders to work out the best ways forward and clearly legal reform is the cornerstone in any reform process.  Would you say that there has been improvement in our elections considering what you saw in 2015 and what you have experienced now? This is something we are still looking at and of course we have seen some improvements with regards to the implementation of some of the recommendations. However, there are a lot of difficulties with this election with the postponement and with some of the controversies that arose from the exercise. For this reason, it will be too soon for us to come down with a categorical conclusion and recommendation at this stage since the process is still ongoing. It is something that we have to come back to make our final report which will be released some months after the election.  When you make recommendations, are there no timelines within which Nigeria should implement these recommendations? We have to work together to achieve something. It is not a question of timelines; it’s a question of political will but also Nigerian will to grow and to build something. So we are here, we want to continue to work with Nigerian people to build something. We like to work with the Nigerian people without having any procedure. It is important to build confidence; we have to trust each other and we have to build something together. This is the way the European Union is working in this Observation Mission and that is the message we want to convey. When we say four recommendations out of 30 have been implemented, we will say that even one is interesting. We have to think about democracy as something that is not easy, but we have to think of democracy as something that has a process and we have to support every movement for democracy. This is really the important message. I don’t want to count how much and how many recommendations have been implemented because the context is always changing year after year. What is important is that we keep this wheel moving on all the time and we will continue with this country if there is the will to work for democracy.  When you make these recommendations, do you have any mechanisms to follow up with the government on implementation? Yes. In terms of who we meet to discuss the recommendations, we have contacted the leaders at the highest levels and we hope to continue to do so in order that leaders of political parties including leaders in the parliament and leaders at INEC as well as other critical stakeholders are all involved in discussing the way forward for the reforms needed before the next elections.  What are your comments on the deployment of soldiers presumably to provide security during these elections? You know that election is a civilian affair, so it is important to have security agencies to care for security during the exercise. But there is always the need to strike a balance between security and interference. The challenge is how to guarantee security without having interference in the process. This is really what we have to promote in our electoral process to give the possibility for people to go freely to vote without having pressure coming from the security or the Army. We know that there are some places in the country where the Army is deployed because of insurgency or terrorism going on there and they are not going to withdraw because of the elections. It is important to have that in mind. But the Army is not in the electoral process and should not be in the electoral process.  There have been several complaints from Nigerians about the role the military played in the last election. Do these complaints tally with what your teams observes in the field? In 10 per cent of our observation, our observers reported that there was no security personnel present at polling units. It’s clearly a very big and difficult task to provide security for such a challenging project as a nationwide election. We know that different agencies were involved. In terms of the roles that they played, it is a concern to us that some of our observers were obstructed by security agencies. One team was blocked from going into the INEC Office in Rivers State by a group that was seemingly from the military. This concern is a critical part of the process. Observers and journalists need to be able to know what is happening in an election in order to have confidence in the process. So, for that reason we think that going forward, there is need to ensure that there is a national discussion about what is the best way to provide security so that voters and others feel safe to take part without the security agencies overstepping their mandate in what is actually a civilian process.  Having observed the level of violence and the role played by certain people, would the European Union Election Observer Mission push for a visa ban on politicians who run foul of the law? It is not part of the mandate of the EU Election Observation Mission to push for a visa ban on anyone. It is a question that you have to address to the embassies but not the Election Observation Mission.  What’s your assessment of the participation of women and other vulnerable groups in the electoral process in Nigeria? I will say that the situation of women has not improved and I must say that worse than this, we have fewer women relatively, participating in politics in Nigeria. It’s really worrisome to have this situation in a country. Women are representing more than fifty percent of the population, so when I speak about inclusiveness, it’s necessary to work on the representation of women in the political system. It is necessary to have more women in the political system. So we will for sure come up with some recommendations on this because we have seen that it is more difficult for women to be candidates in a party because it’s so expensive to purchase nomination forms. We have to make some recommendations that will make it easier for women to stand as candidates in elections in this country. I think that not only women deserve it but the country deserves more participation of women in all the public areas of this country.  What’s your view on the suggestion that Nigeria should adopt electronic technology in its elections? We think that there are many ways to improve elections without technology. There are many things that could be done with regards to training, procedures and if technology is introduced it has to be done very carefully and very well managed. We encourage people to reflect on the systems, the training a, procedures and practical arrangements that will make for improvements. In terms of support, the EU is ready to support Nigeria in such reforms.