The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications (SWIFT) has announced that it will hold the 26th edition of the African Regional Conference (ARC) on 18-20 June 2019 in Accra, Ghana. In a statement, SWIFT said the ARC 2019, supported by the Bank of Ghana, will bring together over 500 leading financial services professionals representing from across the continent and beyond. Delegates will discuss Africa’s evolving payments landscape, how the financial industry is embracing and delivering change for its customers, and how to manage risk in an increasingly digitised world. Governor of the Bank of Ghana, Dr Ernest Addison, said: “Ghana has recently undergone major reforms to overhaul its banking sector and improve governance. The SWIFT African Regional Conference comes at the opportune time as we continue to engage financial services, stakeholders and partners. We look forward to hosting hundreds of leading financial experts at ARC and discussing the most significant issues facing West Africa and the continent as a whole.” Regional Director, Middle East, Turkey and Africa, SWIFT Sido Bestani said: “West Africa is fast growing, fast moving and holds some of Africa’s most influential economies. The region has created a compelling and accessible marketplace, holds several regional payments systems, and fosters a strong coherent voice through cooperation and regulatory alignment.” He added: “We’re delighted that Accra will play host to SWIFT’s African Regional Conference and provide a backdrop for senior financial professionals to meet, network and share best practices.” The theme of this year’s African Regional Conference is ‘Enabling the digital economy’. SWIFT is a global member-owned cooperative and the world’s leading provider of secure financial messaging services. The SWIFT messaging platform, products and services connect more than 11,000 banking and securities organisations, market infrastructures and corporate customers in more than 200 countries and territories, enabling them to communicate securely and exchange standardised financial messages in a reliable way. SWIFT announced Sunday that Tony O. Elumelu (CON), African businessman and investor will deliver the closing address at the SWIFT African Regional Conference on 18 May 18 Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire. The conference will bring together around 500 high level financial professionals from across Africa. Elumelu, Chairman of United Bank… In “Business” As preparations for this year’s edition of Accra Weizo gather momentum, the organisers of the yearly travel and tourism trade conference and exhibition, which is in its fourth year, has revealed that Ghanaian Aviation Minister, Cecilia Abena Dapaah, is slated to lead the high profile delegates attending the event, which… In “Travel and Tourism” There is need for banks to collaborate to make the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) environment secured against abuse, the Second Deputy Governor of the Bank of Ghana (BoG), Mrs Elsie Addo Awadzi, has said. According to her, the need for securing the SWIFT environment against possible abuse… In “Business”