Section 3 of the Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency Law, 2006, prohibits indiscriminate posting and display of posters on public structures and highways in Lagos, but this law seems suspended during political campaigns or when influential Lagosians are involved. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports, perhaps, that only the ‘lowly and weak’ obey this law, while the ‘high and mighty’ violate it  Indiscriminate bill-postings have become one of the nuisances threatening the ‘health’ and aesthetic credibility of the physical environment in Nigerian society, especially Lagos State, where the extant law treats the menace with kid gloves when the ‘high and mighty’ are found culpable.  Though the hitch is a stern one, it’s yet to receive attention from the state government and principally, the Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (LASAA), which is saddled with the responsibility of regulating and controlling outdoor advertising and signage and poster displays to facilitate the rebranding of the Mega City.  It is within this milieu that Sunday Telegraph toured the city of Lagos to examine bill-postings as all-encompassing media culture in the state. The indiscriminately posted-bills are eyesores, which apart from not being aesthetically pleasing, exacerbate the environmental management challenge in the state.  Sunday Telegraph also discovered that the problem is a multilayered one, judging from the different kinds of posters that are commonly posted by diverse groups in society.  “More so, an attempt to explore global trends in environmental monitoring using numerous ways based on different techniques is an exercise in the right direction,” said Dr. Douglas Shaw, an environmentalist. “This is expedient, given the recent overwhelming growing rate of environmental pollution of advertisement graphical bills in the state. Posting of advertisement graphical bills constitutes one of the biggest threats to man and his environment as it now appears and as we live in an age of growing sensitivity to environmental cleanliness,” he added.  Sunday Telegraph’s findings emphasised the need for stricter control and market regulations in posting of advertisement bills in built environment and eradication of pollution of the environment.  In 2006, the Lagos State Government enacted the Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (LASAA) Law. This law was designed to prevent and punish the act of defacing street surfaces by residents.  At the time, it was almost impossible to see a street or road in Lagos without an eyesore of a hodgepodge of posters, or other advertising signs. Roads, junctions and streets were littered with different signboards, banners of different sizes, campaign posters, A-frames meant to advertise a product, service, event or organisation.  Sequel to this, Lagos State, through LASAA, has spent, and still spending millions of naira on advocacy meant to dissuade residents from posting posters indiscriminately on the streets and walls as well as removing the posters itself and cleaning up the environment.  According to Section 168 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised), which contravenes posting posters on street surfaces, the offence attracts a six-month imprisonment or a fine option of N90, 000 for offenders.  More so, after LASAA was created, Lagos began assuming a refined outlook. LASAA was seen to be working even as countless offenders were punished along the line, but there appears to be offenders that are above the law today – politicians, high and mighty’ in the society.  When these class of people are involved, the law is suspended but fully invoked when the ‘lowly and the weak’ are culpable. And many are wondering whether Section 168 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised) does not apply to this class of Lagosians.  A public commentator and a lawyer, Barr Emeka Ndukwe, said: “Many Lagosians are currently wondering whether Lagos State Structures for Signage and Advertisement Agency Law, 2006, as amended, which prohibits indiscriminate posting of bills on the public places without permit, has been suspended indefinitely or partially suspended during electioneering campaigns.”  A number of others are also wondering if the law is made only for the poor and to be violated by the high and mighty as the law does not prohibit the ‘high and mighty’ from posting their bills without the bills being removed or destroyed as has been the case of the ‘low and weak.’  According to Ndukwe, this has prompted a number of others to want to follow suit in the bill posting on the walls and market stalls to create visibility for their businesses and products, saying churches are among those seeking to post their crusade posters and banners on strategic locations of the city.  Ndukwe and others are reacting to the high level of impunity with which people indiscriminately post bills on the walls, especially in this electioneering campaign. The happening in the state gives the masses the wrong impression that the law is nothing but a mere deterrent for the ‘lowly and weak.’ Even the high brow areas face the same problem while the row brow areas are in a deep mess.  Sunday Telegraph observed indiscriminate posting of bills in all nooks and cranny of the state including market places, parks, abandoned vehicles, electric poles, bus lay-bys, government buildings and facilities, billboards, and sign posts among others even the areas with written warning “Post No Bills!.”  Sunday Telegraph’s tour of the Mega City revealed that no place is spared while posting the bills. Government secretariats and   office complexes are not spared, gates to police stations are not spare too even LASAA faculties are not spared in this menace.  At Ojo Bustop on the side of Oregun Road, posters were seen on all part of the perimeter wall that separated Oregun Road and UAC Company, which started from the Express down to police station, towards the first bus-stop on Oregun Way.  Almost all the parties in the country are well represented there. The whole wall was plastered with bills to the point of embarrassment. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was also present there as it helps in defacing the walls and surface with voter’s lists which it posted indiscriminately.  “This law is being mostly violated by those in government and government officials. I’m wondering if the government and its officials disrespect laws like this, can other respect it,” said Bisi Osinowo.  She said: “Last year, posters and signages along the Shoprite end of the State Secretariat at Alausa were plastered with posters and signages, expressing condolence to the Iyaloja of Lagos Markets, who happened to be the mother of the former Governor of Lagos State, Ashiwaju Bola Tinubu.”  According to her, it is cultural for people in the southwest and indeed, in Nigeria, to pay regards to elders and to express their appreciations for a life well lived, especially for deserving leaders and mothers.  “But it must, therefore, be a curious realisation to recognise that laws made for the state, outside an executive order, would be considered exempt by the agency in this case. This has pushed those agents for bill posting to go about posting bills at choice places, at the expense of our environment. LASAA should live up to its responsibility,” she added.  Worried by the indiscriminate ways, these campaign posters are pasted across the states, LASAA, threatened to sanction erring candidates and individuals who run afoul of its guidelines on the use of election campaign materials in the state.  According to LASAA, the guidelines were issued to establish sanity and protect the environment from defilement, visual blight and other adverse effects of uncontrolled, unregulated deployment and display of political campaign materials within the state during this electioneering period. It noted that billboards and wall drapes political campaigns may only be deployed on existing structures owned and operated by outdoor advertising practitioners who are registered with LASAA and have obtained permits for such sites and structures. “Parties interested in deploying political campaigns may contact LASAA or owners of the proposed structure for clarification. A-Frame may only be deployed on road verges, medians on inner streets and must not exceed a size of 1 x 1 meter (big size) and 0.5 x 0.5 meter (small size) and must have a distance of not less than 100 meters between each sign deployed. “Banners may only be deployed on inner roads and streets subject to the following conditions: only if the banner is attached to the wall of a particular building limited to inner streets, and it is not to be tied to poles or public utilities (electric and telecom poles).  “Posters may be deployed on designated surfaces on inner streets only and are not to be deployed on highways, major roads and high streets. Posters must not be pasted on public utility structures such as street lamp poles, transformers, road directional signs, electric poles and other unauthorized surfaces,” the Agency’s statement said. Despite these warnings, the environments are seriously in a state of mess, yet the Agency has not arrested any political party, candidate, or those sending congratulatory messages, or those advertising one job or the other, even those on obituary advisement bills.  Reacting to the rate of environmental degradation caused by these politicians and bills, an informed resident of Lagos, Mr. Geoffrey Oboh, said besides the defacement of the environment, untidily posted- bills in the long run can contribute to the blocking of natural waterways and constructed drains. He said: “I get irked and irritated at the same time, every time I happen come upon this wanton and indiscriminate posting of bills nationwide. It is indeed an eyesore. Not forgetting the menace of sachet water and plastic bottles. We sure have a very far road to travel on as a nation. “For the indiscriminate posting of bills and defacing of environmental aesthetics, curbing or prosecuting offenders should be an easy fry if indeed the agencies saddled with the responsibilities are willing to step up to the plate. If the offending poster is for a political campaign, it certainly bears the photograph, name and political party of the person culpable. “If it’s the nonsense job adverts of ‘hotel job vacancy-salary 100k,’ finding the offender will be as easy as calling the number attached to such adverts. We simply lack the will to do things right and that’s our bane as a race and nation.”  The agency also stated that posters “may only be deployed on designated surfaces on inner streets only and are not to be deployed on highways, major roads and high streets.”  “Banners may only be deployed on inner roads and streets only if the banner is attached to the wall of a particular building limited to inner streets and not to be tied to poles or public utilities.” Section 27 of LASAA Law 2006, as amended says: “It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge or structurally modify an outdoor structure or operate any structure or signage or advertisement without first being registered by the Agency.”  Dr. Martins Ovie said: “Many would have expected more billboards, banners and bills to have been destroyed by LASAA during the just concluded elections, when it removed billboard of the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Mr. Jimi Agbaje. “But this didn’t happen even as LASAA said the agency’s operations have no political colouration, faulting the report that five of its officials destroyed the campaign billboards of the governorship candidate of the PDP in the state. This is to show you that we are not equal before the law of LASAA.” The Managing Director of the Agency, Mobolaji Sanusi, who responded to this claim, said its operations have no political colouration, saying that the officials were on routine cleaning exercise when Agbaje’s supporters attacked them.  He said: “Our staff were carrying out their lawful statutory duties at the early hours of Sunday, December 16, 2018, by removing illegally deployed A-frames along Gbagada Expressway on Sunday but were attacked by thugs who molested and harassed them without proper understanding of their operations.  “It will be wrong to read political meaning into the action of our men. Regularly, our men engage in cleaning exercise and no political affiliation is taken into account in doing this. All we are interested in is the cleanliness of our dear state and this action predates this current political era. We clean up whether or not there is election.”  In Festac Town, Lagos, posters are posted indiscriminately. During the elections, a framed banner was positioned at a junction at 5th Avenue in such a manner that a motorist coming out from service lane who wants to negotiate and enter the major road would not see the next coming vehicle.  This continued that way until a man who almost rammed into another vehicle, parked and threw away the frame. This is one of the countless breaches of this extant law in the Lagos yet nothing is being done to arrest the situation.  At Oshodi, if your car stays more than a week in a particular spot, it will be turned into a billboard and poster platform. Again, despite how Surulere Stadiums are being cleaned and adorned, posters have made a lot disgusting impact there. A drive down to Ojuelgba, Lawson and Yaba, you will see more nauseating sights.  LASAA needs to step up the game now that elections are over but how much it will cost the Agency to clean this is yet unknown to the public and who pays the money? Do those who post their bills indiscriminately pay for it or not? These are questions begging for an answer as we look forward to seeing a cleaner environment.   Politicians don’t pay for posters; cost already in election budget – LASAA Branch Manager  Asked whether the Law is suspended during the election, LASAA Manager in charge of a location, who pleaded anonymity said: “LASAA does not have the right to remove any political posters because the politicians are allowed to post their bills during elections. After the elections, LASAA will clean up everywhere but commercial posters are not allowed in Lagos at all.”  On when the cleaning exercise starts, the official continued: “We have started cleaning it on Tuesday from Major Roads and Highways. After that, we move into streets.”  Asked the cost of cleaning it up, the source added: “I don’t know why you want to know what it costs LASAA to clean the environment; the amount is not is meant for public consumption, all I can tell you is that it’s factored in the election budget. The politicians don’t pay for posters; the cost is already in the election budget.”   