Nigeria is an interesting country where arts and culture, including music, can easily take centre stage at ceremonies. The latest sensation is a special drum. REGINA OTOKPA reports    Nigeria like many other African countries has great respect for its cultural heritage including drums and the art of drumming. Since time immemorial, men are known to handle the traditional drums. However, the tide is gradually changing as women and foreign drums are gradually stepping into the picture, redefining the experience. Every ethnic group has drums that are peculiar and unique to them. From the Kalangu drum in the north to the Gangan, Omele ako or Bata drum in the South West, and the Kim-kim or Igba drum in the South East, Nigerians enjoy the special effects and styles the drum has to offer. However, there is a new drum in Nigeria. It is called the Jang-Gu drum and has its origin in South Korea. It is beaten in various formats to produce different unique sounds. This novel drum has been making waves producing a rich blend of sound when combined with the Nigerian traditional drums. Inside Abuja checks revealed that the drum has continued to attract a large crowd where ever it is showcased or played since it birthed in Nigeria in 2013. A Nigerian drum collector and teacher, Mr. Williams Isioma, brought the Jang-Gu experience to the country. He told Inside Abuja that under his tutelage, over 50 persons including females, have learnt how to play the Jang-Gu drum. Williams, who learnt and won a Jang-Gu drum during his six months stay in South Korea about six years ago, insists that rather than play only the Jang-Gu, he has infused its techniques into the traditional Nigerian drums and styles of drumming. “Jangu is one of the most popular traditional musical instruments in South Korea. They use it in contemporary music and traditionally depending on what the person playing it wants. It has got what we need; style, aesthetic that we need to borrow from and add to our own drums and even the finishing touches is quite amazing for a traditional instrument. “Art is not what you can condemn; we cannot leave our African orientation of drumming but we can infuse the new techniques in our own style and drumming. The difference between the Jang- Gu and our drums include the visual, the finishings, its unique packaging, the sound and the playing style,” he said Excited and confident of the impact of Jang-Gu on the Nigerian culture, Williams has since organised five workshops where he has passed down the knowledge acquired in Korea. With strong passion to raise more female to join the league of notable female drummer, Ara, especially in the area of the South Korean drum, the Nigerian Jang-Gu drummer has started investing in the course to change the drumming experience in the country. “I believe in the girl child. I believe in women because through them is life and continuity. If you teach a woman, the education keeps growing because they are that inclined in relating and handling people. If a woman knows how to play the Jan Gu, it will continue compared to when you teach the boy child. So, I believe it will extend the life span of drumming. Those days, it was considered a taboo but even those days. If you check our traditional drum set up, there is a mother drum. So, why not remove the mother if it is a taboo for ladies,” he said It was no coincidence when more females turned up for the annual Jang-Gu drum Cultural festival at the Korea Cultural Centre Nigeria (KCCN). The enthusiastic teenagers almost tore the building down with screams of excitement as the Jang-Gu thundered on with a rich melodious sound. Although only two Jang-Gu drums were in the building, in no time, sweet sounds emanating from paper replicas of the drum were heard from every corner of the building. Speaking to Inside Abuja, Lee Jin Su, who recently assumed duties as the new KCCN Director, noted that the Jang-Gu drum, a South Korean traditional musical instrument, has been in existence for over a hundred years. Linking the similarities of the South Korean drum to the Bata drum of the Yoruba people, he said both countries have a lot to gain culturally, economically, socially and mentally. Impressed with the efforts of Williams Isioma to promote the Jang-Gu drum in Nigeria, the KCCN director noted that “we will support the 50 Jangu-Gu drummers who have been trained so far by Williams to ensure they achieve greater feats and if I have a chance, I will invite a Jang-Gu expert to teach others.” 