In Edo Central, Hon. Sergius Ogun of the PDP defeated his APC rival, Chief Ikpea Joe to represent the people of Esan South and North East. The election of these two big weights was a big one. But because of the track records of Sergius, in giving free education to young men and women of his constituencies, the people decided to queue behind him to ensure his success. He has since been given certificate of return. And he has also vowed to continue from where he stopped in the provision of democratic dividends. Tony Anenih’s memory Hon. Chief Edionwele Joe of the PDP defeated his APC opponent with a wide margin to return to the Federal House of Representatives for Esan West and Central constituencies. He contested against Mr. Idiake Patrick, a young politician that wanted to use the APC platform to rise to the top of his political career, but met a stronger and more experienced politician who is also described by the people of Ekpoma as a father who has put foods on the table of the less privilege. It was so easy a ride for the PDP candidate in Esan land because the people of Uromi had been mocked several times as a result of the death of the late political godfather Chief Tony Anenih. So based on this, the people decided to tell their political opponents that Chief Anenih is not dead politically. They came out en-mass and voted all PDP candidates. Edo South ( PDP) Hon. Dr. Omoregie Ogbeide Ihama of the PDP broke the jinx of making a return to the Federal House of Representatives from Oredo Federal constituency. His track records in Oredo are something else. He has touched virtually every life in Oredo, hence the people gave him a return mandate. He defeated his APC candidate Osaigbovo Toni Iyoha who is having his first political baptism of fire. Despite links with the power that be, he was defeated and denied entrance to the legislative chambers in Abuja. For Ovia federal constituencies, Denis Idahosa of the APC battled a millionaire’s daughter, Hon. Omosede Igbinedion, killing her second term bid. Denco as he is popularly called by his fans is a man with deep pocket, so he was bale to give the Igbinedions a run for their money. For Omosede, the game is over as she has to wait for another four years to make the move again. Also in Egor and Ikpoba Okha Federal constituencies, the PDP candidate, Hon. Jude Ise-Idehen scored a hat– trick against the APC candidate, Hon. Ehioguwa Johnson Aigbonyima. PDP followers in the constituency saw the election as a payback time for Ehioguwa because of what he did for the party. He rose on the platform of PDP and later “betrayed” the party, so it is fire for fire treatment. In Edo North, it was victory for all APC candidates courtesy of Oshiomhole. The three House of Representatives seat went to APC. In Akoko- Edo federal constituency, Hon. Peter Akpatason defeated his PDP opponent, Hon. Oladele Bankole, to return to the federal house. In Etsako constituency, Hon. Johnson Oghume over powered his PDP candidate, Hon. Blessing Agbomare, while in Owan federal constituency, it was Prof. Julius Ihormbere against Johnson Abilagba. Edo North is a zone of ‘show of powers’ because of the calibrer of politicians from that area. Edo people are waiting for the 2020 governorship election to know if PDP will continue their dominance in Edo or not.