Eleven years after the Ondo State Government paid N7 billion for the reticulation of Owena Dam to thousands of homes in Ondo Central Senatorial district, BABATOPE OKEOWO reports that the office complex has been overgrown with weeds while the project has been abandoned  One of the campaign promises of political parties in Nigeria is the provision of potable water to the electorate. But since the beginning of the present political dispensation in Ondo State, the promise of water provision has not been fulfilled by any administration despite the fact that the state is blessed with many sources of water and dams. For the people of the riverine Ilaje and Eseodo area of the state, their case is that of water everywhere but none available to drink. The water in the region is either salty or polluted because of the activities of oil companies. In the Central and North Senatorial districts, it is the case of abandoned Water Dams. Both Owena and Awara Dams are abandoned denying people of access to potable water for their uses. In many homes, provision of water for daily use is either through boreholes or hand-dug well depending on economic or social status of the family. In fact, many people in the state rely on sachet water, bottled water or water dispenser for drinkable water. In major towns, public water is nowhere to be found. In fact, many residents of the state do not see the need for Water Corporation or Water and Sanitation Agency (WATSAN) because each family or household provide water for themselves without assistance from the government. Need to bridge the gap in the provision of water was what made the government of late Dr. Olusegun Agagu to award the contract for the reticulation of Owena Dam to the six Local Governments in Ondo Central Senatorial district. The Owena Dam located in Igbara-Oke in Ifedore Council area is one of the major dams in South West geopolitical zone. But the dream has not come to pass as subsequent governments in the state have failed to make the dream a reality. Apart from drinking, the usefulness of water cannot be overemphasized as one of the basic things in homes, offices, schools, hospitals, markets and industries. The usefulness of water in human’s day to day activities might be one of the reasons the Federal Government decided to embark on rehabilitation of the Owena water dam in order to provide drinkable water for the people and residents of Akure and its environs. The Dam was constructed in 1966.
However, this laudable project has failed to see the light of the day, with the subsequent government in the state trading blames over the delay in the rehabilitation of the dam. The dream was to come to life in 2011 when the administration of late Governor Olusegun Agagu, awarded the reticulation of the water to homes in the Central Senatorial district. The project was awarded at the sum of N14 billion with the government paying half of the money.
Already, the water treatment plants have been constructed, thus remaining delivery to the homes through reticulation by the state government. The immediate past government blamed lack of continuity on the lack of proper design. The government of Olusegun Mimiko lamented that the project for which its predecessor paid contractors 50 percent sum, amounting to N7b, failed to satisfy basic requirements, saying there was no way projects of such magnitude could be executed without proper route survey map
When New Telegraph visited the dam, the complex that used to house the workers was a ghost town and there was evidence that work had stopped on the project for years. Three workers were seen sitting idle, while some of the men seen in the compound claimed to be casual workers. Fishermen were seen busy plying their trade in the Dam. One of the workers who spoke on condition of anonymity said no work is ongoing at the dam and there was no plan to start work soon. He said the government has completed the treatment plant. His words” We resume here daily doing nothing. We cannot tell you the stage of work here but we will advise you to visit our office in Akure.” He said that government officials often visit the dam to access the level of work but maintained that there was no development in the level of work since 2011. He stressed the need to beam its searchlight on the dam, noting that some contractors have abandoned work on the dam. His words, “life used to be bubbling here before government embarked on the rehabilitation of the dam in 2008. We have close to 1000 workers here but we have less than 10 workers here now while most of them are casual workers. Life can return here soon if the federal government ensures the state government fulfills its share of the agreement on the rehabilitation. At least it will create more employment; all these touts collecting tickets and operating Okada will be employed. Completing this dam will surely open employment and this place will be full of life again” Attempt to visit the water treatment plant at the dam met a brick wall as the security guard at the dam advised New Telegraph to speak with the authorities of the dam. But it was noticed that pipes had been laid from the water treatment plants towards the town but it was less than two or three kilometers away from the treatment plants. Apart from this, the road leading to the dam is nothing to write home about as erosion has taken over most part of the road. Though most of the residents of the area who are mainly farmers said they are looking towards the completion of the dam in order to enjoy some infrastructural facilities that the dam will attract to the area. A community leader from Elemo village said, “we have waited so long to enjoy potable water from this Dam but it has remained a dream to us, we have been neglected, no good roads to transport our farm produce to town and there was no government presence here at all but we believe the dam will open development to the area. “We are living on water and there is no water to drink. We usually get our water from some river as no well can be sunk in this area because we are sitting on rocks and it makes it difficult to get water here.
“We therefore, appeal to the government, either state or federal government to complete this project and should not turn it to another monumental waste because all that they have put in place at the dam will amount to waste.”
The Executive Director of the Benin Owena Water Basin Authority, Saliu Ahmed, disclosed that construction of the dam is basically the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Water Resources. He said the reticulation from the treatment plants to various communities that will benefit from the project is the responsibility of the state government. His words, “the dam has been completed so many years back, the treatment plants have also been completed years back but never in use, though it has been tested but waiting for the pipe laying to be completed. The pipe network from the treatment plants to various towns that will get the treated water is a state government responsibility. That is the stage of the work right now and I know there has been very high-level consultation to get this started. “The reticulation from the treatment plant to the various communities that will benefit is a state responsibility, that is the Ondo state government and not the responsibility of the federal government.” But the Special Adviser to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Public Utility, Engr. Tunji Ariyomo said the Federal Government with assistance from French Development Bank has approved a sum of $57 million for the reticulation of water from Owena Dam to the six Local Governments in Ondo Central Senatorial district of Ondo State. Ariyomo said the French Development Bank has released the   first tranche of $5million to the state government for the commencement of the project. The benefitting Local Governments included Akure South, Akure North, Ifedore, Ondo East, Ondo West, and Idanre. Ariyomo who led the community and top of All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders including the Special Adviser on Transport, Mr. Tobi Ogunleye to the Dam said the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has ordered for the commencement of the project nine years after it was abandoned. He, however, said all communities where the pipeline passes through would benefit from the water scheme to prevent vandalisation of the facilities as being experienced in Niger Delta area. His words: “This is the abandoned Owena multipurpose water dam. This project was completed decades ago and the Federal Government in its magnanimity ceded the water component to the government of the state. “The Dr. Olusegun Agagu’s government lashed on to such opportunity by awarding a contract worth billions of Naira for the construction of transmission line from this place to part of Ondo Central Senatorial district as well as reticulation of water to homes. “Unfortunately, a successor administration abandoned the project, frustrated the contract. After a long time running into nine years, that contract became ineffective by the effusion of time and by the virtue of our law, it is no longer tenable. When the new government of Oluwarotimi Akeredolu came on board, the government reengaged the Federal Government and Mr. President gave the go ahead with that project. “The Ondo State government through the Ministry of Water Resources was able to secure the funding to the tune of $57 million. We have received the first tranche of the fund from the French Development Agency. $5million is sitting in the purse of Ondo State government. We now have cash backed project that will see the light of the day. “We have entered an agreement with the French people that this money will be used judiciously using international standard and under transparent procedures.