 No fewer than 300 women drawn from different communities in Lagos State have been empowered to start up their own small businesses through a women empowerment initiative of Lagos State, Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), in partnership with Coca-Cola Nigeria.
Speaking at the recent handing over ceremony, Executive Secretary of LSETF, Mr. Akintunde Oyebode said that the empowerment initiative is in line with the vision of the Lagos State Government to create jobs, wealth opportunities and alleviate poverty among residents in the state. The 300 women who are the first batch of the 1000 women targeted for the initiative were provided with Trade Assets including coolers, tables, umbrellas and Coca-Cola beverage products, having completed their training modules on financial literacy and business skills.
Oyebode, who commended the beneficiaries for their tenacity and determination to improve their lots economically, urged them to judiciously put into use all the skills acquired as well as the resources mobilized for them. While expressing appreciation to the companies for their contributions in complementing government’s effort in the empowerment of women, Oyebode stated that such collaborations would ultimately help to reduce social problems and address the alarming rate of unemployment in Lagos State. He also called on other private sector partners to join LSETF to create jobs in the state. Congratulating the beneficiaries on the completion of their training as well as the handing over of the assets, the Managing Director of Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited, Mr. Bhupendra Suri, represented at the event by the Public Affairs and Communications Manager, Ms Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, advised the women to make the best use of the resources handed over to them by effectively deploying the skills and assets in the running of their businesses profitably and sustainably.
She also reaffirmed the commitment of Coca-Cola Nigeria to empowering Nigerian women through its numerous initiatives, emphasizing that the company recognizes the socio-economic value that women bring to enterprise development and urged other corporate organisations to consider Women Empowerment as a business imperative. Public Affairs and Communication Director, Nigeria Bottling Company (NBC) , Ekuma Eze emphasised the commitment of the company to women empowerment, saying that it would continue to support efforts that enhance economic growth.
He said: “We truly believe supporting women is a key driver to economic development. This explains why we bought into this idea to ensure that while they are empowered, we can begin to see the multiplier effect on the economy.”