Considering the huge housing deficit and increasing urban population, the built environment experts have renewed calls for use of local building materials, especially clay bricks in order to reduce cost of houses for low-income group. Dayo Ayeyemi reports  Worried by increasing homelessness among Nigerians coupled with high cost of housing units, soaring urban population and 17 million accommodation gap, the built environment experts have called on all stakeholders, comprising the government, investors, private developers and building materials manufacturers to explore opportunities in abundant clay resource in the country for housing provision. The call, they said, had become imperative in order to provide mass and cheap housing units for the urban poor. They said it would in turn help in creating jobs, reducing insecurity and also bridge accommodation’s gap. New Telegraph findings showed that the average cost of one-bedroom and two bedroom flat in Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja is in the range of N3.5million and N14million, depending on location and quality of finishing. This high cost is beyond the capacity of low-income Nigerians with N18,000 minimum wage, even if he has access to mortgage of 10 to 20 years tenure. However, most experts insisted that if the nation could improve on use of local building materials such as bricks for affordable housing programme, more would be achieved. They noted that with the use of clay bricks, a standard two-bedroom may not cost more than N2million.  Experts’ views Chairman, Sparklight Group a real estate development firm, Chief Toyin Adeyinka, said that shifting focus to building houses with bricks had the potential of saving cost of construction of a unit of house by 20 per cent when compared with constructing the same unit with conventional concrete or sandcrete. Adeyinka, an engineer, insisted that instead of being neglected and treated with disdain, clay, which is the principal raw material for bricks, should be held high by government as natural resource which, if well harnessed, could help solve the nation’s daunting housing deficit and also aiding revenue growth. While identifying overall cost effectiveness as a major advantage brick has over the regular sandcrete block in house construction, Adeyinka maintained that brick could save a builder about 20 per cent of the total cost of building a house because there would be no need for painting.
He added that the rate of maintenance of a brick-house was also very low. President, Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce, Akin Olawore, said the Raw Material Research Council, had earlier come up with research into local materials and actually built its office from the product. Olawore, who is the Principal Partner, Akin Olawore and Company, an estate surveying and valuation firm, urged that standards on use of bricks should come from the engineers, adding that based on this, other research works would find their way into the National Building Code. Apart from material cost, he pointed out that location and land space allocation also contribute to high cost of housing units in the urban areas. “Developers are business people and if there’s market and merging, they will build. However, if we talk of low income, it is not determined only by material cost but location and land space allocation. “That’s why vertical development helps to reduce element of land cost,” he said. Talking on use of local materials such as brick for housing provision, President, Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB), Mr. Kenneth Nduka, said that most developers had not thought it economically feasible to venture into. He said: “I do not believe that any of our designers has received briefs in that regard. “I should think that a deliberate shift towards mobilising off takers along the lines of their abiding culture, pocket responsiveness, predominant economic clusters, definitive local building materials industry promotion, and targeted town planning preferences would help to address the challenge.” He stated that current situation where the housing peculiarities of off takers were more often imposed top down, would not help the situation. Kenneth urged that there must be positive steeling of policy to compel training institutions, procurement bodies and regulatory agencies to adopt specification and use of such locally available materials. “That way, the needed positive tweak in mindset will be excited, so that the much needed redefined implementation paradigms could evolve and be sustainably anchored,” he said. Managing Director, MOA Planning Associates, Mr. Moses Ogunleye, argued that reducing cost of building material was not the only thing that will lead to low cost of housing, saying there was also high cost of land. According to him, using bricks and other materials will bring down cost of construction “only if those items are produced in large quantities in order for the unit cost of the items to go down.” He is of the opinion that private developers are not likely to build for the low income earners due to their expected profit margin, urging government to focus on low-income housing development.  Action Managing Director, Family Home Fund (FHF), Mr Femi Adewole, said he was discussing partnership with local material producers. He said: “I am planning to pay a courtesy call on the Nigerian Building, Road Research Institute (NIBBRI) to see how we can work with it and get one of its end researches into implementation of using local materials to develop low income houses. “We also have other producers like Hydro foam, which is a very known clay brick manufacturer. We have relationship with the company to use local earth materials in building houses.” He added that the objective of FHF was that by 2020, at least 70 per cent of all inputs into building will be sourced locally in order to create jobs “We cannot create jobs if all our developers are importing materials,” He said. We can only create jobs if we encourage and motivate them and coerce them into producing and using local materials. And because they are producing here, they will create jobs in many states in Nigeria.”  Plastic housing Former Managing Director, Lagos State Development and Property Company (LSDPC), Mr. Anthonio John-Bede, said that clay was not economic for building houses for many reasons, suggesting that plastic would be a much better material because it’s cheaper, more flexible and adaptable. He enjoined government not to be involved in direct building of houses, but to give room for private sector to build. Besides, he urged government to also create the enabling environment and give guarantee. He is of the opinion that cost of construction would keep going up and that low income would not be able to build or buy houses anywhere in the world. “Government must understand housing as an economic tool and therefore subsidise it,” he said.  Brick Brick is a low maintenance, permanent, durable building material that won’t rot, rust, burn, corrode, decay, or encourage mold growth. According to experts, if properly detailed, the use of clay brick would minimize the risk and environmental costs of premature failure of building components. Clay bricks are formed in a mold (the soft mud method), or more frequently in commercial mass production by extruding clay through a die and then wire-cutting them to the desired size (the stiff mud process). The shaped clay is then dried and fired either by burning in a kiln or sometimes, in warm and sunny countries, by sun-drying to achieve the final, desired strength. The action of heat gives rise to a sintering process that causes the clay particles to fuse and thus develops extremely strong ceramic bonds in the burnt clay bodies. Such bonds are highly stable. As a result, bricks can withstand the severe weathering actions and are inert to almost all normal chemical attacks. Basic advantages of brick, according to experts include: Aesthetic Appeal: Brick possesses natural and infinite pleasant colours of burnt clays. Its color formation is achieved through a complicated physio-chemical reaction during the firing process. Brick colour is permanent and will not fade during weathering process. Thermal & acoustic insulation: Brick generally exhibits better thermal insulation property than other building materials such as concrete. Perforation can improve the thermal insulation property of bricks to some extent. Besides, the thermal mass and moisture that the brick has absorbed can help to keep the temperature inside the house relatively constant. Acoustic insulation: As far as acoustic insulation is concerned, brick wall provides good sound insulation property due to its dense structure. The thickness and density of brick will deaden noise transmission and will deflect noise from streets, neighboring homes, and jet planes. Zero maintenance cost: Clay bricks do not require maintenance. Clay brick may cost a little bit initially, but the very first time that you paint, you might well spend more than the additional cost of the brick. In addition, you do not need to worry about the clay brick rotting, denting, warping, rusting, spliting, peeling, fading, and termites. As your home gets older, it naturally becomes more beautiful. Fire resistance: The fire resistance of a building material refers to the length of time a walling element is about to resist a fully developed fire. In every case, clay brick walls obtain maximum fire ratings. To the owner of a clay brick building, this means peace of mind and substantial savings over time on insurance premiums.   Last line The high compressive strength of fired clay bricks has been exploited for millennia to build structures ranging from single-storey huts to massive public buildings and enormous bridges and viaducts.