Stakeholders have continued to raise eyebrow over the delay by the Confederation of African Football in taking a decision on the TV rights for the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). Two weeks ago, a tender was issued for an agency to manage CAF’s free-to-air rights in Africa, starting with AFCON 2019, in a move that signalled an end to Lagardere’s hold on these rights. Lagardere and its associate LC2 apparently taking a back seat in the televising of the forthcoming AFCON. This follows widespread reports of alleged malpractice involving Lagardere and former CAF President, Issa Hayatou. However, current President, Ahmad Ahmad, assumed office two years ago with a pledge to ensure greater transparency in its dealings. But stakeholders have continued to cast doubts on the sincerity of CAF in the ongoing bidding process for the AFCON 2019 free-to-air rights for Africa. In a joint statement that followed the African Union Ordinary Assembly last month in Ethiopia, it was stated that FIFA, CAF and the AU would be collaborating on “the promotion of good governance and anti-corruption in sport…” A Broadcaster in the West African region said there was need for CAF to give all parties a fair chance to win the rights. “The bidding process is nor as transparent as expected and we are all worried about this because once a decision is taken, it is the end and it may affect many of us in the industry. CAF must stand firm on anti-corruption,” the female broadcaster said. Only recently, Infront Media stated publicly that CAF adviser, Hedi Hemel ( Adviser to CAF’s President on Communication has no ties to the company. However, records show that a former senior officer at TVMS Lydia Charial , the French based company chaired by Hemel, is married to the Luc Charial President, Infront Media’s French. Another stakeholder based in Abuja, Nigeria said: “How we all long for the promised transformation that ushered in the new CAF Executive and the award of the TV rights for Africa for Africa No 1 sporting showcase surely have a role to play in cementing CAF’s commitment to the people of the continent. However, if reports are true that CAF are considering the appointment of Infront Media and Sport as its agent to oversee the sale of FTA rights to Africa’s most prestigious sports events, then this is to be lamented. “Justifications as to why a rightsholder may be more willing to appoint a non- African agent to distribute some content in Africa, but this cannot be the case with AFCON – Africa’s showpiece football tournament. AFCON has been shown for years across the continent on national networks, by broadcasters who have had to stump up colossal amounts of cash often at short notice as licence fees.” The recent delay which is bureaucracy is raising transparency questions as to what purpose does it serve – and serves to perpetuate a negative narrative about Africa.