Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday reiterated that his government would be people-oriented, just as the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, urged the electorate in the state to vote for him and his running mate, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, in tomorrow’s governorship election in the state. Fashola said no one should trade experience for someone who was merely desperate to be governor. Speaking during a live television interview programme on Television Continental, where he, Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat were guests, Fashola, who was the immediate past governor of the state, said voting for the APC candidate was to guarantee continuity of the great strides that Lagos had made since 1999. According to the former governor, the candidacy of Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat was the best that can happen to Lagosians as the two men were not novices to the workings of government. “They are not only tested, but have also been part of the process of development that Lagos has witnessed since 1999 till date.” The former governor said Lagos cannot afford to experiment at this point in the history of the state, saying that the people had gone beyond that stage where governance would be left in the hands of inexperienced individuals. ‘‘We have gone beyond the stage of experimenting. This is not a state to experiment.’’ Imploring voters to cast their ballot for the APC, Fashola said it was not that Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat were the most brilliant, but they have what it takes to provide good governance by the virtue of the experiences they had garnered over the years, both in the private and public sectors of the economy. Therefore, Lagosians should not jeopardise their future by allowing novices to take over.” Responding to questions by the viewers, Sanwo-Olu, while assuring Lagosians that their needs were captured in his planned programme tagged; Project ‘THEME’, noted that the manifesto was the product of broad consultations that the team embarked upon during the campaigns.