Sixteen teams across the Male and female categories are set to compete in the quarter-finals stage of the GTBank Masters Cup. The tournament, which is now in its8th season, will take place on Tuesday 12th and Wednesday 13th March 2019. Kicking off the matches at the Campos Mini Stadium on Tuesday will be the female team of Greensprings Schools Lekki, which will square off with Lead-Forte Gate College, Lekki. Later in the day, CMS Grammar School Bariga will face Federal Science and Technical College, Yabato contend for a spot in the Male category of the semi-finals. On Wednesday, the female teams will again set the ball rolling as Corona Secondary School, Agbara will face Atlantic Hall, Epe, and later, in the Male category, Kings College, Lagos will compete with Jubril Martins Memorial Grammar School, Iponri. The GTBank Masters Cup tournament since its inception has grown into one of the major platforms for discovering and developing exceptional football talents and many of its alumni are now on trials and scholarships with football clubs and academies in Nigeria and abroad. Some of the outstanding players to look out for this season are: Celestine Chwang of Kings College and AyinlaAbiola of Answar-ud-deen Girls High School. So far, both players are the highest goal scorers in the male and female categories. The full schedule of the GTBank Quarter Finals Season 8 is: Tuesday Female Greensprings School, Lekki vs Lead-Forte Gate College, Lekki Answar-ud-deen Girls High School, Itire vs Ansar-ud-deen College, Isolo. Male
CMS Grammar School, Bariga vs Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba Anwar-ul-islam Model College, Agege vs Igbobi College, Yaba. Wednesday Female
Corona Secondary School, Agbara vs Atlantic Hall, Epe Queens College, Yaba vs Answar-ud-deen Girls High School, Ojokoro. Male
Kings College, Lagos vs. Jubril martins Memorial Gram. School, Iponri
Baptist Academy, Obanikoro vs. Whitesand School, Lekki. One of the most exciting secondary school football tournaments in Africa, the GTBank Masters Cup, is set to return for its 8th season, following its opening draws, which was held on Thursday in Lagos. The tournament will feature over 30 schools and more than 40 teams who will compete for… In “Sports” A foremost financial institution, Guaranty Trust Bank is set to hold the finals of the GTBank-Lagos State Principals Cup on Thursday 19th July at the Agege Stadium, Lagos. The prestigious tournament, now in its 9th year promises to be a thrilling encounter between the four qualifying teams as they stake… In “Sports” The MKO Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta will on Thursday 26th July play host to the final matches for GTBank-Ogun state Principals Cup; the biggest grassroots soccer competition in West Africa. Now in its 6th year, this season’s final promises to be a thrilling encounter between the qualifying teams as they stake… In “Business”