Electorate in Benue State will on Saturday March 9, elect, who will lead their state in the next four years. Cephas Iorhemen reports on the factors that will shape the election  The two major contenders for the Benue State governorship position, the incumbent governor, Samuel Ortom of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the current Managing Director of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Barr Emmanuel Jime of All Progressives Congress (APC) are battle ready for the contest of who gets the mandate of the 2.2 million eligible voters in the state to lead the state for the next four years.
While many have described the governorship poll as two-horse race between the dup, another kinsman of the governor and former Pastor of NKST Church High Level in Makurdi, Reverend (Dr) Frederick Ikyaan is also skulking by the corner to pull the rug off the feet of his brother (Ortom) to occupy the coveted position.
Candidates of other political parties, who are equally eyeing the seat include John Tseayo of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Hinga Biem of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), among others.
While Governor Ortom is optimistic of retaining his seat given what he described as his track record of achievements, which cuts across all sectors of the economy, Jime is banking on what he termed the governor’s colossal failure since he ascended the throne in 2015. He has vowed to correct such perceived wrongs and put the state on the path of progress.
For Rev Ikyaan, who is apparently a novice in the political firmament, he is coming in like the Biblical David, who, though from a humble background, killed the giant Goliath with just a stone.
Ortom is pulling the strings on the ticket of the PDP; Jime is Senator George Akume’s anointed APC candidate, while Rev. Ikyaan is of Second Republic Aminu Kano’s Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), with a mission to liberate the people of the state from the shackles of poverty.
Perhaps, what has endeared the governor to the hearts of the Benue populace is his firm stand to defend his people against invasion by Fulani herdsmen, who have vowed to take over their land.
Though, the issue of herdsmen killings dates back before he became governor, the level appears to be worse, a development that prompted Ortom to initiate an Executive Bill to the state House of Assembly, which after due consultation with relevant stakeholders including the leadership of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), the Mdzough U Tiv, comprising Idoma and Igede Nations, among others, promulgated the law restricting open grazing of livestock as part of measures to end the killings.
The law, tagged the Benue People Law, was widely received by people of the state as well as those in the Diaspora. The governor’s uncompromising stands to defend the Benue Valley, however, pitched him against the APC-led federal government, which described the killings as a communal clash, and the killers as members the Islamic State (IS) or Libyan terrorists.
Despite calls for the governor to repeal the law in some quarters as it infringes on the cultural dispositions of the herdsmen, Ortom insisted that the law remains sacrosanct as long as he remains governor of the state. He believes that the law has not spared any sacred cows as indigenes of the state will equally face the music if they contravene its provisions.
Going into the election, one huge challenge that continues to stare in the face of the governor is how to offset the huge backlog of unpaid wages of civil servants including inherited ones, a breakdown, which shows that workers in the state as being owed up to six months; local government workers including primary school teachers, over 10 months, while pensions are approximately two years.
Though there have been interventions by the Federal Government in form of bailout funds and borrowings from financial institutions to clear such debts, the arrears have continued to pile up as a result of the harsh economic crunch that greeted the present administration from the onset. But most institutions and parastatals in the state have been paid up date since January last year.
However, it is clear to say that the chances of Ortom winning the governorship election are bright as most people in the state, say “the devil you know is better than the angel you don’t know.”
Governor Ortom is also likely to win a second term, considering the outcome of the just concluded presidential and National Assembly elections in which the people overwhelmingly voted for the PDP against other parties. For instance, the results showed the PDP winning massively in 13 out of 23 local government areas, while the APC won the remaining 10. This, notwithstanding, the governor is not resting on his oars to ensure he wins in the 10 council areas believed to be strongholds of the APC.
Ortom had his first political experience, when he was elected chairman of Guma Local Government Area in 1991 on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). He later served as Benue State Publicity Secretary of the National Centre Party of Nigeria (NCPN), state Treasurer and Secretary of All Peoples Party (APP) as well as state Deputy Chairman of the PDP.
He was also Director of Operations of the PDP gubernatorial campaign in Benue State in 2007 and Director of Administration and Logistics of the Goodluck/Sambo Presidential Campaign Organisation in 2011.
He was PDP National Auditor before his appointment as Minister in July 2011. He resigned as a minister to contest for governorship in 2015 on the platform of the APC, when he failed to secure the ticket of the PDP. He was brought into APC by Senator Akume, who many regard as his political godfather.
For his second term bid, he has the total support of Senator David Mark. The former Senate president from Benue South remains the undisputed leader and political godfather of Benue State. He is known to wield so much power in his zone and always delivers votes from the zone to anyone he so wishes.
With his support, former governor of the state, Gabriel Suswam was able to win the 2011 gubernatorial election against forces that wanted to stop his re-election. Because the state, like others has three senatorial districts, any governorship contender, who wins two senatorial districts, is good to go. That was what gave Suswam victory in 2015 because he naturally won Zone A, his zone. While the forces against him came from Zone B, Mark from Zone C did the magic for him.
Besides having Mark’s support, Ortom is not a pushover, when it comes to Benue politics. It is believed that the governor is a thorough breed politician, who has been on the political scene for such a long time to know the intricacies therein. It is also believed that he knows how to maneuver his way in the political space.
At the moment, there are fears in the minds of Benue people that if another person takes over from Ortom, chances are that the anti-grazing law would be repealed and that “enemies of the state” would seize the advantage to forcefully occupy the rich Benue Valley.
The APC’s Jime, to many, would have been a good candidate, but the allegation that his ambition has received the backing of those opposed to anti-grazing law and the fact that he was anointed by Akume, who lost his bid to return to the National Assembly may work against him.
Another point counting against Jime’s candidature is the post-presidential and National Assembly elections developments in the state in which APC supporters, while celebrating President Muhammadu Buhari’s in Makurdi township, destroyed billboards and campaign materials of Governor Ortom and the PDP. This has attracted sympathy from even those indifferent to the governor’s second term bid.
Besides the PDP and APC candidates, a contender, who would have given Ortom a good fight, is Rev Ikyaan, but his endorsement of the APC candidate in the presidential election raised doubts over the seriousness of his ambition.
“Our national office in Abuja has taken a decision for PRP to support the APC and its presidential candidate so as a party that is where we are. We are supporting Buhari. That is the decision of the national secretariat of our party (PRP) so we are together,” he said at the eve of the presidential and National Assembly elections.
With governorship elections just some hours away, it is a battle for survival between political gladiators and that for relevance that will spring surprises as was seen during the presidential and National Assembly elections in which some big names were retired by their constituents. The leader of the All Progressives congress (APC) in Benue State, Senator George Akume, yesterday publicly appologised to the people of the state for what he described as the failure of Governor Samuel Ortom. He said he was sorry for being instrumental to the enthronement of the governor in 2015,… In "News" The absence of Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue yesterday stalled the peace talks convened by the national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja. APC had, on Monday through its Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Lawal Shuiabu, invited the Benue State governor and Senator representing Benue North-West Senatorial… In "News" Ortom: You’re being sponsored by Benue State enemies   The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State, Emmanuel Jime, has accused Governor Samuel Ortom of abandoning governance of the state for his private business and, therefore, has no moral justification seeking for a second term. But,… In "News"