…say Ojukwu will be shedding tears in his grave   The poor performance of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections did not come as a surprise to political pundits. The party lost all the three senatorial seats in the state and all the House of Representatives seats but one or two. And the greatest beneficiary is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) If anything, the primaries of the party were chaotic across the five states of the South East geopolitical zone, the stronghold of the party.  There were allegations of corruption against the National Chairman of the party, Victor Oye, who was accused of trading off the tickets of the party to the highest bidder. Mr. Jerry Obasi, a former national officer of the party, who is now the factional National Chairman of the party blamed the misfortunes of APGA on the lackluster and “tyrannical” leadership of the party by Victor Oye and Governor Willie Obiano.  He described the party’s outing in the just concluded general elections as woeful, and said the spirit of Late Ikemba Nnewi and former National Leader of the party, Dim Chukwuemeka Ojukwu will be crying to high heavens over the fate that has befallen APGA. “It is unprecedented in the history of APGA.  This is the worst outing of APGA in its history. Ironically, this is the time the party got the highest finances, more than N3 billion from the sale of forms. But Oye and Obiano in their visionless leadership supervised the greatest failure in the history of APGA.  “Ikemba (Ojukwu) and other APGA martyrs will be shedding tears in their graves,” he lamented. Obasi, who claimed to be the National Chairman of APGA after the suspension of Oye by the National Executive of the party, stated that the party spent more than N42 billion on several Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) and other lawyers to retain Oye through court processes, but insisted that he remains the National Chairman.  The acclaimed factional chairman of APGA also stated that Governor Obiano’s support for President Buhari during the election may have also affected the fortunes of APGA.   “In politics, you must look at the body language of your people,” he said. In Enugu State, APGA was in court for a greater part of the electioneering campaigns trying to determine who the governorship flag bearer in the state is. Initially, the name of Emma Nwakpa, was listed as the candidate of the party, but another person, Bede Chukwuekezie went to court and only few days ago got judgment as the authentic candidate of the party.  With this confusion in the minds of its members and electorate in general, it is not difficult to guess what would be the performance of the party in the elections. But that is just a microcosm of APGA’s problem in the state and South East in general. APGA was formed prior to 2003 general elections as a major political party that will serve as vehicle for projection of Igbo interests and ideology in Nigeria.  The pioneer National Chairman, Chekwas Okorie, who was also instrumental to the formation, was dropped along the line in controversial circumstances following allegation that he wanted to sell Peter Obi’s mandate.  It will be recalled that Obi had contested the governorship of Anambra State under the APGA ticket in 2003, the    same time Barr. Ugo Agballah, a former Commissioner for Works in Enugu state also contested the governorship of Enugu State under the same platform.  Both Obi and Agballah, who rode on the popularity of now Late Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwo, the sole presidential candidate of the party in that elections, were widely believed to have won the governorship elections in Anambra and Enugu respectively. But they were allegedly robbed of victory.  But following Oabi’s victpory at the tribunal and his eventual emergence as Anambra Governor, Chekwas was muzzled out of the party. He later formed the United Peoples Party (UPP), which he presently serves as its National Chairman. Ojukwu, who later became the National Leader of the party died on November 26, 2011.  But before his demise, the party was already experiencing some strains and cracks. Chief Victor Umeh, who emerged as National Chairman of APGA after Okorie, did his best to steer the ship of the party to the right direction, but his tenure was also turbulent. APGA that won the governorship of Imo, in addition to Anambra was later reduced to pone state of Anambra, when Imo Governor Rochas Okorocha who rode tp power under APGA ticket joined the coalition of parties that formed the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2014.  The last straw that broke the Camel’s back, however, was the position of Anambra Governor, Obiano, in the run up to the 2019 general elections. Obiano did not hide his support for President Muhammadu Buhari, against the Presidential candidate of PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar that nominated his kinsman, Obi as his running   mate.  Thus, despite APGA making a show of fielding a presidential candidate, John Gbor, a retired General from Benue State, it was an open secret that Obiano did everything humanly possible to frustrate Atiku/Obi ticket in favour of APC/Buhari, fuelling speculations that he would decamp to APC after the general elections, knowing that his party APGA was on death row.  Thus, the landslide victory of PDP in Anambra State the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections was seen by many as protest vote against Obiano’s opposition to Obi’s (son of the soil) candidature.