A banker, Oladimeji Balogun, was yesterday arraigned before Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of the Special Offences Court, Ikeja, Lagos, on a four-count charge bordering on stealing to the tune of N81,720,000. The accused was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Lagos Zonal Office. One of the counts reads: “That you, Oladimeji Balogun, sometime between May 30 and June 2018 in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, dishonestly converted to the use of Balogun Zainab Omohomo, the sum of N35,000,000, being the property of Finni Oluwakemi and committed an offence contrary to Sections 278 and 285 (1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State No. 11, 2015.” Oladimeji pleaded not guilty to the charges. In view of his plea, the prosecution counsel, A. Mohammed, asked the court for a trial date and also prayed that the defendant be remanded in prison custody. The defence counsel, Adekunle Oyesanya, SAN, however, informed the court of a pending bail application on behalf of his client, and prayed the court to grant Oladimeji bail. Justice Taiwo granted the defendant bail in the sum of N10,000,000 with two sureties in like sum. One of the sureties must own a landed property in Lagos. The other surety must be a close relation of the defendant, must be gainfully employed and produce three years tax clearance certificate. The defendant was remanded in prison custody, pending the fulfilment of his bail terms. The matter was adjourned till April 9, 2019 for commencement of trial. In another development, the EFCC, Gombe Zonal Office, yesterday secured the conviction of two persons, Yusuf Usman and Sani Ahmed, before Justice Abubakar Jauro of the Gombe State High Court on a two-count charge bordering on conspiracy and stealing. They were arraigned on February 27, 2019 and pleaded “guilty” to the charges. The trial judge, thereafter, fixed March 4, for conviction and sentencing. Justice Jauro convicted them and sentenced them to three years in prison on each count, to run consecutively. The court also ordered, on the application of prosecution counsel, I. O. Akande, that restitution be made to the nominal complainant within six months of the judgement to be effected by the EFCC for the whole amount.