He has been in the industry for long. But it was his dance in the famed album Olori Oko that clearly puts him on the mind of music lovers. The celebrated dancer, choreographer and former president of Guild of Nigerian Dancers (GOND), Adedayo Liadi, popularly known as Ijodee, recalls with nostalgia how it all started as a dancer. He also shares his thoughts on challenges, marriage and other issues. He spoke with TONY OKUYEME  It is almost impossible to talk about you without reference to your performance in Olori Oko video by the Infinity group. How did you get to perform in it? I met the Infinity group on set in a production produced and directed by Mr. Wale Macaulay, and we became brothers after awhile. They fell in love with my choreography works during the said production; then they invited me for a collaboration on Olori Oko musical dance video. How did the name Ijodee come about? After fervent prayers the name IJODEE was giving to me in my dream amongst other names I prayed about. At what stage did you make up your mind to become a professional dancer? That was in 1988. I actually started dancing when I was in primary school but entered the dance industry professionally in 1988. At that time, I was with Lagos Education District (LED), and so I was shuffling between National Theatre and LED. In LED we learnt traditional African dances, drama and music. And at that time, I was trained by Wale Odule, popularly known as Shambolic, and Uncle Kole Sam. When I got to the National Theatre, I was discovered by Dr. Sola Fosudo, who is presently the Head of the Theatre Arts Department, Lagos State University (LASU). I worked with him between 1992 and early 1994. And while working with Sola Fosudo as a dancer, actor and singer under Centre Stage Production, I also had the opportunity of working with choreographers such as Mr. Debo Alexander, Mr. Eric (a Ghanaian) and Mr. Amechi (a top member of NTN) at Centre Stage Production. In 1994 I met Mr. Muyiwa Oshinaike (Baba Nee), and I worked with him for a very long time. While working with him, I was also worked with the Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture 1996/1997, as a dancer and interim choreographer. Your parents actually wanted you to be an engineer. What happened? My Dad is an industrial engineer and he wanted me to take after him, but God has divinely ordained me to be a performing artiste since my primary school days. Unfortunately I had to follow my instinct. Were your parents disappointed or very angry with you when they found out that you wanted to be a dancer? My Dad was extremely disappointed but my Mum was supportive and was always praying for me to excel in my chosen career. How were you able to convince them? Everyone does associate themselves with success. When success sets in doubt is erased. Which show gave you the break as a dancer? The national and international tour of ‘When the gods go crying’ in 1994/1995, choreographed by the French choreographers Claude Brumachon and Benjamin Lamarche, and ‘Ori’ (The Head) choreographed by my humble self in 2002. ‘Ori’ dance piece took first position in Africa in 2003 and toured Nigeria, Africa and Europe for about 5 years. But have there been times you felt like quitting? Yes, many times but destiny cannot be changed. Are you fulfilled? To the glory of God I am fulfilled but I still have lots of aspirations. Many celebrities are known to live fake lifestyles? How have you been able to remain yourself? I am a true and well-trained creative artiste. I focus more on my work and destination. No time for fake life style. Let’s talk about marriage. How has it been? God has being very faithful and I give all the glory to God. Artistes are said to be promiscuous. Would it be out of place to call you a lover boy? I am a creative artiste I don’t have time for that. I live a simple natural life style. Have you been embarrassed? What happened? Yes, by my senior colleagues when I was a trainee. But as for me, I see it as a learning process to my next level; and endurance has brought me this far. Any regrets? Not at all. Has your exploits as a dancer translated into a lot of money for you? To the glory of God it has brought about better life, success, connections nationally and internationally and it has paved ways I never imagined. How do you unwind? By listening to good music, hanging out with friends of like minds, fun times with my family and I do rest a lot. How was growing up like? Share your experience. I am originally from Ijebu ilese, Ogun State. But I was born in Surulere, Lagos. My growing up was full of ups and downs, which I have learnt a lot of lessons from. And that has made me whom i am today and it has shaped my future for the better. I give God the glory for I have triumphed despite all odds in my journey of life.