•It’s not our duty to drive them out –CCECC supervisor •Dead bodies are seen at Pako regularly –Residents  The snail speed with which the Lagos-Badagry Expressway rehabilitation project is being executed by China Civil Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC), company which the contract was awarded to in 2009, has spurred a number of hoodlums, beggars and destitute to turn the monorail terminals and bus lay-bys already in place to their homes and dens respectively. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports that some hoodlums launch their heinous activities from there   For those plying Orile-Badagry Expressway on a regular basis, even rarely, one scene is common and conspicuous at the newly constructed Lagos monorail terminals and bus lay-bys on the axis – destitute, hoodlums and beggars have taken over the places and turned it into their homes and relaxation points during the day and night as well. While the destitute use it as their homes, the hoodlums use it as a relaxation point and fort, from where they perpetrate their heinous acts. Some areas are more dangerous than the other but the wisdom is to avoid those places at night. There are major spots on the road including Alafia, Alaba, Suru, Mile 2, Agboju and Oluti; but at Pako bus-stop, between Mile 2 and Agboju bus lay-by, the situation is more terrible. There is hardly a week that one will not find a dead body there, according to some residents and road users. According to some of the residents, sometimes it’s hard to place a finger on what really happened to those whose bodies were found lifeless on the ground. “I can’t say whether motor or Okada accident or they were attacked by criminals. But we suspect that they were attacked. “The last one I saw, I didn’t see any bruises on the body or any form of physical wound to believe it was an accident. This left me with the belief that the person may have been strangled to death or by any other foul means,” said Tolu Abaje, a shop owner at the link road between Old Ojo and Expressway.  For Pastor Victor Ikeoku, who lives on the Old Ojo side of Pako Bus-stop, he has stopped taking that route to his house at night for the fear of the unknown. He said: “Towards late last year, there is no time you don’t see a dead body at Pako Bus-stop on the side of the expressway, though there is slight difference now. Criminals lay siege for unsuspected persons there. Some fall victims during the night and early hours of the morning.  “I have told all my friends and relatives not to use Pako bus-stop axis once it’s night, instead they should go through First Gate, which is ever busy. Pako is too lonely at night because it’s not a residential area; it’s easy for them to penetrate that area. “The other side of it is covered with bushes likewise the middle of the road and if anything is happening, cry from now till tomorrow, nobody will come for your rescue due to fear. It’s a dead zone. “There are more cases of other crimes, including handbag snatching since those trucks started parking on the road. Don’t misunderstand me, I am not saying that they are the ones doing that but the situation got out of hand with their presence on the road.” A petty trader along the walkway at Mile 2, who identified herself as Madam Modupe, said she had witnessed a number of crimes perpetrated by hoodlums, using the rail terminal at Mile 2 as a target point. She noted that the hoodlums attacked a lady a month ago, collected all her belongings, including money and phones, and left the lady crying and begging for money to go back home. According to her, the lady was headed for Volks, Iyanoba area that night when the incident took her unawares at about few minutes past 8pm. “I sorry for her that day. I don see many people those thieves attack. This place no good for night. I no know any of them. That place is dark at night,” she said in pidgin English, insinuating that she has seen a number of pedestrians attacked by the thieves and cart away their valuables.  Another resident of Old Ojo side of Pako Bus-stop, Ibrahim Arafat said he avoids the road when it’s dark, whether in the night or early hours of the morning as long as he can’t see the face of the next person coming his direction clearly. “My brother, you see that place is no-go area at night. It is a serious threat for us passing there to work and home. I wonder what is taking the government to complete and put the rail system to work so as to end all these. They should be quick about it,” Arafat said. He, however, warned other commuters to be vigilante not only at Pako Bus-stop but also that stretch, saying that the axis is lonely; being an expressway, there are no activities there at night. “If you are being attacked there, no driver will stop to save you for fear of becoming a victim of circumstance,” he quipped. During Sunday Telegraph’s visit to the railway terminals and the bus lay-bys, more things were laid bare, revealing that apart from the hoodlums, who have taken over the terminals and lay-bys, destitute, the homeless, have also found the places as ‘ideal homes’. The occupants of the facilities had fixed mosquito nets and curtains at their respective sleeping corners, while clothes were littered all over the place. They used    polythene bags for their curtains and use stones and similar objects to stake their spaces. One can find heaps of tied clothes containing their belongings at the facilities as well. During the day, you find the hoodlums mixed with beggars, sleeping and chatting there. Sunday Telegraph observed that they do everything there including taking their baths in the early hours of the morning before people start moving around. Of course, open defecation is the hallmark of their activities there. They defecate everywhere even near the bus lay-bys turned make shift house. To take photograph of the areas visited was a tug of war. The moment the hoodlums who where there discussing while others were sleeping suspected that the Correspondent wanted to take a photograph of them; they became alert with their eyes unblinkingly fixed on the correspondent, which put him (correspondent) on the edge. The correspondent, who was particular careful about a potential attack on him by the hoodlums, noticed a large number of them at the Mile 2 Monorail terminal, lying and while others were discussing in that hot afternoon. One of them, who identified himself as Malaki at Agboju, on Friday afternoon, after Moslem Jumat service, said he did not have anywhere to live as he just came to Lagos in January in search of Okada business but yet to get one. Malaki, who hails from Benue State, said after the Fulani herdsmen destroyed their farms and continue to main lives in the state, he decided to come to Lagos. “My friend, who used to live in Lagos came back during Christmas and told me how about okada business in Lagos. So, we discussed and he agreed to go with me and teach me the business. So, when we got to Lagos, I discovered that he doesn’t have house but stays with another person at Mosalashi. “After I joined them, the owner started having problems with my friends because of me. I thought of going back but I’m tired of the village and I need to do something else to make money. He encouraged me to stay and that is how, I moved and started staying here. The only problem here is cold and mosquitoes,” he told us. Asked whether he has started riding okada, he said: “I have not started but my friend promised to get something soon. He has taught me how to ride. What I do now is to help those trucks that bring head of plantain to offload them and they will pay me. I also load iron and they will pay me while I am waiting for the okada.” By the way, the partially abandoned Lagos-Badagry Expressway rehabilitation project was awarded by the Lagos State government in 2009. The project, being handled by the China Civil Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC), involves the expansion of the previous four-lane highway to 10 lanes as well as a metro rail line from Orile Iganmu to Okokomaiko and it’s expected to be completed this year yet has not gone anywhere. Reacting to these happenings, Steve Peters, an environmentalist said this is a sign of a failed system, saying that Nigeria has been unable to cater for it teeming population which is the position of social contract the masses entered into with the government. He said: “Apparently, these people are homeless, sick and rejected. If the system is right, these people should have been taken off the streets. Government should look inwardly at issues like these. On the hoodlums, if they had jobs would they be here to attack anybody?
“Our problem is the corrupt system. We just concluded election and I do not know what the social welfare package system of the country looks like. Even those who found themselves living in a house do not live in decent houses.” A site supervisor for CCECC when approached said it was not their responsibility to chase away the hoodlums and other occupants of the railway terminals and bus lay-bys. “Our job is to fix the project. Getting protected from these people is government’s responsibility. I believe, after completion of the construction, their activities here will be over,” said a supervisor who wouldn’t have his name on the print as he is not the CCECC’s spokesperson. On a global scale, as many as 1.6 billion people are believed to lack proper housing. But in the real sense of the word, the United Nations, as at 2005, estimated that no fewer than 100 million people were bare, without roofs above their heads. Sunday Telegraph’s investigation observed that the figure alone may have paled into insignificance by the Nigerian situation, many years after. Only recently, the Bureau of Public Service Reform (BPSR), cautioned that urgent attention should be given to the housing shortage in the country, which has made over 108 million Nigerians technically homeless. Sunday Telegraph learnt that this is also buoyed by exorbitant charges people pay as a rent for an apartment in cities across the country. The bureau reportedly described the 100,000 houses built yearly in the country as insufficient, adding that it was time for stakeholders to join government’s efforts in providing affordable houses for the people by taking advantage of the ongoing Federal Integrated Staff Housing (FISH) programme. Also, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) put the nation’s housing deficit at 18 million, a situation that had been described as not only unhealthy for a developing country but also stomach-churning. A former Director-General of BPSR, Dr. Joe Abah, had noted that providing housing for the people had become a great concern with the 189 million population in the country. He had also urged stakeholders to confront the challenge in the housing sector, such as insufficient funds, high cost of land and building materials, so that Nigerians would have the opportunity to become house owners. In the same vein, the Executive Secretary, Federal Government Staff Housing Loans Board, Dr. Hanatu Fika said the government was seeking about N13 billion to give out as housing loans to civil servants. Fika, also recently said that over N1 billion had been disbursed as renovation loan to civil servants and that more than 2000 civil servants benefitted from the gesture. However, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, had at a forum assured Nigerians that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration was committed to ensuring the provision of affordable houses for low income earners. He gave the assurance in Abuja, while addressing the Obinna Chidoka-led House Committee on Habitat, which requested for details of the budget implementation on Habitat. The minister disclosed that there were plans to roll out habitat agenda that would accommodate public and private sector workers, especially persons with low incomes, adding that consideration would be given to workers within Grade Levels 08 to 15. He also explained that the new policy would be standardised and made flexible to take into consideration, building needs of Nigerians across ethnic, cultural and religious backgrounds. Fashola foreshadowed the government’s grand plan, saying it included provisions of power, water, access roads and security for the proposed low-cost houses. He said: “At the ministry, we see issues of habitat as crucial in driving the housing sector in the country. This is the reason we participated in the habitat conference, where we expressed our commitments and are working towards the domestication of the agreements we have reached on housing matters. “For the 2016 budget relating to habitat, the records of expenditures are not with me right now. There are with the DFA (director of finance) and will be made available later. But I must say that we’re starting a new housing policy, in which we’ll create economic outlets for artisans. “We are aiming at completing old housing schemes and beginning new ones, where we’re targeting those in levels 08 to 15 in public sector and those in the private sector, bearing in mind the different cultural, religious and other needs of the people in the construction of the buildings.” But as the four-year tenure of the Buhari administration inches to a close, an explanation is also due from the Fashola housing ministry on feats so far achieved in ameliorating the homelessness malaise, plaguing millions of Nigerians. According to the Chairman, Petra Real Estate Investment Club, Mr. Emmanuel Oyewole in a press briefing, government is not doing much to manage the issues presented with housing deficits in the country. He rejected over 18 million housing deficits being bandied about for so long in some quarters, saying that there is no empirical data to support the figure, saying that the figure is more than that. “The situation is worst in the cities where demographic distribution averages 15 per cent for high income earners, 25 per cent for middle income earners and 60 per cent for the low income earners where as the available trend in the provision of housing units, by both public and private organisations are unfortunately 70 per cent, 20 per cent and 10 per cent in favour of high, middle and low income earners respectively,” he stated. However, when contacted the police to determine whose responsibility is it, to drive the hoodlums and destitute from the facilities in order to end that the hoodlums activities there and solve the problem but the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Lagos State Command, SP Chike Oti, said he will get back to the Correspondent, but had not as at the time of filing this report.   