Fidelity Bank Plc yesterday rewarded customers who won N18 million in the monthly and second bi-monthly edition of the get alert in millions promo season three held in various regions of the country. The winners according to a statement, emerged from a transparent randomization process, which was vented by the bank’s control team and witnessed by officials from Consumer Protection Council (CPC) and other regulators. The star lucky winners for the bi-monthly draw who got N3 million include Oghenewajutome Dennis Ezo (Owo Road Branch) (South/West) and Charles Okafor (Abuja). Monthly winners for the draw who got N1 million for the monthly draw include Josephine Ilori and Odozi Gloria (South-South), Chidima Nnatuanya and Digidi Daniel (South-East), Peter Obu (South West), Ibom Amaka Ebere (Abuja), Ogedengbe Frank (North) and Man of Oder Association(Lagos) Others are Emmanuel Chukwuma, N2 million (Lagos and Grace Seidel, N2 million (North). Aside from the cash prizes, 18 other customers received consolation prizes ranging from TV sets, Generator sets and refrigerators. Speaking at the presentation ceremony, the Bank’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Nnamdi Okonkwo, said the campaign is the seventh in the series of promos organised by the Bank to reward customers for their unflinching loyalty and patronage. Okonkwo, who was represented by the Executive Director, Shared Services & Products, Chijioke Ugochukwu, noted that the promo underscores the Bank’s determination to improve the standard of living of Fidelity customers even amidst the harsh economic situation in the country. He explained that the initiative is in line with the central bank of Nigeria (CBN) financial inclusion policy to ensure that financial services are available to the unbanked and underbanked in Nigeria. “We are very committed for a transparence draw based on corporate governance, this is to deepen financial inclusion and improve the standard of living of our customers. The monthly draw, which last for six months, will see customers win N82 million monthly, N28 million bi-monthly and grand prize of N10 million at the last month of the draw,” he said. He enjoined Nigerians to key into the bank by opening accounts with the bank to enable participate in the promo. Oghenewajutome Dennis Ezo (Owo Road Branch), who won star prize of N3 million expressed gratitude to God for using the bank to add value to his life. “I opened this accounts when I was a youth corper, I thank God for making me become a millionaire at this stage. I am very happy ‘am part of the lucky winners, this is real and advise others to participate in the promo by opening an account in Fidelity Bank,” he said.