SOLA ADEYEMO reports on the political intrigues that led to the defeat of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the general elections in Oyo State   It is no longer news that Oyo is the only state in the South-West that lost the control of its governance to opposition party. The magnitude of the defeat, which the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) suffered in the hands of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was so devastating. Even in the state House of Assembly election, the PDP won 26 of the 32 seats, while APC has five. The Action Democratic Party (ADP), led by ex-Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala won only one seat. The defeat of the ruling APC was not only in the gubernatorial and state Assembly elections, but in the National Assembly elections as the senatorial ambition of the incumbent governor, Abiola Ajimobi, was dashed. In the governorship election, the PDP candidate, Engr Seyi Makinde, defeated Chief Adebayo Adelabu of the ruling APC by a differential votes of about 150,000. The question many have asked over the defeat is: What could have been responsible for the shocking defeat of a ruling party after about eight years in power? To many people, particularly commentators on the social media, the style of administration of the incumbent government and majorly the character of the governor were responsible. To them, he did many things not in the interest of the masses; did not do many things which the masses expected of him and only tried to make amends at the eve of the election when the masses had already made up their minds to kick his party out. No doubt, Senator Ajimobi is by all standards a very cerebral person with power of oratory. In terms of infrastructural development across the zones of the state as well as maintenance of security, the 69-year-old former Managing Director of the National Oil and ex-senator, he did well. But, for a man who won himself the accolade of “Koseleri” (a jinx breaker in the annals of Oyo political trajectory after governing the state for two terms), the painful fate that befell him ought not to have. Ajimobi was until the election ready to tell whoever cares to listen that he is endowed with wisdom that surpasses that of others. However, some people tagged this as an intoxicating display of arrogance from an ordinary mortal. Matters were made worse as some aides of the governor failed to live up to their roles of advisers of special advisers even though many said their advices would not have matter to the governor given his kind of person. Against this backdrop, these aides resorted telling their principal what he would want to hear even when he took a wrong step. Many of the governor’s actions provoked repulsive reaction and discontentment among many people in the state. One of such was his inability to listen to students of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, over the long industrial crisis that has kept many of them in the school beyond their statutory years of studentship. The institution was shut for almost two years, while the lecturers and other workers were in periodic protest against Ajimobi and his erstwhile counterpart in Osun State over poor funding of the institution as well as non-payment of their salaries. Sometime last year, the students protested to the Agodi Government secretariat over the continued closure of their school, with the hope of getting the governor to listen to their plight. They were, however, shocked, when Ajimobi called their bluff, describing himself as “Constituted Authority.” The governor had on the day of the protest bluntly told the hapless students that it was no news that schools were being shut and that he was not responsible for their plight. One of the students, who was lambasted by the governor, said of the governor’s electoral misfortune: “Many of our parents who have retired for years are still being owed several months of pension arrears, even up to about 15 months. Many of them are dying by installments, yet the governor blamed them for not training us well, so that we could by now be taking care of them. “Are we not the ones whose future has been wasted for this long by the same government? Some of us have spent up to eight years for just a course of four or five years. Is that our fault or that of our parents? Yet he expected these suffering people to vote him as senator again. That was a colossal mistake.” An ex-student leader of the university had in 2017 taken the initiative to launch an appeal fund to revitalize the school and at the end realised over N9 million. The current Governor-elect, Makinde, donated N5 million to the school, while the Ajimobi government treated the idea with disdain. In the same vein, workers of the state-owned six tertiary institutions have continued to be owed salaries, with some of them still on strike. They appealed that the governor should increase the subvention of the schools which he slashed abysmally fell on deaf ears. Rather the governor directed them to generate funds internally to augment what they get from the government. Against these backdrops, many people in the state were of the view that Ajimobi’s influence in the governance of Oyo State should not continue in whatever form. This explains why they voted against him and ensured his loss in the senatorial election.
Dr. Kola Balogun of the PDP defeated the governor in his Oyo South Senatorial District. His ambition even led to APC’s loss of the incumbent senator, Soji Akanbi, who in anger dumped the party for ADC. Another undoing of the outgoing governor was his preference for a gubernatorial candidate, Joseph Tegbe (leader of the KPMG Audit firm that audited the Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State- BCOS, and recommended transfer of about 65 per cent of the workers to other Ministries). They were declared to have failed the examination conducted for them. Till today, many of them, especially senior management staff are not happy with the ridicule meted to them by the public display of the result. Upon the open display of preference for Tegbe by Ajimobi, many of his commissioners and aides became aggrieved and decided to withdraw their support for his senatorial ambition because they    had thought that having by divine grace governed the state for eight years, he would anoint one of them from the senatorial district to contest. To some of them, “Ajimobi does not reward loyalty, but wants everything only for himself.” Their anger was more fuelled, when the governor eventually settled for Adelabu as the APC gubernatorial candidate out of about other 12 aspirants, who vied for the ticket. The commissioners, who have been working with the governor for the past seven years, felt that one of them would be chosen to succeed their principal instead of an “outsider.” Again, no matter how altruistic Ajimobi’s intention could have been by installing 21 promoted High Chiefs and Baales to crown and coronet-wearing Obas on August 27, 2017, most Ibadan people believe that Ajimobi executed the review of the 1957 Ibadan Chieftaincy Law to denigrate the status of the Olubadan, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji (Aje Ogungunniso 1), who until then was the only ‘Consenting Authority’ in Ibadanland. The monarch battled Ajimobi for upgrading his High Chiefs to crown-wearing Obas, thereby eroding the age-long tradition, which he as the Olubadan inherited. The battle, which the Osi Olubadan, High Chief Rasidi Ladoja, fought alongside the monarch, was won at an Oyo State High Court, but Ajimobi who claimed that he appealed against the judgement, has till date not reversed the action. The policy has since then sowed a seed of discord in the relationship between the elevated High Chiefs and the monarch such that they have not been attending meetings of the Olubadan-in-Council. Comments by many loyalists of the Olubadan since Ajimobi lost the election have attested to the fact that the monarch and his supporters must have worked assiduously to see that the governor lost. The title of “Koseleri” (Unprecedented) given to Ajimobi has been turned to “Koselemo” (Never Again). To others, Ajimobi’s case was a manifestation of the Yoruba’s adage of “Arobafin loba npa” (It is he who denigrates the king that the king kills). A loyalist of the Olubadan has even said that the elevated ‘Obas’ have literally been dethroned. The last straw that broke the APC’s camel’s back aside the intra-party squabble among its members was the last minute coalition of some opposition political parties led by Ladoja The coalition initially had five parties, but Alao-Akala’s ADP opted out at the last minute. Other members of the alliance are PDP, Africa Democratic Congress (ADC), Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and Social Democratic Party (SDP).  