The alarming figure of illegal universities, polytechnics and monotechnics in Nigeria today, as recently released by the Federal Government, no doubt, has not only provoked concerns, but also threatened the viability of the nation’s higher institution sub-sector.  The Education Minister, Mallam Adamu Adamu, had in the release few weeks ago, listed 66 illegal universities and 68 polytechnics, monotechnics and specialised technical and vocational institutions operating across the system.  As shocking as this may be, this would not be the first time such an alarm had been raised by the government, which usually ordered that the identified institutions should be immediately shut down. But, what is therefore disgusting is how and why this illegal operation has continued to thrive unabated and has been on the increase over the years.  In the meantime, the government explained that the identified institutions were operating illegally, with some having unapproved liaison with substandard foreign institutions that have no accreditation or recognition of regulatory bodies either in Nigeria or their home countries. This is lamentable.  The concern, as always, is that why have the National Universities Commission (NUC), the agency superintending university education, and the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), which supervises polytechnic education in the country, not prosecuted the operators in order to serve as deterrent to those still planning to open similar institutions, and save the system from this eclipse.  At this point, beyond the much orchestrated clamping down on these illegal institutions, relevant government agencies have to do the needful by putting in motion necessary machinery that will forestall the upsurge in these institutions, and to muster enough political will to prosecute those charlatans behind this academic fraud and national embarrassment.  Apart from the damage perpetrators of this illegal business are doing to the fabric of the nation’s education, there should be glowing concern about the fate of the several students, who have fallen victims of this shenanigan.  In as much as we sympathize with the students (victims) of these institutions and their parents, prospective admission seekers are advised to be more vigilant and concerned about the institutions they seek admission in order not to fall victims of the antics of these selfish operators, whose major preoccupation is the interest in the students’ school fees.  Indeed, prospective students  seeking admission into higher institutions within and outside the country should guide themselves by the Federal Government’s list of registered and approved universities and polytechnics in Nigeria as espoused by NUC and NBTE.  Unfortunately, it has been observed that many Nigerian students fall victims of this fraudulent act mainly because of their penchant to cut corners to acquire higher certificates at all cost, without being mindful of the integrity of the certificates and institutions that awarded such. Despite repeated warning by the Federal Government that anyone who patronises or obtains any certificate from any of the illegal institutions does so at his or her own risk, it is sad commentary that many students still fall prey to this illegal operations.  In fact, the warning that certificates obtained from these sources will not be recognised for the purposes of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), employment and further studies, should be enough for these students to properly situate the standard, quality and integrity of universities they attend. It is equally important that relevant law enforcement agencies should up their games by rallying support for NUC and NBTE in this project by apprehending and prosecuting the operators.  We are, therefore, calling on the NUC and other agencies in the education sector to rise up to their responsibilities by ensuring effective monitoring of the system, operators of the illegal institutions, need to realize their activities are killing the country and its education sector.  The fact remains that the perpetrators should be reminded that national interest and development must be placed above any monetary or pecuniary consideration, especially as it concerns education, considered to be a critical component of national development. It is rather unfortunate that the operators of these illegal institutions are lashing on the failure of the government to further destroy the nation’s education system, when ordinarily all stakeholders should have been concerned about how to lift the system.   We call for diligent prosecution of the operators of all illegal, unregistered or unlicensed higher institutions operating in the country so as to bring them to book. Forthwith, the NUC, NBTE and other government agencies should realize that mere crying about the operation of illegal universities without concrete action, would not in any way solve the issue and checkmate the activities of the operators, but for appropriate sanctions to be put in place to end this impunity