Nigeria is a society where animals seem not entitled to any right. As such, they are subjected to unending cruelty. This, unfortunately, is the opposite of the ideal situation as it is practiced in the western world, where animals enjoy certain degree of rights and exclusion from cruelty. CALEB ONWE reports  Reckless abuses of animal rights is not just prevalent in the hinterlands of Nigeria, but also in the urban areas where one should think that presumably, the level of education and civilisation should have affected the inclination towards animal abuses.  New Telegraph accosted an expatriate, a middle aged man who declined to mention his name, but claimed he is a Russian. The attention he gave to his ‘pet’ (dog) while on a routine patrol in one of the streets of a highbrow area of Asokoro Abuja, was not just captivating, but speaks volume of a society that has a culture that respects animal lives.  A brief chat with the man reveals a sterling difference between the western world and Nigeria, especially when it comes to treating animals with respect. He said that humans and animals have rights that must be respected. According to him:”We don’t buy our pet, we adopt them and give them the best treatment and respect they deserve. It is strange that in some parts of the world, including Nigeria, dogs are vulnerable, they are used as meal. No, it is wrong,” he noted. Another dimension of animal abuses was noticed by New Telegraph in one of the suburbs of the Federal Capital Territory, where a motorcyclist was seen with several life chickens tied and overloaded on his motor bike.  Perhaps, he was ignorant of any standard rules for conveying chickens from poultry to the market. His interest obviously was to make ends meet for himself.  New Telegraph gathered that the conveyor who uses his motor bike to load chicken is very notorious in Kwali Area of FCT, as some of the mega poultry farms around the place often hire him to help them move life birds from their farm to different markets. They hire him because they believe it is more cost effective and helps them to save money.  However, the Director General, Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN), Dr. Onallo Akpa, said his association frowns at any form of cruelty to birds in their farm. He also stated that there are sets of rules for movement of birds, but association lacks the power of enforcement. Akpa, who expressed dismay over the continuous flouting of extant rules in the poultry sector, stated that lack of compliance with the FAO rules for the movement of life birds by poultry farmers can be blamed on the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and even the FCT Secretariat of Agriculture.  He said: “We have standard for the movement of poultry life birds and other products. The standard is prepared and handed over to members, but the enforcement is that of the government. The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, FCT Secretariat of Agriculture and Rural Development are government agencies that can enforce the rules. “Our association has no power to enforce. You know poultry is private investment driven, but government has to provide conducive environment, in terms of policies and subsidies,” he noted. It was further gathered that FAO, has standard for how animals should be treated but cultural attachment and traditional beliefs are frustrating the standards.  According to one of FAO reports, “Optimum conditions during transport from the growing shed to the processing plant are of vital importance in ensuring that birds arrive at the processing plant in good shape. Having selected the preferred method of transport of slaughter animals, it is necessary to take into account numerous factors in order to ensure the health and welfare of the animals.  “Broilers and other poultry are best transported by road. Any vehicles used for the transport of slaughter livestock should have adequate ventilation, have a floor with proper drainage and provide protection from the sun and rain.
Continued blame games  Unending bulk passing has continued over the unabated cruelty on animals in a society that is signatory to some international treaties on how animals should be treated. The Federal Capital Territory is not just government’s seat of power, but a place where the best practices are expected to prevail. More so, Nigeria is a prominent member of the United Nations( UN ) and may not be absolutely unaware of the standard rules enunciated by Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO ), a UN agency on how animals should be handled, especially the movement of live birds from poultry to the markets.  New Telegraph search reveals that FAO has a number of rules on how poultry farms should handle animals from the farm, even to the point where they would be slaughtered for consumption. For live birds ( poultry chicken), it was discovered that FAO has made tremendous efforts in training poultry farmers in the country on the procedure of handling them, but this acquired knowledge has remained unproductive, due to several reasons which only time and events could reveal.  FAO specifically said that animals should be treated with utmost humane considerations but cultural attachment and traditional beliefs are frustrating the standards in Nigeria.  Popular traditional belief in Nigeria has conditioned the minds of people to hold onto the superiority complex idea over animals. Humanity by creation theory is empowered to believe that animals are perpetually subjected to the dominion of humans, and therefore can be treated anyhow.  This notwithstanding, FAO said that in spite of the human superiority complex theory, adequate ventilation should be provided for live birds, and in a poultry house, a floor with proper drainage and protection from the sun and rain should also be provided. FAO rules include, “No vehicles should be totally enclosed. Lack of ventilation causes undue stress and even suffocation, particularly if the weather is hot. Poor ventilation may cause accumulation of exhaust fumes in road vehicles with subsequent poisoning.  “Minimizing stress during transport is an important issue from both an animal welfare and meat quality aspect. The birds are raised on large farms geographically dispersed and necessitate being transported, often over long distances, to processing plants.  “During transportation the birds may be exposed to different stressors during transit including thermal variations, vibration, motion, acceleration, withdrawal of feed and water, noise and social disruption. The combined effect of these factors may range from mild discomfort and aversion to death.”  Despite all these international best practices and convention which Nigeria has subscribed to, there is still a question, whether the country is prepared to move from the status of underdeveloped country to developed country, given its awkward way of handling animals.  A brief chat with this man reveals a sterling difference between the western world and Nigeria, especially when it comes treating animals with respect. He said that humans and animals have rights that must be respected.  According to him: “We don’t buy our pet, we adopt them and give them the best treatment and respect they deserve. It is strange that in some parts of the world, including Nigeria, dogs are vulnerable, they are used as meal. No , it is wrong “,he noted.  As the blame game continues among the stakeholders in the livestock subsector on why failure to enforce extant rules festers, some of them have come out to explain why the abnormally has continued to thrive.  The Head of Livestock Services, Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Federal Capital Territory, Hajia Umma Abubakar said that her office has made enormous commitment towards ensuring that unwholesome practices in livestock subsector was completely wiped out in the Federal Capital Territory.  Abubakar also stated that her office had conducted sensitization campaigns and educated poultry farmers on how their products should be handled but regretted that many of the farmers are still violating the rules.  She said that her office had even distributed creates meant for conveying live birds at subsidized prices, in a bid to curtail the unwholesome act. She however blamed, the continued contravention on rural farmers who often sacrifice professionalism for personal gains.  “What you see in this picture is not an everyday occurrence, it is an isolated cases of poultry farmers who have not come to terms with what it means to run a decent poultry farms. We have carried out sensitization campaign and have even distributed poultry creates to them at subsidized prices.  “Those who are involved in this cruel act to animals are not in the city centre, they are in the outskirts, we are hoping for more Fund to expand our enforcement drive to the rural areas within the territory.”