Banks only build branches, or so the story goes. Except for Guaranty Trust Bank Plc; the foremost African financial institution, which has been at the forefront of several innovative products and services, recently completed and opened the first digital playground for children in Nigeria. Located in Lekki, Lagos State, the GTBank Play Centre is equipped with a wide range of interactive games that will give kids a fun and immersive digital experience whilst aiding their mental and intellectual development. Open from 10am to 3pm on Weekdays, and 10am to 1pm on Saturdays, some of the features of the Play Centre include the Sketch Town, where kids can design cars, launch rockets, and bring all their sketches to life. At the playground, children can also use the wide range of bricks available to build whatever excites their curiosity and also express themselves creatively by scribbling, writing and drawing on a digital chalkboard. GTBank is renowned for designing innovative and personalized products and services that are tailored to customers’ unique needs and which fit seamlessly with their lifestyles. Recently, the Bank launched Habari, a digital platform that gives customers unlimited access to local and international music, and at the same time, allows them to shop online, split bills with friends and take care of their everyday needs, in one place. Habari, like the GTBank Play Centre, is the first of its kind in Nigeria, reflecting the Bank’s digital drive as well as its focus on creating unique experiences for all segments of its customer base. Commenting on the launch of the Play Centre, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Guaranty Trust Bank plc, Mr Segun Agbaje said; “How and where children play contributes significantly to their cognitive and intellectual development, helping them build better communication and problem-solving skills. Our new Play Centre will give children a tension-free space to build these critical developmental skills, expose them to new and emerging digital technologies, and, most importantly, give them a wonderful time out.” He further stated that “At GTBank we are passionate about building the bank of the future, and for us, this means constantly leveraging the best of technology to create amazing digital experiences for all of our customers, in a way that adds real value to their lives.” Guaranty Trust Bank is one of the best run African financial institutions and serves as a role model within the financial service industry due to its bias for world-class corporate governance standards, excellent service quality, and innovation. The Bank is also renowned for driving youth empowerment initiatives alongside its business, as seen with the GTCrea8 Account package, which doubles up as a platform for empowering young undergraduates with the resources and networking that they need to develop their skills and talents and build capacity in their careers of choice. — Leading African financial institution, Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank) is atop a new generation of multinationals in developing markets with the competitive strength and capacity to become a major player in the global scene, says the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), the research and analysis division of the world-leading business media platform,… In “Business” Guaranty Trust Bank plc (GTBank) last Friday unveiled, “Habari”, Nigeria’s largest platform for music, shopping, lifestyle content and more. The event, which was attended by renowned personalities in the entertainment, media and technology sectors, saw the Tier 1 lender showcasing the benefits of Habari, which according to it, offers users… In “Business” Foremost African financial institution; Guaranty Trust Bank plc reaffirmed its position as a leading global brand with its recent recognition as the “Best Bank in Nigeria” and the “Best Bank for CSR in Africa.” The Bank’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Office, Segun Agbaje, also won the award for the… In “Business”