A military jet is to be deployed to Kwara State for tomorrow’s Gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections, the state Police Commissioner, Kayode Egbetokun, announced yesterday. The jet will replace the helicopter deployed to the state a day before the Presidential and National Assembly elections, Egbetokun said while briefing journalists on the preparations for the polls. The police chief addressed newsmen along with heads of sister security agencies in the state. Asked if the deployment would not scare residents, Egbetokun said it was done to ensure better performance in the area of surveillance and assured residents not to panic, but to come out en masse to participate in the elections. He said: “A military jet will be used for surveillance instead of the police helicopter that was used in the last election. But residents should not panic when they see it because it is just to ensure their safety. They should come out en masse and exercise their civic rights. “The jet is to support our efforts at ensuring safety of everybody. The military jet will do the job of surveillance better than the helicopter and we should feel comfortable with better equipment in use.” The head of the Air Force Command in the state, Air Commodore A. Adamu, explained that the use of the military jet was because the helicopter used earlier had been deployed to combat operations in the fight against insurgency in the North-East. According to him, the jet is “faster, more precise and will aid response time” to security challenges on the field. Also, the commissioner of police said the command would embark on raids of suspected criminals’ hideouts till Friday night. According to Egbetokun, the development is based on credible intelligence about hoodlums who may want to frustrate the election in the state. He said: “We are not unaware of a few criminallyminded individuals who will want to sabotage the process of election, but they should not test our resolve at sustaining the peace we have in the state.” Before the briefing, Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed had presided over a meeting of the state security committee, during which he warned potential troublemakers to stay away from the state before, during and after the elections or risk the full wrath of the law. Ahmed, who vowed a crackdown by security agencies on illegal voting, said he had received the assurances from heads of security and paramilitary agencies in the state of their full readiness to curb threats to the conduct of free elections by individuals or groups. The governor said that elections in Kwara State were traditionally peaceful. He said his administration was ready to provide the logistic support required by security agencies to maintain law and order as well as protect lives and property during the elections. Ahmed, therefore, called on all residents to turn out in their numbers on Saturday to exercise their civic obligations and the right to elect leaders of their choice as security agencies in partnership with the state government would guarantee safety and security. The governor warned that security agencies would apprehend and prosecute anyone suspected of illegal voting, double voting, ballot box-snatching and other infractions of applicable electoral laws. The state security committee meeting was attended by the Police Commissioner, Egbetokun and the Acting Brigade Commander, Sobi, Col. A. Egbejule. Others were the heads of the Navy, Air Force, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and the Nigeria Prison Service in the state and others