Mr. Monday Ubani is a former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on violence that characterized Presidential and National Assembly elections, NJC’s membership, insecurity and sundry issues  Do you share the sentiment that judiciary’s integrity has been undermined with the duo of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen and the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN) facing corruption charges? Apart from the issue of perception, I think the proper thing is to allow the process to run through before we can come to a definite conclusion that these gentlemen are criminally liable for the offence they are accused of. This is because in the absence of any conviction, they are still presumed innocent. Any individual can be charged to court but the issue is what evidence has been provided by the prosecution in court to prove its case to get the accused persons convicted and having said that, the judiciary as the third arm of government must try as much as possible to pursue justice at all cost. This is because people’s confidence in the judiciary must be sustained in the larger interest of the society. If people’s confidence in judiciary is lost, it will be very catastrophic because people will begin to take laws into their hands. In order to prevent this, justice must not be for sale, it must be accorded the person who deserves it irrespective of class or religious affiliation. All these will actually go a long way in restoring whatever confidence of the people that might have been lost. Are you in support of the calls for a review of members of the National Judicial Council (NJC) as currently constituted in order to reduce the influence of the Chief Justice of Nigeria? This situation is what some lawyers have looked into and are making suggestions about an amendment to the Constitution with regards to the composition of the NJC’s members. According to the views by these lawyers which I also agreed with, the number of appointees by the CJN is overbearing. He has so much power to make appointment as to who sit on the NJC. So, there has to be a constitutional amendment to reduce the influence of the CJN. I hope the 9th Assembly will do something in this regard. When there are lapses in any law, an amendment is desirable. So, I think that in the light of some recent events, the best thing is for us to look into that section of the law that gives the CJN enormous power to appoint several members of the NJC. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has alleged that the length of time it took the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to announce the results of the presidential election has affected the integrity of the process. What is your take on this? I can’t say categorically that the delay in announcing the final result of the presidential election has affected the integrity of the process because I don’t have the facts to support such claims. It will be wrong to just say the integrity of the process has been undermined when there was no evidence pointing in that direction. Of course, the delay can affect the credibility of the exercise but one cannot be sure if this is so when there was no evidence. These are part of the issues that can be redressed within the judicial circle. If the PDP members feel that the process have been interfered with in anyway, it is their legitimate right to go to court. The position is that we have wanted an amendment to the Electoral Act 2010 in order to minimally reduce human intervention in the electoral process. Technology is a bit faster, less clumsy and makes things more efficient. We all know that at every point in time, human intervention reduces the credibility of the process. But it will be in the country’s interest to follow what is happening around the world. Other nations have moved away from where we are to a more efficient system and they are getting it right. So, there is nothing stopping us from copying them and correcting some of these anomalies that we see in our system. The election was done on Saturday and we did not know the outcome officially until Wednesday morning. Whereas, I understand that another country in Africa, though smaller than Nigeria, held their election on Sunday and by Monday, the official result was out. So far, the 2019 general election have been marred by violence with many Nigerians losing their lives in the process. How can this recurrence be stemmed as the nation goes into the last leg of the polls this weekend? The Nigeria environment is very peculiar, but I am going to suggest certain steps that I think can be taken to stem the tide of violence in our electoral process. Firstly, politician’s access to the treasury must be limited. Our politicians have so much access to the treasury. This is not being checkmated by relevant security agencies. The moment you win an election and become a public officer in Nigeria, you are already a millionaire. The number of years you are in office will determine your level of wealth. A governor will be collecting millions of naira as security vote monthly unaccounted for. Therefore, when politicians have access to this kind of money either at the Federal, State or Local Government levels, they will do anything, including killing, to secure their positions. There is a need for us to redefine our public service and redefine what they are entitled to under the law and stick to it. Public Officers should not be allowed to destroy public office. Look at the bogus allowances of National Assembly, state legislators were no exception. These people by way of their salaries and allowances are earning something that can be considered out of this world. That is why they are usually desperate to get power and this was usually the reason behind ballot snatching and all manner of vices including killings during elections. Besides, our electoral system should be reformed in such a manner to allow for minimal human interference. Basically, we should go electronic and continue to improve what we have at every point in time. On this, I expect the president to append his signature to the Electoral Act amendment Bill 2018. There were a number of innovations introduced in the Act that will help us reform our electoral system. Thirdly, we must engage in high level sensitization of Nigerians on the need to desist from violence during polls. I see no reason why people will be equipped with arms to start fighting and killing people over election. This is despite the fact that the politician has his own family that can equally be deployed to fight for him. No enlightened mind will indulge in such criminal act. This indicates that education is key. Even though we might still have some educated fellow engaging in violence acts, majority of the people being used as touts and thugs by politicians are illiterates. So, we need to look into our educational sector critically because an educated mind is an enlightened mind. We are not measuring up to other nations of the world in the area of providing quality education for Nigerians. All these suggestions are not rocket science, they are things that can be put in place when we have knowledgeable individuals at the helm to formulate policies that will be in the interest of the nation. I think there must be a national policy that will trickle down to all the states aimed at ensuring at stability in electoral process at all times. Why do you think it is difficult for government to stop unending mindless killings in some states of the federation? I am also worried about these killings. Government recorded some increase in the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in Agricultural sector in 2017. But in 2018, the growth stopped because of the herders/farmers clashes in the country. For a country that is keen to diversify its economy to agriculture, we must work on providing adequate security for the farmers. These constant killings that are going on, most times unprovoked, does not speak well of our security operatives. There were volatile areas that one would have expected to be adequately guarded by these operatives. I think it’s a failure of leadership and on the part of security apparatus of the country. Then, we can look into suggestions about the creation of state police once again. We have been saying it over and over again that we cannot over-centralized our police structure and expect an effective policing of the nation. We must try as much as possible to decentralize the basic structure of the police in this country. The fear of abuse can also be addressed holistically and legally. If you don’t try anything, you cannot in anyway be able to make a comprehensive statement concerning its negativity. I think the best thing that we can do is to try it and put regulations in place to checkmate any abuse by any governor. State police should be created for states that want it while national police should also be created. If there is any abuse at the state level, the national police can come in. What is your agenda for President Buhari in his second term in office? The country today is beset with so many issues. We can talk about the economy, political climate as well as security of lives and property among others. So, I think the first thing that the president should do is to seek reconciliation with everyone and run an inclusive government. The president should not be comfortable saying that it is certain people from a part of the country that he can trust. The father of a nation shouldn’t speak in such manner. He should get best hands from all over the country, as long as they are Nigerians, in order to actualize the nation’s dream. There are so many patriotic citizens that want a country that is functional. So, we must assemble our best in order to get a country that is functional. On the issue of the economy, we should pursue the diversification from oil with so much zeal and vigour. On security, government must professionalise the Nigeria police and fund the institution. The worst thing that can happen to a country is not to have a police that is funded. Besides, government must be committed to the observance of the rule of law because it is the bedrock of democracy. If laws are not obeyed, then the state will be in anarchy. So, obedient to law is critical. Government should also know that national interest works under the rule of law. It is onky the judiciary that can make any pronouncement on the superiority of national interest over the rule of law.