FOLUSO OGUNMODEDE writes that alleged plans by President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to handpick leadership of the 9th National Assembly would amount to making the incoming Assembly an appendage of the executive  “We all know that the president has no power to choose the Senate President. In reality, the ruling party may nominate their members in the National Assembly for certain offices,” one said. “The ultimate decision on who becomes the Senate president lies with the lawmakers. It is their business,” another echoed. Lawyers, however, were unanimous yesterday that President Muhammadu Buhari had no visible role to play in who would emerge as President of the 9th Senate lest handpick leadership of the National Assembly as declared by a Senator representing Delta State Central in the Senate, Senator Obarisi Ovie Omo-Agege. Besides, they said handpicking the next Senate President by President Buhari would not only make the National Assembly an appendage of the executive but a rubber stamp National Assembly. President Muhammadu Buhari and his ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) had believed that the Buhari-led government could not deliver on some of its campaign promises because of a frosty relationship which enveloped executive-legislative romance for near four years. Apparently determined to reposition the country with his renewed mandate, President Buhari in his acceptance speech promised to remedy past mistakes with a view to rebuilding faith by run-ning a dynamic and successful administration and building the institutions that can lay firmer foundations than in his previous term. This, was, however, reechoed at the weekend by Senator Ovie Omo- Agege when he declared that President Buhari would determine the next Senate President. Specifically, the Senator said Mr. President had powers to handpick new President of the Senate if his second term must take the country to greater heights, saying that the All Progressives Congress (APC) would work towards avoiding mirage of issues which led to emergence of Dr. Bukola Saraki as Senate president. Omom-Agege said: “Anybody who is going to be Senate President in the 9th senate must be somebody who is loyal to Mr. President, the party and the Constitution. “The Senate President will be determined by Mr. President. Mr. President will indicate to us through the party who he wants to work with. “What I can tell you is that we are going to have a Senate that will work with Mr. President. The era of allowing renegades who rode on the back of Mr. President, who rode on the back of the party to go in there and trade the party’s mandate, I think that era is gone. “I am very hopeful that this time around, Mr. President will step in and decide not only the zone that will produce the Senate President and the leadership but also who it should be. We don’t want to erect another opposition leader in the Senate, as we had in the 8th Assembly. “There are a lot of us in the Senate who are returning to the next Senate who fit into that position.” But lawyers disagree. They insisted that rule of law and due process must be allowed to prevail in choosing leadership of the National Assembly particularly the President of the Senate. Senior lawyers, who spoke to New Telegraph Law described alleged plans by President Buhari and his party to handpick the Senate President for the 9th Senate as an assault on the concept of separation of powers.Particularly, the lawyers insisted that the executive arm of government had no role to play in who would become the president of the Senate as leader of his party that is in majority, but he can influence the choice through his party’s senators though. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Olatunde Adejuyigbe, said the president had no power to choose or handpick the Senate President. He said: “We all know that the president has no power to choose the Senate President. In reality, the ruling party may nominate their members in the National Assembly for certain offices. “Nigeria is the only place where the president and governors want to control the other organs of government. Governors choose and remove Speakers of the House of Assembly as they wish. Invariably they put their stooges in the parliament and jettison the checks and balances which should serve as bulwark against dictatorship. This is why some governors conduct the affairs of their states as their private enterprise. It is absolutely wrong. “However it is necessary for the executive and the legislative arms of government to have a good working relationship in the interest of the nation”. Another Senior Advocates, Dr. Biodun Layonu, also believed it would be illegal for the president to pick the Senate president. He, however, opined that it was not out of place for the president to influence the choice of the person to lead the red chamber. “The president cannot by law pick Senate President. But as leader of his party that is in majority, he can influence the choice through his party’s senators. “The ultimate decision on who becomes the Senate President lies with the lawmakers. It is their business,” the silk said. Mr. Yemi Candide-Johnson (SAN) believed the issue of who leads the Senate was political and had no serious implication on the rule of law. He said: “It’s a political issue and has little to do with the rule of law. The president is the head of his political party and will exercise his political authority within that group. “If the elected members of the legislature are influenced by his opinion that will neither be unusual or unlawful. It is still their choice. “The president cannot lawfully dictate a choice and all speculation about this are idle. The parliamentary party will vote.” To Hakeem Afolabi (SAN), the president had no role to play in the election or selection of the Senate President. “The president as head of the executive arm has no role to play in the selection or election of the Senate President. It is the duty of the senators to select or elect one of them to be the Senate president. “Allowing the president to handpick the Senate President is an assault on the concept of separation of powers. If the senators allow that to be done by the president, then they should remove the word distinguished from their title as they would have mortgaged our democracy and the Constitution”, he said. To the Editor of the Nigerian Weekly Law Report (NWLR), Oluwole Kehinde, the clamour for the president to handpick the Senate president is the height of unbridled propaganda of the ruling party. He said: “It is not desirable to have the president handpick the Senate President or Speaker of House of Representatives. The clamour for that arrangement under the new APC government under the guise of harmonious relationship between the legislature and the executive is the height of unbridled propaganda. “Those who are spearheading that move today were the same people who accused the National Assembly under David Mark of being an appendage and rubber stamp of the executive, and therefore lacking strength to provide necessary checks and balances on the Executive. “That was the impetus behind the support the opposition parties gave to Tambuwal when he moved against the zoning arrangement of the PDP then, and throughout his tenure as Speaker. “The unfolding picture of the shape and structure of the leadership of the incoming National Assembly clearly exposes the grand propaganda of the APC, which is certainly not in the best interest of the country. “The National Assembly must be allowed to choose its leadership with the best interest of the country in focus, subject of course, to the dictates of the Constitution and any reasonable and workable party zoning arrangements in place.” Dr. Khairat Bidat, said it would be against the spirit of the law should the President handpick the Senate President She said: “The Constitution provides that a President and a Deputy President of the Senate, who shall be elected by the members of that House from among themselves. “It is however clear that President Buhari is not a member of the Senate and hence, constitutionally, he does not have any legal power or say on who becomes the Senate President. “In the event that the President picks the Senate president, it will be very unhealthy for our democracy for so many reasons. One, there won’t be the check and balance that should exist among the three arms government. “The principle of separation of power will be relegated to the background. And separation of powers is a fundamental constitutional principle. “Relevant sections of the Constitution place each of the basic powers of government in a separate branch. Thus, while Sections 4 and 5 deal with the legislative and executive powers respectively, Section 6 is concerned with the judicial powers. And no arm is expected to interfere in the affairs of another. An Abuja based lawyer, Innocent Jegede, said that the president had no powers to handpick Senate resident. He said: “It is impossible. The 1999 Constitution is very clear on the procedure for electing a senate president. He must be elected by the majority of senators present (after quorum is formed). It is immaterial the party that the elected senate president comes from, if it is the collective wishes of the members present, so be it. “The principle of separation of power forbids the President to interfere in the affairs of the senate and as such it is practically impossible & unconstitutional for President Buhari to handpick the next Senate President “No doubt, the president can be interested in who becomes the Senate President particularly considering the debacle between him and the outgoing Senate President. “However, his interest can only be actualized by lobbying first, APC senators and across party lines. He cannot validly have a direct involvement in who becomes the next Senate President. “Picking the Senate President by the President will not be healthy for our democracy at all,” he added. An activist lawyer, Dr. Abisoye Atiba, noted that it was against the law and morality for the president to singlehandedly handpicked the president of the Senate. According to him, “Nigeria is neither a banana republic nor animal farm, where anything can be done or where some animals are more equal than the other. “By the drafting of our constitution, each arm of government is not permitted or empowered to interfere in the affairs of each other. “That is what is meant by separation of power. The legislature is supposed to be a check on the excesses of the executive. “It will however be a disaster if the head of the executive picks the head of the legislature which is expected to serve as a check to it. That won’t in anyway held our Democratic dispensation. “In my own thinking, it is abnormal and back stabbing of democracy for the President to hand pick the Senate president”