 Former football star John Fashanu has faulted the rationale behind the long absence of Mikel Obi from the Super Eagles as build up towards the 2019 African Cup of Nations intensifies. The Middlesbrough of England midfielder has not featured for Nigeria since the final 2018 World Cup group D game against Argentina in St. Petersburg on June 26 . He is also conspicuously missing in the squad for the upcoming clashes with Seychelles and Egypt and against the backdrop of the fact that Eagles’ manager, Gernot Rohr has declared that the former Chelsea of England and Tianjin Teda of China midfielder is pivotal to his team’s plan for the tournament taking place between June and July in Egypt, Fashanu pointed that something was wrong. “If you rate a particular player as one of the Top Three in your team then you must play him regularly because he needs to get to know who the other players are so that he can know who best fits his style. So, if Rohr sees Mikel as one of the best players in his squad, then he should not leave him out; obviously there’s something not quite right,” he said. The ex-Wimbledon striker stressed that friendly matches served as an avenue to perfect strategies and its inexplicable how Mikel who will clock 32 in April, would not be in the picture for a tournament that Nigeria should be seeking a glorious return having shockingly missed the past two editions.
However, despite acknowledging that Mikel’s absence from the tune up games would affect the fortune of the team, Fashanu expressed confidence in the technical ability of Rohr, who is spending his third year as Nigeria’s gaffer. “Let’s give the coach a chance because he knows the team better than anyone else as he is the one in charge. He is an experienced coach and we should worry less. If at all there is anyone that should be worried it should be the coach because he knows that his head is on a chopping board if he fails. Nobody should be more anxiety than the coach.  “He knows what he is doing; he’ doing something different that we haven’t seen him done before and we pray it comes good. He’s a clever man let’s just watch and see what he has up his sleeves. He is a very experienced coach and knows what he is doing.” Mikel has won 85 caps for Nigeria since his debut in 2006 and is widely predicted to call a date on his international career at the 24-team championship having been part of the team that won tournament in 2013, the last time Nigeria featured at the biennial event.