Nigerians have raised the alarm over the spate of armed robbery attacks, kidnapping and killings on the Lagos- Ore-Benin Expressway in Edo State. This followed a heart-rending video clip which went viral on social media by a lady who narrated what passengers and motorists go through while plying the lonely Ofosu, Gbogi and Okada ends of the expressway in Edo State. The lady lamented the gruesome murder of her father by gunmen last Friday on the road. She said her father had travelled to attend a burial ceremony alongside others on the fateful day but ended up in a nearby thick bush on the expressway when kidnappers swooped on them. She said the family members had searched fruitlessly for the whereabouts of their breadwinner only to discover his decomposing body days after in the thick bush where bodies of other victims were also found. The lady urged the Federal Government and Edo State to deploy the military, the police and other security agencies on the road. According to her, horrible things unknown to most travellers and relevant authorities happen daily in the area. Investigations showed that the lonely parts of villages living within Ofosu, Gbogi and Okada communities on the expressway have become potential target areas for suspected armed robbers, kidnappers and ritual killers. These criminal acts had in the past forced luxury bus operators and trailers to block the road in protest over poor security checks by relevant agencies. More worrisome is the fact that there has been resurgence of kidnapping in parts of the state, raising grave concerns about the security implications and threat to lives and property of residents. A few days ago, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Godwin Oshiogbuwe, abducted by gunmen at Ubiaja in Esan South East Local Government Area, was found dead in a forest in the state. The body of Oshiogbuwe, who hailed from Auchi, headquarters of Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State and served in Abuja before his death, was discovered inside the forest on Ubiaja-Ewohimi-Agbor Road, following a search by the police tactical team. Also last week, a sales representative of one of the national dailies in the state was kidnapped by armed men at a lonely location between Gbogi and Okada communities on the expressway. The victim, who was released after family and friends paid ransom, sustained serious injuries in the hands of his captors who beat him mercilessly. The criminals also operate freely on Airport Road, Ekemwan Road, Ugbowo and Upper Mission and Upper Sakponba areas of Benin. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, told our correspondent yesterday that the command had taken measures to curb the criminal activities in the state. He said: “The Commissioner of Police, Edo State, has put active measure of a combined team of military personnel, mobile policemen and men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to man the areas.”