  The political template in Ekiti State has changed after the 2019 general elections as the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led by Governor Kayode Fayemi won all elective positions in the state to delete the tracks of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. WALE ELEGBEDE reports on the comprehensive victory of the APC in the general elections in Ekiti State  Given his background, Governor Kayode Fayemi didn’t start life as a politician. He has a rich vein of exposure in research, civil-military relation and strategic studies. But, his achievement in active politics over the last 12 years has confounded the theoretical postulation of even political scientists.  While the teachers of politics are still confused about how to situate his brilliant foray in the art of politics, the people of Ekiti State see him like a cat with nine lives. Fayemi first contested for the Ekiti gubernatorial seat on April 14, 2007 and he was reported to be leading in 12 out of the 16 local governments as at 10 pm on that fateful Saturday night before the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), under Prof. Maurice Iwu came with its magic and declared his rival, Engineer Segun Oni, as the winner.  As a firm believer in the rule of law, Fayemi approached the court and was there for 36 months before he eventually reclaimed his mandate at the Court of Appeal, Ilorin, and was sworn in as governor on October 16, 2010. But the romance and support he enjoys from the people ended in 2014 when he suffered defeat while bidding for a second term, no thanks to the vicious attack against his person and government by both the immediate past governor of the state, Mr. Ayodele Fayose and the then interested federal government. At the election held on June 21, 2014, Fayose polled 203,090 votes to defeat 18 other candidates including the incumbent, Dr Kayode Fayemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who scored 120,433 votes. But, like a statesman and unlike in 2007, when he contested the result of the governorship poll in which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Segun Oni, then of the PDP winner, Fayemi accepted defeat and went ahead to congratulate Fayose.  His acceptance of defeat was however without a caveat. He decried what he described as “brazen harassment, intimidation and allied infractions on fundamental human rights,” which his supporters suffered in the hands of agents of the state, saying it would be documented for the records. He was later appointed the chairman of the 2014 APC Convention Planning Committee that organized one of the best party presidential primaries in recent times, which raised his profile within the party. He also added great value to the Muhammadu Buhari presidential project as Director of Policy of the party’s Presidential Campaign Organisation. This, perhaps, explained his appointment as minister of Solid Minerals Development after Buhari’s victory in the 2015 presidential election, a position he held until May 30, when he resigned to contest the Ekiti State governorship election. For the man called JKF, failure is never part of his dictionary. Thus, he threw his hat into the ring to return to the Government House. Expectedly, it was not an easy road to victory for him in the July 14 election. First, he had to scale the hurdle of APC governorship primary, in which an unprecedented 33 aspirants vied for the party’s ticket. After the first primary election was marred by violence, Fayemi won the rescheduled exercise after polling 941 votes to beat Oni, who scored 481 and 31 other aspirants. This sets the template for an epic battle between Fayemi and Fayose’s anointed candidate, the former deputy governor of the state, Prof. Kolapo Olusola. At the end of the July 14 contest, Fayemi was declared governor as he polled 197,459 to beat Olusola, who scored 178,121 votes. He won in 12 local government areas of the state, while the PDP candidate won in four. Returning to lead a state where the indigenes have suffered the impact of poor governance for a while, Fayemi had no    choice but to hit the ground running with a lofty blueprint especially in areas of remunerations for the state workforce. On the political front, Fayemi, who has mastered the art of grassroots politics, did not leave anything to chance in ensuring the stability and positioning of the APC in the state against the entrenched PDP. Not long after, the defections started coming in torrents for the APC. From serving lawmakers, ex-aides of the former governor to Fayose’s kinsmen, the fold of the ruling party in Ekiti started swelling with who-is-who in the politics of the state. With the momentum already built, it was a roller coaster ride for the APC in Ekiti at the just concluded general elections. The once entrenched PDP was not only demystified, it was completely annihilated. For political analysts, the feat wasn’t a fluke but a strategically coordinated triumph that recognizes the people especially those at the grassroots as the drivers of electoral process. While they didn’t take anything away from the governor for his ingenuity and influential leadership, analysts also gave measures of recognition to the wife of the governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, over the strength of her advocacy and voter education across the hamlets, villages, and towns of the state ahead of the election. Not a few see her as the silent force behind APC electoral success in Ekiti state. Fayemi marched his words with figures in the presidential election as President Muhammadu Buhari won the state after polling a total of 219,231 votes to defeat the presidential candidate of the PD, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, who scored 154,032 votes in the state. In the same way, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the APC candidates as winners of the three senatorial and six House of Representatives seats in Ekiti State at the February 23 elections. The Senators-elect for the three senatorial districts are Opeyemi Bamidele (Ekiti Central), Olubunmi Adetumbi (Ekiti North) and Adedayo Adeyeye (Ekiti South). In the House of Representatives election, Sola Fatoba won in Ekiti Central 1, Wumi Ogunlola (Ekiti Central II), Femi Bamisile (Ekiti South II), Femi Adaramodu (Ekiti South I), Peter Owolabi (Ekiti North I), Ibrahim Olanrewaju (Ekiti North II). However, in the state House of Assembly election, APC cleared the 25 out of 26 seats declared by INEC. The election in Ekiti East I was declared inconclusive due to disruptions at four polling units. It is noteworthy that Ekiti was the first state in the federation to collate and deliver the Presidential and National Assembly election results as acknowledged by the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. Even more remarkable was that Ekiti recorded the least number of voided votes among the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory where elections were held. Speaking about his victory in the National Assembly election, former Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon. Femi Bamisile, said he won the election to represent Ekiti East/Gbonyin/Emure federal constituency of the state owing to his connection to the grassroots. “Any politician who takes the people for granted will be dealt with on the day of election,” he said, adding: “I, therefore, I urged politicians to always make themselves available to people at the grassroots.” Bamisile said many of those perceived to be heavyweights in the country’s politics lost in the National Assembly elections because some of them took their people for granted. He stated that aside from his connection with the people, Governor Fayemi winning the July 14, 2018 governorship election in Ekiti State, also swayed votes for APC National Assembly candidates in the state. Bamisile defeated the incumbent federal legislator and candidate of the PDP, Hon Akin Awodumila. But, speaking on the feat achieved by the party, Fayemi told members of the Presidential Campaign Organisation, Ekiti State Chapter, and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to ensure total dominance of the party in the state in all future elections. The governor in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital during a meeting to appreciate members of the Ekiti State Council of the PMB/PYO Presidential Campaign Organisation and leaders of the party, for the success of the Presidential, National Assembly and State Assembly elections in the state, Fayemi said the hard work and unity of purpose that earned the party victory during the just-concluded general elections must be sustained, especially ahead of the 2022 governorship election in the state. He said: “I remember I was with Mr. President a couple of days ago, to discuss some challenges facing our state, and as soon as he came into the meeting, the very first thing he said was Mr. 100 percent. That credit really goes to the work that we all did, and I think it leads to what happens when we have unity of purpose. “However, the outcome of the election tells us some things; that we cannot be complacent about this issue. We still have to work to completely crush the PDP in all our local government areas and state to a point, where they are a minute fold rather that a sizeable number that can threaten the consolidation of our gains in the course of next couple of elections. “The only way to guarantee this effort you have all put in this election is to ensure that the 2022 governorship election in Ekiti goes to APC.” With all the accolades going to the APC in Ekiti state and Governor Fayemi, it is left to be seen how the party will manage its popularity at the grassroots, especially ahead of the 2022 governorship election in the state. 