The APC governorship candidate in the last election indicated that he would challenge the victory of Governor Samuel Ortom at the tribunal, what is your take on that decision? Well, everyone has the right to seek redress in court if he or she is not satisfied with any issue. So, on that basis one cannot blame or fault the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the gubernatorial election that they would go to court.  Beyond that, Governor Samuel Ortom has already extended a hand of fellowship to all those who contested against him and he made it clear that this is our state, the victory is for all and not for Samuel Ortom as a person in particular, not for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), but for the entire state. And he also said he is the governor of all political parties, that means that he is not going to discriminate against any Benue person, and he went on to promise that he would set up a Truth and Reconciliation Committee to find ways of bringing Benue people together to reason as one family.  How will you describe the governor’s action in victory? So with the posture of the governor there wouldn’t have been any need for anyone to say they want to go to court, but the constitution of Nigeria confers on the people the right to express their opinion, the right to live, the right to do wherever they desire as far as it falls within the ambit of the law. Hence we will not stop the APC from going to court because our victory was clean and the governor overwhelmingly won the election in both the first and second ballots. You can’t fault such a victory. If there was any case of electoral malpractice it was perpetrated by the APC. Even on the day of the supplementary election supporters went to one of the wards in Ukum Local Government and other places and disrupted the elections. So if anyone must complain we should be ones complaining but we didn’t complain because we knew that we were cruising home to victory and we had no course to fear. Of course, you can recall that when the first ballot was declared inconclusive they were so happy and jubilating and even asked us to go to court if we were not comfortable. Now they are the people who want to approach the court, they have the right to do that, but for us, governance continues. Governor Ortom has a mandate which is still running till May 29 and it has been renewed to continue from May 29 till May 2023. So we are not bothered by any court case because we know that even in the court we will come clean. We have victory because this victory in Benue people’s victory, they overwhelmingly voted for Governor Ortom. The victory is for Benue people even the governor has asked his supporters not to gloat over it, not to do things that would embarrass the state or laugh at the other side that they did not win. If I may quote his words, he said “as we celebrate let us engage in behavior that will promote peace and reconciliation. Avoid the use of hurtful and insultive political and folk songs.” So we should grow beyond that and look at Benue as one big family in such a manner that even those that did not vote for us should be counted as if they voted for us because in the end it was the majority of the people who chose Governor Ortom which means that the entire Benue accepted him.  What is your perception about the spread of the governor’s vote tally in the election? The fact remains that there is nowhere in the world that a leader is elected by all the people of the state, it does not happen anywhere in the world. So you must have different political views and that is what makes democracy sweeter. For sure we are not holding anything against anybody. We want the entire people of the state to see this victory as their own victory and that this Governor is their own Governor. His votes came from all parts of the state which shows his level of acceptability among the people and we are deeply grateful for that. That is our stance as we celebrate this victory. Electorate in Benue State will on Saturday March 9, elect, who will lead their state in the next four years. Cephas Iorhemen reports on the factors that will shape the election   The two major contenders for the Benue State governorship position, the incumbent governor, Samuel Ortom of the Peoples… In “Politics” Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday expressed confidence that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) would defeat the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 general elections. He noted the the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar was the clear favourite to unseat President Muhammadu Buhari, as the party would take advantage… In “News” The attention of the Secretary to the Benue State Government (SSG), Prof. Anthony Ijohor (SAN), has been drawn to comments on social media questioning his loyalty to his principal, Governor Samuel Ortom. The comments arose from the SSG's funeral oration at the burial of the late William Mozeh, former registrar… In “News”