The video of Senator Ademola Adeleke dancing as he gave thanks for last Friday’s favourable verdict of the Osun State Election Petitions Tribunal has gone viral. Everyone by now knows Adeleke as the dancing senator. When he was campaigning to be governor, he gave no excuses for his penchant for dancing but upbraided those criticising him to watch him dance his way to the Osun State Government House! And he appears right on course! To those who deride him as trifle and unserious quantity, saying or thinking he has nothing upstairs and, therefore, nothing to offer as governor,  Adeleke has nothing but contempt. “Book worms” may not make the best administrators; native intelligence may stand men out better than certificates. Nigeria swarms with academicians, professors, professionals, Ph.D holders, name it, who have failed to make the mark in various elective and appointive positions. May be it is time we try “stark illiterates” as it were! So I do not agree that Adeleke will not make a good governor simply because he does not parade a string of academic and professional qualifications. If he has native intelligence – and I should think he does to get this far – all he needs do is put a good team together, empower them, and give them a free hand to operate. He can this way free himself to concentrate on his first love – dancing – while they do a good job of running the state for him. Watching Adeleke dance reminds me of biblical David. Those who describe his dance steps as vulgar or obscene should remember Michal, David’s wife and King Saul’s daughter. 11 Samuel 6: 14 – 23 says: And David danced before the Lord with all his might; and David was girded with a linen ephod. So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet.  And as the ark of the Lord came into the city of David, Michal, Saul’s daughter, looked through a window, and saw king David leaping and dancing before the Lord; and she despised him in her heart. And they brought in the ark of the Lord, and set it in his place, in the midst of the tabernacle that David had pitched for it: and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord of hosts. And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, as well to the women as men, to everyone a cake of bread, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.  So all the people departed everyone to his house. Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today, who uncovered himself today in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself! And David said unto Michal, It was before the Lord, which chose me before thy father, and before all his house, to appoint me ruler over the people of the Lord, over Israel: therefore will I play before the Lord. And I will yet be more vile than thus, and will be base in mine own sight: and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, of them shall I be had in honour.  Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day of her death.” This bible story is pregnant with meanings. Adeleke’s uncoordinated dance steps lacking in finesse must appear very much like David’s who danced so vigorously that he did not realise when his clothes fell off and he was naked. Watching Adeleke dance in a church after the tribunal victory and the way he led the choir to sing praises unto God, I had no doubt in my mind that he was on a spiritual high. Be careful how you deride a man worshipping and praising God, even if you don’t approve of how he does it. That is the lesson Michal teaches us. God inhabits our praises; that is virtually all He receives from us in place of the plethora of blessings  He daily bestows on us. When God is the subject, it may not be wise to behave like that chief of Samaria in II Kings 6: 25 – 33; 7: 1 – 20. Of course I am aware Adeleke also dances at “owambe” parties. He simply loves dancing. It may be a gift and not necessarily evidence of waywardness. It could be – but not necessarily. William Shakespeare, speaking through one of his characters, Duke Orsino, in “Twelfth Night” (Act One, Scene 1: 1-3) says “If music be the food of love, play on/Give me excess of it; that surfeiting/The appetite may sicken, and so die”.  There is too much bitterness, hatred, suffering, blood-letting, wickedness in our body-politics that we need some comic relief, which a personality like Adeleke offers in large doses. We need it! As stated in my “On the Lord’s Day” column in Sunday Tribune (24 March), the tribunal’s verdict, which jolted the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its “impostor” governor, Gboyega Oyetola, did not come to many as a surprise. Adeleke, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and Osun citizens must count themselves lucky, though, for the shenanigans that attended the February and March 2019 general elections, which, as we speak, are still intractable in some states of the Federation. Even the blind can see how the elections have been badly mangled by a combination of INEC complicity (with inconclusive elections) and the onesided militarization of the polity by the security agencies acting openly as the military wing of the ruling APC.  That was the advantage Ekiti PDP did not have because its own election petition tribunal gave its verdict before the ongoing electoral shenanigans. Ekiti still has the opportunity of two appeals, though. Without doubt, the 2018 Ekiti and Osun governorship elections were dress rehearsals for the general elections of February/March 2019. The Ekiti poll was used to practice the militarization of elections to give the ruling party the advantage. Under the guise that they were providing security, the military locked down only the opposition party, brutalised even the sitting governor with constitutional immunity, Peter Ayodele Fayose, while allowing the ruling party free rein. It was impossible to differentiate thugs from the military as both wore same military fatigues, operated in Gestapo-like fashion, and enjoyed same protection of the law. But the opposition was locked down; tied hands and legs and merely cried and hollered as the party in power rode roughshod over the entire process.  Nothing depicts this better than a recent post on social media of a dog chained down while a monkey was let loose to torment it. That was Ekiti! In Osun, it was the instrumentality of contrived “inconclusive election”. While Adeleke/PDP and Osun people were already trooping into the streets to celebrate a hard-earned victory, the INEC that is anything but independent, pulled the joker of “inconclusive election”. The rest, as they say, is history. Having worked perfectly in Ekiti and Osun, militarization and inconclusive elections were then implemented nationwide in this year’s general elections to devastating advantage for the ruling APC. The Osun election petition tribunal has done well to cripple “inconclusive elections” – one of the two legs on which massive, monumental, and unprecedented election-rigging now rests in this country. The judiciary must complete the task by crippling the other leg – militarization – by revisiting and upturning its verdict at the tribunal level on the July 14, 2018 Ekiti governorship election.   The only way we can discourage election robbers is to ensure they are not allowed to escape with their loot. Election riggers must be told in clear terms that nemesis will catch up with them; that they will not go scot-free. For me, it will not matter who wins elections once the elections are credible, free, and fair. But it means the whole world to me when the wrong person sits in the saddle while the rightful owner of a mandate freely given by the people is turned into the cold. For those who risked life, limbs, and comfort to fight for and enthrone this democracy; that, certainly, was not what was fought for. While congratulating Adeleke and the good people of Osun (I lived, worked, and schooled there at Ede, Osogbo, Ilesha, and Ile-Ife between 1976 and 1982), may his victory be permanent and may it be replicated everywhere a similar upturning of the apple cart of election riggers is necessary for the good health of our democracy. Adeleke, however, still has two more rivers to cross before he can truly shout “Eureka”. It is then we can also begin to worry what kind of governor he will make.