Former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, is the Senator-elect for Abia North Senatorial District. In this interview, he speaks on the jostle for principal offices of the 9th Senate and why the South-East should produce the next Senate Deputy President since the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has zoned the Senate presidency to North-East. Wole Shadare reports It was reported that you will vie for the position of Senate President, but now that your party – All Progressives Congress (APC) – has zoned the position to the North-East, what is your next move? Well, I am a very loyal party member. The party has zoned the Senate presidency to the North-East and I am bound to respect the party’s decision. Therefore, the next position, which is the Deputy Senate President, is what we are not going to allow the party to decide on. I am going to withdraw from the race for the Senate presidency to run for Deputy Senate President because the party is supreme. As far as I am concerned I am going to run for the position of Deputy Senate President. I am neither going to listen to the party nor anybody. No one who is going to be the Deputy Senate President is more loyal than I am to the party. I have suffered for the party and I want the party to respect that wish, particularly given the fact I am committed to democracy. So, as far as my desire is concerned, we are going to see votes on the floor of the Senate for that position. Section 50 of the constitution has made it very clear that the members of the National Assembly shall elect their leadership and I am going to rely on that section of the constitution to vie for that position. I learnt they have ceded the Deputy Senate President to the North-West, but it is not right to do something like that. We are going to contest this vehemently on the floor of the House and I have the backing of my colleagues. I will contest the position with any candidate on the floor of the House. Everyone knew you had the Senate presidency in mind. Now that you have rescind that decision, have you communicated the new intention to the party? I just told you that party is supreme. I know that our National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is a listening chairman and President Muhammadu Buhari is a man of justice. So, if justice must prevail, the right thing should be done. The party should zone the Senate presidency to the North-East and Deputy Senate presidency to the South-East for fairness. I am sure you know that the APC national chairman is from the South-South, the president is from the North-West, the vice president is from the South-West and they have decided that the President of Senate will come from the North East. Whether it is Ahmad Lawan or Ali Ndume, the senators will decide that one on the floor of the Senate. So, for me, Nigeria is like a tripod; comprising Igbo, Yoruba and Hausa. So, it will be unfair not to have a South-East in that tripod. We are going to get the Deputy Senate presidency. I will fight on the floor of the Senate for it like no other person has fought. This is not challenging the party rather it is insisting on equity and justice. Buhari said he will be addressing issues of injustice in the country; this is part of the issues of injustice. You cannot tell us in the South-East to go and be Chief Whip. I don’t have a whip to whip anybody. You don’t build loyalty to a section of people or individuals. I am loyal to the people; I am loyal to Nigeria, which is important. But I am not going to be loyal to individuals. I am a Catholic and I believe there is the need for co-existence between the different ethnic and religious people. So, when I say I want to be Deputy Senate President, I don’t imply that I want to be a Senate Deputy President for some people. I am not going to be Deputy Senate President for anybody. If they don’t listen to my plea, I will also join others to contest for the Senate President on the floor of the Senate. I will join the race because I already know that it is going to be like a shopping matter. And I can shop more than any other person they are putting there. I have the capacity and capability to shop because the whole thing will be shopping on the floor of the Senate. If the party continues this way, I will run for the position of Senate President. Why are you really concerned about the position to given to the South-East? Positions are part of representation for the people. What I am saying is that if we have the Deputy Senate President given to the South-East, it gives a sense of belonging to everybody in Nigeria. But, I am not saying I am representing a section of people in Nigeria. Now consider this: If they go to for a meeting to discuss Nigeria, you have the President, Vice President, Senate President and Deputy Senate President, and in all these positions you don’t have anybody to represent the South-East, that is unfair and that is what I am saying. I am not a tribalist, but someone who is fair. I want justice. So, if the party don’t want crack, it should zone its positions properly according to the geo-political zones of the country. No one should be left out. A zone, which has taken the presidency is not supposed to take the Deputy Senate presidency as well. You should be rest assured, we are not going to quarrel, but we will sort it out. We are not going to vote for PDP members as it happened 2015, you should be rest assured of that. We are going to vote for APC members for the positions of Senate President and Deputy Senate President. I have friends everywhere, so it will be a shopping matter. I have over 56 senators on my radar and who have already signed for me for either as Senate President or Deputy Senate President and these are people who believe in equity. I have been in the legislature before, so I have the experience. I have been a two term governor and that comes with a whole lot of experience. Senator Godswill Akpabio became Minority Leader as a first term senator, so it is not a question of I am going there for the first time. Are you not worried about the winner-take-all statement of the APC National Chairman? That is the opinion of the national chairman and the party’s leadership. It is only when we get to the floor of the Senate that we will know who is who in the system because in a presidential system of government, there is room for lobbying and I am going to lobby. I am not contradicting Oshiomhole, he’s my very close friend, I am only saying that we must be able to do give and take. Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, who is from the South-East, is vying for the position of Speaker, House of Representatives. Don’t you see a clash of interest between her ambition and yours? It is her constitutional right to vie for that position, so nobody should stop her. The economy seems not to be doing very well, are you not disturbed over the way businesses are collapsing? I am a private sector man. You can say I have succeeded in politics, just like I have succeeded in business. I want to assure you that part of my mission to the Senate is to involve in bringing stakeholders on board and they will talk on how to promulgate new laws that will be favourable to the business community and I will lobby the President to sign it. The downturn in the economy is not only affecting Nigeria, but everyone. I am going to put everything in place to ensure the economy grows. I have the capacity of lobbying and moving around to make the economy work. However, it will take the collective decision of Nigerians to get the economy back.   …seeks justice, equity for South-East   Former Abia State Governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has joined the race for the Deputy Senate Presidency in the Ninth National Assembly due for inauguration in June 2019. Kalu wants the All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the position to the South-East in the… In “News” The chances of Senator Oluremi Tinubu (APC, Lagos Central) to get the position of the Deputy President of the Senate (DSP) in the 9th Assembly faced further challenge yesterday, as Senator Kabiru Gaya (APC, Kano South) joined the list of ranking lawmakers angling for the post. Apart from Tinubu, other… In “News” There are strong indications that the battle for the Senate Presidency has begun, with the South-East and the North-East geopolitical zones striving to produce the next President of the upper chamber of the National Assembly. Although the All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to announce a zoning arrangement for the… In “News”