Enugu Catholic community was thrown into mourning yesterday as the body of the abducted Rev. Fr. Clement Rapuluchukwu Ugwu was found.
Ugwu was abducted by gunmen in his parish, St. Mark Catholic Church, Obinofia Ndiuno in Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State. The body was discovered yesterday morning less than 20 kilometres from his official residence.
Ugwu was kidnapped on Wednesday March 13, 2019, about 9p.m. It was learnt that the gunmen suspected to be kidnappers had shot him before they took him away in his blue Prado ‘Jeep’.
Speaking shortly after his body was laid to rest at the Catholic cemetery at the Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu yesterday, the Catholic Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Most Rev. Callistus Onaga, called on the police to fish out the killers of his priest.
Onaga decried the spate of violent killings around the country, advising that Christians should intensify their prayers for the survival of the country. He regretted that security agencies could not rescue Ugwu despite their assurances that they were closing in on the kidnappers, while the abductors were making withdrawals from his account through his Automated Teller Machine (ATM) card. Onaga, who spoke in emotion-laden voice, said “all is not well in Enugu State. We should not continue to pretend about it while our people are killed everyday. Enugu State is not secured again. Criminals have shifted to Enugu State from Anambra while we said that Enugu is most secured.
“When Father Ugwu was kidnapped we reported it to the police and since then I have visited police station three times yet they kept telling me they were closing on the kidnappers. I doubt they were doing anything because where the body of Fr. Ugwu was found is not up to 20km from his house.” Also, the Director of Communication, Enugu Catholic Diocese, Rev. Fr. Benjamin Achi, called on the government of Enugu State to live up to its responsibility in protecting lives and property of citizens.
He expressed worry that this is the first time a priest would be kidnapped on the church premises in the diocese.
However, efforts to get the official reaction of the police failed as the Police Commissioner, Suleiman Balarabe, did not respond to text messages sent to his mobile phone.