The inauguration of the Micro Pension Plan (MPP) would ensure a significant 85 per centreduction in old age poverty in Nigeria, according to the National Pension Commission (PenCom). This is as President Muhammadu Buhari promised to sanitize the country’s pension system in order to restore the dignity of public servants and retirees. PenCom’s Director-General, Aisha Dahir-Umar, who spoke at the official inauguration of the plan in Abuja yesterday, said the MPP is targeting the majority of Nigeria’s working population already operating in the informal sector. Participants in the pension plan are expected to be informal sector workers such as market women, members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), members of the Textile, Garment and Tailoring Associations, as well as members of the Keke Napep and Okada Riders Associations. Butchers, mechanics, performing artistes, lawyers, and accountants are among some of the other informal sector workers expected to participate in the pension plan. Dahir-Umar added that the launch of the plan was a first time window of opportunity opened to self-employed Nigerians and those working in the informal sector to participate and enjoy benefits in the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). She said that the MPP was a win-win situation as it aligned with the current social empowerment programmes of the Federal Government. She further said that the plan sought to ensure, in the long term, the sustainability of the benefits of the employment programme for participants, who might seize the opportunity to save for old age. She also said that the MPP should significantly expand pension coverage to a greater number of Nigerians and generate additional long-term funds for economic development. Dahir-Umar explained further that access to accumulated contributions by contributors would be flexible, seamless, and facilitated by technology through varied payment platforms. She added that a prospective MPP contributor would be required to open a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) with a Pensions Fund Administrator (PFA) of his or her choice. “The contributor may make contributions daily, weekly, monthly, or as convenient to them. “Every contribution shall be split into two, comprising 40 per cent for contingent withdrawal and 60 per cent for retirement benefits. “The contributor may, based on need, periodically withdraw the total or part of the balance of the contingent portion of the RSA, including all accrued investment income. “The contributor may also choose to convert the contingent portion of the contributions to the retirement benefits portion. “The remaining balance in RSA shall be available to the contributor upon retirement or upon attaining the age of 50 years,” Dahir- Umar explained. She said that the commission had established a separate department dedicated to the supervision of all matters relating to MPP, adding that its objective was to ensure efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and accountability in service delivery. Speaking at the launch of a Micro Pension Plan, President Buhari said it was necessary to restore the dignity of public servants who worked tirelessly and sacrificed for the greatness of Nigeria. Buhari, who said retired public servants deserved better treatment and effective service that meets their needs to carry on after retirement, promised to remove the “rot within the pension system.” “The dignity of retired public servants who sacrificed their lives for this country will be restored. We will ensure all hard working Nigerians in the private sector, both formal and informal, can retire without fear,” he said. According to him, the Federal Government will continue to support the National Pension Commission to ensure a successful rollout of the Micro Pension Plan, which will capture citizens that are not fully captured in the formal corporate sector. “In addition to this programme, we are also working tirelessly to sanitize some of the rot within the pension system we inherited. I want to assure all Nigerians that this government remains committed to resolving all pending issues on pension payment in the federal public sector despite the lean resources of Government,” Buhari noted. He said trade associations, unions, non-governmental organizations and other stakeholders in the informal sector should join hands with the government and pensions industry to enlighten their members and general public on the benefits of Micro Pension Plan. “Today, millions of traders, farmers and other entrepreneurs in various cottage industries are completely excluded from the different pension programmes in existence. “The Micro Pension Plan is the natural next step. The programme guarantees that when these hard working citizens retire, they can still live in dignity and comfort,” he said.