Abia Grassroots Forum (AGF) has called on the leadership of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) to zone the position of Senate President to South-East with a view to balancing and assuaging growing expression of marginalization from the zone.
According to the AGF chairman, Mr. Emeka Adile, the gesture would “douse the fear of Ndigbo who feel marginalized in the scheme of things in the country.”
Addressing journalists after a meeting of the executive members of the Forum from 17 local government areas of the state, Adile said the decision was “reached after taking into cognizance the political development in the country and to make our position known on burning national issues.” Adile went on: “We urge APC led federal government and its national executive to as a matter of urgency, zone the office of Senate President to the South-East. It is our belief that if South-East is given the opportunity to head the 9th Senate it will end the agitation of people of the zone.” While congratulating the winners of the last election including President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu and a Senator-elect for Abia North, Orji Uzor Kalu, Adile called on National Assembly members from the state to work as one family. “We call on our senators to work to make sure we realize the dry port at Ntigha, federal roads including, the Aba/Ikot Ekpene, Umuahia/Bende/Ohafia/Arochukwu, among other federal roads.
“Lastly, we are calling on those trying to foment trouble because they lost election to seek redress at the tribunal,” he said.
Also, a coalition of Igbo youths, World Igbo Youth council, Southeast Women Professionals and Igbo Students Movement, yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone Deputy Senate President and the Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF) to South-East zone for equity and justice.
The youths also recommended that the next Senate President should go to North-East zone. At a meeting in Abakaliki, Ebonyi state capital with President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, Alex Isiguzoro, President of World Igbo Youth Council, Mazi Alex Okemiri, President of South-East Women professionals, Dr. Mrs Helen Ogbonna and Chidera Uduma Chidi Igbo Students Movement, the Secretary-General Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth council
Worldwide, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike and the Deputy National President, Comrade Obinna Achionye, the Igbo youths said with the Ecological funds attached to the office of SGF, the problems of erosion sites in Abia, Enugu, Imo, Ebonyi and Anambra would be tackled.
They said: “We insist that the office of Secretary to the Federal Government be zoned to South-East and the Deputy Senate President, Senate President should go to North-East. With the Ecological funds attached to the office of SGF, the problems of Erosion sites in Abia, Enugu, Imo, Ebonyi and Anambra will be tackled and South-East will be fully benefit from this position. We have qualified personalities who can give President Buhari robust service as SGF.” A senator representing Abia South Senatorial District, Enyinnaya Abaribe, has revealed on how he was lobbied by some people to become the Deputy President of the Senate, if he  could cooperate in the plot to remove Senator Ike Ekweremadu. Abaribe, who is also the chairman of the South East Senators'… In “News” A group, Igbo Patriotic Forum (IPF) yesterday congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on his victory in the last Saturday presidential and National Assembly poll. The group also urged the APC to zone the position of Senate Presidency to the South-East, adding that Ndigbo had been… In “News” The All Progressives Congress (APC) has won the majority seats in the Nigerian Senate – at least 62 so far of 109. It is therefore set to produce the Senate President when the 9th National Assembly is inaugurated in June. A proclamation by President Muhammadu Buhari, after he must… In “Opinions”