The national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conclude the collation of elections results in Rivers and Bauchi states instead of delaying or conducting a rerun. Secondus, who made the call yesterday when he led the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) on a solidarity visit to Governor Nyesom Wike in Government House, Port Harcourt, noted that the losers could approach the Election Petition Tribunal to seek redress. He added that it is illegal for anyone to stop an election midway, just as he decried the involvement of the military during the elections in Rivers State. He said: “I call on the INEC chairman not to drag the country into crisis because of inconclusive elections. This manoeuvre is not good for the nation’s democracy. “He should go ahead and conclude the process of elections in Rivers and Bauchi states. We should move ahead. Those aggrieved should approach the tribunal.”
The PDP National Chairman said that leadership of the party are with the Rivers State governor. “We are here to say that we stand with you. We have prayed with you in private and we are standing with you at this crucial and trying moment. We ask God almighty to ensure that you cross this red sea,” he said. The party’s national secretary, Ibrahim Tsauri, urged the military to concentrate on protecting the nation’s territorial integrity instead of getting involved in election matters. He said that the negative involvement of the military in the Rivers State Governorship election was a threat to nation’s democracy. “The military should protect the territorial integrity of Nigeria. They should not be involved in electoral matters. The involvement of the military in the governorship election of Rivers State is an attempt to truncate the nation’s democracy,” he said. In his response, Wike said that the enemies of the state are struggling to stop the collation and declaration of the governorship election, pointing out that the police was inviting electoral and collation officers to intimidate them over collated results in the governorship election. Wike noted that the state’s political situation has exposed the negative aspects of the system. He said: “The Police are trying to intimidate collation and electoral officers by inviting them for one offence or the other so as to impinge on the collation process. “Imagine where the police are inviting the entire returning officers, the entire electoral officers because allegations have been made against the INEC officials. This is just to let the entire world see what we are talking about.” Wike said that the good people of Rivers State would overcome all the challenges thrown at the state by the system. “Like I said, this victory will be the best. It will be the sweetest amongst all the states. That is what I see coming. There is no election that will be held in this state and another party will win. “Not to talk about a party that is not on ground. They have failed and that is the truth of the matter,” he said. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is to conduct supplementary elections in states where last Saturday's governorship and House of Assembly elections were declared inconclusive. A statement by Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner in charge of media and publicity, noted that the commission has declared winners in 22 out of… In “News” The Federal High Court sitting Abuja yesterday refused to stop the collation of results of Rivers State Governorship and House of Assembly elections conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on March 9, 2019. INEC had, last week, following the report of its fact-finding committee on Rivers election, fixed… In “News” May announce Bauchi Tuesday   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has condemned the action of the military in the March 9 governorship election in Rivers State, stating that some soldiers and armed thugs attempted to subvert the will of people of the state. The Commission, however, ruled out supplementary… In “News”