 An Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos, yesterday heard how a 35-year-old motorcyclist, Emmanuel Idoko, reportedly drugged his 12-year-old daughter (names withheld), before having sex with her through her anus and vagina. A doctor from the Lagos State Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Alagbe Oyedeji, said the victim told him that her father would give her Coke or Fanta and she would, afterwards, fall asleep before he would have sex with her. Oyedeji, who examined the victim after the incident, told the court that the victim was referred to the Mirabel Centre by the Divisional Police Officer at the Ketu Police Station on November 28, 2017.
However, the state prosecutor, A. O. Alagbe, said the accused committed the offence at his residence, at No 35, Akewusola Street, Oworoshoki, Lagos. According to the prosecutor, Idoko sometimes, between July and November 2017, assaulted his daughter by penetrating his daughter’s vagina with his fingers. While testifying before the court, the doctor said, “the victim told me that her ordeal started in 2016 after she and her younger sibling moved in with their father after their parents separated.
“The victim told me that her father came home from work one day and told her that he had heard rumours that she was no longer a virgin, and that he wanted to examine her by inserting his fingers into her vagina.
“She said she was reluctant after he told her that he wanted to use his penis to test her virginity. “When she refused he beat her severely. He now became very nice and every night after he returned from work, he would give her Coke or Fanta and then she would fall asleep and he would have his way.
“When she started sleeping in school, her class teacher asked her what happened. When she told her teacher what her father had been doing to her, the class teacher reported the matter to the Ketu Police Station and the defendant was arrested.
“Upon examination of the victim’s vagina, it was discovered that her vagina was reddened. Her urethra was also reddened. “I also discovered that her anal opening (anus) was largely loosened. There were also areas of laceration around the vagina and thighs. The injuries she sustained on her vagina and thighs showed recent and previous forceful penetration.
“Urine sample was taken for pregnancy but the result came out negative. At that point, I came to the conclusion that the client’s verbal declaration, physical injuries sustained on her thighs and the anal-genital findings are all elements to show recent and previous forceful penile penetration into the vagina and anus. “The victim was reassured and counselled including the person that accompanied her. She was subsequently treated of her injuries. I thereafter wrote a report, signed and copied the management.”
During cross-examination by the defence lawyer, Adeyemi Adegbite, the doctor said that the victim told him that her father would give her Fanta or Coke, at night, to drink and then have sex with her.
Idoko pleaded not guilty but was remanded in prison custody.
Justice Sybil Nwaka thereafter adjourned the matter till April 3, 2019 for continuation of trial.