Governor Samuel Ortom was, on Sunday, declared winner of the Benue State governorship election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) amidst intrigues. In this interview, he reveals to Anule Emmanuel and Philip Nyam how he weathered the storm. Excerpts:   What magic did you do to emerge victorious in the governorship election despite the stiff opposition? I must say that where I was seemed like a lion’s den and it was only God that delivered me just as He did to Daniel in the Bible. I remain indebted to God, I am grateful to Him for making it possible for me to pass through this. One thing is that my faith is lifted to another higher level. I am encouraged by God helping me to be faithful, looking onto him and not wavering, not drifting from the faith, but looking up to Him as the author and finisher of everything. You know that since I came in 2015, I have one message for the people of Benue and that was what led me to gather the people to dedicate the state to God. The entire leadership of the state, including the traditional institutions, political leaders, religious leaders, all came together and I led them to do that dedication. And this was as a result of what God opened my eyes to see in the book of Job, chapter 36:11-12. Now, the provisions there are clear. Verse 11 says if they obey and serve God, they shall spend their days in prosperity and their years in pleasures. Verse 12 says if they obey not, they shall by the sword and perish like people without a vi-sion. So, you see that the options are before us, to decide whether we will live a pleasurable life and live a prosperous life, or we live a life that is around death, destruction as we had it in the past. The scriptures says we will die by the sword and perish like people without vision and honestly, when I looked at our situation in 2015 and all that, what was happening around, I saw death right from 2011. Even when I came in, it continued. So, you believe that Benue people were taking the wrong option? I tried to x-ray the behavior of our people and what they were doing and discovered that they were behaving like people who are blindfolded, people who are ignorant. And they were dying and perishing like people without a vision. They were not thinking of tomorrow, they were thinking about themselves and so on. I discovered that truly, all these people going to church and making these things, may be, the word of God has not gotten into them and they are not serving God in truth. Of course, that reminds me of the scripture, which says that on the day of judgement, many who were professing Christianity, who were professing to be religious, will be cast away. Now, we have an opportunity to make amends because the options are there. And I want myself and my people to live a prosperous and pleasurable life. The provisions in these scriptures are very clear that they will have to obey and serve God. Like the Bible says: ‘Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and every other thing shall be added onto you.’ But the challenge we have is that people go after other things instead of seeking first the kingdom of God. That is where we missed it. What does your victory in the election mean as regards the situation you spoke about? For me, this election is a wakeup call to our people and even myself to drive this from the point of God and not just listening to the word of God, but also practicing it. Because the word of God is very clear, that if you look into the perfect power of liberty, I have seen it in James 1:25, and you are a forgetful hearer but a doer of the word, you shall be blessed in your days. If you just hear the word of God and brush it aside and think that’s okay. I think my people need to get back to God more seriously than what we are doing. They are there, but can do more. I believe that once we have this, we will not have any issues again. Many were surprised that you remained calm during the period of the campaigns? That was what led to my calm disposition even in the midst of persecution, travails, pains and unwarranted attacks on my personality and policies. I still remained calm because I had faith in God. Come to think of it, John 3: 27 says: ‘A man can receive nothing except it is given to him from above.’ In 2015, when I came, the money was not there, but I went in. The support then from the ruling party was not there, but I went in and I secured the ticket because God led me. If you go to the book of Daniel 4:17, it talks about ‘God reigns in the affairs of men, He chooses one, removes another, and He can decide to identify with anyone, the lowest of men and women.’ He can identify with them and crown them king and nobody will do anything. How He will do it is known to Him. That is exactly what has happened in my case and I stoodwith God because I knew that God has the capacity to do it. And for your information, if you ask people around me, they will you tell that even before the 2015 election, I had told them because when I was serving as local government chairman, in the course of my prayers, God told me I was going to be governor of Benue state. The date was not revealed to me until after 20 years, 2012. God told me it was going to be 2015, so I should begin to put my structures in place. And that was what I did. I was serving as a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria but I had to resign because, to me, seeking God first is paramount so, I did and God honoured himself. My being a governor is not an overnight thing. I am governor today not just because I want to be governor, it is not about the paraphernalia of being governor. I am here for a mission and God himself sent me and I am happy doing it. I am also happy that God has vindicated me. You know that if God had not consummated the victory that I had, people would begin to question what kind of God is Ortom serving. But now, people come and say, truly this your God is faithful and I like that. Did you at any point doubt your chances in the election? Let me tell you the truth. As a human being, there are times you have the challenge of asking whether you are going to be successful? It is also good to assess yourself and see what is happening around you as to whether God is in your project. Because, as a human being, you can drift because of temptations, that is why it important to cross check. People have always asked me, why are you always fasting? Of course, I want to stay close to God and have the capacity of listening to God. From August last year, I decided to undertake fasting and I broke it after the victory. So, I appreciate God, He is always merciful. If God knows your heart, that you mean well to do His will, He will also find a way of protecting you from drifting away from Him. Honestly, there are many men of God, some are very low at the level, some very top. Great men of God in this country were deeply concerned about me. God was able to awaken them in their sleep and prayers. They called to tell me to be strong, it shall be well. That was a source of encouragement. And I remember that even Moses the servant of God in the Bible, at his trying period, when he was praying onto God, he had to raise Aaron and others to support his hands to be able to deliver. So, God was able to raise a lot of people around me, even where I did not see, they saw and were able to correct me. Several times, without reaching out to them, they called and said this is what God has shown them, I should be encouraged and not be distracted. They kept saying that I should not be discouraged. There are many instances like that, but God showed me mercy. I can’t claim that I am too righteous above every other person, but the mercy of God was always with me and God had demonstrated that. I am happy and I want to assure you that the Bible says: ‘Better is the end of a thing than the beginning.’ Lessons were learnt, lapses were noticed, mistakes were made, today, this second term is an opportunity to correct all that to make things better for the people of Benue State. What is your advice to those in the opposition parties? Today, I am elected governor; it is no longer a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) matter because the people that elected me went beyond party lines. Politicking at that level to win election, yes you must secure a platform, which every other person did, but today, I am the governor of all irrespective of party. Even those parties, I have become their governor because this is about governance; it’s no longer about party. When the time for politicking comes, we will do it, but now, it’s about how best we can work for our people. For me, I am ready to harness ideas from my opponents, so that we can move the state forward and I am ready to work with anyone who has better policies than what my government has on the table. We can use that to make adjustments on my blueprint, so that we have the best for Benue people. If we have a better Benue, someone else can come as governor tomorrow to have it as a good basis on which to start from. Above all, Benue should be our first project, not Samuel Ortom, not any other person, not a political party. It should be Benue and I think that this is the point I am coming on board with. What will you be doing to strengthen this issue of Benue first? I have seen that there is greater need for a peace, reconciliatory and truth commission for the state, where we can sit and discuss among ourselves. Let us express ourselves to each other; where we have offended each other, let us find a way of forgiving one another for the purpose of Benue moving forward. Let us forgive and take off from there. As soon I am inaugurated, I will set up this committee made up of very prominent, peaceful men and women of integrity in Benue State, who we all respect irrespective of party affiliation or religious beliefs, so that we can sit down as a people and define what is the challenge that we have and how we can surmount it and move the state forward. This I intend to do and I believe that God will assist us to accomplish it. What assurances do you have for Benue workers? Of course, we have discussed with workers before. Now that elections are over, I think that the first thing to remedy the situation is to pursue the bond that the House of Assembly approved to ensure that we reduce part of the arrears. For pensioners, we shall fast track the PENCOM policy to ensure that retirees no longer going through the pains that they are experiencing now. It is a priority that must be attended to. I believe that the economy will also improve, we will step up our Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) activities and should be able to have some resources from there to take care of some of these challenges. One thing is that I must appreciate the workers; I must appreciate the support of pensioners. Majority of them voted for me, we discussed and I saw that there was no deceit in what has been going on. They have done their part; it is now left for me to reciprocate by doing everything under the sun to ensure that I address this. In any case, nothing is hidden about my government. I am open and even opened to other suggestions that may not come my way. If people have them, they should bring them to the table, so that we can work together and eliminate this challenge that we have. But the APC governorship candidate has vowed to challenge your victory in court… If you ask me, sincerely, I would say that there wouldn’t have been any need. Elections have been conducted and to a large extent, free and fair. I would have gone to court if I wanted from the first instance because the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria stipulates that anyone in an election for the gubernatorial will secure one-quarter of the two-thirds of the local governments and then, the highest number of votes. The ballots we did, I had one-quarter in the 23 local governments of Benue State, not just two-third. And I also had the highest number of votes. So, this issue of supplementary election is unknown to the constitution, but I said let me not raise tension in the state. So, I offered to go for the supplementary election. We have done that, I have also won the re-rerun. I also won the first ballot and the supplementary election was orchestrated by the opposition, they did that because all the places, where votes were destroyed, they masterminded it. If you talk about vote buying, they were also responsible, but all those ones, we can sit down and discuss. There is no point wasting time, instead of going to the tribunal, we should be putting our ideas on the table, so that we can move on together. 2023 is not very far. That one, I am barred by the constitution not to contest again. Are you already thinking of moving to the Senate like your other colleagues governors in 2023? The Bible says that the troubles of today alone are enough, don’t go and bring the troubles of tomorrow and add up to the ones of today. Let me finish with the ones of today. Governance is not an easy thing. Forget about Abuja, that one is in the hands of God.