The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), yesterday made interventions in the Retail Secondary Market Intervention Sales (SMIS) of the Foreign Exchange market totalling $268.60 million and Chinese Yuan CNY39.09 million. Detail of the sales released by the apex bank showed that the sums were injected to meet requests of customers in the agricultural, airlines, petroleum products and raw materials and machinery sectors. The CBN’s Director, Corporate Communications Department, Mr. Isaac Okorafor, also confirmed that the sum of CNY39.09million was for payment of Renminbidenominated Letters of Credit for agriculture as well as raw materials. Yesterday’s transaction was in addition to the $210 million injected into the Wholesale, Small and Medium Enterprises, and Invisibles segments of the market on March 19. Okorafor expressed satisfaction on the performance and stability of the economy especially after the country’s 2019 general elections. He attributed the level of stability to the Bank’s transparency in foreign exchange transactions and interventions aimed at the diversification of the economy. It would be recalled that the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had on Thursday, announced that the stock of the country’s external reserves had risen to $44.8 billion as at March 19, 2019. Meanwhile, the Naira exchanged at N360/$1 yesterday, in the Bureau De Change (BDC) segment of the market. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday injected the sum of $263 million into the Retail Secondary Market Intervention Sales (SMIS), being its first intervention in that sector this year. This was in addition to the sum CNY 39 million consummated through a combination of spot and short-tenored forwards, arising… In “News” The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday, injected $ 210 million into the inter-bank foreign exchange market to meet customers’ requests in various segments of the market. The apex bank according to a statement, offered $100million to authorized dealers in the wholesale segment of the market, while the Small and… In “Business” The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said it yesterday injected $210 million into the interbank foreign exchange market as part of its attempt to boost liquidity and alleviate dollar shortages. In an emailed statement, the Apex Bank said it had released $100 million earmarked for the wholesale market, $55 million… In “Business”