Governor Abdul’azeez Yari Abubakar has vowed not to negotiate with bandits terrorising, killing and maiming innocent citizens in Zamfara State. The governor gave the pledge when he visited Kawaye village in Anka Local Government Area at the weekend. He walked round the community where the bandits killed 13 villagers, abducted 40 people and burnt almost all the houses, shops and food storages. The bandits, numbering about 100, all on motorcycles, invaded Kawaye village in the early hours of Thursday and shot sporadically. They razed about 30 houses, several shops and food stuffs before the arrival of security operatives. They also burnt a police station on the outskirts of the town. They reportedly either killed or kidnapped six policemen. Yari was with the Emir of Anka who doubles as the Chairman of the Zamfara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Attahiru Ahmed, and heads of security agencies in the state. The governor also listened to the victims who narrated what happened during invasion. However, there was a phone call from one of the suspected heads of the bandits inside bush to the Emir of Anka, begging for negotiation. According to the caller, they were tired of their activities in the state. The emir relayed the bandit’s demand to the governor. But Yari became furious and turned down the demand. He said there would be no negotiation and that his government was ready take on the bandits. The governor, who addressed the victims taking refuge at nearby villages, described the attack as man’s wickedness to his fellow being. He, therefore, urged the villagers to be patient and remain calm as government would compensate them and take necessary action against the criminals. For a long while Zamfara State has been in the news for a wrong reason. The state has been notorious for killings. This is a state where human lives have no value to bandits. The killings in Zamfara have persisted for a long time. With the Minister of Defence, Brig.-Gen.… In "Editorial" Gov Yari: Attacks a daily affair It's a national emergency –Marafa Trader: Families pay millions of naira every week to kidnappers Resident: Whistle blowers are hunted and killed by gunmen Armed robbery, cattle rustling and killings prevalent in nine LGs     There are indications that some militia groups may… In "News" For a long while Zamfara State has been in the news for a wrong reason. The state has been notorious for killings. This is a state where human lives have no value to bandits.   The killings in Zamfara have persisted for a long time. With the Minister of Defence,… In "Editorial"