Mr. Wahab Kunle Shittu teaches International Law and Jurisprudence at the University of Lagos (UNILAG). In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory during last month’s presidential polls, rule of law and sundry issues   How would you react to the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari at the recently held presidential election? I had predicted before the elections that President Muhammadu Buhari is likely to emerge not because he is the best material available in our country, but given the circumstances, he represents the viable choice among the contending candidates largely on account of his strong moral authority and mass appeal. The other compelling reason is his choice of running mate, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, who like the presidentelect is incorruptible. I believe the president stands a shoulder high above some of his co-contestants in the presidential race. First, he had the opportunity of governing this country as a military Head of State. Secondly, he returned as a democratic president years after he had left office. Thirdly, before all of these, he was part of those who fought a bloody civil war to keep this country as a single entity. May I recall that nearly a year ago, I wrote a piece in a national daily where I appealed to Nigerians to give President Mohammadu Buhari a chance for a second term. My argument at the time was informed partly because of the modest achievements of his administration and more fundamentally, on account of the unity and cohesiveness of the country. I had argued that there are presidential materials in all the six geopolitical zones of the country and if power is to return more quickly to the South, it is better to allow President Buhari exhaust the Northern slot for another four years and subsequently pave the way for a Southern President to emerge. The reasoning is that any other northerner apart from President Buhari may have to insist on eightyear tenure, and this will delay the options available to other geopolitical zones of the country. This in essence was the thrust of my thesis and I am happy that the results of the recent presidential election may have vindicated my position. How would you reconcile President Buhari’s second term in office considering claims by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that his government is a monumental disaster in the areas of security, antigraft war and economy? You have raised serious issues that should not be ignored – reflecting a damning critique of the present administration. No one intends to wish these issues away as they impact on the unity and cohesiveness of Nigeria. However, I plead that these negatives should be balanced with other positives of this administration for a fair and balanced assessment. We all share in the dream of a better Nigeria. In my view, the administration in the last three and half years has recorded modest achievements on anti-corruption, security and the economy. These achievements are not without numerous challenges plaguing the country presently. Prior to the conduct of the presidential election, Nigerians were sharply divided with many expressing strong reservations about this administration, particularly the intentions of the president. How can these impressions be corrected now that the elections have been fought and won by the president? The first point to make to the president is that the elections having been fought and won, he should institutionalize a policy of no victor no vanquished believing that the real winner of the election is neither him nor any of the contestants but Nigeria and fundamentally, Nigerians. The president must now walk the talk that he is the president of the entire country and not the president of a section of the country or a particular party or any such primordial sentiments. Nigerians have simply voted for the president’s discipline and integrity. How will he now pay back this uncommon goodwill, love and affection shown to him by Nigerians? The answer is good governance. The answer is justice and fair play to all segments of Nigerians. The answer is equal opportunity to all Nigerians. The answer is reflecting public appointments across the geopolitical entities that make up Nigeria. The answer is making the entire Nigeria his constituency. The answer is listening to Nigerians and meeting their expectations. The answer is being tolerant of constructive criticisms. The answer is putting a stop to needless killings of Nigerians. The answer is uniting the entire country around government policies. The answer is winning the trust of every segment of Nigeria society. The answer is building solid and permanent legacies that would engrave his name in letters of gold. The answer is protecting the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians at all times. The answer is putting food on the tables of majority of Nigerians, putting roof above the heads of Nigerians, creating jobs and employment opportunities for Nigerians. The answer is taking Nigerians to the next level of happiness and prosperity. What other things should be done by the president to reposition the country for prosperity and greatness in his second term in office? First, he needs to deliver on his promises of anti-corruption, security, economy much more effectively and efficiently, far more than he has previously achieved in these areas. Secondly, as the president has indicated, he must form an all-inclusive government drawing to his cabinet and other sensitive areas of his administration, men and women of great talents across board. These excellent materials must be sourced across parties, across e t h n i c i t i e s , across religions with the intention of attracting only the best for our country. It should not matter to the president who voted for who with the only agenda being to serve Nigeria with its best eleven. Thirdly, the president must spread even development across the country based on a carefully reviewed needs assessment strategies to meet expectations. Fourthly, the security of our country should be treated with utmost priority and all without exception should be whipped into line in the objective to secure the country. There should be no sacred cow and no group or individuals should be allowed to take the country to ransom. The president must be firm, resolute and determined in applying the law without discrimination. Fifthly, it is important to respect the rule of law in the conduct of governmental affairs. The truth is that to act otherwise is also tantamount to corruption. I think I speak the minds of most Nigerians if I say, majority of Nigerians are hungry as poverty ravages the land. This is the time to change the narrative. People are no longer comfortable with the slogan of fight against corruption in the midst of empty stomachs. Food should be made available everywhere; jobs should be created for majority of Nigerians. Nigerians generally are yearning for better living standards. Stolen wealth recovered must be deployed for the provisions of critical infrastructures. Nigeria deserves good governance. This the president must ensure, if his name is to be engraved in letters of gold. I believe the president have won the popular votes in the last election. Many of those who voted for him did so out of great sacrifices and patriotism believing that he stand on a higher moral ground than many of the other contestants. In doing so, many of the voters rejected attractive and tempting offers choosing instead to pitch their tent with his seemingly altruistic intentions. These Nigerians must not be disappointed and his second coming offers this majority of Nigerians an opportunity to be happy as he deliver development oriented policies. I urge the president to seize the moment and bring happiness to the faces of majority of Nigerians. …says Nigerians will determine president's fate   Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu, yesterday dared former President Olusegun Obasanjo to show where he derived the constitutional or moral authority to ask President Muhammadu Buhari not to seek re-election in 2019. Obasanjo had, in a strongly-worded open letter, urged Buhari not to… In “News” It is interesting times in Nigeria’s polity ahead of the 2019 general elections as the various political parties and the respective candidates device strategies to win the polls, which include members of the opposition campaigning with President Muhammadu Buhari’s name. FELIX NWANERI reports       The build-up to the… In “Politics” Lawyers were at the weekend unanimous that President Muhammadu Buhari should make the rule of law and due process his watchwords while tackling the myriads of problems retarding the country's progress as he set to inaugurate his new cabinet on 29th May, 2019 following his re-election victory. AKEEM NAFIU reports… In “Law”