“I watched a local football match at a school playing ground. As I sat down, I asked one of the boys what the score was. •With a smile, he replied: “They are leading us 3-0″ •And I said, REALLY!! •I have to say you don’t look discouraged. •”Discouraged?” the boy asked with a puzzled look. •Why should I be discouraged when the referee has not blown the final whistle? •I have confidence in the team and the managers; we shall definitely overcome! •Truly, the match ended 5-4 in favour of the boy’s team! •He waved at me gently, with a beautiful smile as he left; I was amazed, mouth wide open; such confidence; such beautiful faith. •As I got back home that night, his question kept coming back to me. •”Why should I be discouraged when the referee has not blown the final whistle?” •Life is like a game.” •Why should you be discouraged when the Almighty God is your manager? Why should you be discouraged, when there’s still life? Why should you be discouraged when your final whistle has not sounded? The truth is that many people blow the final whistle themselves. •But as long as there is life, nothing is impossible and it is never too late for you. •Half time is not full time and HIS calendar for your life is not man’s calendar. •Don’t blow the whistle yourself.  BE ENCOURAGED! DON’T GIVE UP. The above story is what I recently read on a friend’s wall and it made so much sense to me. Life is like a game; sometime, you can’t conclude the result till the final whistle. Even if I can’t remember the game between Nigeria and USSR at the U20 World Cup in Saudi Arabia in 1989 when the Flying Eagles came from four goals down to beat the Soviet Union on penalties, I can remember vividly the match between Nigeria and Brazil (Atlanta 1996, semi- final). Before the match, Nigeria was like David, while Brazil was like Goliath. Nigeria was 3-1 down and at that point, lot of people were already giving up. Some people left the scene where they were watching the ball while some who had control over the remote changed the television station to another. As far as most Nigerians were concerned, the match was as good as over. I’m sure you all aware of how the match ended. But for the benefit of our readers born in after then, let me tell you (for free) the conclusion. Around 80 minutes or thereabout, Nigeria scored their second goal; and just before the final whistle, they equalized. So the match went into extra time. Nigeria scored the ‘golden goal’ and the match ended in the Dream Team’s favour. This is a typical example of how not to give up easily. A bend in the road is not an end road. Using your present state to summarize your life isn’t cool at all. Things can change anytime. Like the story above, you can’t just throw in the towel, believing it is all over. You can’t just write yourself off thinking help won’t come your way someday. Many of the great people we know today are people won’t refused to give up even when it seemed they were drowning. They are people who didn’t give up on themselves even when others did. Always remember, life is like a game; and God Almighty is the referee. Until the final whistle, don’t give up. And guess what, this referee (God Almighty) always wants you to win and succeed. He is not just seeing the present situation; He is also seeing the destination. He knows that the negative situation won’t destroy you, but rather, it will make you stronger, better and fit for the final destination. Don’t give up. Rejoinders: •Many thanks Femi….. “Freedom from mental bondage”. I will keep asking God for favour. My regards. (080356664**)