 At least 10 people were injured after some Muslim youths on Monday night disrupted a Christian crusade organised by a Muslim convert at Tegina town in Niger State. The convert, Prophet Shuaibu Bashir, believed to be from a royal family in Sokoto State, was reported to have been converting people since he became a “born again” Christian a few months ago. It was learnt that Bashir has been performing miracles ranging from healing the sick and raising the dead at most of the crusades he had held. A witness said the crusade in Tegina town had hardly taken off when youths believed to belong to an Islamic sect stormed the venue of the revival and started beating those in attendance with different objects, thereby forcing the event to close abruptly.
Apart from those injured, five vehicles which brought people for the crusade were damaged. It was also learnt that two motorcycles were also taken away from the venue of the crusade by the rampaging youths.
One of the organisers of the crusade told our correspondent on condition of anonymity that the attack “is the highest degree of religious intolerance”. He added: “We obtained permits from the police and the Emir before organising the crusade. Nobody can stop God’s work; we will continue to evangelise until all souls are brought to Christ.”
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Muhammad Abubakar, confirmed the attack.
He said: “There was an attack on the crusaders but only five people were injured.” Abubakar said no arrest had been made in connection with the incident because “the youth fled on the arrival of the police”.
He added that those injured were admitted at the hospital for treatment. The PPRO told our correspondent that the state Police Commissioner, Alhaji Ibrahim Sabo, had directed the Police Area Commander in Kagara to “immediately proceed to Tegina so as to mediate in the crisis”.
He added: “We don’t want any form of religious crisis in this state and anyone found involved would be apprehended and prosecuted according to the laws of the land.”