The four Global Systems for Mobile communication (GSM) operators in Nigeria, MTN, Globacom, Airtel and 9mobile, gained 2.2 million new Internet subscribers in January, New Telegraph has learnt.This brought the number of active Internet users across the networks to an all-time high of 113.8 million, according to latest statistics released by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). The statistics revealed an upward swing in all indices of the sector, as active voice subscriptions of the GSM operators also rose to 173.6 million in the first month of the year. With revenue from voice calls nose-diving, the telcos had, in the last three years, embarked on massive investments in infrastructure to enhance their data services. This has led to roll out of 4G service in some parts of the country, leading to increase in the number of Internet users. Analysis of the data showed that MTN maintained the lead in data subscriptions with 45.9 million Internet customers. Airtel came second with 30.4 million subscriptions, while Globacom had 27.6 million Internet customers as at last January. 9mobile tailed others with 9.8 million active subscriptions. In terms of voice subscriptions, MTN remained the dominant player with 66.6 million active subscriptions, while Globacom retained its position as second largest operator with 45.6 million subscribers. Airtel recorded 44.9 million, while 9mobile’s active subscriptions rose to 16.3 million. With the growth in subscriptions, the country’s teledensity also rose from 123.4 per cent last December to 124.2 per cent in January. Teledensity is the number of telephone connections for every 100 individuals living within an area and it varies widely across the country. Meanwhile, broadband penetration in the country hit a new level of 32.3 per cent, according to NCC. Nigeria had, through a National Broadband Plan unveiled in 2013, set a target of 30 per cent penetration to be achieved by 2018, to ensure that more Nigerians have access to not just Internet, but fast speed Internet. While the country met the target last December, penetration continues to grow with increase in number of subscribers having access to 4G Internet service. According to a World Bank study, a 10 per cent point increase in fixed broadband penetration would increase GDP growth by 1.21 per cent in developed economies and 1.38 per cent in developing ones.