Seeks concessionary loans  As Nigeria’s debt managers seek concessionary loans to tame the rising debt servicing cost, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has warned that the nation’s interest payments may rise to unsustainable levels of over 82 per cent in 2022. It disclosed that while Nigeria’s ratio of debt-to-gross-domestic product is low relative to other governments at about 25 per cent, the country’s small tax base means interest costs as a proportion of revenue are high. According to IMF, the Federal Government’s interest payments-to-revenue more than doubled to 60 per cent last year from 27 per cent in 2014. The figure is on course to rise to 82 per cent by 2022, which the Washington-based lender says is “unsustainable.” This is coming as the Director General of the Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha has said that though Nigeria has the best-performing Eurobonds in emerging markets this year, the office would prioritise borrowing from concessional lenders such as the World Bank and African Development Bank. “If you were to ask me if we’re going to issue Eurobonds this year, I’d say we’ll explore all the options,” she said in a recent interview with Bloomberg in Abuja. “Our preferred option is to explore concessional sources. One of our major objectives is to reduce debt-service costs.” The yet to be passed 2019 budget presented to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari in December, envisaged the government issuing about N1.65 trillion ($4.6 billion) of new debt, half of which would be in foreign currency.
High Returns Nigeria has mostly used the Eurobond market for her external funding in recent years, rather than concessional lenders. It sold $5.4 billion of bonds last year and $4.8 billion in 2017, making it Africa’s most prolific issuer in that period after Egypt. Bank of America said in a research note this month that Nigeria would probably print another $3 billion of securities in the second half of 2019. The country’s Eurobonds have returned 14.4 per cent since the end of 2018, second only to Kenya among sovereigns in emerging markets, according to Bloomberg indexes. African Eurobonds have been in heavy demand this year as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s cautious approach to raising interest rates spurs investors to buy higher-risk assets. Ghana and Benin sold $3.6 billion of bonds between them on Tuesday. Oniha reiterated that while the government is “always speaking” with the World Bank and African Development Bank, it won’t borrow from the IMF. “We’ve made it clear we’re not in the situation where we need IMF support,” she said. The DMO is continuing with a plan to increase its proportion of foreign liabilities to 40 per cent to reduce funding costs. The ratio is probably somewhere between 30 per cent and 40 per cent following the sale of $2.9 billion of bonds in November, Oniha said. Yields on Nigerian Eurobonds average 7.3 per cent, half that for naira bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The debt service-to-revenue ratio is rising,” she said. “We’re not sitting and saying we’re comfortable. Part of the reason for borrowing externally is to borrow at 8 per cent rather than 18 per cent. It’s cheaper. And we’re assuming the naira will be stable.” Nigeria also plans to sell a N15 billion green bond, Oniha said, without giving a time frame. The country issued its first green bond, a N10.7 billion five-year security, early last year.