The Benue State chapter of Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) yesterday called on the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate in the March 9 governorship election to accept defeat in good faith and stop a plot to subvert the will of the Benue people through underhand tactics.  IPAC Chairman in the state, Godwin Odah, who stated this while briefing newsmen in Makurdi, said results of the election as declared by INEC before it  Adamawa State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Kassim Gaidam, has said that Saturday’s supplementary election may be determined by the outcome of a court judgement tomorrow.  Gaidam, who disclosed this yesterday while addressing newsmen, said the commission was served with a court injunction restraining it from conducting the election. He said the commission, as a tradition of compliance, would respond to the court summon so as to know the possibility of conducting the election.  INEC, he said had contacted their team of legal experts led by Joy Kyari Gadzama (SAN). According to him, “For the sake of clarity, the court order is not connected to the bye-election at Nassarawo/ Binyeri and Uba/Gaya constituencies of Mayo-Belwa and Hong Local Government Areas, respectively.”  He said already, election materials for the conduct of the election were in safe keeping with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), stressing also that security arrangements had been concluded with the police and other sister agencies. Musa Pam Jos The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Senator Jeremiah Useni, yesterday accused Governor Simon Lalong and the All Progressives Congress, (APC) candidate of spending N20 billion rehabilitation funds released to the state on his reelection campaigns.  Useni spoke during a press conference in Jos, where he accused APC administration in the state of going around spending a lot of money on vote-buying. He said “N20 billion was given to Plateau State by the Federal Government to help in the rehabilitation of internally displaced persons that were affected during the crisis in the state, but Lalong has spent the money in buying Plateau Ahmed Idris Birnin Kebbi The Kebbi State government has commended by effortof the European Union and the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (EU/ UNICEF) and other donor agencies in partnering with the state, assuring them of more commitment towards eradicating health challenges of the state. This was disclosed yesterday by Commissioner for Health, Alhaji Umar Kambaza, while receiving some delegates from EU in his office.  He said the state government under the leadership of Atiku Abubakar Bagudu, was ready to sustain the mutual relationship between the EU/UNICEF in order to achieve the aims and objectives of the state in healthcare delivery.   “Patterning with EU has make a positive impact in the life of this administration, most of the focal people were women and children and a lot have been done in that regard, we make changes under maternal mortality and children from 0 to 5 years old,” he added. Kambaza also made an appeal to the EU to also do more in eradicating malaria as the state government was ready to combat the menace in ensuring a malaria-free state.  “We want to do more in terms of healthcare delivery, we commended you people, especially on the issue of procurement,” he said. Responding, leader of the delegation, Alhaji Musa Rabiu, who was the head of UNICEF Communication Office in Kaduna State, thanked the state government for partnering with them, assuring them of EU’s commitment towards promoting healthcare delivery in the state.