The Republic of Korea Ambassador to Nigeria, Lee In Tae, has said the inability of Nigeria to put a robust national health insurance  framework in place, was the main reason behind the high rate of medical tourism embarked upon by its citizens in search of quality health care services. The Ambassador equally noted that the 45 per cent of the demand for drugs and medical equipment which was only met by indigenous pharmaceuticals companies’ healthcare medical centres, was also an avenue for import substitution. In a bid to ensure an improved cooperation in the health sector, Korea has disclosed its readiness to open more opportunities for Nigeria and Nigerians, with the help of its traditional medicine which has its own treatments, hospitals and prescriptions that were comparable with western medicine. He added that the World Health Organization (WHO) has recognised “hanbang,” or traditional Korean medicine, as valid medicine. “The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), has estimated that about 30,000 Nigerians spend up to a whooping $1 billion on medical tourism per annum and about 60 per cent of this amount is spent in the healthcare areas of cardiology, orthopedics, renal dialysis issues and cancer. “Nigeria with its massive population and lack of a robust national health insurance framework, has become a major source market for medical tourism. In Nigeria, there is obviously a ready market of its citizens seeking high quality medical care with the requisite purchasing power. “Traditional Korean medicine involves identifying the physical
constitution of each patient, and finding the right (customized) care and prescription accordingly. Traditional Korean medicine also prefers more natural treatments, such as herbal medicines, acupuncture, and moxibustion, over artificial drug regimens of antibiotics and painkillers. “Also, I noticed that when Nigerian experts come back from Korea, they seemed fascinated about Korea’s cosmetics and medical tourism. In this instance, I would like to introduce Korea’s health care industry to Nigeria. “Korea’s Health Industry statistics has consistently ranked amongst the top five countries for quality healthcare provision by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development(OECD) and Bloomberg. “The country is ranked first by the OECD for healthcare access and rated as the fourth most efficient healthcare system in the world by Bloomberg. The quality of Korean healthcare has been ranked as being among the world’s best. Satisfaction of healthcare has also been consistently among the highest in the world,” he said adding that “According to ‘2018 OECD Health Statistics’, Korea’s Life expectancy was 82.4years, infant mortality rate was 2.8 among 1000 which is 1.1 less than OECD country’s average, Current Health Expenditure(% of gross domestic product) is 7.6 per cent which is 1.3 per cent less than OECD country’s average(8.9 per cent). “Hospitals in Korea boasts of excellent medical practitioners and facilities. The
Korean government has a strict regulation over hospitals to ensure optimum medical services. Korea’s hospitals put the safety and satisfaction of patients ahead of profits. The OECD statistics count only hospitals, and do not reflect statistics concerning clinics, dental clinics, traditional herbal medicine clinics, and midwifery centers common in Korea. “The number of hospital beds per 1,000 population is about 13.55, well above the OECD countries’ average of 5 and hospitals dominate the health system Korea is ranked seventh place in terms of absolute number of plastic surgery operations performed each year, as opposed to the United States where plastic surgery is most frequently performed (3,110,000 annually). When these numbers are converted into the per-population ratio, however, the rankings are
reversed. “I expect Korea and Nigeria’ s bilateral relationship to keep soaring higher in the years’ ahead,” he said.