A total of 49 candidates are expected to participate in today’s governorship and House of Assembly elections in Jigawa State. Similarly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said 198 candidates from 13 political parties would feature in today’s state House of Assembly poll in Ekiti State. Head of Department of Voters Education and Publicity (VEP) for INEC in the state, Mr John Kaiwa, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Dutse. He said out of the number, 19 candidates were vying for governorship position, while the remaining 30 were contesting for state House of Assembly from the 30 constituencies in state. The HOD VEP explained that the three major contenders of the 19 governorship candidates are the incumbent governor, Alhaji Muhammad Abubakar, contesting under the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Aminu Ringim of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Bashir Adamu Jumbo of Social Democratic Party (SDP). Kaiwa said all election materials from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had since been distributed to all the 27 local government areas of the state in readiness of the exercise. Meanwhile, INEC’s Public Relations Officer in the state, Alhaji Taiwo Gbadegesin, disclosed the numbers of candidates and parties participating in the poll in Ekiti State. Gbadegesin, who spoke on behalf of the state’s INEC Administrative Secretary, Dr Muslim Omoleke, said the commission had put in place necessary mechanism for hitch free conduct of the poll. He said INEC had distributed non sensitive materials across the 16 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state for the smooth conduct of the election. The distribution, according him, was done in the presence of security agencies and parties’ representatives. He assured voters that the commission would not disappoint them in the state in the conduct of the election. “The sensitive and nonsensitive materials have been distributed to all the LGAs under heavy security cover. We are not taking anything for granted. We tracked all the vehicles to ensure that those materials were not diverted. “We did not only distribute the materials, but we partnered with security agencies to ensure that they are on ground in all the LGAs to protect them till Saturday. “Early on Saturday, the materials will be distributed to wards for onward distribution to the polling units. “Our projection is that the elections must start at 8 a.m., simultaneously in all the 2,195 polling units, the materials, including the reconfigured smart card readers, ballot boxes and papers are in safe custody and under heavy police protection,” he said.