Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, has denied receiving any phone call from either the former governor of the state, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko or the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial contender, Aliyu Ahmad, as speculated. Tambuwal debunked the insinuation while answering questions during an interactive session with journalists at the Government House, Sokoto.  “Let me confirmed that I did not receive any phone call from my former deputy and APC governorship candidate and neither did I receive any from Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, congratulating me on my victory at the polls.  I think that should remain in the realm of speculations,” Tambuwal said. The governor said he would not forget the victory figure of 342, which made him emerge victorious in the 2019 governorship supplementary election. According to him, the margin is the least figure in the history of any gubernatorial contest, not even that of the Osun State, which was higher than that of Sokoto State.  Tambuwal said he considered the figure as very important and the people of Sokoto would never forget the 342 figure. He noted that the Sokoto election had never been militarised until in 2019, when people were suppressed, how votes were suppressed and the electorate dispersed.  He argued that it was only in the 2019 elections, that EFCC officials was seen going round and arresting people at polling units for vote-buying to checkmate the activities of some money bag politicians. Tambuwal assured all that his government would benefit even the downtrodden in the state. He said he would run a democratic, transparent and an all-inclusive government and would not allow cabals influence his government’s decisions. By: Zubair Abdullahi Sada Amidst the gale of defections ravaging the political atmosphere of our country, there have been indications from different quarters that Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state may have concluded plans to abandon the All Progressive Congress (APC) for his former political party, the Peoples Democratic Party.… In “News Around Nigeria” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will this Saturday conduct supplementary elections in five states of the federation. The states include Sokoto, Adamawa, Benue, Kano and Plateau states. That of Bauchi State has been cancelled. The elections come after governorship elections results in 22 of the 29 states’ in the… In “Editorial” Sokoto State Governor, Rt. Hon. Aminu Tambuwal, yesterday secured a slim re-election victory after surviving a tough challenge from the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Aliyu and his estranged godfather, Senator Aliyu Wamakko. Announcing the result of Saturday’s governorship election in Sokoto yesterday, the Independent National Electoral… In “News”