Alhaji Aminu Maigari is a former president of the Nigeria Football Federation. In an interview with LUKMAN OLOGUNRO, the Bauchi-born administrator and businessman, who served as the 38th NFF boss and whose four-year tenure (2010 to 2014) witnessed some success, spoke on sundry issues concerning Nigerian football and his relationship with the late former NFF secretary general Taiwo Ogunjobi…   Let’s start on a rather sombre note, how did you receive the news of Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi’s death?
I received the news of his death with huge shock because I have known Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi for a very long time. I saw him as a brother and a confidant. I had to make calls to a few people before I could believe the news. I still spoke with him a few days before his death. That is to show how close we were. I have been in a very sad mood since his death. It’s a personal loss for me. I pray for Allah (God) to repose his soul. It has made me to fear God more and I’m now even closer to God. How would you describe him as an administrator?
Chief Ogunjobi was a professional to the core. He was one of the very best administrators in Nigerian football and indeed sports. He was a thoroughbred professional. Here was a man that would always tell us that in whatever decision we took, the interest of the country and the players must take priority. He contributed so much to the success we enjoyed during my tenure as the head of the NFF because we exchanged ideas and he offered so much advice.
Those that worked with him while he was the secretary-general of the NFF have been saying remarkable things on how he performed while in office. They all attest to his dexterity but more importantly his personality. Since you regard him as a brother why did you contest the NFF president post with him? Wouldn’t it be more appropriate for you or him to step down for each other?
The decision to contest against each other didn’t affect our relationship because it all boiled down to our desire to give the best service to the game. I was approached by some stakeholders to contest because they believed I had what it took to take the game to a higher height and I believe the same applied to him, as a few people would see his vast experience as the reason why he should lead Nigerian football. We contested against each other but that did not affect our relationship in any way.
It only shows our commitment to give the best for Nigerian football which I can say we loved dearly. Nigeria enjoyed so much success, winning titles at different levels during your tenure as NFF boss, what would you attribute to your board’s success?
It was through hardwork, dedication of the board members and also the respect we gave to all the stakeholders of the game.
We knew we owed it a duty to give Nigeria the best as football is not just a sport in the country. It is followed with total passion by all classes of people in the country. Like I said, it was through hardwork and we also thank God for giving us the grace to succeed. What are the things that Nigeria should be doing to maintain the country’s pedigree as a heavyweight of football, at least on the African continent?
We should invest more in the game and by this I mean we should focus more on the grassroots. The potential to excel at the global level has never been in doubt. We have the natural talents that should be among the very best in the game. We should also invest more in the training of our coaches and our infrastructure must be upgraded. If we have good coaches, we will get more players nurtured to the big stage. What are the chances of the Super Eagles at the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt?
We stand a very good chance going by our pedigree in the tournament, and sincerely we should go for the title.
We missed the last two editions and this has badly affected our reputation but we can prove that we remain a force on the continent by claiming our fourth title. With due respect to other teams in Africa, we can’t afford to take satisfaction at just qualifying for a tournament like AFCON.
We can’t afford to play second fiddle to any country as far as African football is concerned and it’s for this reason that the Super Eagles should go all out and conquer all opposition. They should go after the title and nothing else. But don’t you think this is demanding too much from the team, noting that they have recently missed a couple of editions?
Yes, we are making a return but it should not just be a return. It has to be an effective one. We are talking of the Nations Cup and not the World Cup which is much more difficult to win. I don’t think it’s out of order to demand the Super Eagles to go after the title and nothing else.
We have players across the best leagues in Europe with loads of experience. The players have huge exposure having played at the biggest stage like the World Cup. So for a championship like the Nations Cup, we have to go for nothing else than the title.
We are known to qualify regularly for the tournament but that is not enough going by the talents at our disposal. Even the three titles that we have don’t justify our status as a heavyweight of African football. We should balance our regular participation with success at the tournament.
We need to be consistent by not just appearing at the Nations Cup but also winning it. The Flying Eagles will be at the FIFA U-20 World Cup later this year and this is one championship that Nigeria has not won. Going by the uninspiring outing of the team at the recently concluded U-20 AFCON, what message do you have for them?
Firstly, let us look at it from the point that the team did not qualify for the World Cup the last time out and so we should commend them for achieving this feat, which I believe was their primary target. I followed the U-20 AFCON in Niger and I must confess that the performance of the Flying Eagles was far below expectations, but there is room for improvement in the team. The coach must beef up the team with new players if he wants to succeed at the World Cup.
Like you rightly mentioned we are yet to win the tournament and it would take total hard work if we are to break that jinx this year.
The NFF has to organize friendly matches so that the team can be fortified for the task ahead. The coach has to look for more quality players. I don’t think we should be lacking good players at U-20 level as I can recall that the likes of Mikel Obi and Taye Taiwo were highly rated by FIFA at that level while they featured for Nigeria some years back. And I believe we still have so many good players that can hit the limelight at the World Cup. A busy year for Nigerian football will also see the Super Falcons participate at the FIFA Women’s World Cup in France. How can the team improve on their previous outings?
One of the most important things for us to do is to invest in women’s football. The league must improve as it seems it has not been at a high level for some years and it is affecting our participation at international tournaments. We all saw how South Africa almost dethroned us at the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Ghana last year. It was very close. You can see that the gap has been closed to the barest minimum. It is because of other teams’ investments in the women league, but we seem to have gone to sleep. We can’t afford to lose our dominance of the game on the continent, so women’s football should be given adequate attention. The Falcons will be facing hosts France, South Korea and Norway in the group stage at the Women’s World Cup, do they stand any chance against these teams?
It’s a very tough group, one has to acknowledge. But you can’t rule out the Falcons to spring one or two surprises. France is one of the new forces in women’s football.
The Koreans, like Japan and China and teams from that side of Asia, are known for their fast and never tiring style but we can’t say they will take us out just anyhow. We need good preparation by playing lots of friendly matches. The team was recently in Cyprus for a tournament and I know they still have some similar friendly matches lined up for them before the World Cup. This will surely help them, even though it has to be admitted that we are total outsiders for the title. Let’s keep our fingers crossed and see what will happen because like we usually say football is not a game where one can just make predictions and go to sleep. Who knows, the Falcons can pull surprises but we can’t rely on the team pulling surprises. We have to make sure of good performances on the basis of what the team has to offer. It’s been a long while that we saw a Nigerian club win a CAF tournament. How can Nigeria end this drought considering, the showings of Lobi Stars and Rangers on the continent so far this season?
Our scorecard in recent years has been poor and maybe it has to do with our league. To be honest, the standard of our league is yet to hit the level it ought to be. However, it’s encouraging to note that there have been some little changes in the league this year. It’s good to see teams getting points away from home unlike the past when the home teams were more like guaranteed all the points at stake.
Lobi started very well but seem to be fading out of contention. All hope is not lost as they could still find their way back to qualify from their group, even though it’s looking very difficult. As things stand, they need to get at least four points from their last two matches and hope that the result of other matches favour them. It’s more likeRangers also showed lots of promises but they are in danger by losing at the weekend.
The group matches are coming to a close and both Rangers and Lobi need good results in their next matches and I think Rangers stand a better chance because they still have their destiny in their hands to qualify. However, this is not to rule Lobi out, as anything can still happen since they are not mathematically eliminated. Are you holding any grudges against anyone regarding the way you were forced out of the NFF after being accused of misappropriation of funds?
Point of correction, I was never forced out of the NFF. I withdrew voluntarily under no pressure whatsoever. I was never prosecuted for any mismanagement of funds. But there were allegations that your board was involved in some issues bordering on financial misappropriation, misapplication and maladministration?
(Cuts in…) Go and check your facts very well, there was nothing like that and like you said, they are allegations and up till now it has not been proven. So after almost five years of leaving office and nothing has been found against the board I headed, why would you hold on to that?
I was never forced out. I quit on my own volition and I hold no grudges against anyone.
Though there were attempts made to impeach us, these attempts failed. Like I said earlier, I resigned without being under form of threat or pressure. I felt if that was the sacrifice to make Nigeria football move forward, it was not too much for me to sacrifice my office. You have been very quiet since you have been out of office, why?
I had the privilege of serving my country and I thank everyone that I worked with when I headed the NFF. I want to state here unequivocally that we did our best under the circumstances that we found ourselves and we were able to record some memorable achievements during my tenure.
I have been running my businesses here in Bauchi where I’m also based with my family.