●I’m not perturbed by ‘inconclusive’ guber poll, says gov The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, declared the Benue State governorship election as inconclusive.
INEC’s Returning Officer for the state, Prof. Sabastine Maimako, who announced this in Makurdi, the state capital, said the “margin of lead is below that of cancelled votes, therefore, the election is hereby declared inconclusive.”
He put the total number of cancelled votes at 121,019, while the margin of lead between the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Samuel Ortom and Emmanuel Jime of All Progressives Congress (APC) stood at 81,554 votes. Maimako said Ortom polled a total of 410,576 votes while his closest rival, Mr. Emmanuel Jime of the All Progressives Congress (APC), polled 329,022 votes. The Advanced Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) polled 3,489 votes, while PRP had 26,659 votes. Reacting to INEC’s decision, the State Returning Officer for PDP, Mr. Alex Adum, rejected the decision, saying the electoral body ought to have declared Ortom the outright winner of the poll, having polled 81,554 votes ahead of Jime.
He said the destruction of electoral materials at Mbalom council was not the fault of his candidate. He also said the other anomalies recorded, especially that of a missing result sheet for Konshisha Local Government Area was not tenable because INEC ought to have obtained a duplicate copy from its headquarters. In his reaction, Governor Ortom has said he is not perturbed by INEC’s declaration of Saturday’s governorship election in the state as inconclusive.
Ortom made his feelings known on Monday in Makurdi while interacting with newsmen.
He said that he was not bothered by the declaration because he believed he would still lead during the supplementary election. “I am comfortable because my party has the majority in the state. I am not contemplating of winning because I know I will surely win.
“APC cannot come overnight and get more votes than me.
“My party won all the three senatorial seats, six out of 11 House of Reps seats and 18 House of Assembly seats out of 30, but some assembly seats are declared inconclusive too,” he said.
He said he had a lead of 81,554 votes. He said that although the election was declared inconclusive, he was optimistic that he would emerge victorious at the end of the day.
The governor, who said that it was in PDP strongholds that the elections were cancelled, called on security agencies to provide adequate security to ensure the safety of lives during the supplementary election to enable the electorate exercise their franchise and to prevent the snatching of electoral materials.
He said that what the people of the state wanted were free, fair and transparent elections.
He commended Benue people for voting massively on March 9, and urged them to take INEC’s declaration in good faith and remain calm. Ortom expressed appreciation to the people for voting massively for the party and wished that they remain resolute in their determination to give their mandate to candidates of the party.
He stated that he is confident of winning the rerun overwhelmingly and pledged to support security agencies to curtail electoral malpractices on the date to be scheduled by INEC and expressed the hope that the electoral commission would also be patriotic enough to discharge its duties professionally.
On his part, Jime said his party is unperturbed by the declaration of inconclusive polls in the state and appealed to his supporters to stay calm. In a statement by Prof. Eugene Aliegba, the Secretary of the APC Governorship Campaign Council, Jime commended INEC for its decision, which he said, was backed by law.
“As a law abiding party, we recognise the decision by INEC as legally binding. We remain upbeat and urge our supporters to stay calm and optimistic ahead of a rerun date.
“We will do the work required to clinch victory and earn the mandate of Benue people,” he assured.
He said the supplementary polls were ordered in parts of Benue owing to irregularities that occurred in such places.
“The APC submits to the decision by INEC and will present itself for the rerun elections when the electoral umpire fixes a date.
“The party extends its gratitude to the electorate, party faithful and supporters who trooped out in their numbers to queue behind its governorship candidate, Emmanuel Jime and all other candidates of the APC.”
It, however, called on security agencies to ensure that the electoral breaches that characterised the previous elections were prevented to guarantee its credibility.
“The party expresses its deep worries over the large scale cases of thuggery, intimidation, inducement, vote buying and results tinkering that the PDP deployed in its desperate bid to hold on to power.
“It calls on INEC and security agencies to ensure that the PDP adheres to the democratic tenants in the rerun.
“The party’s governorship candidate, Jime, welcomes the supplementary election and remains confident of victory when the exercise is conducted.”