Six persons were fear killed in electoral violence and accident that occurred in different parts of Ondo State during the House of Election that took place on Saturday. Four of the persons were fear killed in Ore, in Odigbo Local Government area of the state while the other two died in boat mishap that occurred in Eseodo Local Government area of the State. The four people killed in Ore were said to have been killed by law enforcement agents during a protest over alleged manipulation of results in the local government. The youths were said to have protested against the emergence of the winner of the election. A source from the community explained that the youths frowned over cases of voting buying and manipulation of the election result, threatening not to allow the announcement of the result. The source, however, said security operatives from the town were invited but said the youth refused to shift their ground, while they also attacked the security agents. He said the policemen started to shoot sporadically and four of the youths hit with the bullet died at the venue of the protest. The two persons who died in boat mishap included a youth corp member; Ibrahim Okanlawon, and an adhoc staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The two casualties and seven others were said to be returning from election duty in Arogbo community in coastal area, of Ese Odo local government area  of the state when their boat capsized According to a source, the INEC officials and the three corps members were returning from Arogbo when the speed boat capsized at the bank of Agadagba – Obon. He, however, said it took the intervention of the marine security at the bank of the river to rescue the five victims but said one of the corps member, Ibrahim Okanlawon, from Osun state, and an INEC staff were not lucky. He said all the victims were unconscious after they were rescued by the security but said only three of the victims survived the accident. Two other corps members who sustained injuries in the boat mishap are currently receiving treatment at the hospital. He explained that the corps member who died in the mishap failed to use the life jacket as at the time of the incidence and all efforts to rescue him alive failed. The State Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, confirmed the incidents but said only two people died during the election. He said only one person died during the fracas in Ore. The Deputy governor of the state, Hon. Agboola Ajayi has sympathised with the family of the Okanlawon, who died during a boat mishap, describing his death as unfortunate. He said he was saddened by the death of Ibrahim, saying that the nation had lost one of its talent and productive young man, while serving his fatherland. This development came as the INEC declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Otunba Nicholas Tofowomo, as the winner of the of Ondo South Senatorial district election after the conclusion of the last Saturday supplementary election. Tofowomo was declared winner of the election after scoring 81,892 votes to defeat his closest rival, the incumbent Senator, Yele Omogunwa of the ruling APC who polled 55, 610 votes. The result was announced by INEC Returning Officer for the district, Prof Kayode Onifade after the Senatorial supplementary election was concluded. Meanwhile, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has won 23 out of the 26 House of Assembly seats while the opposition PDP won two seats. The Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) won only one sear. However, the House of Assembly candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the Saturday election, Prince Ebenezer Adeniyan, has described the election as sham and a dent on the nation’s democracy. Adeniyan in a statement said “this was the worst election I have ever witnessed in my adult life” Adeniyan alleged that the election was highly monetised by the ruling party in the state. His words “the ruling All Progressives Congress conspired with the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to engage in open purchase of votes across all the polling units in the constituency. “The APC had deployed between N300,000 and N500,000 to each polling unit on the eve of the election. Unable to compete, this forced some opposition parties to scale back on their own logistics for the election. “In many of the units, the vote-buying was effectively supervised by security agents and in some, security agents participated in the distribution of the money. This is a setback for whatever gains we have made in our electoral process in the last decade. “In some units, agents of opposition parties that did not bribe security agents were chased out of the polling areas, while voting cubicles were left in the hands of agents of APC to monitor voting pattern of induced voters. “That INEC and security agencies cannot curb open vote buying has simply put the nail on the coffin of democracy in Nigeria. It is unfortunate that the only way to win election in Nigeria today is to buy votes.” He, however, congratulated the APC candidate who emerged as the winner of the contest and said “the faulty process notwithstanding, I congratulate the winner of the election, Mr. Toluwani Borokini of the APC. I wish him a successful tenure in office.