…as Ajimobi, Ambode, Akpabio, others rejoice with VP  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday attributed the height he had attained in life to a special mercy of God. Osinbajo also expressed gratitude to God for seeing him through all the rigours and hazards of electioneering in the run-up to the 2019 general election. He spoke at an interdenominational service of praise and thanksgiving held at the Obafemi Awolowo Square, Ikenne, Ogun State. The event was attended by Governors Abiola Ajimobi and Akinwunmi Ambode of Oyo and Lagos states, ex-governor of Osun State, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, former Akwa Ibom State Governor, Senator Godswill Akpabio and Ogun State Governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun. Also in attendance were Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, Senator-elect Tolu Odebiyi (Ogun West), former deputy governor, Prince Segun Adesegun, African Democratic Congress (ADC) governorship candidate, Prince Gboyega Isiaka, and the Social Democratic Party (SDP) standard bearer, Otunba Rotimi Paseda, as well as traditional rulers and other eminent personalities. Osinbajo, who was accompanied by his wife, Dolapo, stated that the thanksgiving in his home town was imperative to appreciate God for spar-ing his life in a helicopter crash in Kogi State on February 2. According to him, his survival in the crash was due to the special mercy of God. He said: “Today is a day of praise and joy. It is the mercy that brought me to this position. It is the mercy of God that will continue to abide with me till we begin our second term and to the next level. “I thank everyone present here but I must specially thank God. All of us know that throughout the electioneering process in the country, it is the mercy of God that has helped us.” At the event, the vice president offered fervent prayers for the peace, progress and stability of the country. Speaking earlier, the VP’s wife, Dolapo, had shared her experience when she received the news of her husband’s helicopter crash. Mrs Osinbajo, who noted that the mercy of God had been the pillar of her family, said she was happy that neither her husband nor his aides died in the mishap. In his remarks, the state Governor-elect described Osinbajo as an embodiment of diligence and sincerity, adding that such attributes were worthy of emulation. Abiodun explained that like the VP, it was the mercy of God that also helped him to survive the murky water of politics and intimidation that characterised the recent governorship election in the state. In his sermon, the Archbishop of Ecclesiatical Province of Lagos, The Most Reverend (Dr.) Olusina Fape, said the victory of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the just concluded presidential election was as a result of God’s mercy. “Election is a matter of choice; it is not according to your power, ability or wisdom. Election and whoever wins is a matter of mercy,” the cleric stated. He said: “Mercy does five things; it brings victory, it brings exaltation, it brings wisdom, it brings deliverance and success. Your Excellency, whatever you might have achieved is not by your power or wisdom, but by the sheer mercy of God. “Your choice is not by you know how to do it but because of the mercy of God. As you celebrate today, God’s mercy will catapult you to the next level according to the slogan of your party.”