The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has alerted of plans by some politicians to assassinate their opponents during Saturday’s Governorship and House of Assembly elections. To achieve the dastardly act, the COAS said the politicians have concluded plans to recruit mercenaries, even as he added that domestic staff of opponents might be infiltrated, in a bid to achieve results. This was as he added that the unnamed politicians intended to exploit the farmers/herders’ clashes, to perpetrate acts of violence during the polls, including the use of bombs. The end-result, the Army Chief disclosed, was to disrupt the peaceful conduct of the elections scheduled to hold in 36 states of the federation. Buratai raised the concerns yesterday, at an operations meeting he had with Principal Staff Officers (PSOs), Commanders, General Officers Commanding (GOCs), as well as Directors, at the Army Headquarters, Abuja. “Recent security threat assessment and analysis of the coming elections showed that politicians have made plans to use all means available to truncate the peaceful conduct of the elections. “Some of them (politicians) also intend to infiltrate domestic staff of political opponents, employ mercenaries to carry out acts of assassinations, use the social media for smear campaigns, hate speeches and spread fake news in a bid to disrupt the peaceful conduct of the elections. We must not allow them succeed. “There are indications of their intent to take advantage of and to use the farmers/herders’ crisis, armed political thugs and ethnic militias to perpetrate acts of violence, including bombings,” Buratai said. He, however, stated that the Army has resolved to frustrate the devilish plots. The four-star General said all guidelines for the smooth conduct of the elections would be enforced, even as he warned would-be troublemakers not to test the resolve of the Force. He said: “Let me reiterate that the NA will enforce all guidelines in support of the Nigeria Police Force to ensure the peaceful conduct of the elections in line with its constitutional roles. I, therefore, want to remind us all not to rest on our oars. “We shall not allow those who are determined to undermine our electoral process to succeed. These forthcoming gubernatorial and state assembly elections are very crucial. This is an election that touches on the interest of the people at the grassroots and could likely be volatile in nature. “It is important to reiterate that politicians will employ and deploy all means to outwit each other to gain control of power at this level. We may recall that in the recently concluded polls, some politicians in their quest for power, armed thugs and miscreants with automatic weapons; induced and coerced youth corpers and INEC ad-hoc staff to perpetrate acts of electoral malpractices.  “We must, therefore, continue to support the NPF and other security agencies to prevent these malpractices from occurring again. I, therefore, urge all commanders to work assiduously and closely with the civil authorities and all law abiding individuals as well as groups to ensure the success of the forthcoming elections.”  Meanwhile, the COAS has lamented incidents of violence that characterised the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly polls, saying officers and personnel deployed on election duties, did their best to check cases of electoral infractions. He maintained that the “proactive intervention” of the Army ensured that accredited voters were not disenfranchised. Suspects arrested during the exercise, Buratai noted, will be handed over to the prosecuting authority.  “…Unfortunately, some level of violence was still recorded leading to disruption of polls, burning of ballot boxes in some areas as well as loss of lives, including the death of an officer and three soldiers. “The Nigerian Army, to a larger extent, ensured that the large scale electoral malpractices and acts of thuggery aimed at disenfranchising voters as witnessed in previous elections were curbed despite the campaign of calumny orchestrated by some politicians against us,” Buratai stated. He continued: “During the course of the recently concluded elections, troops of the Nigerian Army were able to make arrests of persons who perpetrated acts of electoral offences. These suspects are to be immediately handed over to the police for prosecution. I want to state and categorically warn that the Nigerian Army will not tolerate any acts that will undermine national security.  “This time around, we shall be tough on those who plan to rig or disrupt the electoral process. I, therefore, want to appeal to Nigerian youths to shun any attempt by any politician to use them to perpetrate any form of violence. As we mourn the death of the young officer and soldiers killed on the course of their lawful duty during the recently held election, I want to assure their families that their death will not be in vain. In line with the tradition of the Nigerian Army, they will be given heroic burial, as they are indeed the heroes of our democracy. I have directed that their full entitlements be paid. Let no one be in doubt that those desperate politicians and criminals that attacked our troops in the course of carrying out their legitimate duties will be tracked down and   brought to justice.”  In the face of this, however, the Army Chief acknowledged allegations of compromise made against personnel on election duty.  Consequently, a committee has been constituted, to investigate allegations of misconduct made against some officers and personnel. Buratai’s words: “There have been reports of alleged compromises by some personnel during the elections. We have received complaints from some stakeholders, major political parties, governors of Bayelsa, Oyo and Ogun states of allegation of misconduct as well as unprofessional conduct by some of our personnel.  “Unfortunately, some other states have gone to the press with unsubstantiated allegations without resort to the NA leadership. Nonetheless, all these complaints are noted and will be addressed appropriately. “A high powered committee had been convened and instituted to investigate all cases of alleged misconduct by troops arising from the 2019 general elections. This is aimed at ensuring that all cases are thoroughly looked into for the purpose of dispensation of justice and to uphold Nigerian Army’s credibility, professionalism and apolitical stand.”  