The National Chairman of United Progressives Party (UPP), Chief Chekwas Okorie, in this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, speaks on the recent general election, military involvement in the polls and poor performance of fringe political parties  What is your impression about the outcome of the governorship election in Imo State? The outcome of the election is an indication that the people of Imo State have had enough of Rochas Okorocha’s regime. Though his tenure will end in May, he had wanted to continue to lord it over the people through his son-in law. They did not just make sure that his son-in law did not win, they made sure that even himself did not win in his senatorial district, even though he went on his usual method of circumventing the rule of law and due process to compel the electoral officer to announce the result under duress, and that is what is holding back his being returned as a senator-elect. The people of Imo State have had it up to their neck and they have done their bid. The man was so desperate that he deployed anything that one would want to deploy even in a critical warfare, to sustain his regime in the governance of Imo State, but that has been defeated. That is why so many political parties, including the UPP congratulated the real winner, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, irrespective of the fact that we are not supporting the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at national level, but as far as Imo State is concerned, it is a different kettle of fish. What task do you want to set for Ihedioha ahead of his resumption? Ihedioha has his job cut out for him. One thing about him is that he has been part and parcel of the struggle to take the state away from Okorocha and this was his second effort. Clearly, all the things that Okorocha did wrong, he can start now by reversing them. Also, there should be a lot of transparency and accountability in the governance, because he is coming at a time his predecessor is leaving with a very high suspicion. Notwithstanding the fact that Okorocha has been stopped, he needs to give the people the confidence that they did not make a mistake. So, the burden is on him. We know that he is inheriting a terribly run-down government, but this is where patriotism, creativity and uprightness will come to play in his delivery of dividends of democracy required by the people of Imo State. A major issue that emanated from the elections was inconclusiveness and court orders from various angles. What do you make of these? On the issue of inconclusive election, the likelihood is to blame the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), but the fact is that politicians are to blame for this. Even when INEC is ready to be very transparent as possible as it can be, we still have corrupt judicial officials. The antics of the politicians, before, during and after the elections leave much to be desired and the kind of money the politicians are ready to give to these judicial officials is mindboggling that some of them are prepared to take the risk that even if they are sacked in the process, they will claim they have enough to retire to. So, what the politicians do now is to corrupt and even enrich the judicial officials the more. Could the emergence of the spouse of the President of the Court of Appeal, who is APC Senator-elect in Bauchi State and the current case of the Chief Justice of the Federation (CJN), reaching a ridiculous end is part of the process? The two cases are different. In the case of the spouse of the president of the Court of Appeal, there is nowhere in our laws that says that a spouse cannot aspire to any position because of the position occupied by her partner. As far as I am concerned at the end of the day, he still subjects himself to the electoral process. It would have been a different thing if he did not participate in the campaign, but was handed the senatorial ticket, which is not the case here. Also, prior to now, the President of the Court of Appeal was not known to be heading any of the tribunals, contrary to fears expressed by the PDP. You are also aware that there are some governors, past and present, whose spouses are judges. May be PDP is expressing that fear because of its previous records as we all know what we went through from 1999 to 2015. The outcome of the Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen’s case is very embarrassing. It means that the Code of Conduct Bureau did not do sufficient investigation, but only came to embarrass somebody in that high office. And it can be also said that the President was misled into taking action based on the orders of the Code of Conduct Tribunal, which he relied on. But even at that, it is not yet a done deal because Justice Onnoghen’s counsel said they will file a no-case submission. So, let us wait for that and for the prosecution’s reaction to it. When that is done and the matter is struck out, then whoever has put the nation in this national and international embarrassment must be brought to book. I will be part of that campaign because detectives shouldn’t be charging people to court and cause this kind of embarrassment for the fun of it. Still on the election, the role of the military has been called to question, its legality or otherwise and alleged complicity. What is your reaction to these? Honestly, I want to say that without the military, there would have been no election in the first place because Nigeria would have been blown into smithereens. The country would have been in serious insurrection as we speak, because the military did not participate directly but were called in when necessary. Just like INEC invited foreign observers, it also invited the security agencies to help them, with the President’s approval. If they want the military out of it, then the politicians should also be committed to subjecting themselves to peaceful polls. One other thing which the National Assembly should look at is the situation where a thug is arrested and prosecuted without the police arresting their sponsors. That process must be completed if we want end to political thuggery and ballot box snatching. Their principals must face the same consequence as their sponsors and if death occurs, the principals become accomplice to murder and when that is done, they will be wary of their actions. If that is done and the military comes in on invitation to make sure that violence does not spread, the same politician will turn around to blame the military. One thing we cannot rule out is that some (military men) must have been overbearing in the discharge of their duties, but we can give the police and the military pass marks in these elections. In these elections, we need to sit down and make proper evaluation before making conclusion. Unlike before when PDP sat down and wrote election results, and brazenly asked you to go to tribunal if you so wished, and of course everybody knew what tribunals did then, anybody who does not appreciate some improvement in the conduct of these elections in no being fair. But our elections can be better. We need to revisit the amended Electoral Act, especially now that the elections are over to accommodate electronic voting, so that these malfeasances can be avoided. In the case of Rivers State, the Chief of Army Staff has done the right thing by setting up investigative panel for his soldiers who have been over-zealous there because there were video evidences all over the place. Having said that, the fact is that from the results collated so far in the 17 local governments it is apparent that PDP is leading other parties. Of what relevance are the 91 political parties when less than 12 won elective seats, while many resorted to endorsement of candidates of other parties and some even causing trouble by going to court and calling for cancellation of elections? Anybody calling for reduction of the number of political parties is not basing his argument on reasonable logic. In a country with over 84 million registered voters and about 200million population, 91 political parties are not too many, but what I can say is that multi-party system is very difficult in modern democracy. However, multi-party democracy provides alternative platforms for candidates to contest elections. You remember what happened in Anambra South, where the wife of Chief Odimegwu Ojukwu was short-changed and Ifeanyin Ubah was disqualified. At the end of the day, Ubah went to Young Progressives Party (YPP) and today he is a senator-elect. In the case of the UPP, we threw our doors open by giving free nomination forms to young ones and physically challenged people to encourage them in compliance with the Not Too Young to Run Act, because we would not field presidential candidate until 2023. Besides the tantrums exchanged by some governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over governorship candidates in the 2019 election, BIYI ADEGOROYE writes that the party risks dismal performance in those states   The submission to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), of the names of Chief Hope Uzodinma… In “Politics” •He's politically blind –Araraume •He can't play God in Imo –Ukaegbu       Prominent Igbo politicians, Senator Ifeanyi Ararumen, United Progressives Party (UPP), Chairman, Chief Chekwas Okorie and Hon Uche Onyeagucha, have lambasted Imo State Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, for describing Igbo politicians as 'political hustlers', stating that if… In “News” The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has said the party would win the 2019 elections without the support of Ogun state governor Ibikunle Amosun and his Imo state counterpart, Rochas Okorocha. Both governors are at loggerheads with Mr Oshiomole over the outcome of the party's… In “News”