Former Nigeria international, Henry Nwosu, believes the Nigeria Football Federation should set a high target for Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr ahead of the forthcoming African Cup of Nations in Egypt. Nwosu said that after being in the saddle for over two years, the romance between the NFF and the German coach should now be over such that he (Rohr) should now be delivering results. “As far as the upcoming Nations Cup in Egypt is concerned, Nigeria should aim for the title and this is the reason why the NFF should not shy away from setting a very high target for him (Rohr),” Nwosu said. Asked if such high standard wouldn’t put pressure on the coach as well as the team Nwosu stated that it would rather galvanize them to success. “We have the players as well as the pedigree to win the Nations Cup; we can psyche the players and the coaches up by telling them to go all out for the title, that is what an average Nigerian fans want from the team,” Nwosu, a winning member of Nigeria’s first AFCON title in 1980, said. Rohr had during the week declared that Nigerian fans should not expect much from the team in their upcoming duels with Seychelles and Egypt in Asaba pointing that the Stephen Keshi Stadium does not allow for robust football due to its size but Nwosu faulted the 65-year-old coach’s submission. “The coach should not hide under the guise of the pitch’s size as the reason why his team should not perform. The Egyptians are the ones that should be complaining being the visiting team. If the surface is playable then he should be able to give us good football that a giant like Nigeria deserves,” he said Nwosu, noted that Rohr getting a bumper salary package which should be reflecting on his job delivery. “We are not talking about the World Cup which is quite difficult to win because the fact that no African team have reached the semifinals means it’s not an easy tournament to succeed. However, he can’t tell us that it’s difficult for him to target the Nations Cup trophy, after all the late Stephen Keshi, an indigenous coach, won it for Nigeria in our last appearance. “This is one tournament that we have missed the last two editions but are we making a return to go and play in the quarterfinal and come back home? “Rohr is having one of the best contract as far as Nigerian football coaching is concerned so he should come up with a plan and all what is needed to be done is for the NFF to give him the total monetary, moral and technical support.”