One household name in Delta State politics, especially during the election period is Great Ovedje Ogboru. The man popularly called the People’s General has made six unsuccessful attempts at the governorship election of the Big Heart state in 2003, 2007, 2010 (rerun), 2011, 2015, and now 2019. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE writes on whether the serial governorship candidate’s ambition is jinxed   There is certain distinctiveness that makes a politician tick. For Great Ovedje Ogboru, his selling point is simply his grassroots appeal that cuts across the 25 local governments of Delta state. Unfortunately, his popularity has not been able to give his aspiration to govern the oil-rich-state a fillip. For his supporters, the businessman turned politician symbolizes the dream of an average Deltan and he remains the only opposition leader that can effectively tame the onslaught of the ruling class in the state. Hence, his consistence and interest at every election cycle in the state since 2003. However, the traducers of the man popularly referred to as the Peoples General because of his role in the 1992 Orkar coup, think he is only obsessed with governorship contests as he has no vision for Delta State. Others feel he is only an election, politician who is only seen during election periods, but goes into hibernation just after the elections. Regardless of the divide in perception, Ogboru can be said to be holding the highest record of governorship contest and disputation in Nigeria. He is also one of the top political party’s journeymen who have had a couple of defections under his belt.  He was the governorship candidate of Labour Party (LP) in Delta State during the 2015 election. Before running under the canopy of LP , Ogboru was the candidate of the Democratic People’s Party (DPP), which in 2011 produced the only senator in the country in the person of Senator Pius Akpor Ewherido. Call him the Abraham Lincoln of Nigeria, Ogboru is the persistent, unrelenting politician who never gives up. He is said to be holding the highest record of governorship contest and disputation in Nigeria.  Ogboru’s governorship quest began in 2003 when he contested the election on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD). From there, he moved to the Democratic People’s Party, DPP to contest the 2007 elections. He lost to PDP’s Emmanuel Uduaghan. Not satisfied with the results of the elections, Ogboru challenged his loss in court. After a three- and- a half year legal battle, he succeeded in removing Uduaghan’s government from power in 2010. The PDP candidate victory was invalidated by the Court of Appeal in Benin City and a fresh election was ordered by the Court on January 6, 2011. This was a major victory for Ogboru and his supporters. However, his celebration was short-lived when Uduaghan was declared the winner by INEC. He also contested in 2011 with no success.  In late 2014, Ogboru dumped the DPP as he picked up the nomination form to contest the 2015 gubernatorial elections in Delta State under the platform of the LP.  After the loss in 2015, Ogboru headed   to the court to challenge the victory of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of the PDP but came back with nothing. After the futile legal attempt, Ogboru returned to his supporters and quickly conclude to move enmasse to the APC.  After a tortuous governorship primary of the APC, he eventually emerged as the candidate of the party. Interestingly, weeks after the election, the controversy surrounding the primaries that produced him does not look like it will die down any time soon.  Two other aspirants, Hon. Victor Ochei and Prof. Pat Utomi have maintained that the primary that produced Ogboru was a sham. Making his sixth attempt on the platform of the APC, Ogboru couldn’t break the jinx despite having some formidable and tested politicians like former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Dr Cairo Ojuogboh, and Prime Minister of Warri Kingdom, Ayiri Emami, among others, on his side.  But for the second time in the election cycle, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, did a double on Ogboru, and this time in a remarkable fashion.  Declaring the outcome of the March 9 election, the State Returning Officer of INEC, Prof. Seth Accra-Jaja, Vice Chancellor, Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa, declared Okowa winner of the 2019 governorship election in Delta after he polled 925,274 votes to defeat his first runner up, Ogboru of the APC who polled a total of 215,938 votes.  At the election, a total number of 2,831,205 voters were registered in the state, while the total number of accredited voters was 1,188,784. The election recorded a total number of 24,147 rejected votes, had a total number of 1,178,335 votes cast, while the total number of valid votes is 1,154,188. Okowa won in 23 out of the 25 local government areas of the state.  For analysts, the defeat of Ogboru on March 9 was anticipated. Aside from the intimidating status of his opponent in Okowa and PDP, the infighting within APC which is a carryover from the party primary also limited the chances of the serial contender. The crisis was so fierce that it defied the interventions of the vicepresident, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. Apparently, those who lost out to the people’s general didn’t fully join his campaign train and those who did join at the 11th hour.  Also, the contentious issue of the unwritten power rotation agreement in Delta is another factor that perhaps worked against Ogboru. The incumbent, Okowa,  is from Delta North, and the district is expected, by the unwritten rotation, to spend eight years in power. On his part, Ogboru is from the central district of the state. Ogboru was born on April 10, 1958 in Port Harcourt to a father whose hometown is Abraka and a mother from Umukwata.  Ogboru received early education at Municipal Primary School , Port Harcourt but left the city to continue studies at a primary school in Abraka . He, however, finished his primary education at Oharisi Primary School , Ughelli. He attended Government College, Ughelli from 1971 – 1975. He served as a teacher and while working, he obtained an external advanced level certificate in 1980. In 1984, he was employed as a Marketing Officer in a fishing company in Lagos.  In 1987, he left the fishing firm to start up his own private fishing business – Fiogret Ltd which later grew and expanded to some other African countries. At the time he was involved in the fishing business, he ventured into other businesses which included a Warri based furniture company and Bureau de Change. While he was in the United Kingdom, he attended the Chartered Institute of Marketing ,London.  Thereafter, he attended Huron University of South Dakota, London Campus and obtained a Master of Business Administration degree. He also obtained a Master Degree in International Relations at the University of Kent in Canterbury   In April 1990, Ogboru was indicted in the failed coup attempt of Gideon Orkar, he fled the country through Seme border with help from his brother, Turner Ogboru. The military administration subsequently detained Turner and harassed Ogboru’s siblings and did not discourage the looting of his properties by soldiers. Ogboru initially fled to London but later moved to Angola and Namibia.  Ogboru returned to Nigeria in June 2000 and joined the democratic process with the establishment of the South-South Rainbow Coalition (SSRC). He established himself as a viable opposition candidate to Delta’s governor, James Ibori under PDP in the year 2003 and contested the governorship elections in Delta State in 2003.  In the 2007 election, Great Ogboru contested for governorship under the flag of the DPP Democracy against Uduaghan of the PDP. He lost to Emmanuel Uduaghan again in 2011 election though he contested under the umbrella of Labour Party . In the 2015 and 2019 governorship election, he lost to Okowa. Will Ogboru make another attempt in 2023 especially when it would be the time for the governorship to return to his Delta Central? Only time will tell.