…says it will win rerun in 5 states  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is to set up a committee to do a postmortem of its performance in the 2019 general elections. This is just as the party expressed confidence that it will win five out the six states, where supplementary elections will hold this Saturday. At the 85th emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party yesterday, its National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, decried the high number of inconclusive elections in places, where PDP candidates were leading in the March 9 governorship election.
“We will appoint a committee to do postmortem on the elections, but this will be after the supplementary election holding on Saturday. “This meeting was called to brainstorm on the supplementary elections and take important decisions to assure our supporters in those states that the party is with them in body and in the spirit,” he said. Secondus said the party was not perturbed by the outcome of the general elections, noting that the country was under intense pressure since after the elections. He said there was uncertainty in the country and called on the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to ensure that the supplementary elections are free and fair. The PDP national chairman reminded the INEC boss that history would be unkind to him if he fails in his job, noting that he would bear the responsibility alone because “those who give him instructions in the night will not be there with him.” Secondus further said he did not see any magic INEC and security agencies would do to stop the party from winning the supplementary polls. “We are leading with high margin and in our stronghold, we are going to compete. We will lead and they will declare. We believe that in all of these states, especially five out of six, it is for PDP. If INEC and the security agencies will manipulate and maneuver the elections on Saturday, the world will see and I pray that God will touch those who are involved. PDP members should be vigilant especially in states, where the party is leading. Your votes will count if INEC will do the right thing,” he assured. Secondus condemned the situation in Bauchi State, noting that no court can stop INEC from declaring result of an election. On the petition filed by the PDP presidential candidate at the tribunal, Secondus expressed the belief that the party has a good case, adding that Atiku Abubakar would be declared winner of the February 23 presidential election. The President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, who said the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the presidential election would be short-lived, expressed belief that PDP has great future. He commended members for standing with the party after losing the presidency. “Let me commend members of our party because it is very rare that after a presidential election, party begins to build momentum, normally a party begins to disintegrate after loses. Even as of now before this by-elections that are coming, we can already see that we are better off given where we are now than before. I believe we will start that on Saturday to make sure that we defend those five states that are declared inconclusive,” he said. Saraki regretted that a country like Nigeria could not conduct a free and fair election, saying: “We have done an election that no doubt anybody and even those that think they have won are ashamed of the kind of election that we did. I think it is a shame to the country and to those that were given that responsibility.” The vice presidential candidate of the, Mr. Peter Obi, noted that while Nigerians blamed INEC and security agencies for the flawed election, the biggest blame goes to those who directed them to do the wrong thing. Obi berated APC and its leaders, who claim integrity but do not demonstrate that. “The biggest corruption and the biggest show of a government that does not believe in integrity is to rig election because the process through which you come into office is far more fundamental than what you do after,” he said. Obi wondered what they would tell “a young man who is cheating in an exam in this country after seeing the ways our elections are conducted. Also, I don’t know what they will tell those who are robbing banks and kidnapping people, because we have seen the biggest of it in this election, where people are happy after robbing the nation and their states.”  