The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has extended the deadline for the discontinuance of the issuance of dividend warrants to 31st December 2019. This was contained in a circular on the Commission’s website yesterday. This delay, the SEC said, is to enable relevant stakeholders deliberate on and address all outstanding issues. Besides, the Commission said the decision is in furtherance of its overriding mandate to ensure that all categories of shareholders and investors are adequately protected. However the SEC stated that the e-dividend initiative remains critical to the complete elimination of the phenomenon of unclaimed dividend, stressing that the management of the Commission encourages all shareholders who are yet to do so, to get mandated on the e-DMMS platform before 31st December 2019. The Commission noted that the SEC recently conducted a strategic assessment of the implementation of the e-dividend initiative across the country and reviewed feedback/observations received from stakeholders and the general public. “The assessment revealed that while remarkable progress has been recorded in concerted efforts through robust enlightenment campaigns to mobilize more shareholders to get mandated on the e-DMMS platform, there remain a few pertinent issue that need to be resolved as a precursor to the total discontinuance of the issuance of dividend warrants by Registrars” the Circular added. President, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN), Mr. Boniface Okezie had said the directive might not be feasible unless given a legal backing. “SEC needs to continue to lobby the National Assembly to expunge the issue of dividend warrants certificates in CAMA,” he had said. “The arrangement is an understanding but it is not yet a law. SEC first of all needs to do the needful by increasing awareness for e-dividend and seek the amendment of in the law. They can’t make it mandatory unless the law is amended. As long as CAMA is concerned the ultimatum can’t work unless they are prepared for litigation. The only thing they need to do now is to keep on its enlightenment campaign to persuade investors to key into the system.”