Book title: The Believer You Should Not Marry Author: Lawrence Oluwadare Publisher: Positive Communication Partners, Lagos Pages: 314 Reviewer: Blessed Mudiaga Adjekpagbon  Just like in “Go Forward – Life is an incentive to fulfill your destiny,” where Lawrence Oluwadare prescribes how folks can positively go forward spiritually and physically, “The Believer You Should Not Marry” is another prescriptive piece that many Christians and non-Christians who are still single or already married may find controversial but enlightening.  In the forward, written by Prophet Dr. Femi Aladelola, of World Mission for Souls, he posits that “It is innovative, educative, inspirational and soul lifting. It is not just a book but a bunch of revelation… It is a solid rock which a Christian life and marriage should build upon.”  Different types of believers are the meat and potatoes discussed in the book. The author talks about many issues such as who a believer is; classes of believers; revelation of divine origins; the revelation of God; the origin of Satan; religions and doctrines; Christ and Christianity; traits of a believer you should not marry; on one hand, and loving but selfish believer; good looking but greedy believer; lanky but lazy believer; choose wisely; shake it off; funny but foolish believer; believer who is ‘unscripturally’ attached to his or her parents; successful but stingy believer; blessed but bossy believer; equally excited together but unequally stirred believer; believer with unscriptural purpose of marriage; the believer who has not prevailed over his or her foundation; abused or bruised believer, and a host of other types of believers on the other. From the book’s references, it is clear that Oluwadare carried out great research about why many marriages are increasingly experiencing pains and pressure instead of pleasure and fulfillment as intended by God. He seems to partly put the blame at the doorsteps of believers who did not or do not check well before saying ‘I do,’ or those who pretend to be what they are not.  He says “…We are quick to look outside but careless when it comes to looking inside; I mean inside the church and inside us as individuals.” The author therefore points out important things that build enduring and godly marital life. The book provides remedies for any troubled marriages, and some blossoming but stormy relationships. It encourages couple or would-be couple to invest more time in their love relationship because ‘love covers multitude of sins,’ but time is very important in nurturing love and understanding. The issue of indispensible nature of time to build relationship and marriage brings to mind a poem titled “Time Time Time” also written by the pastor cum poet, Oluwadare in another of his interesting book entitled “Anchor for Fulfillment.” The poem offers that: “What a wonder you are / Stranger that makes us a stranger / In our own world / Except few that understand you / You measure the day / At afternoon, strengthen our faith / At night, you are our reason for fear of rejoice / You consume men like fire / Swallowing multitudes like grave / Rendering men impotent / And pass them by / Whoever would be respected / And honoured in life / Must respect you / Yet! You are ‘irrespecter’ of persons.” From the aforesaid, only those that value time know how to use it to assess things, people, and situations before jumping into marriage. It should be noted that sincerity of purpose is very paramount in the use of time for anything. If you are not sincere but pretends to love somebody, there is no point to keep deceiving yourself and the person you claim to love. Hence, if you are sincere with your spouse, the book could enlighten you on how to deal with bad habits and challenging-attitudes that usually ruin relationships or inflict pains. There are many folks with the types of characters of believers discussed in the book. Since it is not that easy to get exactly the kind of person you would like to marry, it remains a great challenge to a lot of folks worldwide. The pastor cum poet also avers that “There is no negative habit or place of character-challenge that is meant to be a permanent dwelling place.” Therefore, he seems to be saying if you truly want to change from a bad habit, you can do so by earnestly praying to God to give you the Holy Spirit to change positively, to improve your marital life or amorous relationship. In peroration, Oluwadare quotes 2Timothy 2: 19, which says “…For the solid foundation of God stands, having this seal; the Lord knows those who are His” and “Let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity.” As we all don’t have the same kind and quality of foundation, some foundations are more solid than others. This is where lies the controversial ocean of many believers and even non-believers that are looking forward to marry, or already married but facing great challenges in their marital contracts. The book is likely to raise more questions that the author should be ready to answer. There is no channel or mechanical noise in the book. However, the contents page need numbering to direct readers to the exact topic they want to read at any point in time. It is a commendable work that every human needs to read whether you are a Christian or not, as long as you are looking forward to marry at any time, or already married and encountering some seeming insurmountable challenges of marriage.  Pastor Lawrence Oluwadare is the founder of Praise Chapel International, Ketu, Lagos, Nigeria. He studied Statistics at the Yaba College of Technology, Lagos; and also hold a degree in Accounting from the University of Lagos, Nigeria. He is an inspired man of God eager to save souls to the path of salvation, and wants every marriage to be blissful.