 As President Muhammdu Buhari continues to savour his re-election victory, economists, analysts and players in the financial industry have charged the president to hit the ground running immediately he takes oath of office on May 29 this year. They said President Buhari cannot afford to repeat the mistake of waiting for over six months before constituting his executive. They said for the economy which recorded a sluggish growth of 1.9 per cent in 2018 to regain its spark in 2019 and do better during President Buhari’s second tenure, the president must muster the political will of float the naira, remove the oil subsidy and reduce the interest rate among others.  Investor’s confidence Professor of Political Economy at the Lagos Business School and a management expert, Pat Utomi said investors’ confidence in the Nigerian economy cannot be achieved through a magic wand, saying policy inconsistency in the country is a great problem. He said: “If we are as inconsistent as we are in the country, especially with our policies, we cannot achieve investors’ confidence. Investors’ confidence has to do with policy and system consistency. “One of the major things that affect investors’ confidence in an economy is the rule of law; the way the country’s judicial system works. Every investor wants to see that when there is a problem within the company with one partner or the other, they can go to court and get justice. “But if they feel that they mighty can obtain judgments with their wealth and influence against the weak, they will not want to take the risk. Also, the system where a judgment is delayed for over 30 years, does not give the investors any green light that such economy is a safe place to invest. “This is what the government should know and work towards raising investor’s confidence whether local or foreign. I was caught in an awkward position I have been acting as a patriot and tries to protect the country but sometimes, we need to tell ourselves the truth. “When EG was considering Nigeria and other African countries for investment, their top executives held a retreat in Nigeria and I was invited to give a talk and I was patriotic-driven in my speech, after which some Nigerians and government officials said I did well, but today EG is not sure they made the right decision. “We have done a number of consultations and we try to promote Nigeria with other investors, but unfortunately they didn’t choose Nigeria. “Very painfully they decided not on Nigeria because they were looking for track records. “They were uncertain about Nigerian economic policies and it doesn’t come over night. People want to see track record but unfortunately, Nigeria is in retrogressive. One step forward, four steps backward. The investors are looking for track record which we don’t have.”  Reduction of interest rates, float naira The Global Chief Economist, Renaissance Capital, Charlie Robertson, in an emailed note response said that the government should “boost domestic savings and bring down interest rates which will probably require a smaller budget deficit and higher taxes, and encourage foreign direct investment, which in 2018 fell to $2.2billion, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. “Ghana got $3billion. To match Ghana (per capita), Nigeria should be getting $24billion a year. A change of approach to MTN, the oil majors and others may be required.” According to Robertson, the naira should be allowed to trade closer to fair value, estimated today at N440/$, N470 by year-end and N670 by end of 2023. “Allowing faster currency depreciation does partly contradict point 3 on cutting interest rates,” he added.  Job creation Dr Samuel Nzekwe, a former President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) advised President Muhammadu Buhari to concentrate more on creating job opportunities for the teeming population to boost the economy. Nzekwe, who gave the advice in a telephone interview with Sunday Telegraph, said the only way Buhari could achieve this is by providing enabling environment for the productive sector for Nigerians to thrive. Project Director, Skool Media, Mr. Moses Imayi, said t there was need to stimulate economic growth through increased investment in building the capacity of citizens to be globally competitive. “With the growing trend of job losses and skills gap in the Nigerian labour market, government must be committed in ensuring this deficit are addressed and our labour market becomes more vibrant, adopting relevant skill sets that resonates with the twenty-first century,” he said. Imayi said that education was pivotal to the growth of any economy, saying government should not relent in boosting investment and relevant infrastructure that would catalyse socio-economic development. He noted that the starting point to economic transformation was bridging the industrial skills gap, engaging technology and innovation to drive productivity. For the proposed economic recovery plan to work and revive the economy, the Federal Government must create an enabling environment. The economic indices the FG must consider include interest rate, inflation rate and infrastructure  Removal of Petrol subsidy Foreign and local economic experts said that President Buhari should put at the top of his second-term agenda the removal of petrol subsidy as well as the reduction of interest rates in a bid to stimulate investments and economic growth. Experts at Agusto & Co Limited, a credit rating agency, said in a recent report that the country “is currently in a dire fiscal strait and the numbers are quite grim.” “For instance, despite the positive spin about Nigeria’s benign debt to Gross Domestic Product currently around 20 per cent, interest payments as a percentage of revenue are over 60 per cent,” they said. The Lagos-based rating agency said Buhari’s government would have to work to raise revenue while also restructuring government spending. It said: “All options on the table for Mr. Buhari in his last term are hard choices with no easy way out. For instance, Nigeria’s current fuel subsidy regime indicates the country may have re-adopted opaque practices of the past that not only create a huge fiscal hole but a morass as well. “With subsidy payments probably in the range of N1.2trillion-N1.3trillion annually, the country is obviously hemorrhaging especially amidst the steep opportunity costs. Mr. Buhari will not only have to stop this fiscal hemorrhage but also muster the political will to deregulate the downstream petroleum industry once and for all.” According to Agusto & Co, some of the big issues that will make or mar Buhari’s economic records will be the management of subsidies and other cost-unreflective tariffs being stifled by price controls. “These reforms will require the removal of subsidies on the pump price of petrol, allow market forces to determine the domestic price of natural gas, allow electricity tariffs that enable operators to earn margins on their costs and also ensure exchange rates reflect fundamentals. These reforms could help stimulate investments across the board and unlock economic growth,” the experts added.  Listing NNPC on Stock Exchange President, Association for the Advancement of Rights of Nigerian Shareholders (AARNS), Dr. Faruk Umar has said that President Muhammadu Buhari needs list companies like Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the refineries, on the Nigerian Stock Exchange to prevent somebody from selling them to individuals or foreign investors in the future. “The government can retain 90 per cent and sell 10 per cent to Nigerian investors across the 36 states of the federation,” Umar said.
Stemming smuggling and boosting local manufacturing According to Dr Faruk Umar, there should be more concerted efforts to promote the usage of made-in-Nigeria products by Nigerians by stopping the importation of certain products that Nigeria has sufficient capacity to produce. Also, the Director-General of the Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association (NTMA), Mr. Hamma Kwajaffa, said that the challenge of smuggling and dumping of counterfeited goods was still rife in the country. He noted that the issue had affected the capacity utilisation of the manufacturing sector, led to dearth and downsizing of some companies, while increasing the country’s unemployment rate. Kwajaffa said that extant law should be made punitive to recognise smuggling as a criminal economic offence. He also urged President Buhari to ensure the effective implementation of the various Executive Orders, especially Executive Order 3, on patronage of locally-produced goods to boost productivity and growth. Executive Secretary, Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), Mr. Eke Ubiji, urged the President Buhari to evolve policies and initiatives that would spur economic activities, job creation and infrastructure development. He said that the government should ensure that there was no economic lull since the administration was continuing.  Conclusion The rising demand for Nigeria’s bonds and the recent bullish trading at the equities market is an indication that investors have welcomed the outcome of the Presidential and National Assembly elections. With the successful completion of the gubernatorial and State Assemblies elections on Saturday, the momentum is expected to continue. However, the actions or inaction of the Federal Government after the election will determine how fast the economy would grow in view of the uncertainties in the global economy and the falling prices of oil, Nigeria sole foreign exchange earner.