 As the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Friday reported that the nations February’s food inflation rose 13.47 per cent year-on-year, versus January’s growth of 13.51 per cent, traders in some of the market visited on Friday by the Sunday Telegraph, said that they have been recording low patronage days after the conclusion of the 2019 elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The traders who spoke at Ikotun, Ojo-Alaba, Suru-Alaba, Orile, Iyana Ipaja, Oyingbo and Ketu markets said that that they have been recording low sales since after the election, saying people might have run out of cash after the panic buying they did during the elections. At Ikotun Market, Mrs. Chinazo who sells varieties of foodstuffs, said: “Seeing how people bought things days to the election, I refrained from stocking what I will not be able to sell within a week, because most of the things I sell are perishable.” Traders spoken to at Iyan Ipaja Market said customers were not coming forward to buy as expected. “We expected that customers will be rushing to buy after exhausting what they bought during the elections. Speaking, Iya Sikura, said that she believed that people no longer have enough money to spend. Everybody is praying all issues about the elections should be resolved so that they can continue their normal life. At Ketu Market, traders said though they did not change the pre-election prices of foodstuffs and other household items, the rush witnessed preparatory for the elections has changed for low patronage. Mr. John Isiguzo, a dealer in rice and beans and other foodstuffs seller at the market, said: “Sells is not good this week. It seems people finished their money before the last elections. We hope the situation will change next week as the elections are over now.”
He said that the price of foreign rice which slightly came down to N15, 000 to N17, 500 a 50 kilogramme bag is still selling at the price. According to him, locally produced rice is still scarce in the market, adding that the only person selling it in the market, Nnamdi Onumajuru does not sell in bags because he does not have enough in stock, rather he measures in cups and pans.
Also, the Sunday Telegraph Market Survey team observed that the percentage fall in the price of beans has in the New Year has remained unchanged. Survey of the prices of goods at the Sabo Market, Ikorodu (a Lagos suburb), earlier in Wednesday, indicate that the price of rice and beans has remained has not changed, even customer spoken to said that they expect the prices down to the 2017 levels after the successful completion of the elections. Prices of rice According to Iya Muri, a trader at the Ikorodu Market, the demand for rice and beans is high but the price is not yet attractive, “we are however expecting that the price of beans in particular, should be falling after the elections as the price of beans is normally low by this time of the year. She said: “By this time of the year, the price of rice and beans crash, like early in 2017, and by the same period in 2018, the price was manageable and favourable to both the buyers and sellers. Mama Gold, one of the best premium rice sells from between N18000 for 50kg. The difference is too much for us the retailers and the buyers will always complain about the price before buying which is not good for the business. Customers are our only source of income. The same also goes for the local rice i.e Ofada Rice with a bag (25kg) sold from N10, 000 to N15, 000”. Prices of beans Beans is the most expensive with the different species going at different prices. Oloyin Beans (50kg) – N32,000 (depending on the market)Oloyin (25kg) – N15,000 – N19,000; Olotun (50kg) – N29,000 – N36,000, Olotun (25kg) – N14,000 – N17,500. Noodles Meanwhile, at the Garage market, Mrs. Ime Elele, told Sunday Telegraph that the price of noodles has been stable as a carton of Indomie Noodles (small size) formerly sells for N2100. She said since the price went up, it has not come down, saying the amount of money that would have easily bought fifteen cartoons can only buy eight cartons nowadays.  She also decried low patronage where customers who normally buy in large quantities now buy in bits, a development she said has made the gains from such sales not enticing again.