On Friday March 22nd, the Super Eagles will take on Seychelles at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba. It is the last round of matches in the 2019 African Nations Cup finals scheduled for Egypt. On March 26th, the U-23 national team under the tutelage of Coach Imama Amakapabo will take on Libya in an Olympics 2020 football event qualifier at the same venue. On Tuesday, also at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Nigeria will take on the Pharaohs of Egypt in an international friendly encounter. The government of Delta State has been working round the clock to make the Super Eagles and the national U-23 team comfortable in the state. We are aware that the state will foot the better part of the budget for the three games slated for Asaba. We expect that all eyes will be on two new invitees – defender Valentine Ozornwafor of Enyimba and an attacker, Paul Onuachu of FC Midtjyland, Denmark. The two will be eager to make the cut for the forthcoming games. However, because Nigeria already secured a ticket for AFCON 2019, many take the match to be less important since the Eagles are on top of Group E with 10 points. For many reasons, we believe Nigeria needs the full points and also the match to further strengthen the team’s chemistry. The cohesion is not there yet and the encounter against Seychelles is an opportunity to get better with more understanding. South Africa with nine points can still get up to 12 points with a win against Libya in the last match and so Eagles must not joke with three points because of the need to maintain the bragging rights as group leaders. For example, we learnt that Gernot Rohr had his reservations about the Asaba Stadium but the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) insisted on the choice of the arena in Delta. The Super Eagles in the past played at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna and there were issues about size and crowd control. We recall the team also played at the U.J Esuene Stadium at some point. We make bold to say that the national team must have a home. The team could go to other parts of the country occasionally but serious and competitive games must be played at the National Stadium. Sad enough, the National Stadium in Lagos and National Stadium in Abuja are in bad state. It is a shame the national edifice for sports has now turned to entertainment and fun spot in Lagos. Artistes meet at eateries and various ‘joints’ while the main bowl rots away. In the 80s and early 90s, all national team matches were decided at the National Stadium in Surulere. The same arena is yet to host a Super Eagles match in over 13 years. After hosting the All Africa Games in 2003, the National Stadium, Abuja was tipped as the new home of the Super Eagles. The stadium hosted many top games including the final of the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2009. Today, herdsmen have taken over the stadium in Abuja which has overgrown weeds at the football pitch. It is indeed a shame that both stadia in Lagos and Abuja suffered abject neglect and lack of maintenance, and the various ministers of sports over the years, including the current one, did not find a solution to the problem of getting the national stadium in shape for national events. England have Wembley as their home stadium but only play elsewhere occasionally while another football nation, Brazil, has Maracana Stadium as the home stadium for their national team, the Samba Boys. The Super Eagles need a home and the decision should be taken whether it is the Abuja or Lagos National Stadium while both must be functional and well maintained. On good authority, it was revealed that the size of the Stephen Keshi Stadium and the turf were the real reason why Eagles skipper Mikel Obi excused himself from the forthcoming games. It is our belief that with a home stadium, the Eagles will play with better motivation and confidence after getting used to the arena over a period of time. No doubt, the movement of the team round the states is also because the NFF cannot fully take care of the entire bills of the team for a home game and the football body depends on the state to offset some of the bills. We learnt every home game cost the NFF about N50 million because of the hard currency involved in the payment of Eagles bonuses and tickets for travelling from their respective bases. The sponsors of the NFF should double efforts to make the body fully dependent while sports ministry should also decide on a base for all the matches involving the national teams across all cadres. We are sure that all national teams will produce better results with a permanent home base for all football games.