TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on how last Saturday’s governorship election was won and lost in Lagos State  Lagos State was one of the states that generated a lot of attraction, not only in the state but entire Nigeria in last Saturday governorship election where the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu; his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), counterpart, Mr. Olujimi Agbaje and 43 others engaged one another in a political contest to succeed incumbent Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, who is expected to bow out of office on May 29. The outcome of the March 9 gubernatorial poll was crucial to both the ruling and opposition party and that was why they used all resources they had to wrestle for power last Saturday. While APC staked everything to maintain its edge in Lagos politics by winning the gubernatorial poll, PDP leaders also did their best but APC retained the seat of power as Sanwo-Olu emerged governor-elect. In the election, out of the 6,505,512 registered voters in Lagos State, only 1,006,074, representing about 15 per cent voted, from which Sanwo-Olu polled 739,445 votes, while Agbaje got 206,141. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer for Lagos State, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, who declared Sanwo-Olu as winner of the poll, the APC candidate won in all the 20 local governments in the state with wide margin to defeat Agbaje, his main opponent, who is contesting for a third time, with 533,304 vote margin. Apart from winning the governorship election, APC also swept the 40 seats in Lagos House of Assembly. The results of the elections was a departure from the 2015 governorship and House of Assembly elections in Lagos as PDP then defeated the ruling party in five local governments and also won eight state Assembly seats. Sanwo-Olu won in his local government, Eti-Osa, by polling 30,504 votes to defeat Agbaje, who had 10,678. Governor Ambode and APC deputy governorship candidate, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, delivered Epe Local Government for Sanwo-Olu with wide margin of 35,609 to PDP’s 6,464 votes. Agbaje in his local government, Apapa lost to Sanwo-Olu woefully by scoring 5,959 votes against APC’s 20,469. The ruling party won with over 20,000 votes in APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s local government, Ikeja, polling 28,592 votes while PDP has 8,109 votes. Sanwo-Olu also defeated Agbaje in Agege, the council of the Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, by scoring 38,515 votes while PDP had 8,371. In Surulere Local Government, where the Leader, House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, hails from, APC won with 39,986 votes while the PDP scored 13,733. APC won with wide margin in Alimosho, Mushin, Ikorodu, Kosofe, Somolu and Oshodi-Isolo local governments by polling 78,379, 51,899, 45,879, 44,423, 40,408, 39,945 votes as against PDP’s 22,135, 8,751, 14,769, 14,351, 9,991 and 12,585 respectively in the local governments. In Lagos Mainland, Sanwo-Olu polled 27,333 votes to beat Agbaje, who scored 7, 265; while in Lagos Island, APC had 31,991 votes as against PDP’s 4,346. APC also won in Ifako-Ijaiye, Badagry and Ibeju-Lekki with 35,144; 28,921 and 23,298 votes respectively as against PDP’s 7,233; 10,089 and 3,320 in the three local governments. The outcome of the governorship and House of Assembly elections was a departure to the February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections when PDP won in Amuwo-Odofin, Ajeromi-Ifelodun and Ojo local government areas. Sanwo-Olu polled 23,267; 43,975 and 30,904 votes respectively in Amuwo-Odofin, Ajeromi-Ifelodun and Ojo, as against Agbaje’s 13,700; 14,690 and 9,602 polled by PDP in last Saturday election. The last Saturday election, without any doubt was a test of might among the political gladiators in Lagos State, considering a lot of political permutation, politicking and campaigns that took place therein prior to the elections. Lagos is the domain of Tinubu and many have thought that like in the past, APC was going to have a clean sweep of the state. So, the wide margin between Sanwo-Olu and Agbaje in the election was not a surprise to many, considering the efforts put in place by Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu and other party leaders to canvass for votes for the ruling party. Political analysts believed that a lot of factors shaped the governorship and House of Assembly elections and the issues include post-primary crises, indigenes, party structures, power of incumbency, personality, state and federal might. Few days to the governorship poll, Sanwo-Olu and Agbaje intensified their campaigns in the state, visiting many places and holding strategic meetings. The chances of the two candidates were also boasted by endorsements and supports from different quarters and stakeholders in the state. During the February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections, APC had tough opposition from Ojo, Amuwo-Odofin, Ajeromi-Ifelodun, Surulere and Oshodi-Isolo local governments, which are mostly populated by non-indigenes, especially Igbo, who showed their support for their kinsmen, Mr. Peter Obi, the running mate of the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, by voting massively for the opposition party. Losing five councils in the presidential election and some House of Representatives seats to PDP was a big blow to the ruling party. But sensing the danger, Tinubu, who was worried by the gap between APC and PDP in the February 23 elections, few days to last Saturday polls, held a strategic meeting at his house in Ikoyi with many leaders in Lagos APC including, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Ambode, Sanwo-Olu, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola and Lagos APC chairman, Hon. Tunde Balogun, on the need to deliver Lagos for APC. The APC national leader also had a stakeholder meeting with APC leaders and members at the party’s secretariat in Ikeja, where he challenged all APC members to reach out to the electorate and deliver their polling units for the party. As APC was strategising for the elections, PDP leaders, especially the party’s governorship candidate, Agbaje intensified their efforts in reaching out to the electorate through different fora such as town hall meetings, street and door-to-door campaigns. The opposition party also motivated people to actualise the “O to ge” campaign, which checkmated Senate President Bukola Saraki and ended Saraki’s political grip in Kwara State politics, in Lagos State to end the reign of the ruling party as well as challenging Tinubu’s political leadership in Lagos politics. The opposition party seemed to have banked on the “O to ge” campaign and non-indigenes in the state, especially the Igbo, which has always been on the side of the opposition party since 2015 poll, to succeed their onslaught against the ruling party. But looking at possible consequence of the Igbo rejection of the ruling party, the leadership of APC and its governorship candidate, Sanwo-Olu made several moves and overtures to pacify the Igbo. And to get the non-indigene supports, APC leaders last week met with several Igbo groups and leaders in the state to get their supports ahead of last Saturday elections. APC leaders even went to the extent of engaging two senators-elect in the South-East, former Abia State governor and Senator-elect for Abia North, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu and the Senator-elect for Anambra South, Ifeanyi Ubah, to lead APC campaign in some local governments, mostly populated by Ndigbo to help them pacify the Igbo bloc in Lagos to vote for the ruling party last Saturday. The ruling party also embarked on massive campaigns in the state, displaying some of its achievements in government since 1999 from Tinubu’s administration to the immediate past governor, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, who is now Minister of Power, Works and Housing to the performance of incumbent Governor Ambode. The re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari was also a major boost to APC in Lagos State as the party appealed to Lagosians to allow continuity of good governance at federal and state levels by re-electing APC in Lagos State. New Telegraph also gathered that one of the reasons the PDP lost last Saturday election was some grievances that followed the emergence of Agbaje as the party’s governorship candidate and this seem to be the main reasons some of the party leaders in the state were never part of his campaign and town hall meetings in many local governments. With the decision of Agbaje and Lagos PDP to congratulate Sanwo-Olu for his victory in the gubernatorial poll, the governorship election may have come and gone, without the possibility of any litigation at the tribunal. It would be recalled that Agbaje called Sanwo-Olu on Sunday to congratulate him. “At exactly 7.07pm, I received a congratulatory call from Mr. Jimi Agbaje which was filled with kind words. He congratulated me and conceded that the election was free and fair,” the governor-elect disclosed while giving his post-election speech at APC’s secretariat last Sunday, shortly after he was declared winner by INEC. Lagos PDP, in a statement issued on Monday by its Publicity Secretary, Mr. Taofik Gani also congratulated Sanwo-Olu for emerging winner of the election and called on him to be magnanimous in victory and shun politics of exclusion and retaliation. He said the congratulatory message was to exhibit sportsmanship and show respect for the laws of the land, adding, however, that if PDP had any reason to challenge the results, it shall not hesitate to do so. Sanwo-Olu promised to work toward greater Lagos, assuring Lagosians that he will keep his promises to the electorate. He dedicated his victory to voters and Lagosians who elected him, promising that his administration will continue to push an already great Lagos to greater heights with the help of all relevant stakeholders. He also lamented about the divisive rhetoric and strategies that were employed during the campaign period and urged everyone to work together now that the election is over. “I am grateful to the national and state leadership of my party for their support and I deeply appreciate our members and the voters who put their confidence in me. This victory is for all of you. There were things that were said that should not have been said but I bear no grudges against anyone. Those who tried to use ethnicity to divide us did not succeed. The election is over and I implore them to stop. This is the time to build a better Lagos,” he said.