Akwa Ibom Elders and Stakeholders have commended the people of the state for voting massively for the reelection of Governor Udom Emmanuel, describing their action as a liberation for the state. Speaking in Uyo recently on the outcome of the general elections in the state, the elders and stakeholders led by Chairman Divine Mandate Campaign Organization, Otuekong Idongesit Nkanga acknowledged the resolve of Akwa Ibom people who defied intimidation and harassment to vote for Governor Udom Emmanuel whom he described as a leader who wears humility like a badge of honour. “Akwa Ibom people  voted for freedom, they voted to end  the misleading belief of a single individual who had previously arrogated unto himself the sole repository of political power, knowledge and strength; they voted to  enjoy the peace and security we have been enjoying for the past almost four years, they voted for development over the selling of our commonwealth, they voted for unity and brotherhood over the forces of division  and attrition; they voted for a man  who puts God ahead in all his deliberations, over those who put the power of the gun and  bayonets in their daily engagements. “The Governorship election in our State was against all predications and in spite of a few skirmishes and intimidation by those who claimed to represent our tax payers’ funded security agencies, a peaceful exercise. The result confirmed the dominance of the PDP in the State- a fact  The Nation  newspaper in their State by State analysis of the governorship elections “We have read the laughable assertion by the APC that its governorship candidate “won” in 26 local governments of the State. May we ask if such victories were conjured in their dreams, because the reality is that Akwa Ibom State is PDP and PDP is Akwa Ibom State!  While we campaigned from unit to wards, to local government areas and the entire nooks and crannies of the State, selling our Candidate, his superlative achievements, the peace and security we are enjoying and persuading the people not to return to the dreadful days of insecurity, politically motivated assassinations, kidnappings and the carnage of the past , and the people listened, the other side relied more on the famed “Federal Might” and the force or instruments of violence as the only means for them to win the elections. “While we went to all strata of the society, the church, traders, auto mechanics, the professional class and the informal sectors and persuaded them to vote for our candidates, the other side was busy negotiating with militants to come and be ‘investors and contractors’ in their evil plans to kill and maim our people in order to win election. The people voted for peace over death and violence. Other elders present at the meeting included, Sen. Effiong Bob, Sen. Helen Esuene ,Sen. Anietie Okon ,Sen. Etang Umoyo, Sen. Ibok Essien, Chief M. Afangideh ,Chief Nduese Essien, Obongawan Grace Ekong.