 A police officer, Inspector Nkem Ejelonu, yesterday narrated how John Otema, an alumnus of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) allegedly raped a 19-year-old female student of the institution and stole her underwear.
Ejelonu, the Investigating Police Officer (IPO) in the case, told an Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court, Lagos, that the defendant left with the victim’s pants, bra and handkerchief after raping her in his car.
Otema, accused of raping two students of the institution, is standing trial on a three-count charge of rape and assault occasioning harm. According to the charge, Otema had on January 17 had unlawful sexual intercourse with the first victim around DLI in UNILAG, Akoka, Lagos, by hitting her several times on the face, strangling her and biting her back.
He also allegedly had sexual intercourse with another student (Victim B) without her consent on January 31, 2018 at his home at No. 6, Ajileye Street, Bariga, Lagos. However, Ejelonu, attached to the Adeniji Adele Police Station, said that following the allegation of underwear theft by the victim, she executed a search warrant to find the missing clothing. While being led in evidence by the state prosecutor, Mrs. Arinola Momoh-Ayokanbi, the police officer said, “the student said that the defendant left with her pants, bra and handkerchief after he raped her in his car. So I immediately went to the Igbosere Magistrates’ Court to sign a search warrant on February 6, 2018.
“We went to the defendant’s house at No. 6, Adeleye Street, Bariga, Lagos to execute the search warrant. The items were not found, we found only kitchen knives but on February 7, 2018, the case was charged to court. “I had earlier visited the scene of the incident which is the area of Distance Learning Institute (DLI) of UNILAG, to check if I could find the pants, bra and handkerchief but I could not find anything, hence the search of his house.”
Earlier in her evidence, Ejelonu narrated how the police was alerted about the rapes by UNILAG officials.
She said: “On February 5, 2018, two officers from Alausa came to our office that they received a distress call from UNILAG that they needed our support. “The then Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Ayodele Onujose, detailed me and Sergeant Osasua. We went to UNILAG and saw the school counsellor and we went to the security cell and we saw the two girls who were about 19 year olds.”
Ejelonu also told the court how another complainant, Victim B (name withheld), was allegedly raped by Otema. She said: “Victim B said sometime in 2018, she saw the defendant on campus, they went to the canteen to buy food, the defendant went to the bank and gave her back N2,000 for the meal.
“Both of them became friends, she told the defendant that she already had a boyfriend but he said that they should be friends with benefits. “She said she demanded a laptop and the defendant gave her N20,000 that he would give her N30,000 later.
“On January 30, 2018, the defendant picked her up and took her to his house and he wanted to sleep with her but she was resisting that she demanded N100,000 for the defendant to let her go yet he insisted and the money was not given to her.
“He had sex with her, during that period her boyfriend was calling her. the defendant took her bag and dropped her off on campus at 11.30p.m.”
While being cross-examined by the defence counsel, Mr. Fred Onyeka, the IPO revealed that the defendant’s car was still in police custody.
“One of the complainants said he had sex with her in the vehicle, the vehicle is with the exhibit keeper at the Adeniji Police Station,” she said.
Justice Abiola Soladoye adjourned the case till May 9 for continuation of trial.