By Tunde Ajose Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu has been hailed in many quarters as being a ranging bull across the country especially the southwestern part of Nigeria. He has lived in the fake euphoria of his greatness for so long, he has forgotten where to pull the plug. And like the proverbial oba agbaragunmi, who asked all villagers to pause and pay homage whenever he sneezed and the towncrier rang the bell. Tinubu only listens to sycophants and fools who are busy pointing him to where next to enslave. Amongst all Yoruba states, Ogun State has always stood its ground against the slave master and this has been due in part to the quality leadership being provided by Sen. Ibikunle Amosun. The rest lies with the resolve of the Ogun people to never bow to any demi god. Tinubu and his minions’ conspiracy against the governor of Ogun State dated back to the first coming of the governor. And neither would the next governorship election in Ogun State be the first time Tinubu would bite dust in his attempt of assuming more than his small frame! He was beaten back in Ondo State when Rotimi Akeredolu became governor, he was beaten back when he sent one of his errand boys to contest Ogun State gubernatorial primary, just as he did successfully with Rauf Aregbesola in Osun State. Lekan Adeola, popularly called Yayi was sent packing to Lagos where he was compensated to contest for the Senate again. Yayi’s misadventure led BAT, as he’s known, to collaborate with Adams Oshiomhole, the APC’s illegal national chairman and fostered Dapo Abiodun on the people. Amosun, out of respect for the party and love for the president, advised the authentic winner of the APC primary election and people’s choice, Abiodun Akinlade, to seek redress by claiming his mandate on the platform of Allied Peoples Movement (APM). It’s on record that Buhari’s victory at the recent Presidential election in Ogun State was the handiwork Of Amosun, who also contested the Senate seat defeating the so-called “anointed”ADC senatorial candidate, Titi Oseni silly shaming Tinubu and his co-conspirators, Chief Segun Osoba, Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, and Adams Oshiomole the controversial Chairman of the party. The sudden claim by the Vice President that he is a political player in Ogun State is very laughable, same for Osoba whose son rode on Amosun’s political sagacity to clinch the House of Reps slot, as he (Osoba) had to beg followers to vote APC at the last minutes when he realised that voting otherwise would spell doom for his son. The electorates are becoming more aware and tired of Tinubu’s overbearing leadership as a political leader in Lagos, hence, the #OtogeLagos is already gathering momentum. And it’s only a matter of time, the hen comes home to roost. As empires rise and fall, it is obvious that the reign of Tinubu is nearing expiry by his do or die attempts on the peace-loving gateway state. And as his plans to embarrass the president of Nigeria, Mohammadu Buhari, failed at the presidential rally in Ogun State, Tinubu and his conspirators would bite the dust once again. Tunde Ajose, a political analyst, writes from Lagos.