Virginia Azu is one of Nigeria’s top para powerlifters who has won various titles at national, continental and international tournaments. In this interview with LUKMAN OLOGUNRO, she bared her mind on salient issues concerning disabled sports personnel and how Nigeria can sustain its global leadership in the sport.  introduce yourself briefly?
My name is Virginia Azu, a member of the Nigeria para-powerlifting team. I hail from Akwa Ibom State
I have competed in various competitions and I believe the World Championship held a few weeks ago in Lagos is one of the best in the history of powerlifting. I’m the champion in the 67kg class and I was proud to be a Nigerian and particularly being one of the athletes that made Nigeria proud at the event. My last domestic tournament was the National Sports Festival in Abuja where I won silver for my state Akwa Ibom. What has been the state of the sport in the last few years?
I can boldly say that things have improved so much. For example in the World Championships, the current president made it a memorable tournament because there were many Nigerian lifters in the team and it was a good development seeing most of the up and coming athletes expose to international competition.
In fact, it’s the biggest representation that the country has had in any international championship. There were two, three people in every category and not surprising we dominated the tournament.
On this note I must say a big thank you to our coaches led by coach Are Feyisetan. They gave us new programmes and tips which helped us to achieve better performance and results.
Our camping was excellent. It’s one of the best I could recall in many years. The refurbished gym also inspired us to give our best. It really motivated us because we are very happy with the facility and it drove us towards success. It is a befitting gym; the type that makes you to always come to train regularly. The gym looks quite impressive what can you say about this?
Before now, it was nothing to write home about as everywhere looked horrible and in tatters.
The company that renovated it Peak has tried a lot. We always feel neglected considering the fact that we have been bringing honour and making Nigeria proud in international events such as Olympics and All Africa Games.
We used to camp in Ibadan but the gym in Lagos compares favourably the ones we used to see abroad when we go form competition. So there was this drive in many of us that this is a new dawn for para-powerliftng in Nigeria and from what I can see, Nigeria will continue to surpass other countries in the sport. How do you think Nigeria can build on this achievement with regards to the forthcoming All Africa Games as well as the Tokyo Olympics in 2020?
To my knowledge being a long time member of the national team, the best way is to invest more in the sport because this is one sport that we can proudly say we are number one in the world and this point is unarguable as the records have shown.
Let there be total awareness of the sports across schools such that some of the physically challenged can have the idea of what powerlifting is from their schools days.
In my own case, I got to know about the sport while some able-bodied weightlifters were holding an event.
There was a weightlifting competition in my state Akwa Inom and I went there. Seeing the athletes, I was impressed with the way they dressed and how they were trying to lift the weight and I said that if there is a sport for disabled like this this is what I would be doing and there was someone beside me who incidentally is a weightlifter and he said there are disabled that are doing the sport. She asked if I could come along with her and that is when I started the sport.
Since then, I have not missed any competition locally and continentally and I have been making my state and country proud. I hold the record in the 67kg in Malaysia where I won gold, I lifted 125kg. But you still need government support don’t you thinks so?
When I came into the sport everything had to do with government alone. But right now, through the effort of the new board, many things have changed positively.
The president spoke to us when she came in that each one of us is talented and what is needed is an avenue to showcase our talents to the world. So she told us that she would be going all out for sponsors because if it’s left for government alone, very few of us would get the chance to attend tournaments, so she told us that she will be going to companies to identify with us so that we can go to tournaments regularly in high numbers with the view that those companies that are sponsoring us will always get good value for their money as we have the capacity to bring honours consistently to Nigeria and that has been the real situation of things.
She said she was sure that we would always excel at any level of the sport. So he said if we are to attend tournaments he would just send our names to the sponsors and rather than having most of us dropped out of the trip because of low funding we will have many representation which would translate to higher level of success and this is exactly the result we have been getting since the current board started functioning.
Even the last championship that we attended before the one that Nigeria hosted, it was in Algiers, Nigeria topped the overall media despite the fact that they went with less than half of the athletes that qualified. What are the challenges you face as a disabled athlete?
The challenges are varied but in my own state which is Akwa Ibom, we lacked equipment despite the fact that we have special athletes that are very strong who can be among the highest-ranked in the sport.
The kind of gym that we have in Nigeria should be in all the regions of the country so it will encourage more physically-challenged persons to the sport.
Mobility is also essential and this has been then the major challenges of almost all the physically-challenged sportsmen in the country.
We need buses that would take us to training which also take us back. I know of some disable that want to do sport but their major impediment has been mobility so if buses are provided or there are means to which people can come and train regularly without hassles, you will see more disabled embracing sports.
I know of a few people that quit sports because of mobility challenges. Are you married and what support have you been getting from your husband?
I’m not yet married. But you are not too young to marry?
Well, I leave that to God. What support have you been getting from your family members particularly your parents?
Funny enough my dad did not believe in me going into sports when I started para weightlifting. He told me point blank that sports is not meant for disabled persons but I told him that I saw people like me doing sport. I told him to let me go out there and see what I can do but despite his belief he gave me the opportunity to go out and do sport and that made the difference.
There are some families that don’t allow their disabled children to go out but I can tell them that is a big mistake. They feel ashamed to let their disabled children go out but people like is have proved that they need to stop that mentality. They need not confine them rather they should expose them to gatherings to mingle with people. What would be your advice to government regarding funding of special sports athletes as the disabled are preferably called?
If at all there is any sport that Nigeria should invest more in now it is disabled sports especially para-powerlifting because we are blessed with physical attributes.
The government can curb alms begging with sports
There should be more domestic competition so that more people can embrace disabled sports. Most disabled people are more like liabilities to their family but among us we are like breadwinners in our families. Yakubu Adesokan is one of Nigeria’s most prominent para power-lifters with successes at global stage like the Olympics and Commonwealth Games. In this interview with LUKMAN OLOGUNRO, among other things, he reaffirmed his desire to keep Nigeria’s flag flying at the world stage     How did you come into… In “Sports” Josephine Orji is one of Nigeria’s top para power-lifters with success at international stage including the last Olympic Games in Rio, Brazil. In this interview with LUKMAN OLOGUNRO, she spoke on her desire to bring more glory to Nigeria among other issues. Excerpts…   Could you briefly describe yourself? I’m… In “Sports” The Nigeria Para-powerlifting Federation, has disclosed that all is now set for the unveiling of logo and mascot for the 2019 World Para Power-lifting Championship. The president of the federation, Queen Uboh, told newsmen in Lagos on Tuesday that they were ready for the unveiling which is billed to… In “Sports”