In the early hours of Wednesday, March 13 the nation was thrown into apprehension when news broke of a building collapse in the Ita-Faaji area of Lagos Island.
What made this incident so heart-breaking was the fact that the ill-fated building housed a school, which was in session, meaning that a lot of the casualties would have been pupils of the said educational facility.
At the end of the rescue exercise, 20 people were confirmed dead of which 12 were children. Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, who visited the scene after the incident happened, said the school and shops were not authorised and were operating “illegally” in the building, which was meant solely for residential purpose. He added that many houses in the area had structural problems and would be demolished. The nation was still trying to get over the shock of the Ita-Faaji tragedy, when four days later, another building went down in Ibadan.
Luckily in the case of the Ibadan incident, which happened at 5:45p.m. in Sogoye area of Molete, no life was lost as the five persons trapped under the rubble were all brought out alive.
Like many of the previous cases, the building was under construction at the time of the incident. The Oyo State Government, just like its Lagos counterpart, also said it would investigate the incident
Unfortunately, this has now become a recurring refrain from various governments, both at state and federal levels, when such buildings collapse without any concrete steps being taken to prevent repeat occurrences. Available statistics show that over the last couple of years, about 100 buildings – both under construction and those already being inhabited – have collapsed across the country with close to 400 innocent Nigerians losing their lives. For instance on September 12, 2014, a six-storey building belonging to Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) Lagos collapsed, leading to the death of 116 people with a sizable number being South Africans.
In March 2016, a five-storey building under construction by Lekki Gardens Lagos also collapsed, claiming 34 lives while 13 persons were rescued alive. Ogun State joined the infamy list on May 13, 2016, when a mall under construction at Itoku market in Abeokuta, the state capital, collapsed, trapping 16 construction workers. One person died in the incident.
The nation’s federal capital, Abuja, has also not been immuned from the scourge. In August 2016, a three-storey building, which was developed as an annex to a shopping mall and entertainment centre along 444 Crescent, Wupa District in Gwarinpa, collapsed. Nine persons were rescued after the collapse. However, another building at Kado-Abuja collapsed on October 26 while another incident took place at Apo Mechanic Village Abuja on August 24, also in 2016.
Both the Gwarinpa and Kado incidents claimed the lives of four persons. And just last Monday another building went down in the Kakawa area of Lagos. Luckily in this case, there were no casualties as the occupants had been moved out after officials noticed the unstable state of the structure.
The list is almost endless and in all cases governments quickly expressed their heartfelt sorry and promised to get to the root of the incidents in order to ensure that it would be properly tackled.
But as the recent incidents have shown nothing concrete has been done by both the state and Federal Governments to put an end to the repeated building collapses Beyond the obvious issue of the use of substandard building materials, we must also question the poor oversight functions of the government agencies saddled with ensuring building codes are adhered to. A number of experts in the field have also indicted regulatory bodies for failing in their immediate responsibilities.
A former president of Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB), Chuks Omeife, said that regulatory agencies in government institutions should be blamed for problems in the building sector.
Also, Convener of Women in Housing Finance Initiative, Mrs. Adenike Fasanya-Osilaja, called for a probe of housing permit departments in Nigeria, even as she suggested that development control department should vet the entire buildings across the states.
While we commend the Lagos State Government for bringing down already weak buildings before they cause more havoc, we also appeal to other states and the Federal Government to show the political will to tackle the scourge once and for all – thus saving the nation from unnecessary deaths. How can one console 84-year-old Madam Nimota Ogunro, who lost two grandchildren when a building collapsed in Ita Faaji area of Lagos Island on March 13, 2019? She said she would die with the guilt of practically dragging one of the grandchildren to school on that ill-fated day. The poor… In “Perspectives” For about four years, two major cases of building collapse have been in court without a likely end to punish the culprits. DAYO AYEYEMI reports   There has been a spike in the number of building collapse in the country with over 20 cases recorded in the last 15 years.… In “Insight” Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State has sympathised with victims of the building collapse in Ibadan and ordered free treatment for the injured at government hospitals. Mr. Bolaji Tunji, Special Adviser on Communication and Strategy to the Governor, said this in a statement made available to newsmen on Saturday in… In “News”