 The final of the Delta State Principals’ Cup Football Competition for all secondary schools takes place at on April 1 (tomorrow) and arrangements have been concluded by the state government and the sponsors, Zenith Bank, to make the last match day exciting for everyone. This is the third edition of the youth developmental competition which was revived only in 2017 courtesy of a partnership between the sponsors and the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa-led administration. However, the Local Organising Committee (LOC) headed by the Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education in the State, Chiedu Ebie, at the weekend assured that the finalists, fans of the beautiful game and the special guests would be well entertained on Monday at the Stephen Keshi Stadium Asaba, venue of the final. Ebie said: “We expect the finalists to catch fun and compete for honours on the pitch and also have enjoyed themselves after the third place and final matches. “The fans and our special guests will be thrilled with good music, amazing display of football and a whole lot of other activities lined out. “Let me also add that the young ones and the fans will be privileged to see some of the super stars in football who are expected to grace the final. It will be a glorious day for everybody in Asaba because we intend to make it a celebration of youth football since these finalists are the super stars of tomorrow.” Head of the organising team for the competition, Tony Pemu, told journalists on Saturday that all was set for the final. “We have done all we need to do to make this event befitting for everyone. The target of the sponsors is to make the competition bigger and better with every edition,” Pemu said. Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa will lead some members of his executive cabinet to the match just as top shots of the sponsors, Zenith Bank are also expected to be at the Stephen Keshi stadium to cheer the young footballers competing for honours.  Obule Integrated School, Sapele and Boys Secondary School, Obiaruku will compete for honours in the final while Ekpan Secondary School and Comprehensive Secondary School will fight for bronze in the third place shortly before the final. Organisers of the Delta State Principals’ Cup have expressed readiness for the final match Day of the competition which is Monday April 1. The final of the event is billed to take place at the Stephen Keshi Stadium Asaba on Monday and the head of the organizing team, Tony Pemu,… In “Sports” The Local Organizing Committee for the 2019 edition of the Delta State Principals’ Cup Competition for all secondary schools in the state will meet today to decide a new date for the final of the football competition. Zenith Bank is the sponsor of the annual competition which was revived only… In “Sports” Zenith Bank, the sponsors of the ongoing Delta State Principals Cup has assured a glorious final event of the competition which started in October 2018. All secondary schools in the 25 Local Governments in the state were involved in the event in its third edition. The frontline bank in partnership… In “Sports”