Introducing pro-capital market measures into the Federal Government budget is vital to expedite economic development, writes Chris Ugwu   In Nigeria, every year, budgets are rolled out at the federal, 36 states and Abuja FCT. Each level prepares budget based on what is appropriate for its purpose. There is no common ground for integrated national development. Most cases the people hear about the trillions of naira earmarked for expenditure but hear nothing again about how the money was spent. The same governments that announced the budgets with fanfare at the beginning won’t utter a word at the end about what happened to the money.  Instead of hearing anything on accountability; what is heard is another round of budget preparation, announcement and passage in the various houses of assembly. Consequently, the whole thing is a vicious cycle of deceit and corruption. Nobody talks about this huge fraud that has been going on for decades, the impact of which is the woeful state of affairs in the country. However, in recent times, citizens and groups have step up the ante in an attempt to engage the budget cycle from preparation, approval and implementation to reporting/feedback. Some of the advocacies have paid off, but despite the gains recorded, there are still issues with the budget process especially with the process of making the budget encompassing – especially to capture Nigerian stock market, which is the bastion of the economy. This was why last week at third Annual Budget Seminar of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), stakeholders in a bid to deepen their engagement with the budget process called for adoption of pro capital market measures into national budget.  Call for pro-capital mkt measures The SEC in collaboration with capital market stakeholders last week urged the federal government to accelerate market growth by introducing pro-capital market measures into the federal government budget. This was part of the resolutions at third Annual Budget Seminar of the SEC with the theme “Budgets, Elections and Capital Markets: Risks and Opportunities in 2019” held in Lagos. Specifically, a professor of Capital Market and Head, Banking and Finance Department, Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Uche Uwaleke, said government can intervene indirectly into the capital market by implementing pro-capital market into the budget to accelerate market growth. He stated that five emerging countries that currently adopted this measures as part of the budget have recorded increased level of economic growth. ”Some emerging African countries have recognised that it is important to include pro-capital market measures in the budget like reducing listed companies income tax and clauses that allows privatization through the capital market,” he said. “Pakistan for instance, is looking at reducing company income tax for listed companies, while India in the other hand plans to privatize through the stock exchange. “We must introduce pro-capital measures in the federal government budget. Government can intervene indirectly into the capital market by adopting these measures as part of the budget.’” Uwaleke also stated that the government as a necessity must encourage the usage of local produce to assist growth of companies listed on the equities market and enable them compete favorably in the global economy and deepen the market. “Government at all levels should step up patronage of locally made goods,” he said. “We have to change our attitude in believing that imported things are superior to local goods. We have locally-made goods, which are of similar value and quality.” In her remarks, Acting Director General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, said while the local and foreign investors are interested in the nation’s budget and the level of implementation, the capital market is looking at the impact of the budget and how the market can aid its implementation. “The capital market is very important in accessing long term funds for capital projects,” she said. “ The capital market can fund budget deficit to fund the budget. We are interested in driving and contributing to this economy. We believe there are a lot of opportunities for the capital market in the budget.” The Head Economic Research, SEC, Dr. Afolabi Olowookere, said that opportunities exist for equities and sub-national issuances as a means to fund the budget He stressed the need for state governments to explore the capital market for funding, even as federal government continues to reduce domestic borrowing to create more opportunities for private issuances.  “The budget can be funded through creation of money market-based instruments and trading, commodity trading and derivatives, investing in eligible companies under Tax Credit Scheme as well as attracting restructured oil assets to list,” he said.   Stockbrokers’ call for capital market Stockbrokers have called on the federal government to take advantage of investment opportunities in the capital market to mobilize funds to execute development projects. They also identified communication gap between the government and the market as one of the reasons for government’s inability to put the capital market on the front burner of Nigeria’s economic revival strategy, urging to place the market on the same pedestal with money market without further delay. At an interactive session between stockbrokers and federal government’s economic team in Lagos, the President and Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr.Adedapo.Adekoje, explained that the federal government needed to utilize the capital market to fund the 2019 fiscal budget with ease. According to him, government’s investment through Savings Bond and similar asset classes could not fully finance infrastructural deficit, hence, the urgent need to float revenue bonds in addition to general purpose bonds. Adekoje reiterated the need to re-constitute the board of the SEC and accord the Commission a status of independence like the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in line with the global best practices.  Govt reassured of commitment The representative of Vice President and Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr Okechukwu Enelamah, who assured stockbrokers of government’s willingness to partner with the market operators to ensure double- digit growth, presented various efforts of the government to ensure sustainable growth of the economy. In his presentation titled ‘Re-Building An Economy’, Enelamah explained the status report of the programmes such as ease of doing business in Nigeria, industrial policy and competitiveness, special economic zones, targeted sector policy reforms and trade agreements among others. Responding to questions during an interactive session moderated by the Chairman, Capital Bancorp Plc., Mr Tola Mobolurin, Enelamah advised stockbrokers to make their specific needs known to government, assuring them of prompt response. Corroborating him, the Executive Secretary. and Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Ms Yewande Sadiku, explained the efforts being made by the Commission to attract investors across the globe into Nigeria through an array of incentives. Sadiku advised stockbrokers to visit the website of NIPC regularly and make input on how to attract investors. In his earlier presentation titled: “ Strategies To Achieve Double-Digit Growth For Nigeria: The Capital Market Option,” the Institute’s Past President, Mr. Mike Itegboje, explained that developed economies leveraged on the capital market for economic growth and development. He urged the government to borrow a leaf from countries such as the United States of America and China, which deliberately place premium on utilization of their capital markets for developmental purposes.  “The U.S. capital markets are the bedrock of the nation’s economy and the deepest and most liquid in the world,” he said. “That depth and efficiency is evidenced by the size of the gross domestic product, the strength of the US commercial sector, the level of home. Ownership, and the vast national infrastructure across the fifty states in comparison to the rest of the world”, said Itegboje.  Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, at the recent maiden awards night of the SEC tagged ‘Committed Partnership,’ reiterated FG’s commitment towards building a vibrant capital market that would contribute to the growth and development of the country.  She said the capital markets play a central role in the development of the economy through mobilisation of long-term savings for investment as well as efficient pricing of financial instruments  The minister noted that over the years, the capital market has provided platforms through, which corporates and governments source for capital to expand their operations and provide amenities for its citizens  Ahmed said Nigeria is making a lot of efforts in diversifying the economy, raising revenues and blocking leakages, as well as making a lot of efforts to ensuring mobilisation of resources to aid investment in small and medium enterprises and provide infrastructure.  She expressed delight that the main thrust of the plan aligns to the vision of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, ERGP for the financial services sector, saying that when the ERGP was being prepared, copious references were made to the 10 year master plan.  She disclosed that the ERGP vision for the financial services sector is to strengthen relevant market institutions and mitigate risk by building a healthy and competitive financial system that is better positioned to support private sector and contribute towards the sustainable development of our economy.   Last line  It is high time the various processes that have been put in place both by the regulators and other decision makers in the capital market were implemented to encourage and ginger the expansion of investment base and make the nation’s capital market an investment destination in Africa.