Senator Domingo Obende is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Edo State and represented Edo North Senatorial District at the National Assembly between 2011 and 2015. In this interview, he speaks on the 2019 general elections and sets agenda for the newly elected members of the National Assembly. CAJETAN MMUTA reports  It was a feat for your party in the state House of Assembly election as it won all the 24 seats in the Edo State House of Assembly. How was the party able to achieve that? First and foremost, I want to say that we give all the glory to God because there were a lot of people who probably worked harder than us and they did not get even one or two seats. Having given glory to God, we will also look at the leadership structure of the state, vis-a-vis the governor himself, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and the National chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who is also providing a backup leadership. I believe that have done well and still doing well has to do with the fact that the governor is delivering on his promises and if some people naturally do not want to vote for APC for one reason or other, they will do so either because of Godwin Obaseki or Adams Oshiomhole and people like us in the party. We have a personal relationship with the people, so people will obviously want to vote us and that is why I can say that the party is doing well because of the leadership structure. But there are fears that a house dominated by one party may turn it to a rubber stamp… We have one body and in this body, there are a lot of components. Look at the tongue and the teeth, they live together yet they fight themselves every time. It is either the teeth are biting the tongue or the tongue is wagging the teeth. For me, there is usually a legislative tension whether it is one, three or many political parties. The moment the tension starts, it becomes an issue of deliverables. Now, I have been voted in and what I am going to show to my people. Then, you now see tension building up, but for what I think we are doing, and the strategy Obaseki has put in place, it might be practically impossible for the house to get divided against itself. What is your take on the issues that came up during the presidential election over the directive by President Muhammadu Buhari for the military to deal decisively with ballot box snatchers? There is a price to be paid when you are building an institution. I call it institutional strengthening. It is not something you give an instruction and immediately you get an answer. Some people are naturally ballot box snatchers. So, it will take a long time for it to get out of their blood. Some just carry the ballot papers, thumbprint them and come back to stuff them in, but if you check, the rate is minimal now. Many have lost their lives, but maybe if such instruction was not given, only God knows what would have played. So, for me, I think the directive is part of the institutional strengthening. So, I believe that as we go on, things will take proper shape. What should be the focus of the APC in the state ahead of next year’s governorship election in Edo State? I think addressing community challenges, individual complaints and reaching out to so many people by way of engaging them will solve the problem. That is why I am happy that we have almost a year to go before the election and we have a lot of job to do. The leadership of the APC in Edo state will obviously do the job. Yes, we have 24 over 24 and it is a reflection of the will of the people, but like what you said, working against ourselves, that is where the challenge is. But I think that would be resolved. If you are to set an agenda for the incoming senators of the 9th National Assembly, what will it be, considering the crises that trailed the election of the leadership of the 8th Assembly? One thing I am grateful for is that majority of them that are going back served in the 7th Assembly and they saw the collaboration and the peace that existed and how the Goodluck Jonathan government then was able to maneuver and navigate over lots of issues without running into crises. The 8th Assembly did not have that benefit, so it is an experience for them that when the legislature is not together, it becomes practically impossible for government to run smoothly. So, my advice for them is that they should cooperate and collaborate with the executive, so that government can run smoothly and for the masses to feel the impact of governance. One of the challenges the 8th National Assembly had was the way its leadership. How can this be averted in the incoming 9th National Assembly? The party does not need to be advised because the people running it now know what it means for the leadership of the party not to be in tandem with the leadership of the executive. But, we are all going to work together by the grace of God. Zoning will be done properly and those who do not have business contesting for specific position will not even apply for it. Naturally, I do not think the Senate presidency was going to be zoned to the North Central in 2015, but somebody got it. Now, if there is proper zoning and it is going to North Central, other zones do not have to compete with them. One thing Nigerians have complained about the APC administration is economic hardship. What advice do you have for the President now that he has secured a second term? If you recall, he said in his victory speech that things are going to be tough. When he used the word ‘things are going to be tough,’ it does not mean the economy. He is looking at it that this is the time for us to give our best, being the last lap of this administration. Obviously, he is going to commit his time to do much more than what he did before and if you are going to do much more than you did before, obviously, there will be respite in the economy and I believe that the people will smile at the end of the day. Government must live up to its responsibility of providing the enabling environment, skilled men and women must be encouraged and by the time all these things are flowing, no matter how small the money is, the ripple effect of it is comfort for the people. So, I believe that the second term, which is his last lap of the government is going to witness more development.