 One of the major constraints to ICT development in Nigeria is lack of infrastructure and government has been embarking on some initiatives to address it. Stakeholders in the industry are, however, worried that current poor funding in the sector will continue to hamper every move to build ICT infrastructure in the country except government takes the right action. SAMSON AKINTARO reports   Despite huge growth in telecommunications, Nigeria still ranks very low in the International Telecommunications Union’s (ITU) ICT development index, which measures country’s growth based on adoption of ICT and infrastructure. Year-on-year, the country’s ranking shows no sign of improvement and this has been blamed on the poor state of ICT infrastructure in the country.  In 2017, for instance, Nigeria was rated 143rd globally, a significant downward shift from its 137th position in 2016. On the African index, Nigeria placed 15th behind countries like Mauritius, South Africa, Kenya, Gabon, Ghana, Zimbabwe and even Cote d’Ivoire.  According to stakeholders, the situation may not change in years to come except there is a deliberate government intervention in infrastructure funding. Ironically, ICT is currently being tipped as the next frontier of Nigeria’s economy after oil and gas. How this will be achieved in the face of dearth of funding for infrastructure development has been the concerns of players in the industry.   High interest rate While the commercial banks are expected to be the backbone of all businesses in terms of loan provisioning, subsisting interest rates of banks in the country have been described as unfriendly to businesses. Specifically, ICT companies, who require long-term funding to build the needed infrastructure found the lending regime in the country unfavourable. According to the Chief Executive Officer of Medallon Communications, a data centre operator, Mr Ikechukwu Nnamani, the biggest challenge in information and communications technology today is right funding. “It has been identified that cost of leasing transmission infrastructure in the country is very high because of the fact that operators that built these transmission infrastructure have borrowed money with high interest rate and will have to pay back in record time” he said. “Banks in the country charge interest rate of 35 percent. How can you borrow money with 35 percent interest rate to execute a long-term project and still charge reasonable cost? They have no option than to charge high to enable them to have quick return on investment. More so, a ‘Right of Way’ issue as we are witnessing today is also tied to right funding.” Nnamani added. He said that since the country does not have venture capital firms that can fund long term capital projects, “our best alternative is for the federal government to borrow money to finance the building of telecommunications transmission infrastructure that operators can lease to deliver services at cheaper cost as well as reliable. Corroborating Nnamani, the Chief Executive Officer of Priority Communications, a telecommunications infrastructure company, Mr Olumide Samuel, said while many ICT players need the funding to provide the services that Nigerians need, they are not willing to take the riskl of getting bank loans which may put them in trouble at the end. “Many businesses today need grants because one of the major challenges in the country is high interest on loan from banks. I can’t imagine taking a loan at 35 per cent interest, when I cannot even make that kind of profit on my business. If I take such loan, I would just be working for the banks and at the end of the day, I won’t be able to pay salary or tax,” he said.  Declining banks’ lending The aversion for bank loans by ICT companies is reflecting in the consisting annual decline in banks’ lending to the sector. According to latest statistics by Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS), banks in Nigeria extended loan facilities totalling N2.9 trillion to companies operating in the ICT sector in 2018. This, however, represented a 7.5 per cent decline in credit to the sector compared with N3.2 trillion the sector got in 2017. The NBS selected banking data showed that the oil and gas sector remained the preferred destination for the highest percentage of the banks’ loans. For instance, while the total value of credit allocated by the banks to private sector in 2018 stood at N61.7 trillion, the Oil & Gas sector alone got N14 trillion, representing 8.6 per cent of the total loans. The ICT sector on the other hand, got 1.7 per cent of the total credit.   Tougher for start-ups  While a few big ICT companies still managed to get some loans from the banks against all odds, it cannot be said of young ICT companies in the country, popularly known as tech start-ups. Aside from the commercial banks not looking their side, stakeholders in the ICT sector have complained over the inability of SMEs in ICTs to access SME loans from the Bank of Industry. According to them, the technicalities of the business model in ICT have been discouraging the bank from releasing money to tech start-ups.  VCs to the rescue All hope is however, not lost for the tech start-ups who have found succour in foreign venture capitals (VCs). Only last year, 58 start-ups in the country were said to have raised a total of $95 million from foreign investors and the largest in the continent. According to Disrupt Africa in its Tech Startup Funding report, with that $95 million, Nigeria displaced South Africa as the leading tech startup funding destination last year. Disrupt Africa noted that for Nigeria, this represented a significant year-on-year boost because in 2017, just 30 Nigerian companies raised $63.3 million among them, $40 million of which was accounted for by Andela.  Way forward For ICT companies who are licensed to provide critical infrastructures, the best way out of current funding quagmire is government’s intervention. According to Nnamani, if government could borrow money to finance railway project, which is long-term project that helps to ease means of transportation at reduced cost, it is not out of place to extend same to ICT development knowing that availability of telecommunications services has a wide range of positive impact on the economy. “Today we complain of impediments to broadband penetration, inability to reach desired access level,” he stated. “Even where we have access, reliability is a problem due to high cost of backbone infrastructure. Federal government needs to come out with right funding mechanism to address these problems.”   ICT bank To bridge current infrastructure gap in the country, players in the industry have also called for the establishment of a telecoms infrastructure bank by the government. This, they said, became imperative as the current banking interest in the country is not favourable to the sector. The Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu, had last year announced that plans were underway by the Federal Government to set up an ICT development bank that would provide funding for the industry, promote entrepreneurship and job creation. However, nothing has been done in that regard until date. Checks by New Telegraph also revealed that there was no provision for such project in the 2019 budget.  But the telecom players who gathered recently to review the state of broadband in the country after the expiration of the 2013-2018 National Broadband Plan (NBP), said to deepen penetration in the country beyond current level, government must consider setting up a bank that will specifically cater to the interest of operators that want to deploy infrastructure. According to them, the issue of funding is a major factor because telecom requires huge capital expenditure (CAPEX). They noted that though many indigenous players in the industry have capacity to deliver the best, they do not have the fund to bring their ideas to reality. “With the current high interest rates, we cannot attract investment in the sector. There must be intervention fund because we are enabler of every sector, even as ICT underpins every segment of the economy,” Chief Marketing Officer Broadbased Communications, Mr Chidi Ibisi said at the forum.  Last line In most developed countries, governments have had to intervene by way of projects funding to develop their ICTs and it will not be a bad idea if the Nigerian government could toe this line. Aside the issue of funding, a lot still needs to be done in the area of infrastructure, especially, power, which has been a major challenge facing operators in ICT, as well as other sectors of the economy.