Operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RSS), Ikeja, Lagos State Police Command, have arrested the leader of a four-man fraud syndicate. According to the police, the gang leader, Osuji Chibuzor, 42, and his members used to operate along Ikeja, Ojota, Ojodu, Berger, Ogba, College Road and Agege. Police said that Chibuzor was lured into the waiting hands of RRS operatives after his team had successfully swindled a 34-year-old lady of N165,000. The suspect, whose role in the gang was to prophesy to the victim after he or she must have been lured into their offices at 8, Afolabi Street, Iju-Shaga and 7, Salami Street, Oko-Oba, Agege, disclosed that his gang members used fake dollars to entrap their victims. He said: “Members of my gang are Frank, Stella and Emeka. We used to drive out daily to look for victims and lure them into our trap. After luring a victim to our office, I would be invited as a pastor to pray for the victim. It is in the process of praying for the victim that I would start requesting for money for anointing oil, chemicals for the washing of the money and other charges. “It was frustration that made me to join the fraud gang three years ago. Although there are many gangs that we operate together, I only have four members in my own gang. We operate in Agege, Ogba, College Road, Ojodu Berger, Ojota, Ikeja and Alausa, Ifako-Ijaiye. What I collected from the victim is N120,000. I know that my colleagues withdrew N45,000 from her ATM. I am ready to pay all the money back.” The victim, who did not want her name in print, said that she boarded a private taxi at Ojota, heading to Ojodu Berger, when she encountered the syndicate. She said: “We were still at Oregun when the driver picked another passenger. It was at this point they started their trick on me. I ended up in their office at Iju, where they collected all the money on me, including the one in my account. They made me swear to an oath never to inform anyone. Thereafter, Osuji requested that I should go and get another N60,000 to complete the ritual.”