Dr. Davidson Isibor Akhimien contested the recently concluded presidential election on the Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria (GDPN). In this interview, he speaks about his experience as a presidential candidate, aspects of the electoral system that should be reformed and what the President-elect should do to fix the nation’s economy. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  As a candidate of a political party, what is your impression about the 2019 presidential election? With benefit of hindsight, we thank God we are alive to tell the story today. For me, it’s a tripartite engagement that involves the electoral body, the politicians and the electorate. Let me start from the umpire body. In the first instance, when the presidential election was postponed at the hour that it was postponed, one didn’t find that to be palatable especially given the resources that had been thrown into the process; the resources by government, by political parties, then the loss to the economy by that postponement. So, one looks at the umpire as a body that wasn’t prepared for elections but still went ahead to give people the impression that it was prepared. Or maybe they were prepared but it was just a strategy by whichever party to create what we call a shock in the system to cook advantage to whoever may have caused it to be. But the umpire body really didn’t do well and with subsequent elections especially with the pockets of inconclusive elections as well as the military involvement especially in places like Rivers state. So, all of these gave the umpire a very bad name and it leaves so much to be desired. On the part of the electorate, I think they are also culpable in certain areas especially with regards to violence which the President and Commander-in-Chief had preached against long before the elections, but we continued to see cases of violence in South-West and South-South part of the country. So, it will appear that the electorate has not learnt their lessons in electioneering and this sentiments along primordial lines still exists in our politics and it is unfortunate. But on the part of the politicians, I will say that they are the instigators of the violence in the first place and they are equally guilty. So, the entire thing was below expectation but as it is we just have to move forward. We thank God that we still have Nigeria in one piece; we have to mend the cart and move along and see how we can improve on the electioneering process in subsequent elections. Were you disappointed about the performance of your party at the election? No, if anything, I think I was very impressed with the turnout of my party’s result in the presidential election because in terms of national spread, my party could be said to have come third in the presidential poll. The truth is that votes from other parties were either gotten by default or some of the parties that were either ahead of us had their votes concentrated in one part of the country, for example, APGA which is a traditionally an Eastern party and the bulk of its votes came from one state in the south-east. But for us, we had our votes equally spread all across the 36 states of the federation with the FCT. For a party that is just about 12 months old and for a presidential candidate that it is first foray into politics, I think it was an interesting performance. Our party is a national party, not only by way of its establishment but by way of its composition and spread. We are a truly Nigerian party and that is symbolized by the flagbearer of the party who is a highly detribalized Nigerian and that reflected in the result the party got across the country. We are a truly nationalistic party and the people accepted us irrespective of tribe and creed.  Can you relate your experience as a first time presidential candidate? The experience is great and its not something that is taught in any higher institution, you have to be on the turf to know it. It was a very rich experience laden with several discoveries. One of the discoveries is that a lot of the Nigerian people are yet to be able to interrogate power either by reason of ignorance, illiteracy or poverty. Just a handful of Nigerians in the metropolis could actually interrogate power and are opinionated. But the bulk of Nigerians don’t feel the impact of power hence they don’t care who becomes the president. The people themselves may not be able to properly entrench their government with the level of indifference in the society. Another discovery for me is that the selection process in the system right from party level to public level is fraught with a lot of inconsistencies and monetarism. To a large extent, it’s a politics of money where the highest bidder takes the stage at the long run, the evaluation is not based on pedigree, performance or capacity, it is based on how much you can dole out and this is quite unfortunate. I have seen that our people have been so pauparised that everything is now seen only in terms of Naira and Kobo, sadly so. Anybody that sees you on a campaign trail is just asking you give us money and they do this thing with a sense of entitlement. You can now begin to ask yourself if this thing is for sale because some of us are from the private sector, who never stole any government money; we believe this thing should be about service to the nation. It’s a sad story because it pervades all the nooks and crannies of this country where we went to campaign. Do you agree with calls in some quarters that INEC should prune down the number of political parties, especially over the terrible outing most of them had in the elections? Firstly, the introduction of more political parties has its own merit and advantage, but it now appears that the negative is overriding the positives. At some point, the number of political parties that were registered now became so ridiculous. But from the grapevine, it was now found out that most of those parties were registered by proxy. They intended to use them to split the votes and reduce the chances of their major opponents. But th positive side is that it threw up new entrants into the system and the clamour for calls for new political elites have been heeded to. To that extent, the registration was able to open up the political space and it is commendable. I think the gap could be abridged so that we can bring it down to about four or five, that will be more manageable. I think 91 parties is ridiculous and that is why most of them got some ridiculous results at the elections.  With the outcome of the 2019 general elections, what aspect of Electoral Act do you think should undergo reform? Going by the performance of the umpire body in this election and the alarming rate of violence and ballot snatching, the most fundamental reform that can be done on our electoral system is electronic voting. Its going to be much more less expensive and it will make way for all the ballot box snatching, it is also convenient for the electorate. We wont need to shut down our country for elections if we adopt electronic voting. Yes, it may not totally eradicate rigging which is the mainstay of election victories in Nigeria, but it will put a modicum of sanity in the system.  What advice do you have for the President-elect as he takes the oath of office on May 29, especially on issue of the economy? Its apparent that we need to do something fast as a nation because wherever you turn to you see an army of unemployed youths everywhere crying for job opportunities. There are reports that the government is trying to increase the VAT as it were when companies and industries are going under with the present 5 per cent. What do you expect if you now increase it? If you do that you just want to close down the economy. The government should make sure they diversified the economy into productive areas that will create jobs for the people. We are endowed with mineral resources, agricultural products and incredible human resources. These are areas the government can diversified into instead of stifling the productive sector of the economy with tax increase. By the time you increase VAT and most organization couldn’t cope and they sacked people, there will be more social disorder like crime, unemployment and extend the gap between the rich and the poor. Also, they should cut down the cost of governance, it is key to generate additional revenue for the economy. If there is a political will to do so, all arms of government should cut down their cost to make additional income available for the economy.  There are reports that bigger parties are making overtures at you to join them. What does the future holds for you in politics? Well, I don’t know what the future holds but I know who holds the future and whatever he says is what we will do. We will follow to the letter whatever he says we should do. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) took nearly everyone by surprise when it shelved the Presidential and National Assembly elections just hours before the polls were scheduled to open. CHUKWU DAVID reports   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) took nearly everyone by surprise when it shelved the Presidential and… In “Inside Abuja” Mr. Clement Nwankwo, Executive Director, Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre (PLAC) is the Chairman of the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room. In this interview monitored on African Independent Television (AIT), he speaks on the primaries of the various political parties, and the 2019 general elections, among other issues. WALE ELEGBEDE… In “Politics” President Muhammadu Buhari has challenged former Vice President and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and other candidates in the February 16 election to accept the decision of the electorate.   The President, who joined at the second signing of the National Peace Accord… In “News”