Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said that there had been a decline in the number of Lassa fever cases in the country within the last five weeks.
The NCDC Director-General (DG), Chikwe Ihekweazu, disclosed this yesterday in Abuja.
Ihekweazu said that compared to 2018, there was a reduction in the number of people who died as a result of the disease.
The DG, however, said that although there was a reduction in number of cases recorded, there was need for sustained and possibly, an increased practice of good hygiene to avoid getting infected with the disease which was primarily transmitted by rodents as well as unhygienic practices and dirty environments. He said: “Over the last five weeks, there has been a decline in the number of new cases of Lassa fever reported in Nigeria. In addition, the country has witnessed a reduction in the number of people who have died from the disease, compared to 2018.
“The progress recorded in the response to the 2019 Lassa fever outbreak including an early decline in the number of new cases and reduced case fatality have been attributed to various factors. This includes the early deployment of One-Health National RRTs, improvement of functions in Lassa fever treatment centres, revision of case management guidelines, enforcement of environmental sanitation in some states, introduction of the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) ring strategy, targeted intensified risk communications activities, high level advocacy visits, operational research into response activities, among others. “It is very important that Nigerians continue to practice preventive measures to avoid infection. Prevention of Lassa fever relies on promoting good community hygiene to discourage rodents from entering homes. Other effective measures include storing grains and other foodstuff in rodent-proof containers, proper disposal of garbage far from the home, maintaining clean households and frequent hand hygiene. “All food should be well prepared, and family members should always be careful to avoid contact with blood and body fluids while caring for sick persons.”
Ihekweazu also urged healthcare workers to maintain a high index of suspicion for Lassa fever when handling patients, irrespective of their health status. He added: “When handling patients, irrespective of their health status. Lassa fever should be considered in patients with fever, headache, sore throat and malaise, in whom malaria has been ruled out with a rapid diagnostic test (RDT), especially when patients are not getting better.
“Health workers should adhere to standard precautions including wearing protective apparels when handling suspected Lassa fever patients.”
The DG maintained that the centre and its partners would continue to sustain response activities in states across the country despite the progress made so far.