 Barely 24 hours after Governor-elect for Imo State, Chief Emeka Ihedioha warned financial institutions against any last minute illegal dealings with the out going government of the state, the Imo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State of embarking on massive last minute looting of government treasury and conversion of government properties to personal property. The Chairman, Imo State chapter of PDP, Barr. Charles Ezekwem made the allegation during a press conference on Friday evening in Owerri, the state capital. According to the text of the briefing, the PDP alleged that between Tuesday, March 12, 2019 and Thursday, March 14, 2019, Governor Okorocha has made major withdrawals from Access Bank, Zenith Bank, Unity Bank and Skye Bank (Polaris Bank Limited) amounting to over N17 billion. He said, “In the last two days alone, Governor Okorocha and his cronies have transferred ownership and re-registered over 150 government vehicles to individuals. Government properties including furniture and electronics in Government House, Owerri are being moved out to Ogboko, Ideato South, the governor’s country home. “All uninstalled transformers totaling to about 300 have been moved to the governor’s home in Ogboko.” The PDP alleged also that there is an ongoing mass employment and backdating of employments with a view to creating problems for the incoming government. He added: “We are also aware of the rampant issuance of Certificate of Occupancy to family members and friends of the Okorocha family.” The party, therefore, warned that those involved in such malpractice do so at their own peril. Reacting, Governor Okorocha’s spokesman, Sam Onwuemeodo urged the public to discountenance the posturing of the incoming PDP government, noting that they lack the right to harass the seating government and financial institutions until they are sworn in. “There is a government in place and until May 29, 2019, that government should continue to work in the interest of the state and her people and also continue to carry out programmes and policies for the same purpose, until the end of its approved life span. To begin to harass or give directives to financial institutions in the State is an act of hostility and they should know that,” he said.