For the first time in Nigeria’s electioneering history, 73 individuals vied for the country’s presidency. For the first time also, Nigerians had to vote not with their thumbs but with any finger; to prevent “ink spilling into the box meant for another party,” according to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). At the end of the day, just one winner was expected – even if the contest went into a run-off. On Wednesday, February 27, the Chairman of INEC, Prof Yakubu Mahmood, declared the incumbent President and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Muhammadu Buhari, winner of the elections, having fulfilled the legal requirement of winning not only the highest number of votes (15,191,847), but also at least 25 per cent of the votes in two-thirds of Nigeria’s 36 states. Indeed, he scaled this hurdle in 34 states. The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, came second with 11,262,978 votes. But Atiku has vowed to legally challenge the results because of alleged irregularities; even as local and international observers have affirmed the overall credibility of the elections despite pockets of violence in a few states and, in the words of the European Union Elections Observation Mission (EU EOM), some “operational shortcomings.” Without any iota of doubt, this is his right. There is, however, a growing consensus that he should rather concede defeat, for the common good. What Nigeria needs now is an intensification of its economic diversification, scaling of its infrastructural drive and fortification of its territories against insurgency. Even as several Western media may have concluded that Buhari’s re-election is as a result of his honesty, integrity, there are evidences that Nigerians believe that there is need for at least four more years for the administration to finish the projects being undertaken across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. As experience has shown, a new government often means abandonment of projects. To the credit of the Buhari administration, it has been completing many projects abandoned for many years by previous successive governments. And, even so, with much less resources. Prior to the elections, while urging Nigerians to make a “sensible choice” of retaining President Buhari, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, had put it succinctly: “Fundamentals of the economy are heading in the right direction. What we need to do is to consolidate on that.” In his 2019 State of the Union address President of the United States of America, Mr. Donald Trump, admonished opposing parties to reject “the politics of revenge, resistance, and retribution” and embrace “the boundless potential of cooperation, compromise, and the common good.” For all contestants to various elective offices in Nigeria’s political season, this should be the mantra.