 The Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), has expressed confidence that its candidate in the last Osun State gubernatorial election, Senator Ademola Adeleke, will be victorious at both the Appeal and the Supreme courts.  Speaking against the backdrop of the appeal filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the election, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, against the judgment of the state’s Governorship Election Petition Tribunal which nullified his election, the party’s Spokesman in the South-West, Mr. Ayo Fadaka said the party is confident of victory because the truth will be upheld.  “We are not disturbed that the APC has appealed the judgment and we expected it. No one can suppress the will of the people and the people of Osun actually rose on unison in the September 2018 election in the state, and cast their vote for Senator Ademola Adeleke of the PDP.  “Our points were well-marshaled and since facts and truths are sacrosanct and cannot be changed, we are confident of victory. You also know that both the minority and majority judgments agreed on the facts, and the figures gave credence to the fact that we defeated APC in the election, and these are the facts that subsequent courts will look at.  “We have always known that our candidate and party won that election and confident that we will win at the Tribunal if our case was diligently prosecuted, therefore, we give glory to God and also thank those eminent jurists who after careful examination of the evidence placed before them ruled that we actually won the election,” he said. He said the fact that the party is winning more states like Bauchi, Adamawa and Sokoto indicated not only that the chicken has come to roost, because the states were previously ruled by the PDP before defections, but also an attestation that Nigerians voted for PDP’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar in the February 23 election, but it was “criminally manipulated.” “As a party, we want to declare that elections conducted so far under the current leadership of INEC continue to fall very short of the expected standard of fairness and honesty required by that agency to command respect and legitimacy from Nigerians in the prosecution of its constitutional responsibilities.  “INEC continues to betray partisanship in the discharge of its sacrosanct responsibilities, thereby submitting itself to be a mere appendage of the Presidency which continues to arm twist and guide it to certain conclusions. The current rounds of elections in our nation today leave so much to be decided as INEC have invoked its guidelines curiously in States and constituencies where APC seems to be failing and use same to assist them against our party in other places where we are thriving, this is partisan and a double standard which is least expected from the Commission.  “We also note the comment of President Buhari in an address to the Council of Obas when he declared that the Osun State gubernatorial election was remote-controlled for his party to win, that comment alone confirms our assertion that INEC under its current leadership is compromised and not fit to remain in office.  “We also want to assure Nigerians that the illegal manipulations of the presidential elections are being challenged diligently by Atiku Abubakar. The party has done its homework in this respect, having gathered evidence of malpractices across the nation; therefore, we declare that we are confident of getting a fair hearing of our petition before the Presidential Election Tribunal. The judiciary will continue to remain the last bastion of our democracy and we trust it to take required actions that will halt impunity, political dishonesty and outright thievery of electoral desires of Nigerians as expressed in the last Presidential elections.  “We congratulate the judiciary for having expressed loudly that the impunity of the ruling party, APC, which President Buhari described as ‘remotely control’ in our elections is being checkmated and this confirms that our generation owes our children and indeed future generations the responsibility to begin to take actions that will safeguard the future of our nation,” he said. Oyetola, Adeleke take battle to appellate court   For the second time in nine years, the court will decide on Osun State governorship election as the Election Petitions Tribunal, last Friday, nullified the election of Governor Gboyega Oyetola, in what seems a replication of the 2010 experience, Felix Nwaneri reports… In “Politics” The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that it will on Monday review the ‎election result of the Osun West Senatorial District. The election, which was conducted on Saturday, was won by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Ademola Adeleke. But speaking on Sunday, the APC ‎National… In “Politics” The Nigeria Police, Osun State Command yesterday said it had fortified security in the state to prevent any breakdown of law and order ahead of today’s Election Tribunal judgment on Osun 2018 governorship election. Police spokesperson, DSP Folashade Odoro, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the Commissioner of… In “News”