Angry commercial cyclists plying the Ajuwon area of Ogun State have called on the state commissioner of police to save them from police extortion.
The cyclists alleged that the policemen had the penchant for seizing their motorcycles if they didn’t pay N100. These activities, which many of the cyclists termed as illegal, have left them fuming, with many saying they didn’t how long they would tolerate the policemen. They alleged that the police were from Ajuwon Police Station.
“The policemen have been collecting money from us for a long time. This has made plying these Ajuwon routes quite challenging,” one of the cyclists said.
Another cyclist, who wished to remain anonymous, explained that most of the policemen know them by their full names.
“These policemen usually flag us down for no reason or offence, but just to extort money from us. They collect N100 from each of us every day. They start their extortion about 9p.m. daily; and if we refuse to ‘play ball,’ they would seize our motorcycles and most times arrest us.
“The policemen had warned us to stop working any time after 10.15p.m. Once it strikes 11p.m., the policemen would start arresting cyclists they see still operating. They will demand money, if you don’t give them, they’ll arrest you,” he explained.
Another cyclist, who preferred to be addressed as Daddy Favour, said: “I don’t usually work at night, but I work during the day because of the policemen. I started this work just two months ago. I don’t want any trouble. Look at me; I usually work throughout the day to make money to feed my family. We usually pay the union and then we pay the police. If we don’t pay the police, they arrest us. I simply choose not to work at night. I work from 7a.m. to 6p.m. Any money I’m able to make within those hours, I used it to take care of my family.”
Abdullahi, another cyclist, said: “I usually start work by 6.30a.m. or 7a.m. I close by 7p.m. or 8p.m. because of those policemen. Even the Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) knows that these policemen extort us. But the union is less concern because it collects money from us. Every day, I pay N700 for ticket to the union. Most days, I make between N2,000 and N3,000. I then pay for the ticket from the money. After paying, they will use marker to mark my motorcycle, signifying that I have paid.”
Complaining with obvious anger, Mr. Ramon said: “I have been working here for the past two years. Truly these policemen collect money from us. We’re not happy with it, but as for me, there is nothing we can do. I work till night and I usually pay the money to them. We have no choice! I’m a married man; I have kids at home. My children will eat and I have to pay their school fees. I can’t say because of the N100 I wouldn’t continue with my cycling work. Yes, it’s not right for them to be extorting us, but I also need to work to take care of my wife and children.”
Ramon added: “There are many married men involved in this work. We have something in common; we want to work, raise money to care for our families. One I know for sure is this; if the policemen collect N100 from 20 cyclists, they take N2,000 home every day. Mind you, we’re more than 20 cyclists operating in Ajuwon. This is what they do every day. They don’t care about the stress and danger cyclists go through. Look at us now, in the scorching sun, just because we want to make money and take care of our children.”
A resident, Daddy Joshua, said: “The policemen have become a thorn in the flesh of these cyclists. I work at Mowe and usually return late at night. Whenever I get to that Ajuwon bus stop, I wouldn’t find any cyclist. Even when I see, they tell me they are not going. And if they agree to go, they will tell me to add money to the normal fare because they would have to ‘settle’ policemen on the road. These policemen are really causing problem for everyone. There is corruption everywhere.
“I’m sure the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Ajuwon Police Station knows that his men are extorting these struggling cyclists. He will keep mum, because he would collect money from his men. The Ogun State government should look into this matter with the utmost urgency.”
However, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, denied the allegations raised by the cyclists.
He said: “It’s not true! Our policemen cannot extort the cyclists. We have been sensitising the public from time to time through radio programmes, educating them not to give money to policemen anymore. Any cyclist that has issue with the police should lodge a complaint to the police authority for proper action to be taken. The state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Illyasu, has zero tolerance for extortion.
“Four policemen were dismissed last year for extortion. An operative attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) was dismissed for a similar offence. We don’t tolerate that in Ogun State Police Command.” Commercial cyclists operating on Nureni Yusuf Road, Alagbado area of Lagos State have called on the Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, to rescue them from policemen extorting them on a daily basis. Many of the cyclists said they were tired of being seen as Automatic Teller Machines (ATMs) by the… In "Metro and Crime" …we’ve arrested 63 suspects, say police There was mayhem yesterday at the Ipakodo area of Ikorodu, Lagos State, after policemen allegedly caused the death of a commercial motorcycle rider. The motorcyclists’ death infuriated his members, who set a police van belongs to Ipakodo Police Station on fire. The patrol vehicle… In "Metro and Crime" An angry passenger, who bludgeoned a cyclist to death, has told homicide detectives attached to the Ogun State Police Command that devil made him to commit murder. The 23-year-old suspect, Sulaimon, was alleged to have killed the cyclist, Rafiu Gafar, at the Akute area of Ogun State. It was… In "Metro and Crime"