Tambuwal: How EFCC harassed voters in Sokoto  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that it would recover the presidential mandate freely given the party by Nigerians. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said in Sokoto yesterday that none of the states where it is in the lead ahead of the March 23 supplementary election would be hijacked by the All Progressives Congress (APC). In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP National Chairman stated that Nigerians were hurt by the alleged rigging of the presidential and other elections by the APC, as well as the schemes to forcefully take over states already won by the PDP, leading to the supplementary elections. “Elections are about the will of the people. When you force yourself on the people; that is not democracy. “Today, Nigerians are unhappy with the way elections were rigged without allowing the will of the people to prevail,” Secondus said. Sokoto State governor, Rt. Hon. Aminu Tambuwal said the PDP and the people of the state were upbeat and fully mobilized to ensure that their will was not subverted. “We are upbeat as Sokoto State has never been this mobilised. People are praying and fasting by themselves and they are ready once again to ensure that their will is not subverted. “What happened in the last elections was unimaginable as security agents took over the state. “Ballot papers were found with APC members on the streets. The operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) stormed the residences of our members, harassing and intimidating them. “Even on the day of election, they were going round the polling units and picking up our members. There were open rigging in about six of the local government areas. “They brought their federal might to bear, but the will of the people prevailed against them and we won, yet they declared the election inconclusive. “So, in Sokoto, they have the will of the people to contend with and given the prayers that our people are offering everyday and their decision to checkmate the rigging of APC, victory is sure to be for us and the PDP,” the governor said. Tambuwal called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be fair by ensuring that only genuine voters will vote at the polling units. The governor urged the people of the state to come out en masse on Saturday and vote for the PDP.  Secondus: We won't accept election rigging The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, yesterday, dismissed claims by Governor Nasiru el-Rufai of Kaduna State that the party rented crowd from Niger Republic to kick-off its presidential campaign in Sokoto on Monday. Secondus, who made the clarification… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has boasted that it would win all the governorship supplementary elections scheduled by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for March 23. The party, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it was regrettable that the All Progressives Congress (APC)… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may file a petition before the Presidential Election Tribunal today, to challenge the outcome of the February 23 presidential election. Also, the opposition party has vowed to petition the United Nations and other global organisations on the role of the military in the elections. This… In “News”