The head coach of Nigerian U-23 team Imama Amapakabo has said although the threeweek of camping might be inadequate, his team would do well as he named former Flying Eagles star Taiwo Awoniyi, Kelechi Nwakali and 21 others for their African Cup of Nations qualifier against Libya. The Enyimba coach, shortly before the team departed for Tunisia, the venue for the match, aboard Royal Air Maroc flight on Monday, acknowledged that the Libyan side had an advantage of being together for a long time but insisted he side would still stun their opponents. ” We’ve had the opportunity in a very short time to build a team; we know we’re going to have a difficult game, playing against a team that’s being together for a very long time” he said. “In three weeks we’ve been able to put together a team that will be able to give Nigeria a good representation.” The former Enugu Rangers’ coach opted for a mixture of local and foreign-based professionals for the battle against the Libyans. In the list of home-based play ers are Flying Eagles shot-stopper Olawale Oremade who led two other goalkeepers whilst Lobi Star’s trio of John Lazarus, Ebube Duru, and Ugochukwu Anumudu also made the cut. Other home-based players in the party include Akwa United fullback Etiboy Akpan and Enyimba’s Oluwadamilare Olatunji. Portugalbased Tosin Kehinde and Chidera Ezeh and Russia-based Olabiran Muyiwa were the only overseas –based players to depart with the team from Nigeria. Other invited overseas –based professionals such as Awoniyi, Nwakali, Azubuike Okechukwu, and new Club Brugge forward Dennis Bonaventure are expected to join the team in Tunisia on Monday directly from their bases in Europe. The first leg of the clash will be played on Wednesday in Bergandan and the return leg is scheduled for Asaba March 25 with the winner over both legs advancing to the final round of qualifiers in June. The delegation of Nigeria’s U23 squad will land at the Djerba International Airport, which is 20 minutes’ drive to the town of Bengerdan.