●Commission issues licences for extra 1,839.5MW  Seven firms have joined the race to secure the nod of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) for the supply of captive power in Nigeria.
One of the seven applications, New Telegraph gathered, was submitted by Nnewi Independent Electricity Distribution Nigeria Limited (NIEDNL).
The NERC, which recently issued six new licences, renewed three and extended one licence for investors planning to increase Nigeria’s electricity generation by about 1,839.5 megawatts, expressed readiness to issue more licenses “provided the applications meet up with the statutory requirements.”
The licences were issued in the first quarter of 2018 as NERC noted that when the power plants became operational, their capacities would increase the quantum of electricity generated and distributed across the country.
NERC, in its most recent quarterly report sighted by this newspaper, said; “Six new, three renewal and one extended licence application with a total nameplate capacity of 1,839.5MW were approved in the first quarter of 2018.”
It explained that some of the licences were for captive power, on-grid and off-grid generation of electricity.
The commission said, “After satisfactory evaluation, the commission issued two new on-grid and four off-grid licences. During the quarter, an extension of five years was also granted to one other generation licence.
“The total nameplate capacity of the licences summed up to 1,464.5MW. Similarly, three permits for a total capacity of 375MW were renewed for captive power generation.” The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has granted a license to Ariaria Market Independent Power Plant Limited to generate 9.5 megawatts (mws) of electricity for Ariaria International market in Aba, Abia State. The move, announced via a statement issued by the Head, Media Unit of NERC, Mrs. Vivian Mbonu and… In “News” Meters to be available by 2021   Reps: NERC, power firms extorting Nigerians The Federal Government has disbursed a total of N158.74 billion to electricity distribution companies (DISCOs), electricity generation companies (GENCOs), gas companies (GASCOs) and service providers under the CBN-Nigerian Electricity Market Stabilisation Facility.   Governor of the Central… In “News” In this report, Philip Nyam looks at the investigation of the ad-hoc committee of the House of Representatives on the excessive electricity charges being leveled on consumers by Distribution companies   One of the biggest problems faced by Nigerians is the epileptic nature of power supply and the ill-treatment often… In “Politics”