Local vendors’ compromise threatens policy Nigeria is currently losing billions of naira on annual basis in fees expected to be paid by foreign companies deploying software in the country.  New Telegraph learnt that the Annual Technical Support (ATS) fees is being lost as local vendors compromise in their bid to get more businesses from their foreign partners, according to the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP).  NOTAP, in collaboration with the World Intellectual Property (WIPO), Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and other stakeholders had developed Local Vendor Policy in 2007 to strategically engage local ICT firms on the implementation of foreign software agreements in Nigeria. The policy, which came into effect in 2008, states that a local vendor must be appointed to be involved in the implementation of a Software License agreement submitted to the Office and must be paid a minimum of 40 per cent of the ATS fee in naira.  However, according to the Director-General of NOTAP, Dr Dan-Azumi Ibrahim, the local vendors have been compromising by taking less than the 40 per cent. “Some take as low as 10 per cent because they are struggling for business and want the agreement to be signed by all means and this is not good for the country,’’ he said.  Already, with heavy dependent on foreign software, the Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria (ISPON) estimated that Nigeria is losing N156 billion yearly as capital flight to software licensing, delivery services and technical supports. While the Local Vendor Policy would have reduced that, the local firms are believed to be short-changing the country.  The NOTAP DG noted that the policy was introduced to help change the phase of software adoption and reduce the volume of dependency of Nigerian firms on foreign software. “The policy is also meant to create an enabling environment for Nigerians to develop their capacity; and for its effectiveness, agreements are not registered unless it has local firm involvement in its maintenance, support services,” he said. But, according to him, by compromising on the policy, the local vendors are short-changing themselves and the country; and this has led to continuation of capital flight. He noted that adhering to the 40 per cent fees would enable the local vendors to be able to procure infrastructure for the firm and enhance the capacity of the people.  “Presently, about 55 to 60 per cent of foreign technologies utilised within the Nigerian economy are foreign/ based, especially in the banking industry,” he said. “The cost is enormous, with minimal contribution towards reducing the unemployment level in the country and thus the need for local vendors to adhere to the Local Vendor Policy.” The immediate past President of ISPON, Mr James Emadoye, recently pointed out that as long as top government agencies in the country are still relying on foreign software, the annual loss would continue to go up while local software companies would continue to go under.  According to him, the preference for foreign software, even when indigenous software are available and better suited, is not only causing Nigeria loss of money, but also loss of jobs, loss of foreign exchange and loss of IT companies.  Emadoye described as shameful the fact that Nigeria, with over N180 million population, is relying on small countries with population less    than one per cent of Nigeria’s for software. “Take for instance, the CBN’s Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) on electronic form of funds transfer where the transmission takes place on a real time basis, it is powered by software from Sweden,” he explained.  “Office of the Attorney General of the Federation (OAGF’s) Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) is powered by software from Estonia. Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS’) Integrated Tax Administration System, (ITAS) is powered by software from Canada.” He added that the NIBSS BVN initiative is also being powered by software from Germany, adding that most of the software in Nigeria banks are from India and Jordan. “All these are software that can be written in Nigeria and mind you, software is software, irrespective of where it is written,” he added. “Imagine that most, if not all, of the software used in the banking and other industries were developed in Nigeria, how many companies could have been created? How many people would be working to develop, sell and support those solutions? Possibly hundreds of thousands,” he said.  