The Transition Monitoring Group (TMG) has condemned the violence that trailed last Saturday’s supplementary elections in many states. TMG in a statement signed by its chairperson, Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi and North West Zonal Coordinator, Dr Mustapha Muhammed, commended Nigerians who took part in the elections for their steadfastness despite intimidation, attacks and harassments by political thugs. It also condemned the escalation in vote-buying and voters’ inducement during this supplementary elections. The group also reiterated its earlier demand for a complete audit of the 2019 general elections in order to determine what went wrong, where, how and by whom. The statement reads in part: “We are concerned by allegations of irregularities during the elections including violation of INEC’s guidelines, possible underage voting in some places. Furthermore, there were reports of harassment of observers and media who were prevented from doing their observation duties. “TMG is particularly concerned about the inability of security agents to protect lives, materials and properties in places where these disruptions took place. Law enforcement agents, particularly the Nigerian Police were reported to have fled scenes of disruptions leaving voters and other citizens helpless and vulnerable. “We make a demand on the Independent National Electoral Commission to ensure strict and unbiased compliance with its laid down rules for the elections in deciding whether or not to declare results in polling units where violence occurred and elections were disrupted in order to ensure the credibility of the polls and it’s outcomes. “TMG opines that credible and acceptable elections cannot be achieved in an atmosphere of violence and lawlessness; we thus call all citizens, political parties, INEC, security agencies, the Judiciary, National Assembly, civil society organizations, the media and all other election watchers and stakeholders to commit to working together to put an end to the recurring incidence of violence and disruption that lately characterised our elections.”