The chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP in Plateau State Hon. Damishi Sango has accused Governor Simon Lalong who is the Governorship Candidate of the All Progressive Congress APC of plans to rig the Saturday election to his favour. Sango, a former Minister of Youth  and Sports in a Press Conference in Jos on Wednesday said intelligence reports available to him indicate that the APC and Governor Lalong are busy working on plans to rig the elections. “In the Southern Zone of the State, Lalong intend to use the military to cause fear amongst our people , especially in Shendam and Qua’an Pan Local Government Areas”. ” Acting true to their generic make ups , and realising now they may not get the independent electoral commission INEC in the state to dance to their tune of music in some electoral areas, they have kept themselves busy in the last one week at the old Government House, Rayfield perfecting their rigging strategies”. Sango also raise the alarm of Lalong plans to cause fear in the Northern Zone of the state amongst the voters and thereafter rig the elections. The chairman also accused  the APC government of threats to civil servants, especially Directors, Deputy Directors and school Principals to go and deliver their areas to Governor Lalong or risk losing their Jobs. However Governor Lalong while reacting to the allegations of rigging in Press Statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity Mr Mark Longyen said it is absolutely frivolous, false, very ridiculous and a figment of the imagination of the PDP opposition elements and describe the allegations as mere ‘hate speech’ towards Governor Lalong. “Alleging that the Governor took part in a meeting aimed at ballot box snatching, card-reader manipulation, voters inducement, vote-buying and causing violence, among others, is not just ridiculous but also the height of political propaganda, political chicanery and sheer mischief. “The opposition PDP should concentrate on their futile attempt to return to power to continue with their looting spree, instead of maligning the person of the governor because such shenanigans are well known to the electorate who cannot be fooled. “They should face the reality of defeat in Saturday’s governorship elections that is staring them in the face and refrain from the politics of blackmailing the incumbent governor and officials of the electoral umpire”.