Mr. Anibe Achimugu is the National President of National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN). Elated with measures outlined by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to resuscitate textile and cotton sector, he says the apex bank’s package is the best so far. He also speaks to Abdulwahab Isa on issues bordering the textile and cotton industry. Excerpts:    You led your colleagues in textile and cotton sector to a meeting with CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele recently on strategies to revamp the sector. Do you have confidence in CBN’s renewed commitment to addressing problems plaguing the industry?
Thank you very much. The fact that CBN has called us is a plus. it’s something that gives us confidence . For first time in many years, something positive is actually going to happen. The pronouncement so far and the interventions that CBN wants to offer the sector will come to pass. What account for the failure of previous efforts to revamp the textile industry?
Well, I think first and foremost, you have to look at the fact that there has to be an holistic intervention. This means from point A to B, you must be able to address challenges of the textile industry; from primary production, which is cotton production to the end of the BC value chain so to speak, which is garment. Unfortunately, what has happened in the past is that they concentrated in certain areas without looking at other areas. For instance, if you think about the last intervention, that spoke more to the generics; it spoke more to the textile industries themselves. No focus on cotton production, a gap is already created. The most potent measure adopted by CBN is restriction of foreign exchange (forex) to all sorts of textile materials imports. Some persons argued that textile has always remain banned from CBN’s forex allocation. What is the correct position?
The truth is, an institution like Central Bank of Nigeria making that pronouncement when they know that textile was not benefitting from it in the first place, you think there’s a mismatch. They know what they are doing and if they feel that policy pronouncement will not impact positively on the sector, I don’t think they will make that pronouncement. I won’t agree with the school of thought that said textile does not enjoy access to forex. As an insider in textile industry, and with your privileged position as National President of NACOTAN, what do you consider as crucial problems of the industry and the best solutions to get it back on stream?
There are several challenges to look at. If you look at the primary cotton production aspect, talking for instance the challenge of good quality, planting seed for the farmers; You are talking about good financing being available for the farmers. Now, the availability is one thing, then getting it to those famers at the right time before planting season has been a lot of challenge. With this Central Bank of Nigeria approach, it would be more focused. Again, if you take it further to the value chain; about the textile and the generics, power is a major problem. You’re buying diesel, especially generics that are more in the whole area of the country where cotton is produced. You can imagine that they are not getting diesel at government pump price. So add that to the cost of production, they also have to bring in spare parts for their machinery and those things need to be considered with lower tariffs in reducing the cost of production.
And, of course. we won’t talk about the cost of textile. Obviously power is a major problem. Then, you have the issue of smuggling. When you get to that part of value chain, smuggling aspect is serious. That is what has knocked a lot of textile industry off their feet. That’s why they are suffering those things today. So, it is important this new intervention addresses those obvious challenges. And I’m happy to say that the CBN governor has identified with us on the challenges and they have designed strategies and solutions that would work. How does your members want to leverage on the Anchor Borrowers’ programme of CBN to resuscitate the textile industry?
First and foremost, the Anchor Borrowers’ programme is a platform that is deep with guidelines and procedures to follow. Though government wants to intervene, we don’t have a choice but to follow those set of guidelines. The guideline is such that all we need to do at the moment is to sit down, which we have done; organize ourselves as farmers and decide that look, this is what we need to effectively farm and produce cotton per hectare of land. We put all the costs and inputs together, as had been recommended by experts at International Agricultural Research (IAR). Of course, from experience, we put these things together – being the cost of production. That cost of production, the supervision of CBN will now be what will be adopted as cost of production. We submit that formerly to CBN along with the list of our farmers wherever they are across the states. CBN will now go through a process of verifying to ensure that these farmers do actually exist where we said they are. And at that point, their farms would be mapped according to the owners of farmlands. Once that is done effectively, funds are released to inputs’ suppliers to provide, because funds would not be given directly to farmers. The inputs’ suppler now buy the required quantities, as recommended to the various locations that we have identified closed to our farms. I believe the Anchor borrower programmes are a very good platform to the agriculture generally in Nigeria. It is a right fitting programme, we are going to do our best to meet up. There was initial attempt by government to rescue the industry. A N50 billion-textile loan was initiated by the Federal Government in that direction, what’s the position of the loan today?
First and foremost, the N50 billion you talked about was an intervention fund. Secondly, its not every CTC player (who are in to cotton, textiles and garment) industry players that benefitted from it. Also, I think from hindsight, having seen the challenges, having heard from the industry players, there are things that needed to be treated, which are going to happen now. The intervention didn’t have that impact as expected, it’s not holistic. Apart from measures outlined by Mr. Emefiele, which CBN intends to take in getting textile back on stream, what measures have your members taken or is considering to help in your course?
We have always said that what we need as an association is a jump-start, a push. We believe that as an association that generates wealth, because if we are producing cotton that means we are generating wealth; we become financially self sustaining and being able to be self sustaining means we can now ensure that cotton production would be carried out on a sustainable basis. It means that, year-in year-out, rather than having a decline, we would be having increase in cotton production, which is the bedrock of CTG sector. It doesn’t make sense to be importing raw cotton before you give to textile industries. Just like the CBN governor said, they want to empower our association to ensure that, we are producing enough that will meet the requirement of textile industry. But in the meantime, you allow them to import but even at that, is better we are producing and buying from us rather than allowing them to be bringing it in, so the cost of production will reduce. Do you agree that total ban of textile-related materials remains the surest way to revamp the sector?
Look, there are other issues we are looking at. In our meeting with the CBN governor, some of those things came up. But there is no one solution fits all or one solution to solving CTG sector but it is a step in right direction. Why do I say so? We are basically now saying that instead of somebody to use own naira to go and bring foreign stuff, such items are to be produced here. Look at our ministries here for instance and allocation given to them, convert it to dollars and then go out and import fabrics. These fabrics can be produced here in Nigeria. You know we have this wrong perception that quality of Nigeria is not good enough. Even if the quality is not good, let’s manage what we have while we improve on them as we go along. But if we don’t utilize that opportunity, then we will never grow. We will never improve on what we are lacking because we can easily bring them in. I think, yes it’s an effective policy that has been introduced; it will make the local industry to pick up. There would be a gap of supply, which textile industry now have opportunity to meet. It trickles down, which means that they need more cotton from us, which we have to produce. Considering that most of the equipment of textile industries are in obsolete state due to many years of abandonment. Secondly, experienced hands had been laid off, or moved to another area of employment due to lull in textile, how do your members intend to deal with problems of obsolete equipment and challenge of manpower?
When we talk about equipment, CBN is willing to retool these industries. In other words, they are willing to provide funding for modern equipment to be brought in. Secondly, as I speak, though I can’t pinpoint, there are universities that still churning out graduates in textile and garment. Those courses are still available, but they don’t have practical platforms to practice them, now those platforms will be created. Of course, there is sophisticated equipment and machinery that will take time. But on the average, worse case, a month, you can train somebody in one aspect of textile process or the order. That alone shouldn’t be an excuse. You are developing new skills, school can be created and a programme can be arranged to meet up. I don’t think that would be a challenge as such. You made an appeal to the CBN governor in respect of any assistance the bank is rendering by factoring in planting season of cotton – especially between the South and the North. Could you elaborate?
Basically, what we are saying is that the south planting season starts in May. In other word, farmers need to actually prepare to plant by end of May. This means that, if we get our product, within this month, at least, there is a window enough to be able to meet and take inputs that they will need to utilize in the first instance. All the inputs we are talking about, you don’t use them all at once. But they are the key ones that need to be provided and we will plan it as such. Thus farmers will receive what is required to commence planting. That’s why we are appealing that if they could look at our list, which we have submitted; If they can fast-track the process because it’s time bound. By March we would have finished everything by God’s grace. As it’s now, since we are just coming in, we need to meet with the planting season. Please they should assist us by ensuring we get those approvals. The inputs suppler are funded to be able to provide those inputs so that we can meet May planting in the South West, while in the North Central, North East and North West usually we are looking at June. We would be able to meet up accordingly. You had a follow up meeting with the CBN governor after last week’s meeting, when the textile industry start production across Nigeria?
You know the process is a journey that begins with a step, but I want to assure you that vis-a-vis cotton production and to the start up textile mill in Nigeria, you will feel the impact this year. For cotton, I can assure you that we can get all the requirements in place. The volumes of cotton that you will see harvested in October, November and December would surpass the current 80 to 100,000 tonnes (roughly), which the country has produced.