Operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Special Intelligent Response Team (IRT) have smashed a seven-man-gang, which specialised in using military uniforms and assassination threats to rob people.
Among the suspects is a dismissed soldier, Suleiman Usman (28). He was dismissed after he fled the Boko Haram war at Maduiguiri, Borno State. He has seen too many of his colleagues killed; he didn’t want to face similar fate.
He was declared a deserter and finally arrested in Ikorodu area of Lagos State by the military and then dismissed.
Usman confessed that after his dismissal, he started using his uniform to escort trucks and soon graduated into robbing, using the uniform.
He said: “I ran away from Maiduguri in 2016, but I was arrested at Ikorodu and later dismissed. Since I was dismissed, I have been using the Army uniform to look for what to eat by escorting trucks. I have also gone for hijacking jobs on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. We hijacked a truck carrying cartons of noodles and gave the goods to Saheed Oyewole, who is our sponsor. He gave us N200,000. It was one of my friends, Saka Bashiru, now dead, who introduced me to Saheed.”
Police have identified the seven gang members presently in custody as Femi Otubaga, Idris Omoseyin, Tobi Oyetola, Suleiman Raheem, Saheed Oyewole, Suleiman Usman and Steven Joseph.
Police have described the gang as notorious with penchant for targeting and hijacking trucks loaded with goods. They were recently arrested after they had successfully hijacked a trailer belonging to KKK Steel Nigeria Limited, loaded with 40 tons of iron rods.
The driver of the truck, Sanusi Amidu, told police that the gang, with members in military uniforms, collected his truck from him at gunpoint along Mile 12 area of Lagos State.
Members of the gang, who operated in a green Toyota Camry car, marked KSF 427 CB, usually patrol major highways while wearing military uniforms. They allegedly patrol highways, hunting for trucks loaded with goods to hijack.
Whenever the gang sighted such a truck, it goes after it, forces the driver to halt by pretending that the truck had hit their car.
On that fateful day, Amidu, alarmed that he had hit a car belonging to a military officer, switched off ignition and jumped down.
Immediately he got down, the military men, pretending to be incensed, bundled him into the boot of their car, in the full glare of people around. Like is the norm in Nigeria, nobody likes getting involved in any encounter with military men. This attitude was what the robbers in military uniform capitalised on. They won.
Amidu was whisked to away, while his truck load of goods was moved to Ebute Meta area of the metropolis, to Saheed Oyewole.
Oyewole is alleged to be sponsor of the gang. Once the goods get to him, he sells them off to already waiting buyers.
The gang’s waterloo started after the Acting Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, received petitions on activities of some criminal gangs hijacking goods worth millions of naira on some major highways in Lagos State and on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.
Adamu instructed IRT, led by a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari, to hunt for the gangs and smash them.
Some weeks after the IG’s instructions, the IRT arrested a member of the gang, Otubaga, along Ikorodu area of the metropolis. The IRT operatives used Otubaga as bait to catch Oyetola and Omoseyin aka Aloma. They were all arrested in Ikorodu.
A police source said: “The suspects confessed and mentioned Saheed Oyewole as their sponsor and receiver. According to the suspects, Oyewole recruits them and other men and provides funds for hijacking operations. It was after the arrest of Oyewole, that he led us to arrest Raheem. This Raheem has a military uniform and identity card, which he had been using to deceive policemen at check points.”
Further remembering how the gang bundled him into the boot of their car, Amidu said: “It happened on December 21. I was on my way from Ikorodu, when a Toyota Camry car blocked my way. Five men jumped out of the car. One of them was armed with a gun, three were in military uniforms. They claimed that I had hit their car. They bundled me into the boot of their car and took me to a spot on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. They dragged me out of the car boot and ordered me to walk into the bush. They said that someone had paid them to kill me.”
Amidu further recalled: “While I was walking into the bush, one of them opened fire. The bullet didn’t hit me, but I fell to the ground and lay there for a long time. When I discovered that they had left, I trekked from Sagamu to Ibafo area of Ogun State. It was there I saw someone who gave me a lift to Mile 12.”
Raheem (30), a father of one, said that he was a taxi driver, residing at Aradagun area of Badagry. He explained that he joined the hijacking gang in 2018.
According to him, his friend, Suleiman, introduced him to the gang. Suleiman told him that they needed an experienced driver and that with his cab as the gang’s operational car, operations would be easier.
Raheem said: “Suleiman told me that I could make big money from the business if I joined the gang. The first truck we hijacked was at Sango-Ota. The truck was loaded with cartons of noodles. We used our car to block the driver. Akeem took the truck away, while I took the driver to Sango-Toll Gate, where I left him.
“The goods were taken to our receiver, Saheed. I was given N100,000 as my share. The second operation was on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The truck we hijacked was loaded with cartons of toothpaste. After the operation, we moved the truck to Saheed. My share in that operation was N50,000.
“One day, Saheed called that we should go and look for work. We saw a truck loaded with iron rods. We tailed it until we got to Ketu area of Lagos State. Saheed stopped the driver and ‘arrested’ him. I took the driver in my car and dropped him off on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Saheed gave me N225,000 as my share, but I didn’t know the exact amount he sold the goods. We don’t use guns during operations, but Saheed brought some people to work with us. The people came with guns. We used them in our last operation.”
Oyewole (45) was a transporter at Apapa Wharf before he was lured by the allure of the crime world. The father of four confessed to have gone into hijacking business four years ago.
He said that he didn’t go to operations with the gang, but only funded the operations. Incidentally, Oyewole had been arrested and charged to court for hijacking. He was granted bail, but rather than to turn a new leaf after his encounters with the law, he continued in his old ways of crime.
He said: “Whenever they hijacked a truck, they’ll bring it to me to buy. The first goods they brought were cartons of noodles. They called and told me that they had the goods. I asked them to bring sample. I gave them N80,000 and later the boys came with police. The police had already intercepted the truck. We didn’t know that the truck had a tracker. I was arrested, charged to court and later granted bail. There was also a time the gang brought cartons of biscuits to me. The hijacked truck contained 150 cartons of biscuits. I sold it for N225, 000. I took N70,000 and gave the gang N150,000 to share. The third operation was the hijacking of the iron rods. When the gang brought the truck of iron rods, I took it to a friend. My friend sold it for N3.2 million. I got N200,000 as my share, while the gang shared the rest. In January 2019, I was rearrested.”
Otubaga (26), an iron bender, also claimed that it was Oyewole, who initiated him into the hijacking business.
He explained that his life took a bad turn after he approached Oyewole and told him that he was financially down and needed money. Oyewole told him about the hijacking business. He told him it was lucrative and cajoled him to join them.
Otubaga said: “When he said those things, I got scared and ran away. But I was still financially handicapped and had no option than to go and work for him. We had a meeting at the Happy Hotel in Ikorodu on Itamaga Road. Saheed paid hotel fee for everyone. I also brought a gun, which belonged to my brother. We used the gun to intimidate truck drivers.”