Former President Olusegun Obasanjo speaks on governance, leadership and education challenges during a “Changemaker for Nigeria” session anchored by Julie Gichuru at the Global Education and Summit Forum (GESF 2019) in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE). TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports  Who do you think is changing the world for good? We need collective leadership to change the world for the better. There is no country in the world today or no leader in the world that can say I can move the world drastically in progress forward. Of course, evil is easier to do than good. So, people can easily do evil. Unlike what has happened in New Zealand; one individual mad man killed 50 people. That is not changing the world for good. But, that is what one mad man can do. I believe that in today’s world; for the world to be changed for better, people must realise that they have to work together, collective leadership. Somebody may have to be the one engineering, but it will have to be a team work. Whatever little you are doing in your own corner, be a leader, but don’t lead alone; lead with others. That is the only way that your leadership can be meaningful and have collective impact. The day of single hero is gone; today you have to be heroes together, but somebody has to lead. Our leaders must agree to work together, if we work together, we will go far. If we work alone, we will go fast, but we may not go far. I know your role in bringing New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) together with several African countries during your period in office. What is that thing that you are most proud of in terms of change in the world? I will say we in Africa coming up with NEPAD. That was the first time that African leaders came together on our own and decided that no matter what is going on in the world, we want to have a programme; political, economy, social that will drive Africa. We have of course had MDGs, which was global and which was helpful to Africa. But NEPAD was one that we on our own decided to do and when we came up with it, the rest of the world decided to say this is a programme that Africa leaders by themselves have carried out, brought out and we should support them. And we went to Canada and the G-7 looked at the programme and said we will back it up; we will support you. If you were to advice governments and policy makers today on the issues of education and teaching in Africa, what will be your advice to them? I will say the beginning is popular education; education for all. There are still parts of Africa, where popular education is still not engrained and let me take my own country (Nigeria) for instance. We have six geo-political zones; three in the South and three in the North. The three Southern geo-political zones have adult literacy of above 90 per cent. In the North-East, it is only 53 per cent. Can you imagine the gap? And North-East is where you have Boko Haram. So, when you look at education in the North-East and the menace of Boko Haram, you can see that education directly and indirectly has something to do with Boko Haram. Then of course, education is very basic to all other things; your employability, life expectancy, how you manage your affairs and even the management of your family. So, when education is poor; your chance of getting employment is also poor. And when you do not have employment, of course your life becomes almost a waste because you cannot do what you should do for yourself, not to talk of your family or your community. And that is where I will begin; popular education, education for all. There is no country in Africa today that should not compulsorily put all her children in school for 10 years. And once you have that, then of course, most of our children would be able to manage the rest of their lives and then of course, once you deal with popular education, you have to deal with science, technology, skills acquisition and what we now call STEM. So, the message is compulsorily basic education for 10 years, at least, should be a commitment from governments in Africa. How do you think Africa can address the issue of insecurity challenge, considering the growing population? We need to invest in education. You talk about population. We have the youngest population in the world. Today, we are talking of about a billion. By the year 2050, we will be talking about over two billion population. In my own country for example, at independence in 1960, we have 45 million; today, we have 200 million. By 2050, we will have over 450 million. And what do we do with that if we do not educate them. If we do not educate them, we are all sitting on keg of gun power. The man, who started Boko Haram, Mohammed Yusuf, was not a harmful person, not normally a bad person. In fact, he was a Muslim cleric and people were sending him on messages and he was doing well. But when   he had some of his followers; college graduates who had no jobs, he called them together and asked how many years they have left universities without being employed and discovered that some of them have graduated for four, five years without employment. Then he said: ‘Of what use is your socalled education.’  And that is where the nickname, Boko Haram started from. Actually, that is not the name they called themselves; they call themselves a different name, but because Yusuf said to his followers that your Western education without job is of no use, that is how Boko Haram, which means Western education is useless started.  Western education is useless is what Boko Haram started from. However, in many ways African threw away a lot of cultural knowledge. How do we bring up the next generation of Africa and young people with quality education? Talking about what some people called well rounded education; you cannot say you have a well rounded education if you neglect your culture because you have to grow and be a person out of your own culture. I always say to Africans, it doesn’t matter how well you speak English.  You can speak English like the Queen of England or you speak French like Macron, you will still neither be a Frenchman nor an English person. What the world will want to know about you is what is authentically African about you.  That does not mean that you must not acquire the knowledge that will make you relevant in the world that you live in. The knowledge of education that will make you to contribute meaningfully; not only within your community, country or continent, but globally and that means you have to be trending with what is going on in education in the world.  What is going to happen in the next 15, 20 years terms of artificial intelligent and robotics? What are Africans going to do about them? I was at a meeting sometimes ago and we were talking about driverless vehicles.  And I was complaining about jobs and I said Aliko Dangote told me that he advertised for 1,000 drivers and six of those who applied have PhD and not PhD in janitoring, PhD in very serious subjects.  But to shock me, the man with whom we are talking said today they ask people to apply as drivers; in 25 years from now, they would not even get drivers’ job to do because most of the vehicles and trucks would be driverless. Now what are we doing? How are we preparing for when our population would be over two billion? How do we cater for them? How do we provide jobs?  Give us hope because we are feeling a little bit hopeless now…  The way out is that we are endowed in Africa. We are endowed with land and we hardly beat our chest, 60 per cent cultivable land in the world is still in Africa. Of what use is 60 per cent of cultivable land that is not cultivated? What I am saying is that if we take agric business very seriously, we will be able to provide substantial amount of jobs that our population will require.  We have to produce what we need; we need to provide basic and domestic needs of our people. I always say to Africans, don’t let us aspire to go to the moon. Let leave those who are going to the moon. But, let us aspire to touch our stomach; feed ourselves. Let us produce what we need and buy from ourselves.  It is a worrisome statistics that we have huge population of Nigerians who are not enrolled in schools and some who are in schools are actually not learning. As a former president, how would you advise the Nigerian government on how it can drastically the reduce number of children out of school?  I think if you ask me specifically about Nigeria, where we are in education today; I will say we are in confusion. And I don’t know whether you will feel that way. But that is the way I feel.   We are really in confusion and I do hope and I sincerely mean this that the next government; whoever that is, would be able to actually sit down and say where do we go from here as far as education is concerned. Let me take again my own state, Ogun State, where the government of the state has four universities. If you go to any of the university; they are glorified secondary schools.  That is what they are. What can they achieve? We have had this in the past. Chief Adebo sat down and looked at our education and that is where we got 6:3:3:4 from. I believe the time has come when we should do a real serious overhaul; a study and overall of over our education including what we have to do in STEM, culture, arts, robotics.  What do we have to do to look for jobs and trainings for those who will need jobs, when robotics will take over the future of work in Nigeria and indeed in Africa? If we do not do that, we are not going to make progress in what we are trying to do. Says Africa sitting on keg of gun powder   Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has described the current state of education in Nigeria as confusing and called for total overhauling of the sector both in Nigeria and Africa at large. Speaking yesterday at the 2019 Global Education and Skills Forum (GESF)… In “News” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, in Ibadan, deplored corruption and its negative effects on the nation, describing it as a cancer and challenge to African child. The duo at separate speeches said this at the 2017 annual public lecture of the 'Dorcas… In “News” In this interview with Temitope Ogunbanke, a cross section of Nigerians speak on former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s criticism of the Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration   Olajide: Obasanjo evaluating state of the nation Dr. Kunle Olajide is the Secretary of Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) I think as… In “Politics”