 Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday met with Governors Jubrilla Bindow (Adamawa) and Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Although no official reason was given for the meeting between the three leaders, our correspondent gathered the visit may not be unconnected with the March 9 governorship election. Bindow and Abubakar, who are trailing behind their Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) opponents, are facing the battle to retain their positions for a second term following a scheduled rerun of last Saturday’s gubernatorial election announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). INEC declared the governorship elections inconclusive and fixed the rerun for Saturday, 23rd March 2019. The two All Progressives Congress (APC) governors, who arrived the Villa separately, had earlier sought to see President Muhammadu Buhari, but met a brick wall, as the President was said not to be disposed to seeing them. New Telegraph learnt that the two governors thereafter proceeded to see the Vice President at the Vice President’s wing of the Presidential villa. Bindow and Abubakar, who also emerged separately from the closed-door meeting, which lasted over one hour, however, declined to speak to reporters. Meanwhile, the PDP said despite the decision by INEC to conduct supplementary elections in states where its candidates were in clear lead, the party is confident of winning the rerun polls scheduled for March 23. The party’s National Working Committee (NWC), which met yesterday, expressed worry that INEC declared elections inconclusive in states where it had popular support and defeated the All Progressives Congress (APC) whereas in a state like Ogun, where APC failed to achieve a higher margin of lead over cancelled votes, the party was declared the winner. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the main opposition party called on INEC to immediately release results, and return made in the states where it was in leading. It frowned at what it described as two sets of rules by INEC in the same election for the various political parties. “More worrisome is the resolution which arose from a meeting between some governors of the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari, where the PDP has been informed that a decision was taken to seize Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Plateau, Sokoto and Kano states in the March 23 scheduled supplementary election. “It is instructive to state that the Buhari presidency has not denied this strong allegation of rigging plans, thus strengthening the reality that the APC is always prepared to benefit from electoral fraud,” the statement added. PDP noted that after deliberation and interface with stakeholders from the various states where governorship supplementary elections have been scheduled to hold, the party mandates all its members to resist any attempt by anybody to tamper with the will of the people in their states. “In Sokoto State, a stronghold of our party and where the PDP is already in a clear lead, our victory at the March 23 supplementary election is guaranteed. “In Benue, the people have expressed their readiness to go into the supplementary election and they are prepared to vote for the PDP candidate, Governor Samuel Ortom. “They are also aware that by PDP’s current leading margin of over 81,000 votes, it is manifestly clear that there is no way APC, with all its manipulations, militarization, arm-twisting, intimidation and harassment, will defeat the PDP in Benue. “In Adamawa, the PDP observed the mischievous calculation of the APC in sponsoring someone who did not participate in the election, to go to court and claim that the logo of his party was omitted in the ballot. “This is their desperate bid to get the election already won by the PDP cancelled. The PDP, however, notes the failure of the APC to achieve its mischief in Adamawa State. “In Bauchi State, it is known to all, including the APC and its governorship candidate, that Tafawa Balewa Local Government has always been a home to the PDP since 1999. “We, therefore, counsel the APC rigging machine to avert engaging the people of that constituency, as it will be of no avail. “In Kano State, the APC will be confronting the strong will of the people to do away with a corrupt and incompetent government, which Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has come to represent. “The atmosphere of Kano State is ominous and any responsible government will take note and align in the interest of the people. “Already, the people of Kano State are standing shoulder to shoulder with the PDP in their pursuit of bringing a government that will be representative and purposeful. “On no account must Nigerians allow a culture of impunity, where those who failed in any elections will compromise our electoral arbiter and force themselves on the people,” PDP stated. It demanded the release of the result of the Rivers State, which has already been collated, which it said, PDP won and Governor Nyesom Wike declared as winner. The party expressed worry at what it described as damage done to the image of the military by its hierarchy by allowing itself to be used by the APC. “It is despicable that our military has been dragged into politics to an extent where soldiers now join issues with politicians in the media and conduct its affairs as if it has become a political party. “This partisan involvement of our armed forces, to say the least, has impaired the confidence Nigerians have on the institution of the military,” the party regretted.