Doctor Justin Esezobor Okonoboh is the Deputy Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in this interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN spoke on President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election, among other issues. Excerpts:   Despite the widely held opinion about APC, people still voted President Muhammadu Buhari. What do you think gave him victory? I am a privileged member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and because of that, I have access to some information and so, I tell people that Buhari is going to win. I know what he has tried to do to salvage what he met in the office when he took over from Goodluck Jonathan in 2015. If you check the winning pattern, Buhari won most in the northern part than the southern part of Nigeria. The reason for this is not far–fetched, the people in the North appeared to have mastered the act of winning elections, probably because they have discovered the secret, that is by going out to register en-mass. The only way you can vote out any person from office is through voting. So it is very important for people to take the business of going to register very seriously. As far as voting is concerned in Nigeria, the people from the North will continue to have dominance in the electoral system. Though there is an outcry over alleged underage voting in the North, nobody had come out with concrete evidence. The people go out to collect their PVCs in preparation for the next election they are about to go into. Having that at the back of our minds I kept on telling people that if you check the registration pattern from INEC, the registration in the North-West alone cancels that of South-East, South-South and part of the South-West. We have not talked of North-East and other parts of the northern states. Are you implying that the Northerners are more united? The Northerners do much better than us in elections because they listen to their leaders. In the North, once a leader says this is the way to go, everybody follows, but over here, when you say such a thing, there are people that will question it. Let me make an example with my village; for people to register, I had to pay for it. For them to pick up their voter cards, I had to inform them and at the same time spend my own money for it. With all that, we are still not able to catch up with them. Look, to vote somebody out of office, you need to make use of your PVC, it is not about what you write on social media or on the pages of newspapers. That is one of the things that aided Buhari’s victory. Yes actually he has performed and apart from that, there were people who were ready to vote for, and they were prepared to go all out in their millions to vote him. And they did exactly what they wanted to ensure that he returns to Aso Rock. But he also got votes from the South, how do you see that? You also know that his personal integrity played a major role in his victory, there are lots of people who are not happy because of his slow na-ture, but they know from their hearts that Buhari has integrity, and if you want this country Nigeria to grow, you needed people like Buhari to help put things in shape. You and I know that the name Buhari puts fears in the minds of so many corrupt leaders and those that have the mind to milk the country dry. The major problem in this country is corruption, once we have a man that can reduced it drastically, Nigeria will be a better place for everybody to live. Are you comfortable with the president’s speech that the next four years would be tough? Yes, I’m very comfortable with it, and I know that many high thinking Nigerians are also very comfortable with the statement The statement does not imply that he is going to set Nigeria on fire, or make life unbearable for people, those who are not ready to be transparent should be ready to face the full weight of the law. He said that his cabinet members should be ready to be transparent and accountable. So Nigeria should be ready to support him in the fight against corruption. He knows that there are areas he needed to improve on, so he is coming back to do just that and put Nigeria on proper shape. There are members of his cabinet, who had not lived above board, such people should be ready to do the right thing else they’ll have themselves to blame. I’m very okay with his statement. You seems to have so much believe in President Buhari. Why? I worked with Buhari in 2011; I had the opportunity of working with my pastor who was a running mate to Buhari. That man is a very strict person; his integrity cannot be questioned. So many things other presidents will take, Buhari will not take. As I speak to you now, there are still some PDP members, who are occupying sensitive positions in the country, but he let them be. He will leave you in the position as long as he can work with you. How will you describe the National chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his leadership role thus far? Oshiomhole is a big time strate-gist, the very day he declared his intension to run, I was in that gathering at the Transco Hilton Hotel in Abuja, and I remember some journalist interview me, I told them that the man is a strategist, that the moment he emerge as APC boss, that all other opposition parties should forget it. I also told them that he was coming to rewrite the history of APC and put the party in its proper place. You discover since then all the elections he has conducted; he has won all of them for his party. In fact people doubt this general election because of the controversies that surrounded the primaries, people felt because of that he will not be able to deliver for the party. In spite of that, he was still able to win the general election for the party. So I will describe him as a big time strategist. Despite not getting a return ticket to the state House of Assembly, you still won your local government for the APC. Aren’t you aggrieved? You know that politics is a game of interest, you see, I have been around for a long time, I am on ground in my constituency, I know the political terrain and I also know how my people operate. Yes, I was not given the ticket, but as a dedicated and committed party man, I must work for my party not minding the lies people told against me during the party primaries. I am happy that the people are becoming aware of the truth. I will never work against the interest of my party, and I will not sit down and watch my party lose election in my local government, so because of that, I had to do my best to ensure our victory. I vowed that I must deliver APC even in the House of Assembly election. I was once the speaker of the state assembly; I am now the deputy, so I must win my local government. The PDP seems to be gaining ground in Edo State, what is your party doing about it? We have had series of reports and stories about it, we the party leaders are reaching out to people, especially members that are aggrieved over one thing or the other. You notice that our primaries caused a lot of controversies. Yes, in a party you plan for your opponents, but you do not plan for crisis. It is after the election you will know whether your party members worked against you or not. Now that we know these things, we would do our best to settle things and work as one political party. The governor has been trying his best to look into it, the party chairman too, and also we the leaders are doing same.