World leaders, including President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday condemned the killing of 49 people by a gunman, at two New Zealand mosques. Similarly, leaders from the United States, United Kingdom, Afghan, Canada, India, Pakistan, Pope Francis, among others all condemned the attacks, stressing that it was ‘senseless’. The 28-year-old gunman will be arraigned in court today. Speaking through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, in a statement by the Ministry’s spokesperson, Mr. George Edokpa, in Abuja, President Buhari condemned the attacks which took place during Juma’at Prayers yesterday. “Nigeria stands in solidarity with New Zealand in their time of grief and fully supports the prosecution of the perpetrators of this heinous crime to the fullest extent of the law,” he said. The U.S through its Press Secretary, Sarah Sanders, said: “We stand in solidarity with the people of New Zealand and their government against this vicious act of hate.” The UK’s Foreign Office said: “Flags on @10DowningStreet and @foreignoffice Buildings are flown at half mast as a mark of respect to those who lost their lives and all others that were affected by the attacks in Christchurch, New Zealand.” Pope Francis also said he was saddened by the “senseless acts” in New Zealand, after 49 people have been killed in two shootings at mosques in the city of Christchurch. Also, Afghan president Ashrafghani said: “President @ashrafghani condemns the terrorist attacks at two mosques in New Zealand that tragically claimed many precious lives. This attack reaffirms that terrorism has no religion or race; it is an evil phenomenon against whole of mankind.” Canada’s Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, has expressed sympathy for the victims. He said: “Canadians across the country were appalled to wake up to news of the terrorist attack on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, that killed and injured so many people, including children. The Dukes and Duchesses of Cambridge and Sussex have condemned the “horrifying assault” on worshipers at two mosques in ChristChurch, New Zealand. On its part, India’s ministry of external affairs in New Delhi issued a statement condemning the attacks. Meanwhile, the gunman streamed live the attacks on Facebook for 17 minutes using an app designed for extreme sports enthusiasts, with copies still being shared on social media hours later. The live footage yesterday’s attacks, New Zealand’s worst-ever mass shooting, was first posted to Facebook and has since been shared on Twitter, Alphabet Inc’s YouTube and Facebook-owned Whatsapp and Instagram.