Senate Majority Leader, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, believes that he has what it takes to lead the 9th Senate. In this interview, he speaks on why he is in the race for the position of the President of the Senate and his vision for the upper legislative chamber, among other issues. FELIX NWANERI reports  What is the motivation for your aspiration to lead the 9th Senate, which your party, All Progressives Congress (APC), would be in the majority?
We thank God that APC will be in the majority in the 9th Senate. In fact, we have made more progress than we did in 2015. We have about 65-66 senators-elect unlike in 2015, when we sought to lead the Senate, we have come to the conclusion that we have something to offer by leading the Senate and the entire National Assembly. We are not under any illusions. We know that this requires a lot in terms of momentum and the work we have to do to make Nigeria better through legislative interventions and by also working with other arms of the government.
We need to project what we want to offer. We need to tell Nigerians what we can do. We need everyone in this journey of four years, which we will embark on soon, so, I am asking for the cooperation, support and understanding of everyone. We want to work for everyone to ensure that Nigeria is better and ensure that we receive the fairest deal from government. By the grace of God, we will make serious positive changes. Nigerians voted for change. They have renewed their commitment to APC this year. It means that Nigerians have faith in us. What should Nigerians expect from your leadership if you emerge as Senate President?
Let me say that I believe in what my party does. President Muhammadu Buhari campaigned on three cardinal issues of security, anti-corruption fight and the economy. We have remained consistent as a party and as an administration. Our main task will be to support the President and the party to implement the campaign promises. We want an economy that will ensure an all inclusive growth. Our main constituency as a progressive party is the ordinary people. It doesn’t mean that the elites are not with us. Those who worked for our success are the ordinary people, so it is crucial for our administration to come up with programmes that will make life better for the masses.
We will also support those in the private sector, so that they can create jobs for our teeming youths. We have worked hard as a government in the last four years. We want to work harder going forward so that our youths can get jobs that will grow the economy. We have social investment programmes. We will have some reforms in that sector, so it can deliver well. Agriculture is one area we have worked on. Today, Nigeria doesn’t import rice anymore. What that means it that the billions of dollars spent on importation of rice is now within this country. In every part of the country, we produce rice; that is wealth creation. Even though we have challenges in that area, we have done well.
In the area security, we have concern, so we need to support the executive to always ensure that we improve on it. When we came to power in 2015, so many parts of the country were under the control of Boko Haram insurgents. We want to see a situation, where the security architecture of the country is reformed. I headed the security architecture ad hoc committee in the Senate. We submitted our report in which we recommended reforms in our armed forces. It is not about giving money. We must have a structure that will prudently utilise funds released by the government. Where the executive feels they need intervention, we will legislate to support their efforts. How about the anti-graft war? What measures will the Senate under your leadership take to support the President?
It is our mission to ensure that this administration continues its fight against corruption. Most of the things we are suffering in this country are because people have stolen public funds. When you are able to curtail the excesses in that regard, we will move forward. We should be proactive. We will legislate to ensure that it will be difficult for people to steal in the public and private sectors. As a country, why can’t we have an anti-corruption court?
We need to fast track legal processes and ensure that those found guilty of any corruption charges are jailed instead of waiting for up to 10 years. This gives the people the confidence to steal since they that our anti-corruption laws are weak. These are areas we will focus on. We will focus on our education. We will review it to conform to the current day reality. We will ensure that our graduates get a good deal. We will look at law reforms. Those that require total overhaul will get that. What is your party doing to put its house in order to avoid a repeat of the 2015 experience, when the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) cashed in on the crisis in the APC to decide who emerged as Senate President?
We have been reaching out to our colleagues, either elected or outgoing. We are talking to them about our mission and why we are campaigning to lead the National Assembly. We are telling them why we need to make the Senate more productive and more focused. APC senators are so critical, but we are reaching out to senators from other political parties as well.
Let me say that we are senators who believe in party supremacy. We believe in the leadership of our party. The leadership we are seeking is that of the Senate and the National Assembly. It’s important for us to talk to our colleagues and tell them why we are campaigning. We are not taking anyone for granted. The crop of senators-elect that we have is much focused. We are not thinking that we will have crisis at all. APC must have learnt its lessons. The leadership of the party will handle it differently. I am sure that our leaders will manage the huge success of APC. The party will find us very compliant and supportive. One thing is to have laudable objectives, but another thing is the support of your colleagues to achieve them. How are you working on that?
That is the strength or success for any parliament to deliver. We have to have a bi-partisan chamber. We will disagree from time to time because of some issues. But, because we are senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, so we will remain united. I was in the opposition for 16 years before we became part of the party in government. Even as an opposition, we knew when to oppose and support the government. Take for instance the issue of security; is there any senator who will oppose an improvement on security? We will work to achieve the desired unity. There will be equity and fairness in the chamber. Once we unite around national interest, we will contribute meaningfully to governance. What would be your next move if your party zones the Senate Presidency to another geopolitical zone?
Am I not a party man? I am a loyal party man, so I will respect the decision of my party. Some people believe that you are too close to the presidency and that such close relationship might not allow for separation of powers between the executive and legislature with you as the Senate President. What is your take on that?
We want to work with the executive in such a manner that we can deliver good governance. We need to have a relationship with the executive that is based on consultation. I always say that the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria provides for separation of powers, but it doesn’t amount to complete independence of the various arms. The legislature needs to work with the executive in many ways. It doesn’t take away the issue of oversight. We will do everything to support the executive. By the way, who said we will never disagree with the executive?
By design, we are meant to disagree. But when we disagree, we should sit down and look at issues and resolve it without necessarily taking it to the market place. This is the first time I have been in a party running the government. I was in All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) throughout till we came to power. I am a believer in the separation of powers, but it is not an infinite elasticity. We must not allow Nigerians to give up hope on our democracy. I believe in separation of powers. It requires interdependence of the various arms of government. That does not mean we will not disagree, but when we do that, we won’t go to the market square to resolve our differences. That is the way to go. Unnecessary and avoidable fight with the executive that will make Nigerians lose hope in our democracy must be avoided.
Secondly, there are other senators contesting for the same position. Have you reached out to them to avoid what happened in 2015? The choice of Deputy President of the Senate also influences who emerges as the President of the Senate. Have you thought about that?
For me this is not an issue because our party and its leaders will determine the zone that will produce the principal officers. We will not trade any position with any other party other than the APC because we are very loyal party members. APC will ensure that right decisions are taken in the interest of Nigerians. We have been talking to the opposition senators. We need their support and cooperation. Some of your colleagues believe you hold extreme views about issues. What is your take on that?
Extreme views, maybe, that too is extreme. I normally take decisions as an individual not as a leader after exhaustive research and consultations. My upbringing teaches me to stick to my decisions once I take the right decision. And I take full responsibility for my actions and bear full consequences for my decision once taken. In 2010, my political mentor, late Usman Al-Bishir of blessed memory defected to the PDP and he was given the governorship ticket. I was asked to come over too and that my ticket was secured. But I did not go because I don’t believe in the PDP. If that’s extreme, so be it, but I don’t think it is. I am consistent. If we agree on something, I stand by it. There is no better person to tell you who I am than me. Plan unsettles APC APC NWC decides on zoning formula   A plot by the opposition Peoples Democr a t i c Party (PDP) to influence the emergence of a new Senate leadership, when the 9th Senate is inaugurated in June has unsettled the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). New Telegraph… In “News” There are strong indications that the battle for the Senate Presidency has begun, with the South-East and the North-East geopolitical zones striving to produce the next President of the upper chamber of the National Assembly. Although the All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to announce a zoning arrangement for the… In “News” There are strong indications that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may encounter a repeat of the crisis of 2015 in its quest to install the leadership of the 9th National Assembly, which is billed for inauguration in June 2019. One of the top contenders for the office of Senate… In “News”