 TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the decision of former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel to resign his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and his next move to the All Progressives Congress (APC)   Otunba Gbenga Daniel’s name rings bell not only in Ogun State, where he hails from, but in other parts of Nigeria because of his contributions to the polity at the state and national level. OGD, as Daniel is referred to in the political parlance, is a former governor of Ogun State. He was the third civilian governor of the state and he governed between May 29, 2003 and May 29, 2011 on the platform of the PDP. Daniel took many people, especially his loyalists and PDP chieftains, by surprise last week, when he wrote to PDP leadership to announce his resignation from PDP and quit partisan politics. In his letter to the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, dated March 14, 2019, which was also copied to the Chairman, Board of Trustees (PDP) and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Daniel stated that the reason behind his decision was personal, as he has decided to take on new challenges. His decision to resign from PDP a few days after the 2019 general elections, which his party lost at the state and federal levels to the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) was a surprise to many people, considering the role the former governor played before and during the 2019 electioneering process. He first served as the Director-General of Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Organisation before the former Vice President emerged as the presidential candidate of PDP in the February 23 election and was later appointed Deputy Chairman of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation (South). While some commended his decision at the age of 62, which is unusual in Nigeria, considering that some politicians who are in their 70s and 80s are still playing partisan politics; others believed that the former governor bowed out early as they believe that the party still need his experience to build the PDP at state and national level ahead of 2023 general elections. A hasty decision But while the fuss lasted, Daniels’ disclosure that his supporters were pleading with him to join the APC less than 24 hours after he resigned from the PDP jolted not a few people. Speaking after a meeting with his supporters at his residence in Sagamu, he said they begged him to move to APC. His words: “Basically, they said I could resign from PDP… they said I must lead them to APC and they also said I could not retire from politics. That is the summary of what I heard. What else can I say? My people have spoken.” For someone who openly endorsed the APC governorship candidate, Dapo Abiodun, just before the election ahead of his party’s flag bearer, , Senator Buruji Kashamu, the current move is more than a coincidence. Observers believe that the endorsement of Abiodun who is now the governor-elect was part of the deal that he would defect after the elections. Looking at politicians and their antics, it could be recalled that the current action was akin to what the then Senate Minority Leader, Sen. Godswill Akpabio did, before he finally left the PDP for the APC. The PDP’s Spokesman in South-West, Mr. Ayo Fadaka is not happy with the move. He said: “If indeed it is true that Otunba Daniel is leaving the party no sooner after the last election, then it calls to question the kind of contributions he made to the party during the period. “To worsen matters, if a leader is saying that he is being led from the bottom to move to another party by the people he is leading , then it tells a lot about the kind of leader he is. Leaders are supposed to be an inspiration to the people and not the other way round.” Fadaka added that for them in the PDP, “there is going to be a new dawn soon and we will see how he is going to look at us then.” The journey Daniel joined PDP in Ogun State on Sunday, September 9, 2001 at an event, which was described as one of the most ceremonial political rallies in political history of South-West geopolitical zone. Few months after joining PDP, Daniel threw his hat into the ring to contest the 2003 governorship in Ogun State. His campaign was a revolution in the state as he visited all the 236 wards of Ogun State, meeting with key stakeholders in the state to sell his ideas. Some faulted his campaign strategy as being desperate while other schools of thoughts strongly opined that it is the ideal thing for politicians to get close to the people. Base on his massive campaign in all the nooks and crannies of Ogun State, Daniel’s campaign for the seat of the governor was described then by political analyst as ‘electric’ considering the fact that as a business man, OGD, who ran for the governorship election on the platform of PDP defeated a sitting governor, Chief Olusegun Osoba, who was AD candidate during the April 2003 gubernatorial poll. He won with a vote margin of 217, 353. Daniel scored 449,335 votes against Osoba’s 231,982. Daniel was sworn into office on May 29 and base on his remarkable performance in the Gateway State, he was re-elected in April 2007 by defeating his one-time friend, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who contested on the platform of the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP). During his eight years in office, Otunba Daniel turned around the fortune of Ogun State and opened up the state for business opportunities. He promoted entrepreneurship amongst young people through voracious youth development programmes. The Nigerian Youth Council of the state was massively empowered to help youths all over the state and many young people were appointed into notable political positions. Daniel is the first governor in Ogun State to complete his two terms of eight years in Government House. But despite his performance in office, he failed to install his successor as his preferred candidate, Prince Gboyega Isiaka, who ran on the platform of Peoples Party on Nigeria (PPN) lost the 2011 governorship election to incumbent Governor Amosun, who contested on the platform of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). OGD within his eight years in office fought many battles, winning and losing some war of his wars against some political gladiators in the state. But despite his strained relationship with some of the political heavyweights in the state, he completed his two terms as several plot to send him packing from Oke-Mosan Government House failed. Daniel had a running battle with Amosun in 2007 for the state governorship poll as both of them who campaigned together in 2003 for Daniel to emerge as governor and Amosun as representative of Ogun Central Senatorial District in the Senate between 2003 and 2007, were separated by quest to govern the state on different political parties. During the 2007 governorship election, there were several attacks on Daniel and Amosun campaigns convoy in different parts of the state and all efforts by the ANPP candidate to stop the governor proved abortive, as Daniel was re-elected in April 2007. Amosun kicked against the process that produced Daniel as governor, but after about two years of legal battles at the tribunal and different courts, the appellate court upheld the governor’s victory. Prior to the 2011 general elections, Daniel also had running battles with some PDP gladiators in the state, including former President Olusegun Obasanjo over the party’s governorship candidate. There was war of attrition between the governor and the Ogun State House of Assembly. Daniel’s quest to run for Senate during 2015 elections did not see the light of the day as he lost the party’s ticket for Ogun East Senatorial District to Senator Kashamu, who contested and won the election. He later dumped PDP and defected to Labour Party prior to 2015 elections and after the election, he returned back to PDP. He also made attempt to become the national chairman of the PDP in 2018 but later withdrew from the race. Ex-Governor Daniel also had some legal battles with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) after leaving office over allegation of corrupt practices while he was the number one citizen in the state.