●Lalong, Gombe Governor-elect, 24 lawmakers get C of R   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday issued the certificates of return to the Lagos State Governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy Dr. Obafemi Hamzat. Similarly, the electoral body also issued the C of R to Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State and his deputy, Sonni Tyoden; Gombe State Governor-elect, Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya, his deputy, Mr Manassah Jatau and the 24 elected members of the State House of Assembly. The National Commissioner of INEC in charge of Ogun, Ondo and Lagos states, Dr. Adekunle Ogunmola, presented the certificates to Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat, at a ceremony held at the headquarters of the commission in Yaba, Lagos yesterday. Sanwo-Olu, the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who was declared winner of the March 9 governorship election, polled 739,445 votes to defeat the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, who scored 206,141 votes. In his remarks, Ogunmola said INEC need the cooperation of the political parties to strengthen electoral process in Nigeria. He also congratulated Sanwo-Olu for his victory in the governorship election and expressed confidence in the ability of the governor-elect to lead Lagos. “I have no doubt in my mind that you (Sanwo- Olu) have the qualities to lead Lagos,” he said. On his part, Sanwo-Olu, who was accompanied by his wife, Ibijoke, said his administration would run an inclusive government, adding that the door is open to all Lagosians, including the 44 governorship candidates that contested against him to contribute meaningfully to the progress of Lagos State. He said: “I extend congratulations to other 44 candidates that were not so successful. But I dare say that victory to one is victory to all. “It is a victory to all of us and the entire Lagosians. It is to make life a lot better for our people and that is why on the campaign trail that we have said we are going to run inclusive government. We will bring about strategy that we take Lagos to a greater height.” Also speaking, INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Lagos State, Sam Olumekun, said “the governorship election that produced you (Sanwo-Olu) was free of rancour and it was adjudged credible, smooth, peaceful, free and fair even by the international community.” In another development, Lalong after a supplementary election on March 23 defeated Sen. Jeremiah Useni of Peoples Democratic Party and was returned elected. Speaking after he collected his certificate, the governor promised to accommodate those that contested against him. He said: “I have appealed to them to come and join hands with us. Government is very large, there is opportunity for everybody. Those who contested elections and put in their best, their efforts will not go in vain. “We will do our best to carry everybody along in this government, we have been running an inclusive government and we will continue to run an inclusive government. “I am happy that out of all of them that contested against me, only one has not congratulated me. They have agreed to work with us including those who lost in the primaries. They have written to us that they want to work with us and we will accommodate them.” Meanwhile, INEC’s National Commissioner Supervising Bauchi, Gombe and Yobe States, Alhaji Baba Arfo, who presented the certificates to the elected officials in Gombe, congratulated them. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that certificates of return were given to 22 elected members who were present at the venue out of the 24 elected members scheduled for the presentation. Arfo said the outcome of the elections in the states under his supervision had shown that democracy had developed, adding that every vote counted during the elections. He commended the security personnel, Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), National Orientation Agency (NOA) and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) for partnering with INEC for the success of the elections and all the international partners and observers for their technical supports. He said: “I congratulate the elected officials. The presentation today is a constitutional requirement. The outcome of the elections has shown that democracy is developing and every vote now count.