Dr. Biyi Kufo is a Consultant Opthalmologist and Chairman, Committee on Eye Health, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA). In this interview, he discusses glaucoma and its negative impact on eye health, steps to prevent the eye disease, myths and misconceptions driving eye disorder, among others. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  Glaucoma is described as a public health problem because it has been, and remains an important and indeed leading cause of blindness worldwide. Also, the management of glaucoma can be costly. The nature of the disease is often such that it presents with no symptoms until very late. This often results in blindness, which in the case of glaucoma is not reversible.  Causes of glaucoma There is no definitive studies on the prevalence of glaucoma that has been done in Nigeria, but based on presentations to ophthalmologists in various clinics, it is undeniably a very common disease. Glaucoma is not a single disease, but a group of diseases with common characteristics. Usually, when we talk about glaucoma, we are referring to primary open angle glaucoma, which is also referred to as chronic glaucoma. It is the most common type of glaucoma. Glaucoma can also result from a number of diseases of the eye, such as disease of the parts of the eye called uveal tissue, impact of some drugs such as steroids, usually following prolonged use, cataracts left untreated and trauma to the eye. These are referred to as secondary glaucoma. Most times, treatment of the cause will eliminate the secondary glaucoma.  Myths and misconception There are not too many myths, but a few misconceptions regarding the management of glaucoma exist in our environment. There are myths such as ‘an arrow sent by my enemies’ is common in our environment. Nigerians tend to attribute almost everything to spiritual belief. Again, our religious beliefs are also a problem. Sometimes, our people live in denial. Glaucoma is a very serious eye condition which if left untreated, results in irreversible blindness. It can be managed medically with eye drops and through surgical operation, and sometimes both approaches are combined. Although, most patients also present late at the clinics, unfortunately, many do not accept surgery until it is too late. The reasons for reluctance to undergo surgery, in the case of glaucoma is more likely than not due to local traditional beliefs, which may discourage any form of surgery, as well as common fears in our environment regarding surgery. We must also be reminded that in developed nations; the law states that when you have health problems, you go to see a doctor. In Nigeria, due to the spread of false information, many of these patients see traditional medicine practitioners, faith healers, local ‘chemists’, etc. before they present to medical doctors. The use of local concoctions in the eye like breast milk and urine are harmful, though they do not cause glaucoma. However, there are many substances including traditional eye medicines, which can cause glaucoma if instilled into the eyes. Also, the use of certain eye drops without recourse to an ophthalmologist who can monitor the eyes while being administered can result in glaucoma.   Situation in Nigeria Glaucoma awareness is poor in the country, partly because it presents with almost no symptoms until it’s late. However, early detection requires regular screening, which may be expensive. Glaucoma is treatable, though vision loss from glaucoma is irreversible. Screening programmes, though capital intensive, need to be instituted in the country to increase awareness. Again, it also requires commitment and political will to devote adequate capital required to do so. In Nigeria early detection is difficult to achieve due to financial constraints occasioned by weak economy. The practice of ophthalmology is difficult outside urban settings as it is equipment intensive. Ophthalmology is a branch of medicine dealing with the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of diseases of the eye and visual system. Ophthalmology is an equipment-intensive specialty that are often expensive. And not too many practitioners would be willing to carry their equipment from place to place to avoid damage . Again, the cost of surgery is also a challenge to many Nigerians with glaucoma, though it varies from place to place. Surgery requires training and skill, which certainly do not come cheap. Now, for a better patient outcome, glaucoma should always be managed by specialists in eye care – ophthalmologists.