Samuel Oluwaoromipin Adekola is the National Chairman of the Association of Community Pharmacists in Nigeria (ACPN). In this interview, he discusses obstacles hindering the implementation of National Prescription Policy (NPP), initiating best practices in labelling drugs, efforts to implement the National Drug Distribution Guidelines (NDDG), among others. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  Efforts to actualise updated National Prescription Policy (NPP) In 2013, the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) had the initiatives to drive the actualisation of a National Prescription Policy (NPP). The Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) acceded to this request by setting up a National Committee on the project. The PSN and Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) were on that committee. I had echoed this same request for a National Prescription Policy or this country immediately I took over the reins of leadership at the ACPN. Fortunately, we have information that the FMOH was already working on this abandoned project after unhealthy professional rivalry compelled same in 2014. For effect, however, especially in the private sector where there are palpable challenges with prescription and dispensing endeavours, we clamour strongly for the inclusion of ACPN and Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (AGPMPN), which is its equivalent in the medical profession. These are umbrella templates of the stakeholders who will facilitate a successful mandate at the private sector level where there is no formal prescription structure in Nigeria. The need for a National Prescription Policy cannot be overemphasised as it will afford us controlled and regulated access to medicines. This will ultimately reduce the ravaging menace of drug abuse and misuse in Nigeria.  Ensuring proper labelling of drugs A value-added service the community pharmacists (CPs) must provide in the unfolding dispensation is proper labelling of medicines dispensed from the premises of CPs. We must eradicate the unfortunate discourse of writing on product packs in manners, which end up confusing patients/consumers of medicines. One of the golden areas of our training is dispensing practical and we must clearly set the tone for carrying out this endeavour the way we were taught in schools. We shall approach this venture through a pilot programme early next year in selected cities. Ultimately, we shall push for bulk printers for members to reduce cost drastically as we shall urge all CPs to embrace this through the instrumentality of the PCN.  Corporate image for Community Pharmacies In recognition that the future begins today, we shall embark on the reflected ancillary measures, which include but not limited to the list I will give you. One of them is a future package that will focus on standardised, but uniform shelving pattern in registered Community pharmacies. The structure in these pharmacies will emphasise concepts like Pharmacy based specialised clinics for care e.g. anti-natal, family planning, diet management regimens in our pharmacies to meet the expectation of vintage health facilities. These programmes will feature Home Service Care as well as other routine primary healthcare services.
Ensuring access to safe medicines as a human rights The ACPN will partner some civil society groups with the aim of reaching out to the National Human Rights Commission (NHCR) to entrench the philosophy of access to safe medicines as a Human Right of Nigerians.
This will boost the tenets of consumerism and portray pharmacists as patient-friendly. We shall consult further on this move and revert back.  Role for Inspectorate activities of the PCN and NAFDAC Our membership has been severely hit by inadequacies and shortcomings in the totality of monitoring and control procedures in Nigeria. At a juncture, many have continued to believe that private sector players are over-regulated in Nigeria. It is also obvious the positive packages associated with such regulation is almost non-existence.  We shall work with the PCN and NAFDAC to strategise on how to make more resources available to boost a culture of ethic-driven inspectorate activities. We shall specifically request for joint inspectorate teams from the agencies to redress our challenges. The Federal and State Task Forces on Counterfeit Medicines must be made to work again. It is imperative to declare that we shall partner PCN and NAFDAC to actualise the National Drug Distribution Guidelines (NDDG) targets, goals and objectives. In particular, we shall encourage the PCN to take advantage of the manning levels approved for its new Enforcement Department by the office of the Head of Service of the Federation (HOSOF) in the bid for coordinated and effective monitoring and control. In the spirit of the above, we shall amplify the noble gestures of our forebears who championed the agenda of at least one per cent professional fees for the usage of stamps and seals in practice. These efforts will all be well managed to improve the fortunes of community pharmacists, thereby rubbing off in better quality service to consumers of health.  Adopting innovations through information technology (IT) In the quest for better recognition of our role and repositioning as health facilities, we must embellish group practice with other colleagues as a priority. A lot of our stand-alone pharmacies are not viable and need to merge with others that are stronger with impactful outputs. The group practice phenomena must be expanded to collaborative healthcare practice with other healthcare workers for maximum effects. In these different settings, Pharmacists must excel in the Pharmaceutical Care Concept with premium emphasis on documentation of our various interventions at all levels. Other critical advances will include full implementation of various expanded roles of ccommunity pharmacists that include point of care testing, immunisation like it is done in over 80 per cent of CPs in the United States of America (USA), Canada, Portugal, etc.   Enhanced visibility and media presence We plan visibility and corporate profile of today and even the future CP. We shall make this cost effective by utilising our goodwill with all and sundry that will assist to make this happen in the days ahead.