Ebony-hued belle of Nollywood and one of the pioneering members of the then fledgling industry, Barbara Odoh, of the Glamour Girls fame, has transited to her primary place of calling and it explains her hiatus. In this interview with LANRE ODUKOYA, she spoke about her passion for charity work, becoming evangelist and how her name surfaced on the ballot paper at the last election.  After your hiatus from acting, you’d gone into politics and largely, humanitarian works, would you share your life outside the Klieg light?
Basically, I’m synonymous with humanitarian work. It’s my kick and those who have been following me faithfully know that I started quite early even when I didn’t realise the import of what I was doing. It was just another source of excitement for me. I recall that sometimes I would just see beggars walk past, I’d call them, cook for them and not that I was buying those foods. What year was that?
That was in the mid ‘90s, when I was in my 20s. I just took pleasure in doing that. I didn’t realise what I was doing but I recall that on a particular day, I told God that, ‘I want to be a philanthropist. I want to be able to reach out to people and affect them positively’. This was so pure because it came from my heart. I recall that I would put together birthday parties for children in the orphanage and go to companies like Coca Cola those days to seek sponsorship and I want to thank Coca Cola once again for giving me that opportunity to live my dream. And NTA too partnered with me, thank you NTA for airing it to the world. This was for people to see that it is actually possible to put in your time and means to add value to people’s lives. Putting a smile on somebody’s face, if you’re real with it, it’s like sowing good in people and you would harvest it. It engenders a deluge of smiles and laughter. In living for the cause of humanity and giving so generously, haven’t you ever regretted an act of good taken for granted or paid back with evil?
Never, I’ve never regretted being good. Even though it hasn’t been all so smooth, I’ve been in situations where people I brought to work with me on the team of my NGO, Society for Care and Value Orientation Projects, when they saw that the potential and the amount of money coming in; money meant for projects, they rather wanted to spend it. Just like what happens in politics. And I kicked against it. I told them I wasn’t going touch money meant for projects. I would be more satisfied and when I do the projects and they begin to speak for me. Then I can enjoy the goodwill the feat brings my way. I went as far as ensuring that I implemented a law against them. And they tried to blackmail me but I wouldn’t budge because that’s not who I am. I’m only accountable to God almighty. I put that story aside because I didn’t want that to dampen my spirit. I moved on from there and now I have Charity Crush Club. This allows us to have as many people as possible from across all demography. I am not going to go and be forcing people to join, but if you have a heart of giving, just come in. It’s an organized society and it’s going to be a team work not one with a limited number of trustees. It’s a transparent club for people who want to reach out to others by supporting them and if it’s one million people that are ready to be part of it, you’re all welcome. We can do without anybody as long as the work of God moves on. That’s my interest. You’re now an evangelist…
I’ve been an evangelist since 2007. I was ordained an evangelist in 2007 to the glory of God. I am crazy for Jesus. I received my calling in 2005 at a time I didn’t know how to hear God. I was just sitting in my hotel room in Abuja at a time and began to get inspiration. God gave me a practical living guide and blueprint and some commands. He gave me the slogan, Rising Above Your Limitations, and that I should back it up with the truth that I know for my ministry, ‘PRACTICALIVING Ministries’. Many people will talk to you about Jesus Christ but won’t tell you about the trials they go through and how they made their experiences that you could draw strength from. And that is where my ministry is different. In which church were you ordained?
I was born a Catholic, but there comes a time in your life when you become an adult, trying to know yourself, understand the world you live in, seeking your own God and knowledge. And then I was privileged to go into the Pentecostal church because that was where that fire was rekindled. I knew how to pray by myself, worship and be lost in God’s presence and then I went on to develop my spiritual life. It was a normal Sunday service when a pastor, Pastor Kingsley Ike, the ‘Wami Lele’ singer, just said, “Barbara, the Lord said I should ordain you an evangelist.” I was shocked to hear that because I love my life, I enjoyed and loved my skimpy dresses, I loved flaunting and just being myself. That was in Greenland Ministries, Abuja. It reassured me that God’s eyes are on me. And how did you find your way into politics?
Sometime in 2012, I left Abuja and came back to Lagos to start life all over again. And I think that was when I veered into politics formally. In 2015, I contested for the Federal House of Representatives, at Surulere Constituency 2 under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party and I lost at the primary. But I didn’t stop because it was more about speaking for the people. In 2017, I was one of the apex members of Kwankwasiyya Lagos caucus and we collapsed our structure into ADC. Somehow, I found myself as one of the state officers in Lagos. The governorship candidate of the party in Lagos approached me to run as his deputy in the recently concluded 2019 election. I conferred with my state chairman and he said the governorship aspirant must have found something in me he valued. We went on and at some point, I withdrew for reasons I’d not like to speak about. But my party wasn’t comfortable with that, they felt they needed me. I was asked also to run for the Federal House of Representatives, Surulere Constituency 2, so it sounded like an opportunity to become an advocate for the people. But again, I told them I wasn’t ready for it. However, my name made it to the ballot papers. And I think this is an opportunity to say Thank You to my constituents in Surulere, Lagos, because my party was voted for and my name happened to be on the ballot. Interestingly so, ADC came fourth, which means that if we had put in a bit of work, we’d would have gone farther than that. It’s an indication that it’s a potential win for the party. That was an election when Femi Gbajabiamila of the APC carried the day. In 2023, if the party remains in existence, we would look in that direction and work harder to win. If not ADC, maybe my person, but we know that what they’ve virtually told us is that there’s a yearning for positive change. Do you miss some of the things that once excited you like the skimpy dresses, flaunted parts and all that?
Of course, I do. I miss so many things. If I say I don’t miss them, I’d be lying. But also the ability to tame and contain myself shows that I’m getting ready for where God is taking me to. You have to position yourself a divine re-positioning. It doesn’t mean you can’t live life, but it goes to say you have to do things with appreciable level of decorum and decency. God teaches us in very loving ways, He doesn’t impose himself on us. You don’t want to go before the king in tattered clothes, do you? What are the moments in Nollywood you miss?
This isn’t selective amnesia but sometimes I really cannot remember anything. I can almost tell you that I’ve forgotten about those days. Honestly, for me acting then was just another professional thing. Charity is my life and I can tell you too many memorable things in my charity works.