A mother of one, Ms Ogochukwu Okafor, filmed nude in Anambra State in a video which has gone viral on the Internet, yesterday asked for justice. Okafor, who spoke to journalists in Awka, said the video had ruined her reputation and career. The victim, a widow, said she dropped out of school after she lost her husband. Okafor said she held an Ordinary National Certificate (OND) and was currently unemployed. The woman said she could never be assuaged by any amount of plea to rescind her decision to have the suspects prosecuted. She said: “I am a single mother, I lost my husband and I am just struggling to take care of my boy who is just six years. “I feel terrible, I feel disorganised; if it is just my face I would have endured it, but my nakedness all over the place.
“They have ruined my career both in Nigeria and outside the country.” Ogochukwu Nwankwo, who reportedly flogged the victim, said she never knew her action would assume this regrettable dimension.
She said it was a transferred aggression from her estranged husband who left her and took away her son. Nwankwo said her intention was to go to her sister’s house who had complained to her about the relationship between her husband and the lady to settle the matter. She added: “I feel bad; I did not have it in mind that it will turn out this way. My plan was just to go there and settle the situation. “The memory of my past experience with my former husband who took away my son made me to transfer the whole aggression on her. “My sister called me for help that her husband has been sleeping around with this lady and that got me angry. “When I got there, the lady ran into the toilet and locked the door and I asked her to come out and flogged her, but I was not the person that sent out the video.” Okafor, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), was allegedly lured to the home of her Facebook male friend, Mr. Ifeanyi Azotani, only to be humiliated by Azotani’s wife and her friend who got her nude and had her snapped. The state Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo, who paraded Azotani, his wife, Tochukwu, and her friend, Ogochukwu, for the act, said the suspects stripped their victim and video recorded her naked. He said that Okafor was lured by her Facebook friend, Azotani, to his house in Amawbia, Awka, only for his wife, Tochukwu, to emerge and locked her in the toilet.  “The suspect’s friend, Nwankwo, stripped Okafor naked and flogged her severely while the principal suspect was busy video-taping the incident and thereafter they pushed her out from the compound naked. “The suspects demanded N60,000 from their victim or have her further humiliated by pushing the video to the Internet. “Consequently, when the complainant could not pay the money as requested, the principal suspect actualised her threat and posted the naked video to the Internet and since then the video went viral.”