The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) failed to declare results in seven out of 29 states where governorship elections were held on March 9. ONYEKACHI EZE writes on what might have necessitated this  One can understand the worry of Kola Ologbondiyan, the National Publicity Secretary of the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) early last week after the declaration of the election inconclusive in six states. Ologbondiyan accused Prof. Mahmood Yakubu of playing the script of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) by declaring governorship elections in states where the PDP was leading in the March 9 governorship election, inconclusive. “The party insists that INEC, under Prof. Yakubu, has become overtly partisan, surrendered its independence to the APC and carries on as a compromised umpire with obnoxious impunity, thereby sending signals of being heavily bribed by the APC to alter results for its candidates. “This also informs the foisting of unexplainable stoppage and delays in the announcement of already collated results in other states where the PDP is clearly leading the race, from the results so far declared at the polling units. “Our party has also been informed of how INEC is now seeking ways to use the situation to aid the APC to alter the results and announce APC candidates as winners in the elections clearly led by the PDP just as it did in the 2018 Osun State governorship election. “In some of the states like Rivers, the PDP has information of plots by APC to leverage on the declaration by INEC to unleash more violence in the state and push for isolated election where they can bring in more security forces to concentrate on forcefully taking over the state,” the PDP spokesperson stated. INEC had declared governorship elections in Benue, Bauchi, Sokoto, Adamawa, Kano and Plateau states, inconclusive. PDP candidates (except in Plateau) were leading in these states when the electoral umpire said it could not make a return. In Rivers, another state where PDP was making impressive impact in the election, INEC has suspended further collation of the results, blaming it on violence. Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner in-charge of Information and Voter Education, in a statement said there was widespread disruption of the election in Rivers State. “These initial reports suggest that violence occurred in a substantial number of polling units and collation centres, staff have been taken hostage and materials including result sheets have either been seized or destroyed by unauthorized persons. “In addition, safety of our staff appears to be in jeopardy all over the state and the commission is concerned about the credibility of the process,” Okoye argued. But Ologbobdiyan said it was an orchestrated plot by the commission, in connivance with the APC to deny PDP victory in these states. “The PDP has full intelligence of how INEC is acting on instructions from the Buhari presidency and the APC in orchestrating unwholesome situations and declaring already concluded governorship elections in Sokoto, Adamawa, Bauchi, Plateau as well as other states as inconclusive, immediately it becomes obvious that the PDP was set to win,” he alleged. This was the highest inconclusive elections in Nigeria’s history. At the time of filing this report, results in about seven out of 29 states where the governorship elections were conduct on March 9, have not been declared. In 2011, a rerun election was conducted only in one state, Imo, between the then incumbent governor, Ikedi Ohakim of PDP and the candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Rochas Okorocha. The APGA candidate won. Again, in 2015, INEC could not make return in two states after first balloting. The states were Imo and Taraba. The rerun in Imo State was between Okorocha (now candidate of APC) and Emeka Ihedioha, who was the PDP candidate, while that of Taraba was between Darius Ishiaku of PDP and Hajia Aisha Alhassan of APC. Okorocha and Ishiaku won eventually. During the off season elections between November 2015 and September last year, Nigeria has witnessed three inconclusive governorship elections, in Kogi, Bayelsa and Osun states. INEC maintained that its decision to declare the election inconclusive in the six states, and the suspension of the process in Rivers State, were backed by law. Okoye, in the statement, cited Section 26 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and Clause 47(e) of the Regulations and Guidelines of the Commission. Section 26 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), says that INEC cannot declare a winner if the number of cancelled votes can mathematically affect the outcome of an election. The commission, in its regulations and guidelines for collation and declaration of election results states: “Where the margin of win between the two leading candidates is not in excess of the total number of registered voters of the polling unit(s) where the election was cancelled or not held, the returning officer shall decline to make a return until another poll has taken place in the affected polling unt(s) and the result incorporated into the existing one.” Again, Clause 47(e) of INEC Regulations and Guidelines states that “Where the commission determines that violent disruptions occurred at a substantial number of polling units before announcement of result, a fresh date for election in the affected polling units shall be announced by the commission.” As stated above, INEC suspended collation of results in Rivers State because of violence, while “a fact-finding committee to assess the situation and report back within 48 hours” was established by the commission. The report of the commission was still expected at the time of filing this report. INEC said it could not make a return in Sokoto State because the difference of 3,413 votes which separated the two top candiates, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of PDP and Aliyu Ahmed of APC, was lower than the cancelled votes. PDP scored 489,558 votes as against APC’s 486,145. The state’s Returning Officer, Prof. Fatima Batulu Muktar said 75,403 votes in 136 polling units in 22 local government areas, were cancelled. In Bauchi State, the vote difference was 4,059 votes, which is lower than the 45,312 cancelled votes. The PDP candidate, Senator Bala Mohammed scored 469,512 votes while the incumbent governor, Mohammed Abubakar got 465,453 votes. The situation was not different in Plateau State, which was also declared inconclusive because the vote margin between the APC candidate, Simon Lalong and Senator Jeremiah Useni of PDP was lower than the cancelled votes. Lalong scored 583,255 votes as against Useni’s 538,326 votes. The margin was only 44,929 votes as against 49,377 cancelled votes cancelled. In Adamawa State, Umaru Finitiri of PDP secured 367,471 votes while the incumbent governor, Jibrilla Bindow of the APC polled 334,995 votes. INEC could again not make return because the 32,476 votes margin was lower than the 40,988 votes cancelled in 44 polling units. Prof. Sabastine Maimko, Returning Officer for Benue State governorship election, also could not make a return because Governor Samuel Ortom of PDP has a vote margin of 81, 554 over his closest challenger, Emmanuel Jime of APC. Ortom got 410, 576 votes while Jime scored 329, 022 votes. In Kano, the results were 951,531 for PDP and 935, 451 for APC, a margin of 16,080 votes. The result of one out of 44 Local Government Areas was outstanding, which was why INEC declared the election inconclusive. Elections will be conducted in the affected areas within 21 days of the first ballot in accordance with the Electoral Act. On Tuesday, INEC officially spoke on the inconclusive governorship elections. A statement issued at the end of its meeting, the commission said the elections in the affected states were declared inconclusive due to “discontinuation of use of the smart card readers midway into the elections or the failure to deploy them, over-voting and widespread disruption in many polling units.” It thereafter fixed March 23 for supplementary elections in Adamawa, Benue, Kano, Plateau and Sokoto states In the case of Bauchi INEC said it has considered a report submitted by the Resident Electoral Commissioner for state on the disruption of the collation at the Tafawa Balewa LGA collation centre, which led to the cancellation of results for the entire local government. “The commission found that there are issues that need further investigation and has set up a team led by a National Commissioner to resolve them,” the statement added. The statement was silent on Rivers State where collation process was suspended. Ironically, results of all the state assembly elections in the state have been declared and winners emerged.