 The National Hospital Abuja (NHA) in collaboration with a non governmental organisation (NGO), Smile Train, has provided comprehensive training for no fewer than 25 nurses on cleft lip and palate surgery as well as related comprehensive care for those conditions. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, the President Smile Train International, Sussanah Schaefer, noted that the goal of the organisation was to ensure every child born with cleft lip has access to free, safe and quality surgery to enable them live a happy and productive life. According to her, the cleft programme, which has been in existence for 20 years but running in Nigeria for the past six years, was primarily established to provide countries with cased of Cleft Lip Palate access to care, providing funding and resources to local health professionals to run surgeries and comprehensive care at no cost on the patients. “We have trained here in Nigeria hundreds of medical professionals, and thousands around the world. Its working with local professionals to be able to provide these people with resources and being able to providing the funding. Our model is sustainable and in 20 years we can see that we have built a sustainable programme involving treating cleft, and seeing actions here in Nigeria. “We have over 49 medical partners here in Nigeria. It’s a country where we need to meet that need of making sure every child born in Nigeria with a cleft can go on and live a full productive life. It could be any of the countries in Africa but where we are focused, we make sure we make a difference,” she said. Smile Train Programme Director Western Central Africa, NKiruka Obi, noted that so far, about 20 cleft surgeries has been conducted and over a thousand comprehensive cleft care programmes have been carried out. She however expressed worry over the high level of stigmatisation, myths and misconceptions surrounding cleft deformity leading to poor life outcomes for children born with the disorder.  “Creating awareness has been a challenge. A lot of stigma comes with cleft deformity and we know these are deformities with a lot of myths surround them. There is a lot of stigmatisation, misconception or wrong cultural belief.  “No child should be killed, abandoned, no family should be traumatised because these children can be given an opportunity to live a full productive life if they could just refer the children to the nearest smile train partner hospital and for us, you can always reach us on our social media platforms.”  The Chief Medical Director of the NHA, Dr. Jafaru Momoh, who disclosed that the cost of surgery per patient which was being fully sponsored by smile train was $400 and added that the hospital has set up a multidisciplinary cleft palate team to enable the hospital deliver a complete package including speech therapy, besides just the surgery.  “National Hospital pledged to take care of all the gaps in this funding. We have pledged to make up and we have not asked any patient to make any payment,” he said.