…as Okorocha, Amosun defy Oshiomhole   There is palpable fear in the All Progressives Congress (APC) following last Friday’s suspension of two serving governors, a minister and the head of a strategic federal agency by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the ruling party. Those suspended included the Governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha; his counterpart in Ogun State, Sen. Ibukunle Amosun; Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani Usani and the Director General, Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr Osita Okechukwu. Apart from suspending these party chieftains for alleged involvement in anti- party activities, the NWC also querried Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State for a similar offence. It also recommended to the National Executive Committe (NEC), the expulsion of these party members. There are apprehensions that the sanctions could trigger a chain of reactions as those affected already harbour a lot of grievances against the party. Investigations have indicated that the Governorship and State Assembly Elections would be a tug of war in many states. It was learnt that folliwing the suspensions, the battle would be very fierce in many states as the contending forces have activated their arsenals to the fullest, ready to grab power at all costs. Sunday Telegraph learnt that the disciplinary actions were remotely connected to the long drawn battle between the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and these governors over the rightful candidates of the party in next Saturday’s Governorship Election. Since the governorship primaries were conducted some months ago, Oshiomhole has been at loggerheads with both Okorocha and Amosun over the choice of their successor. In Ogun State, Amosun is currently backing Hon. Adekunle Akinlade, the candidate of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) while the APC is sponsoring Hon Dapo Abiodun, a candidate said to be the favourite of the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Chief Segun Osoba, a former governor of the state. In Imo State, the APC has Senator Hope Uzodinma as governorship candidate while Okorocha is has Chief Uche Nwosu, as his candidate in the governorship race. In Cross River State, Usani Usani, who is supposed to be the governorship candidate of the APC, has been accused of hobnobbing with the incumbent governor (Ayade), the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party. As for Okechukwu, the APC is accusing him if being responsible for the poor performance of the APC during the Presidential and National Assembly Election. Sunday Telegraph gathered that whereas President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the APC had been worried about the activities of these party bigwigs, the NWC waited until after the Presidential and National Assembly Election to strike, because of fears that any sanction against them could affect the electoral fortunes of the party. However, Okorocha and Amosun have defied the NWC , insisting that their suspension can neither stand nor would it prevent them from supporting their choice candidates at the governorship polls. According to the Imo State governor, the APC National Chairman was planning to kill the party in the South East. He also accused Oshiomhole of plotting ahead to frustrate the region in the 2023 presidential primaries of party. Director General, Voice of Nigeria, Mr. Osita Okechukwu, has absolved himself of all blames in the poor outing of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State and across the South East. Okechukwu, who was reacting to his purported suspension by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) following the losses suffered by the party at the National Assembly Elections, described the move as an attempt by some forces in the party to sideline him and other perceived enemies. He said that rather than blame him for the poor outing of the party in Enugu State and the South East, the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole should be held responsible for the dwindling fortunes of the party. According to him, Oshiomhole foisted some unpopular candidate on the party in the National Assembly Election and he (Oshiomhole) should take responsibility for the failure of such candidates to win the votes of the people. Okechukwu, who said he was yet to receive the said suspension letter, argued that he had been a loyal member of the APC and had always worked vigorously for its success in Enugu State. “One had taken time and resources to campaign vigorously for my great party and even set up the Zikist-Buharist-Movement (ZBM), an offshoot of Buhari Support Organisation (BSO) of which am a foundation member. “It is on record that with ZBM, we toured the nooks and cranny of Enugu and indeed the South East, canvassing for votes for our great party. I am also instrumental to the most consistent advertisements placed in several media in the South East, on behalf of our great party. “Accordingly, one should not be blamed for the triumph of bigotry in Enugu State and South East in general. Our Comrade Chairman should not blame me for foisting some unpopular National Assembly candidates on the APC in our zone. I don’t know how I contributed to the failure of his darling candidate, Mrs. Juliet Ibekaku Nwagu, in Egede, her home town and Udi Local Government her primary local council in the five that make up the senatorial district,” he said Okechukwu said that he will give detailed response to the suspension order when he receives an official letter from the party. A serving minister who spoke to one of our correspondents on the developments, said that the suspension of the governors by the NWC was a joke taken too far. The cabinet minister, who craved anonimity, distanced President, Muhammadu Buhari from the suspension of the governors and other chieftains but warned that .the NWC might have more people to suspend in the coming days. “They are jokers and jesters. They should make sure they suspend all critical minds and true Democrats and true progressives from the party,” he said. According to him, many members of the ruling party were just waiting for the Governorship and state Assembly elections before opening the can of worms against the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and the other NWC members. He hinted that there would be so much to be unearthed after the elections, adding that the document on which the APC national chairman was arrested by the Department of State Service (DSS), would be a child’s play compared to the revelations that would be made. However, a Presidency source, who also spoke in confidence, said that the President was in the know of the suspension and that he supported the actions of the NWC members. According to the source, there was no way the President would have been indifferent on the suspension of the governors, given what happened to him in Imo and Ogun states during the presidential campaign. Meanwhile, opinions have been divided on the suspension among members of the party. Chairman of the dissolved Imo State APC executive, Hon. Daniel Nwafor, said nobody would respond to Oshiomhole’s suspension until after the election. According to him, Oshiomhole does not posses some of the powers he is meting out. Another chieftain of the party who declined to have hus name in print, faulted the suspension of the governors. According to him, suspension of party members ought to emanate from the ward. He said the APC NWC was makkng a mockery of its powers. However, some members were of the opinion that the suspension of the party chieftains were coming at a wrong time. They said it was coming at a time the National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was planning to bring all APC members together in South West because of the poor performance of APC in the zone during the presidential election. They believe that the suspension of these high ranking party members was an invitation to anarchy. 