…says lesson to women who disrespect husbands  Police have arrested a 30-year-old man, Umar Tambari, for allegedly beating his wife, Hauwa Tambari, to death at Emiworo village in Wushishi Local Government Area of Niger State. Umar reportedly beat Hauwa to death during a disagreement over bathing water. During interrogation, Umar reportedly said he did not regret his actions. He said: “Hauwa got what she deserved and it is a lesson to women who disrespect their husbands.” The suspect was arrested by a team of policemen attached to Wushishi Division on a tip off while trying to escape.
It was learnt that the couple had a minor misunderstanding on February 25, 2019.
The quarrel continued the next day when Umar asked Hauwa to fetch water for him to take his bath but she refused. Then he went on his own to fetch the water and she accused him of taking her water. The man, according to sources, lost his temper and beat his wife to stupor. It was also learnt that Hauwa engaged her husband in a fight which resulted in her untimely death. The suspect told his interrogators that his wife was always looking down on him anytime he sent her on errand. According to a witness, who pleaded anonymity, the suspect said his wife did not accord him the respect he deserved as her husband. “She is the cause of her own death, in her next world, she will learn how to respect her husband,” Umar said. He added that Hauwa starved him to the extent that she did not give him food she bought with his own money. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mohammad Abubakar, confirmed the incident. The PPRO said the suspect had confessed to the crime.
He said: “Tambari hit his wife with a stick several times but she died on their way to the hospital.” Abubakar added that the suspect would be charged to court. A Jos Upper Area Court 3 sitting in Kasuwan Nama on Tuesday granted one Hauwa Muhammed divorce due to her husband’s desertion. The Judge, Suleiman Lawal, granted the divorce to the petitioner with effect from Feb. 5, 2019. Earlier at the divorce proceedings, the petitioner had told the court that… In “Metro and Crime” A 45-year-old herbalist, Ademuyiwa Adelogba, was allegedly killed yesterday by his in-laws for beating their daughter. The incident occurred at Ifira- Akoko in Akoko South-East Local Government Area of Ondo State.   Ademuyiwa, a native doctor cum farmer, according to sources in the town, was beaten to death by his… In “Metro and Crime” …another murders wife for staying in parents’ home   A 35-year old man, identified simply as Uwaila, yesterday reportedly shot dead his wife at Ovbiogie village in Ovia North East Local Government Area of Edo State. Uwaila, who accused his wife of infidelity, also murdered his two sons. Also, a… In “Metro and Crime”