The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has reiterated the Federal Government’s determination to rid the Nigerian territorial waters of criminalities through the Integrated Security and Waterways Protection Infrastructure, otherwise known as the Deep Blue Project. Amaechi disclosed this at the weekend in Lagos during the graduation ceremony for participants of the C4I Intelligence System Operator Course for the Deep Blue Project. The ceremony was attended by the top echelons of the Nigerian Armed Forces, led by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin, who was represented by Rear Admiral A. Akinrinade. Amaechi stated that the 853km long Nigeria coastline and the country’s location in the Gulf of Guinea made it strategic for both maritime activities and security issues. According to the minister, who was represented by the Director, Maritime Safety and Security, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Engr. Dajuma Dauda: “The length of our coastline, our exclusive economic zone, as well as our strategic location on a major shipping route, which is the Gulf of Guinea, means that we cannot afford illegalities, such as piracy, oil theft, sea robbery, and other crime. “The Deep Blue Project is a conscious effort towards addressing illegality in our territorial waters and, indeed, the Gulf of Guinea,” he said. Speaking, the Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, said the Deep Blue Project would drastically reduce criminalities in the Gulf of Guinea. He explained that the project was multifaceted and involved the training of selected officers from the various strata of the security services and NIMASA as well as acquisition of assets to combat maritime crime. His words: “The Deep Blue Project is a multipronged approach towards tackling insecurity in our territorial waters and the entire Gulf of Guinea. What we are doing is fulfilling the training aspect of the project and this will also be complemented by acquisition of assets, such as fast intervention vessels, surveillance aircraft, and other facilities, including a command and control centre for data collection and information sharing that will aid our goals of targeted enforcement.” For Nigeria to tap into the $21 trillion worth world blue economy, the country will need to put in place legislation to govern activities in the sector, invest heavily in the sector as well as secure the nation’s territorial waters.   According to Nigeria’s apex maritime regulatory authority and… In “Business” The Federal Government has said that it would protect the nation's $14billion maritime trade from pirates, sea robbers and other criminals operating on its territorial waters. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha , disclosed this yesterday at the World Maritime Day celebration held in… In “News” President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said that the Nigerian maritime sector was being repositioned by the Federal Government to take a leading position as one of the viable alternate sources of revenue in growing the economy.   He said it was part of the government’s resolve to continuously diversify the Nigerian… In “News”