Despite the crash that killed all 157 passengers and crew, Africa’s biggest airline, Ethiopian Airlines, said it has strong belief in Boeing, the American manufacturer of the B737 MAX that crashed six minutes after take-off from Bole International Airport, Addis Ababa. The airline’s Chief Executive Officer, Tewolde GebreMariam, said this in a statement made available by the carrier yesterday. He said over two-thirds of the carriers’ fleet is Boeing and it is the second nation in the world (after Japan) to take delivery of the 787 Dreamliner. This is coming as investigation of the accident is underway to unearth exactly what led to Nairobi-bound Flight 302 crash. GebreMariam disclosed that they would work with investigators in Ethiopia, in the U.S. and elsewhere to figure out what went wrong with flight 302. The airline chief stated that many questions on the B-737 MAX airplane remain without answers, pledging his full and transparent cooperation to discover what went wrong. His words: “In the last five years, we have invested more than $500 million in training and other infrastructure in our Addis Ababa base. We will work with investigators in Ethiopia, in the U.S. and elsewhere to figure out what went wrong with flight 302. We resolve to work with Boeing and others to use this tragedy to make the skies safer for the world.” Explaining the carrier’s reputation for safety and ability to go beyond the threshold, he said it is well known in global aviation industry, the differences in training between the B-737 NG and the B-737 MAX recommended by Boeing and approved by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration for computer-based training. “After the Lion Air accident in October, our pilots who fly the Boeing 737 Max 8 were fully trained on the service bulletin issued by Boeing and the Emergency Airworthiness Directive issued by the USA FAA,” he explained. “Among the seven Full Flight Simulators that we own and operate, two of them are for B-737 NG and the B-737 MAX. “We are the only airline in Africa among the very few in the world with the B-737 MAX full flight Simulator. Contrary to some media reports, our pilots who fly the new model were trained on all appropriate simulators. The crews were well trained on this aircraft,” he said. The hope of knowing exactly why Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 went down six minutes after take-off from the Bole International Airport, Addis Ababa killing all 157 passengers on-board, including three Nigerians, may not materialise, at least for now. Reason: Blames and counter blames are beginning to characterise efforts to get… In “News” The spat between Boeing and Ethiopian Airlines over who should be held responsible for the crash of Flight 302 came to many as a surprise. WOLE SHADARE writes that Boeing accidents are another reminder that safety policies can have unintended fatal consequences   Public concern Why does it take an… In “Business” We lost 157 souls from 35 nationalities' UN, Presidents mourn     Two Nigerians are confirmed to be among the 157 passengers and crew that lost their lives in the ill-fated Ethiopian Airlines’ Boeing 737MAX that crashed shortly after take-off from Bole International Airport, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, yes-terday morning. They… In “News”