Barring the last minute change of mind, the dearth of school furniture confronting public schools in Edo State, will soon be a thing of the past. The state Governor, Godwin Obaseki said his administration is to spend N2 billion on the procurement of furniture for primary schools across the three senatorial districts of the state. Obaseki disclosed this during inspection tour of remodeling work at the Government Science and Technical College (GSTC), formerly known as Benin Technical College, Benin, where inspected the furniture produced by students of the vocational arm of GSTC. Obaseki, who noted during the facility inspection that the state government planned to provide furniture for about 150,000 pupils in public primary schools across the state, said that based on the quality of furniture produced by the GSTC students, the school would be awarded a substantial share of the contract for the furniture for schools in the state. “One of the reasons I came here is to see the quality of work the students are doing and their capacity to produce school furniture. What I have seen here are much better than what we are importing from China. If substantial part of the furniture is done by this school, much revenue would accrue to the school,” the governor noted. Obaseki said his administration was looking at redesigning the structures in primary schools to allow for better ventilation and cooling system, adding: “One of the challenges we have in our schools is heat. So, if we are able to work with the contractors handling the insulator roofing system in GSTC, we can redesign our primary schools such that there will be adequate natural cooling and ventilation inBarring the last minute change of mind, the dearth of school furniture confronting public schools in Edo State, will soon be a thing of the past. The state Governor, Godwin Obaseki said his administration is to spend N2 billion on the procurement of furniture for primary schools across the three senatorial districts of the state. Obaseki disclosed this during inspection tour of remodeling work at the Government Science and Technical College (GSTC), formerly known as Benin Technical College, Benin, where inspected the furniture produced by students of the vocational arm of GSTC. Obaseki, who noted during the facility inspection that the state government planned to provide furniture for about 150,000 pupils in public primary schools across the state, said that based on the quality of furniture produced by the GSTC students, the school would be awarded a substantial share of the contract for the furniture for schools in the state. “One of the reasons I came here is to see the quality of work the students are doing and their capacity to produce school furniture. What I have seen here are much better than what we are importing from China. If substantial part of the furniture is done by this school, much revenue would accrue to the school,” the governor noted. Obaseki said his administration was looking at redesigning the structures in primary schools to allow for better ventilation and cooling system, adding: “One of the challenges we have in our schools is heat. So, if we are able to work with the contractors handling the insulator roofing system in GSTC, we can redesign our primary schools such that there will be adequate natural cooling and ventilation in our schools.” our schools.”