Proposed adjustment in Value Added Tax (VAT) is not meant to create hardship, but to support the poor, Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Tunde Fowler, has explained.
He allayed fears that the increase in VAT may cause hardship for the poor, stating that VAT is charged on consumption and capacity to consume. “When you don’t consume certain categories of goods and services, you are not liable to pay VAT charges on those items. VAT is not charged on all medical and pharmaceutical products. It is not charged on basic food items. It is not charged on books and educational materials. It is not charged on baby products, fertilizers, locally produced agricultural and veterinary medicine. VAT is not charged on farming machinery and farming transportation equipment. “VAT is not charged on all exports, plant machinery and goods imported for use in Export Processing Zones and free trade zone: Provided that 100 per cent production of such company is for export. Other services exempted from VAT are medical services, services rendered by community banks, People’s Bank and mortgage institutions, plays and performances conducted by educational institutions as part of learning and all exported services are exempted from VAT,” Fowler was quoted in a statement issued yesterday by Wahab Gbadamosi. Fowler made the clarification in Lagos at the maiden edition of the Nigeria Tax Outlook (NTO) Stakeholders’ Roundtable Series organised by Nigeria Taxpayer Hub. “I was at a programme at the Senate. I was talking about projection in 2019 for the VAT. And I was asked a question about what my personal views were about the VAT and some people got it a bit wrong. Let me clarify some things. “I understand that some people misunderstand what the VAT is. VAT is a consumption tax. If you don’t have money to purchase certain categories of goods and services and you don’t consume them, then VAT is not your problem. The VAT is used to assist the needy. VAT provides support for the needy, not a hardship on them. Eighty-five per cent of VAT collected is shared among states for them to provide free education, free health services, provide basic amenities among others. “We can see what the Federal Government is doing with the tax money. Look at the rail system, the Abuja-Kaduna rail is complete. Look at the Lagos-Ibadan expressway; look at the education system, the school feeding programme, among others. If at the state level, your government cannot justify the taxes you pay to them, you have the right to vote them out in the next four years,” Fowler said.
He said that if countries like United Arab Emirate (UAE), Saudi Arabia who are rich in oil resources would be laying emphasis on taxation, Nigeria should also emulate them.
The FIRS Chairman also explained that Nigeria’s economy is only picking up in recent times because former administrations over-looked tax reforms and depended on the depletable mineral resources.