Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday said that the greatest mistake he made in the earlier part of the first tenure as governor was to subject himself to the control of his now estranged political godfather, Senator George Akume, an arrangement he said did not take the state anywhere. He said: “One of the mistakes I made in the earlier part of my administration was to subject it to the control of god-fatherism, and the strength on my administration in this second tenure will derive substantially in being free from the harmful effects of god-fatherism.”  The governor, who disclosed this in Makurdi, said now that the issue of godfatherism had been put aside, he was fully responsible for his administration and would ensure that it makes a big difference in the lives of the people.   “There is no more godfather in the politics of the state, and the people of the state have become my god-father, because it is through them that God Almighty gave me victory.  “Now, I am fully responsible for the functioning of my administration and will ensure that it makes a big difference in the lives of the people,” the governor said. The governor promised to reciprocate the goodwill and support of the people by providing good governance, which he said would make amend for the shortfalls of the past. He said one key element he would be relying on to ensure his second term was better was having far reaching consultation with the people and stakeholders in the Benue project. Ortom expressed appreciation to God and the people of Benue for seeing him through his second term, promising to evolve far-reaching consultation to harness the rich store of knowledge and experience to move the state forward.  According to him, “I have already said that now elections are over, we must put politicking behind us and focus on governance, and in this regard, I have already set the tone for reconciliation and peace building in the state.” The governor said he had directed his supporters to take deliberate steps towards embracing his opponents, who were willing to join hands with him to move the state forward. “I have also directed against the use of hurtful words and playing of offensive songs in the state, because I believe strongly that this is the time for peace-making and cooperation in the best interests of the state,” he said.