Chairman of First Texas Energy Corporation, United States and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. SKC Ogbonnia, was a presidential aspirant in the 2019 elections on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He speaks, in this interview with FELIX NWANERI, on the outcome of the polls as well as other issues  The 2019 general elections have come and gone, what is your assessment of the polls? I am happy that President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC), but I am equally finding it difficult to celebrate the victory. While accurately predicting the outcome two weeks before the presidential election, I remarked that many Nigerians were not in a hurry to bring the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) back to power so soon, having squandered our overflowing oil wealth during its 16-year reign. I also noted that its presidential nominee, Atiku Abubakar, was fundamentally flawed and had no game-changing message to crack the wall of Buhari’s fervent cult-like following in the vote-rich Northern Nigeria. However, unlike in the 2015 exercise, when both the loser, President Goodluck Jonathan, and the winner, Buhari, emerged from the election as heroes, Buhari’s victory in 2019 is plainly pyrrhic and with sweeping consequences. What are the consequences? Any objective history on the ills of the 2019 election ought to begin with how President Buhari back-pedaled the wheel of Nigeria’s democratic journey by refusing to sign into law the reforms to the Nigeria’s Electoral Act. Every electoral season since the Fourth Republic has seen a review of the nation’s electoral law, with a view to improve the electoral process. Buhari stalled this basic trajectory of progress with audacity. The failure quickly gave rise to a perception of executive subterfuge, which tainted the 2019 electoral process. The embers of impunity grew into wildfire within the ruling party. Led by Buhari’s self-appointed national party chairman, an active gaga figure in the person of Adams Oshiomhole, the APC rubbished the concept of internal party democracy within its ranks. The party imposed exorbitant nomination fees on aspirants, thereby further entrenching Nigerian democracy as the sole province of the highest bidders. But that is not even all. Aspirants who managed to cough out the nomination fees were either excluded or arbitrarily disqualified. This fiasco on the part of the ruling party prompted the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to lament that the primaries ahead of the 2019 elections were ‘some of the most acrimonious party primaries in our recent history.’ He regretted that the apparent lack of internal party democracy dealt a big blow to our electoral progress. But, some said the reasons given by the President for withholding his accent from the Electoral Act Amendment Bill were cogent… The ichors of the growing infamy spiraled down to Buhari’s sole claim to power, his war against corruption, where the president himself appeared to be aiding and abetting corruption. Nigerians would gape as Buhari accepted a N45 million nomination form purchased for him by a shadowy group, a clear mockery of S91(9) of the Electoral Act. As if such act lacks in folly, he embraced a phantom presidential primary, through which he was allocated about 15 million votes. But his storied integrity finally hit an olid seabed at the point the President penetrated the inner circle of Nigeria’s corrupt canton to enlist the worst of its examples into his presidential campaign council. Public trust in Nigeria may never recover from the conflicting optics of President Buhari, of all people, campaigning across the country, while standing shoulder-to-shoulder with some of the most notorious corrupt kingpins in the land. There are insinuations that the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, over alleged false declaration of assets has a link with elections. Do you share such view? Nothing exposed the hypocrisy in Buhari’s re-election campaign more than the brazen assault on public institutions. For instance, alleged to have been worried that the election could end up in the courts, Buhari removed a sitting Chief Justice of Nigeria on account of corruption few weeks to the election and without due process, while at the same time providing safe haven to some principal members of his party, who had similar corruption charges or worse. This move prompted a unified rebuke by the United States, United Kingdom and the European Union. Buhari finally threw caution to the wind with his tacit support for hostility against the international community. Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State, a close ally of the President, had responded to the concerns of the United States, United Kingdom and the European Union by charging that foreign bodies who ‘intervene’ in Nigeria’s election ‘would go back in body bags.’ To the chagrin of the human society, Buhari backed the governor. The immediate effect was military brutality during the elections, resulting in loss of many lives, a situation that is bound to echo as Nigeria continues to seek the much-needed foreign investment into its economy and foreign ‘intervention’ in her national security challenges. If you are to set an agenda for the President, what should be his priorities as he is set to begin his second term? Leadership is contingent upon the environment, quite alright, but prudence remains a universal virtue of good leadership. Thus, while it can be reasoned that Buhari deserves commendation for his victory, because the alternative was definitively worse, which is sadly true, his do-or-die tactics were as unpatriotic as they were needless. Like the situations in 2003, 2007, and 2011, even if the umpires were saints, the opposition in 2019 had no path to victory. The palpable anger trailing Buhari’s victory, including the outright rejection by the opposition, has more to do with the fact that the President ran a campaign charged with naked despotism, crass impunity, and stark arrogance. Yet, political retribution is an antithesis to progress. At any rate, Nigeria has found itself at crossroads. The way forward is for Buhari undergo a true change. What do you make of the rejection of the presidential election result by the PDP? The outright rejection of the results by PDP, even before the final votes were counted, is very discouraging. The action departs from the two principles that ought to have guided the 2019 polls. The first is an admonition by President Jonathan that ‘nobody’s political ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian.’ The other is the lesson of President Buhari, who, though felt aggrieved while losing the presidency on three different occasions, sought redress through the courts. The prayer here is for the winners to be magnanimous in victory, and for the losers to have the courage to concede in good faith. A rap that Buhari was a sore loser in the three different occasions he did not win. That is sadly true. In fact, he neither congratulated the winners in 2003, 2007, and 2011 nor recognised them while they were in office. But how far can our democracy grow by repeating the same mistakes over, and over again? How far can Nigeria go by laying the foundation of the future with the filthy mud of the past? More importantly, who are the victims, besides the unwary masses? Jonathan answered these questions when he buried past transgressions by conceding at a timely manner in 2015. Despite obvious electoral flaws in the 2015 process, he congratulated the winner for the greater good. Today, he has become a hero in defeat. Many great men had lost in the past and ended as the hero of their people. The likes of Nnamdi Azikiwe, Obafemi Awolowo, Aminu Kano, and Waziri Ibrahim, never won at the national level, but their legacies endure. Former American President Jimmy Carter was voted out of office in 1980, but he forged on to win the Noble Prize 22 years later. Carter, today, is viewed as one of the greatest leaders of the 20th century. Going forward, what is your message to the winners as well as losers? The 2019 presidential election has come and gone, but the aftermath depends on the actions or inactions of the leaders. Though there ere are glaring flaws in the elections, including needless loss of human lives, in which both the ruling and opposition parties are culpable, the elections were generally peaceful. Therefore, the blanket rejection of the results by the main opposition party is ill-advised. This action, a seemingly boycott in middle of a game, is a veiled incitement for revolt from their gullible supporters. We have already encountered deaths too many, most of who were innocent youths. Any attempt to further overheat the polity is unpatriotic. So far, we have seen some praiseworthy developments, as well as reprehensible behaviours on the part of the politicians. Commendation must go to the governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi of the ruling party, and President of the Senate and the Director-General of the Presidential Campaign Council of the main opposition party, Bukola Saraki; two powerful candidates, who lost their bids to the Senate, but showed the way by timely conceding and congratulating their opponents. Conversely, condemnation should go to the likes of Godswill Akpabio and Chris Ngige who have been inducing all manners of scenes because their party lost in their respective constituencies or states. The outcome of the presidential election was not supposed to come as a surprise, especially considering that most objective analysts had predicted a Buhari victory. Be that as it may, now is the time for both former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar and President Buhari to emulate former President Jonathan and demonstrate exemplary leadership. Buhari should demonstrate, more than ever before, that he is the father of the whole nation. Unlike his posture after his party’s primaries, Buhari should switch to a full toga of peace. He ought to equally appeal to some of his party men to tone down their pattern of inflammatory rhetorics and antics. All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant, Dr. SKC Ogbonnia, speaks in this interview with FELIX NWANERI on recent developments in the party and his grouse with the leadership style of the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole   Your views on recent developments in your party seem to have pitted… In “Politics” The national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday declared its support for candidates of the party in the 2019 general election in Kaduna State. The party also said that it was expecting millions of votes from the state to reelect President Muhammadu Buhari in the presidential election,… In “News” Former presidential spokesman to ex- President Olusegun Obasanjo, Dr. Doyin Okupe has declared that All Progressives Congress (APC) should forget the 2019 presidential election as the election would be won by the Peoples DemocratiC Party (PDP) since the ruling APC had no candidate for the election.   Okupe, who made… In “News”