The 2019 election season presented Nigerians with many upsets. However, perhaps the most significant was the defeat of Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, thereby ending a political dynasty in Kwara State that lasted for some 40 years out of its 52 years of existence, writes BIODUN OYELEYE  Saraki’s defeat during the National Assembly election took many by surprise, particularly those who had believed that given his ability to survive the political landmines planted against him in the National Assembly since he became the Senate President in 2015, he would easily survive the gang up against him at home.  But he couldn’t, going by the result of the election as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). While Saraki polled a total of 68,994 votes across the four local government areas that make up his Kwara Central Senatorial district, his All Progressives Congress (APC) opponent Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe polled 123, 808 votes.  And not only did Saraki lose his senatorial seat, all his lieutenants across the state also lost theirs, thus creating a total defeat for the Saraki political dynasty which he inherited from his late father, Dr. Olusola, and which had been the deciding factor in the state’s political calculations and negotiations for about 40 years.  For Saraki himself, the loss was his first blanket electoral defeat since his father brought him into the politics of the state in 2003 when he defeated the late Alhaji Mohammed Lawal to emerge governor of the north central state. Incidentally, Saraki’s current defeat followed the same pattern that Lawal was made to lose the 2003 election. In 2011, the Senate President finally had taken over control of his father’s political dynasty with his sponsorship of Alhaji Abdulfattah Ahmed as his successor instead of his sister, Senator Gbemisola Saraki who was his father’s preferred candidate.  In the 2015 general election, Saraki ditched the PDP and its candidate, former President Goodluck Jonathan and joined the APC. The APC won all available posts in the state in the 2015 election and Saraki emerged President of the Senate, although against the wishes of his party leaders. Why did he lose?  The Ahmed Factor Pundits will spend time pondering and expatiating on factors that mitigated against Saraki’s electoral fortunes in Kwara State. The first stone of accusation will be against the government he installed in 2011, under Alhaji AbdulFattah Ahmed. There is widespread perception in the state that Ahmed had not lived up to public expectation in terms of the delivery of social amenities and infrastructure. Although he revolutionised revenue generation under the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service, significantly shored up the state’s internal revenue, and embarked on some key capital projects, many communities argue they could not feel the impact of governance in their areas. “The governor made strenuous efforts in his first term but his second term was a big disappointment,” a community leader in Oke Ero Local Government Area told Sunday Telegraph, adding: “he spent much time making promises to everybody without fulfilling any to the extent that people no longer take his words with seriousness.”  To worsen the matter, the recession that came soon after the inauguration of the Muhammadu Buhari administration in 2015 affected the capacity of government to meet obligations to workers in the state. But while the state was able to run around and settle its core staff most of the time, it couldn’t do so for local government workers and those in state owned parastatals, leading to series of frustrations on their part.  To worsen the situation, the state government came up with a technical explanation to justify the failure to meet salary obligations to local government workers. It said they were not direct responsibility of the state but the councils were their respective employers. The legal dichotomy which government sought to exploit, however, backfired and reflected in widespread protest votes against the sitting government during the local government election of November, 2017. Although the government still used the power of incumbency to install its candidates as winner of the election, the damage had been done in two ways.  Firstly, it gave the opposition a sense of ‘we can do it’ against the political structure in the state and secondly it led to the emergence of new key actors in the struggle against the domination of the political landscape by Saraki dynasty. One of such new actors is Comrade Musbau Esinrogunjo, a young man who contested for the chairmanship of Ilorin West Local Government during the November 2017 council poll and lost to the influence of incumbency, a development that drove a permanent wedge between him and the Saraki structure. Today Esinroguno is one of the few faces of the O to ge struggle in the state such that even Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo had to visit his family house during a campaign stop in the state capital two days before the presidential poll.  It was the perceived low performance of the governor that made him drop out of the senatorial race for Kwara South after he had secured the ticket when incumbent senator, Dr. Rafiu Ibrahim was made to step down for him. The deciding factor was the November 2018 bye-election in a Federal Constituency in Kwara South which the APC won. Perhaps infuriated by the development, Saraki was said to have pointed out that if a sitting governor could not win a House of Representatives bye-election, it would be suicidal fielding him for the Senate, hence the ticket being given to Ibrahim.  However, much as many followers of Saraki are ready to blame Ahmed for ‘bringing bad luck’ to the Saraki political structure, the Senate President does not appear to be moved in that direction. Discussions among some of his key lieutenants seemed to suggest that they were rather grateful that the governor did not join the opposition against Saraki while he was embattled at the National Assembly. “That would have been worse,” one of his aides told Sunday Telegraph, adding “If for no other thing than that he did not make the home front hot for us during those period, whatever were his shortcomings we should let go.”  The power of radio Radio also played a significant role in why and how Saraki lost out in the political game. While he was busy with his Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCCT) trial, two gentlemen, Akogun Iyiola Oyedepo and Hon Yekeen Alajagusi started a radio programme, firstly called ‘PDP Gbode’ when they were still in PDP and later changed to ‘APC Gbode’ after Saraki’s defection to the PDP and their own subsequent defection to the APC. Oyedepo was Chief Whip in the state Assembly under the Lawal administration sacked by Saraki in 2003 while Alajagusi, who won election into the House of Representatives on Saturday, was a member of the Assembly. Both combined their oratorical skills to educate the masses and sway them away from the Saraki school of political philosophy. Their message soon caught fire and spread across the state, as it resonated with a wide spectrum of civil servants who were embittered both by the failure of government to meet their salary obligations and also the arrogant communication of the development. It took the state government and the Saraki political structure a long time to find a response to the radio programme and when it would, it ran into another problem again with radio, viz: a banker and strong member of the opposition, Alhaji Lukman Mustapha, launched his own private radio station, Sobi FM, which became a major platform for the dissemination of opposition messages in the state. The launch of Sobi FM meant the opposition had unrestricted access to the media to pass its message unlike before when everyone depended on the state-owned Radio Kwara, Federal Government owned Harmony FM both of which understandably were limited in their reportage being public entities. The third radio station which is privately owned, Royal FM, had served as arbiter between government and opposition but with the coming of Sobi FM, the door was thrown wide opened to the opposition to use as a veritable platform. So much was the influence of the radio station that when Vice President Osinbajo visited the state to launch Tradermoni, he spent about 45 minutes on air at Sobi FM, selling the APC. Although the state government and Saraki’s structure later came up with various progarmmes on all the radio stations in the state, they were all explanatory and defensive.  Absentee leadership Another factor that worked against the Senate President was that his schedule, and his CCT trial, separated him from his home base. This was to be compounded by his decision to join the presidential race as well as the subsequent acceptance to lead the PDP Presidential campaign of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar. When he was an ordinary senator, Saraki used to be at home every weekend, attending to the needs of his people. However, with his emergence as President of Senate, he had little or no time for most of his people. There were times he would come home and spend less than one hour at home, there were days people sat down waiting for him to emerge from his office at Ile Loke and address them, only to learn that his convoy had sped towards the airport. This situation was further compounded by his CCT trial during which he avoided meeting his followers as much as possible, unlike what he used to do. During the three and a half years the trial lasted, there were days he would be at home and no one would know, probably to avoid being seen as insensitive to the national mood over the trial. There were also the several attempts on his leadership of the Senate which meant he must spend time at Abuja with his strategists. And not too long after he got respite from the CCCT trial and left the APC, he delved into his presidential bid and after he lost, accepted to work as Director General of Atiku’s campaign. Many believe these were strategic distractions for a man who had been made by circumstances to abandon his political base and that given the degree of opposition he was facign at home, he ought to have learnt from the Rotimi Ameachi incident of 2015 when the latter too, also failed to make impact in his state while serving as DG of Buhari’s campaign. All these had a negative impact on his followers; many began to complain that they no longer enjoy their relationship with him; that they no longer had access to him or his usual favours. Some became embittered, and since their grounds were no longer being wetted by the Leader, they joined another train. This was also compounded by unfaithfulness among his sub-leaders. Many had used his name to execute personal agenda that came back to haunt the structure.  Loss of key foot soldiers Prior to the election, Saraki also lost the services of some of his election strategists in the state: Alhaji Moshood Mustapha, Alhaji Cook Olododo, Professor AbdulRaheem Oba, Alhaji Raheem Adedoyin, Alhaji Yinka Aluko, etc. While Oba and Olododo left him in 2015, Mustapha served him till 2017 when he resigned as his Senior Special Assistant. Olododo, Mustapha and Aluko were considered as keys to his winning the central senatorial election for two major reasons: their knowledge of the intricacies involved in political warfare in the district and their closeness to the grassroots in their respective communities. On the day of the last election, it was learnt that several APC agents, who used to work for the Saraki structure, readily volunteered information on tactics and strategies that were deployed against the PDP. “We lost to ourselves,” was how a staunch Sarakite described the incident, adding: “The result you see is what should have come to us but because these people know our paths, they denied us. That is just the truth.”  Bitter North spoke with ballot Despite a strategic move that ceded one term of the next governorship tenure to the northern senatorial district and an assurance to give them the speakership and SSG in the first term if PDP wins the gubernatorial race, the people of Kwara North voted massively against Saraki and his lieutenants. Even though their traditional rulers made entreaties and assured Saraki of a good outing at the polls, the masses stood on their ground to vote against the government they argued had neglected them for the better part of eight years.  It is on record that since Saraki left the state as governor, there has been no hallmark development in the zone. They also had problems with two of their principal representatives in the national assembly, Senator Shaaba Lafiagi and Hon Zakari Mohammed, both of whom they alleged had not brought development to their areas. It is recalled that the first uprising from the zone came when Lafiagi, a former governor attempted to force his way into his community against a barricade erected by some angry youths who asked him to return to Ilorin since he had failed to help in rehabilitating a failed bridge that cut off transportation along the road. One person was shot dead by soldiers drafted to the area to quell the uprising; but rather than thaw, it only further compounded the problem on ground. When Lafiagi lost the gubernatorial ticket to Hon. Razaq Atunwa, the PDP picked Zakari, a former broadcaster, as its senatorial flag bearer but many party members felt it was a wrong choice, given the volume of complaints against him at home. Few days to the election a video went viral showing how Zakari’s campaign team was chased away from a community where he had gone to seek their votes. Another factor of bitterness in the North had to do with the status of Yoruba traditional rulers from the southern part of the district, particularly the Ohoro of Shao and the Oba of Jebba. Although they are Yoruba speaking and are Moro Local Government Area in Kwara North, the two ancient towns of Shao and Jebba still fall under the Ilorin Emirate which is made up of Ilorin West, East, South, Asa and Moro local government areas. Indigenes of the two communities believe that their traditional stools should have been elevated along with their peers in the state. However, promoting them could be seen as pitching them against the position of the Emir of Ilorin who is in charge of the entire emirate and appoints their rulers. For Jebba, the matter has been in and out of court for years and for Shao, the traditional ruler made it a point of complaint at the two instances he hosted first, Governor Ahmed and later Saraki during their campaign stops in the town. Neither of the two political leaders could offer a reasonable assurance on what to do and on election day, the people spoke with their ballot against a system they have persistently argued has suffocated their traditional stools.  O to ge movement It is on record that the creative spinning of campaign messages witnessed in the 1993 election, no other political slogan has come out to rival the O to ge campaign slogan adopted for the APC in Kwara State. It is a slogan that took its root from a summarisation of the experiences of those opposed to the Saraki dynasty in the state; an exasperation, a shout of deviance to liberate themselves from the perceived overlordship of the dynasty. Again, the slogan owes its evolution to the powerful role radio played in the Kwara election.  It has currently become the hoot sign for motorists and commercial motorcyclists. It captured the desires of Kwarans based in Lagos who came home en masse to give effect to the dream encapsulated in the slogan. At the end of the, even though the PDP has described the election as a sham, the outcome so far has helped to affirm in Kwara, the power of the O to ge Movement against Saraki who will have to sit out of political power in the next four years.    Dogara survives APC's onslaught Police detain INEC officer over result alteration Yakubu: Ad hoc official died of stray bullet Police: 128 offenders arrested across the country     The Saturday’s National Assembly election has recorded a major casualty in the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, as he lost his re-election… In "News" Senator-elect for Kwara Central senatorial district, Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe, said his victory at the February 23 poll against Senate President Bukola Saraki was an indication that the All Progres-sives Congress (APC) has ended the Saraki political dynasty after ruling Kwara State for about 40 years. Oloriegbe said he was able… In "News" The 2019 general election recorded a major casualty as Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki lost his Kwara central senatorial district. In results announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)in Ilorin, Saraki lost to his rival, Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe of the All Progressives Congress (APC). While Oloriegbe polled a total… In "National news"