It is barely two months to May 29 when the tenure of some governors elected in 2015 for a second term or first term would come to an end. For some of the governors whose tenures would be ending or did not win a second term in office, now is the period to prepare handover notes to their successors, who would take over on May 29. There are a few others whose quest for second term was truncated as was the case of Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode. The reality is that on May 29, some new governors would be mounting the saddle, while those who are elected for a second term in office would continue. We are not unaware of the antics of some Nigerian politicians who lay landmines for their successors in different ways. We are equally aware that some of the outgoing governors would, between now and May 29, employ more people into the civil service in their states – what they did not do in the four or eight years in office – some would engage in massive borrowing to finance projects they are leaving behind, while others would tamper with allocations to their states in order to take lump sums home after their services. All these are tailored towards making life difficult for the incoming government, especially when they are not the outgoing governors’ cronies or direct appointees. In Imo State, for instance, where the state governor, Rochas Okorocha, failed in his bid to install his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, as his successor, there have been allegations by the incoming Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government of massive looting of the state’s finances and auctioning of some vehicles at give-away prices. There is no doubt that some of the allegations might be in the realm of propaganda to rub in his failure to install a successor in office, but there is also the need to ensure that the allegations are not true. That is because there is also the tendency that the governor might want to revenge his loss on the state. Imo has precedence. In the twilight of his reign before he handed over to Okorocha in 2011, a former governor of the state, Ikedi Ohakim, had employed 10,000 workers for the state civil service. That included teachers and all manner of characters, just weeks before his exit from office. Also in Ekiti State, former Governor Ayo Fayose also attempted to employ about 2,000 workers about three months to the end of his tenure. He handed over to Governor Kayode Fayemi eventually. The motive for the last-minute employment can only be imagined. There are also tales of some outgoing governors emptying the state treasury by paying huge sums to contractors and all sorts of people, taking bank loans and even making huge promises that put their states in danger for the next administration. We know that government is a continuum, where the incoming governments inherit both the assets and liabilities left behind by the outgoing government. We also know that most states of the federation have huge debts hanging on their necks, occasioned by massive borrowings, contractual debts and salary arrears owed civil servants and local government workers. In states such as Imo, Ogun, Lagos, Nassarawa, Borno, Oyo, Zamfara and Yobe to mention a few, new governors would be taking over the mantle of leadership. The number might increase after last Saturday’s supplementary elections. There are states where the outgoing governors would be handing over to people from the opposition parties. Such states include Gombe, Imo and Oyo, among others. Going by experiences of the past, there is a tendency of the outgoing governors laying booby traps for their successors in these states. That is where we believe that all regulatory and anti-graft agencies should be on the alert. We believe that for the next two months before they hand over to their successors, CBN and, EFCC particularly, should keep an eye on the pattern of spending of the outgoing governors. We also think that CBN should put a hold on the issue of borrowing in whatever guise by the outgoing governors. We say so because we do not understand what projects a governor that governed a state for four or eight years would be executing in the next two months, which he didn’t accomplish before the elections. We also expect EFCC to be on the alert to prevent last-minute heists by the outgoing governors. This is necessary because once they leave office, whatever that was taken would become a subject of academics and law courts, when the damage has been done. We expect that what should occupy the outgoing governors’ minds now is leaving a clean slate for their successors, not huge burdens that are borne out of sheer mischief, politics of vendetta and outright wickedness. The governors should know that this is a sensitive moment, where their actions and inactions could become a burden for the new administrations. We therefore expect regulatory and anti-graft agencies to be on the alert and ensure that outgoing governors do not do more damage to the state of affairs of their states. Rather, they should leave with honour and dignity, knowing full well that the states are bigger than them.