Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, declared that he will not desist from criticising the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. Obasanjo, who challenged Buhari to prove him wrong on the current administration’s failure in the country, said democracy is all about criticisms and appreciating contrary views. He said this at a public lecture to mark his 82nd birthday held at the auditorium of Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL), Abeokuta. President of the Inkatha Freedom Party and former Minister of Home Affairs in South Africa, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, delivered the lecture, which was sponsored by the presidential library’s Centre for Human Security and Dialogue. It was Obasanjo’s first public comment since President Buhari won a second term last week, defeating the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar.
The ex-president backed Atiku in the February 23 presidential election. But Obasanjo, while responding to the admonition of Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, that he should desist from ceaseless attacks on Buhari, said he would not back down.
He stated that he would continue to criticise the president until the latter does what is right for Nigeria. The former president explained that his criticisms of Buhari were not borne out of malice, but in good faith, adding that the issues between him and the president were not personal.
Obasanjo pointed out that those who keep quiet in the face of maladministration and poor governance are “accomplices to crime.” His words: “I believe that Africa has no alternative to democracy, good governance, and development and growth of our economy. We have none. And if that is not happening in any country, those who keep quiet about it, they are accomplices to the crime. “That in a democracy you criticise a policy of a government is not a family affair, even if it is my brother that is there and he is not doing it the way he should do; he must be criticised. That is what democracy is all about, criticism and seeing the other side. “So, if I say anybody in government in Nigeria or any government for that matter is not doing well, let that government prove that it is doing well. It’s not anything personal. So, Kabiyesi (referring to Alake of Egbaland) your boss, Buhari; there is nothing personal between me and him. Just as he is your boss, I am his boss, with all due respect. “Now, the point is that I have been in that position longer than any Nigerian will ever be there. That’s true. If any Nigerian comes in and have two terms, he will not have almost four years of military rule. So, I have been there longer than any Nigerian would ever be there. “So, when I say something, I know what I am talking about. Kabiyesi (Alake) anytime you say, ‘leave my boss alone,’ I say ‘he is your boss.’ But I am also his (Buhari) boss. So, you might also ask your boss (Buhari) to leave his boss alone or do what is right that his boss wants him to do.” Obasanjo stressed the need for both Nigeria and South Africa to strengthen their cooperation and partnership for the progress and development of the African continent. Earlier in his goodwill message, Oba Gbadebo had described Obasanjo as a “warrior” all his life, but urged him to take some rest, fight less and rather take a position of a consultant at his new age. The monarch, who served as a military officer during the military regime of Muhammadu Buhari between 1984 and 1985, said he had always told Obasanjo to leave his boss (Buhari) alone. “At 82 years, I think you should keep your sword more rather than use it always,” he stated to the applause of the audience. In his lecture entitled, “Colonialism, Apartheid, Freedom and South Africa Rising,” Buthelezi identified corruption as the biggest challenge facing Africa.