The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is to visit Lagos State within the week to mobilise support for the party’s candidates in the Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections. Also, other party leaders will visit other states to mobilise support for the party’s candidates in the elections. This was part of the resolutions reached at yesterday’s PDP expanded caucus meeting. A source at the meeting told New Telegraph that the measure was to boost members and party supporters’ morale, following the outcome of February 23 presidential election. “We noticed that Nigerians are not happy since result of the presidential election was announced. “Nigerians are not happy at the manipulation of the election and there may be voter apathy and this will give the All Progressives Congress (APC) room to rig. That is why we decided, at the expanded caucus meeting today (yesterday), that our leaders should go round the country to mobilise support for our candidates. “Atiku will visit Lagos, and some of our leaders will go to other states to boost morale of our members and supporters,” the source said. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Seconds, had earlier condemned attempt to prevent a section of people from voting in the elections in Lagos State. The source stated that the planned visit of PDP presidential candidate to Lagos is to encourage Lagosians to come out en masse and vote for the PDP candidates. None of the PDP governors, including the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogora, were present at the meeting. But PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbindiyan, told journalists that they sent apologies. “They were not absent. To say they were absent is to say there were no apologies. “First and foremost, I want to emphatically say that many of our governors are in the election coming up on Saturday and they have slated rallies ahead of the election, and as such they sent their representatives to participate in this meeting because they are on campaign. Even the President of the Senate is campaigning in Kwara. We have no issue about participation,” Ologbondiyan explained. He added that caucus is different from National Executive Council (NEC) meeting. According to him, “Even on a normal caucus day, we don’t have more than 15 to 20 people participating. So what we had today was an expanded caucus, not an expanded NEC. “The fact is that we have an election on Saturday, there are some candidates that cannot stop their campaign. For instance, our candidate in Oyo State, Seyi Makinde was here. So I don’t think there is any issue about the participation.” Nigerians will be going to the poll on February 16, to elect a new president from an unprecedented 73 candidates in the race for the country’s number one position, but out of this number, only a handful have, so far, presented themselves to the electorate since the presidential campaign started… In "Politics" The stage is set for an interesting contest for Nigeria’s number one position in the 2019 general election as President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar square up against each other, Felix Nwaneri reports     The battle line for the 2019 presidency has been drawn between President… In "Politics" Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal said the situation where the country is run by proxy would not be acceptable after May 2019. This is even as the former Chairman of the National Caretaker Committee, Senator Ahmed Makarfi said PDP was victorious at the Port Harcourt National Convention that produced the… In "News"