●Bello condoles with Ado Ibrahim over demise of son  Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, on Thursday condoled with the Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, and the entire Oborevwori family of Osubi in Okpe Local Government Area of the state over the demise of their uncle and father, Pa. Johnson Oborevwori. This is as Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State yesterday joined other mourners to condole with the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland, Alhaji Ado Ibrahim, over the death of his son, Rahaman Ado Ibrahim. Okowa in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Charles Aniagwu, in Asaba, said the late Oborevwori was a committed and passionate leader whose contributions to the development of his immediate community was commendable. He commended Oborevwori’s commitment to the peace, stability and development of not only his community but also the entire Urhobo nation, describing his death as a great loss not only to the family but the state in general, given his invaluable contributions to the cause of humanity. Okowa said: “The late Pa. Johnson Oborevwori was a quintessential father, devout Christian who devoted his lifetime to the service of God and humanity, On behalf of the government and people of Delta State, I commiserate with Mr. Speaker, Sheriff Oborevwori, over the painful loss of his beloved uncle, Pa. Johnson Oborevwori.” Meanwhile, Bello in his condolence message, through his Chief Press Secretary, Mohammed Onogwu, said the news of Rahaman’s death came as a rude shock to him and the entire state. The governor said: “It was with deep shock and profound sadness but with total submission to the will of Almighty Allah that I learnt of the demise of my brother, Malam Rahaman Ado Ibrahim whose sad event took place on Thursday 22 March, at a prime age of 43. “I wish to on behalf of the people and government of Kogi State, express my most sincere condolences to our father, Dr. Ado Ibrahim and members of his entire household over the death of his son. Our hearts and prayers are with you even as you go through this phase of life. May almighty Allah accept his soul into his paradise. Do accept our sincere condolences.”