Former Akwa Ibom State Deputy Governor, Chris Ekpenyong, who defeated Senator Godswill Akpabio in the Akwa Ibom Noth-West Senatorial District election, yesterday said the former Senate Minority Leader and former governor of the state, was only embarking on a futile journey to change the course already designed by God.  This was as Ekpenyong was served a copy of a petition to appear before the election petition tribunal.  While receiving the summons, yesterday from the Secretary of the tribunal at his EEMJM Hotel Office in Uyo, the state capital, Ekpenyong, said he was not perturbed by Akpabio’s action, saying: “Akpabio was only embarking on a futile journey to change the course already designed by God.”  He told his teeming supporters to “remain calm as your mandate has been rescued by the divine arrangement for peace, development and even spread of the dividends of democracy to thrive.” “You should not be afraid of Akpabio as your mandate is secured with me. The God that allowed your votes to be counted will stand by us to get justice at the tribunal and in various courts.  We are ready to defend the will of the people of Ikot Ekpene at all times,” he stressed. Senator Akpabio, who   currently represents Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District (Akwa Ibom North-West) at the Red Chamber, had petitioned the state Elections Petition Tribunal, which was filed on his behalf by his counsel, Mr. Sunday Ameh (SAN) on March 16. Ameh, had penultimate week withdrawn the earlier suit filed at Apo District of Abuja High Court, seeking the invocation of an order of mandamus, ordering INEC to review and reverse the results of the polls in his Senatorial District due to improper process.  The tribunal, sitting in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom state capital, would soon begin hearing on all post 2019 general elections matters. Akpabio, according to a statement by his Media Aide, Anietie Ekong, is seeking to upturn the outcome of the February 23 National Assembly poll, in which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Ekpenyong of the PDP the winner.  While announcing the winner, the Returning Officer, Dr. Nsikak Senam of the University of Uyo (UNIUYO), Department of Communication Art, declared that Ekpenyong polled 118,215 votes as against over 83,158 votes polled by Akpabio.