 As against what happened during the last election, where he lost his polling unit, the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday won his polling unit by polling 124 votes to defeat his main opponent, Mr. Jimi Agbaje of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who got 25 votes. The National leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode also delivered their polling units for the party. Speaking after casting his vote, Sanwo-Olu, who arrived at his Polling Unit, at Unit 019, Lateef Jakande Avenue/Femi Okunnu in Ikoyi, Eti Osa Local Government Area, in company with his wife, Dr. Ibijoke at 10:33am, described the process as generally peaceful, despite pockets of delays recorded in some parts of the state. “Exactly six months ago today, I picked the APC gubernatorial nomination form to contest in this election. I have done a thorough campaign. I went to every nook and cranny of the state to meet voters and stakeholders. “I listened to everybody and heard their concerns. Given all of these, it means that we are better prepared to earn the confidence of Lagosians. So, I am confident of victory at the end of this process.” Also speaking after casting their votes, Alliance for Democracy (AD) governorship candidate, Chief Owolabi Salis, and his Action Democratic Party (ADP) counterpart, Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi, differed on the process. While Salis commended the process, describing it as free and fair, the ADP candidate, said he doesn’t have confidence in the process. Add NewSpeaking to journalists after casting his vote in Gbagada, Kosofe LGA, Salis said the election was free and peaceful and he will accept the result even if he lost, provided the process is free and free. “I will accept the result if it is free and fair. But reject it if not free and fair,” he said. Gbadamosi while speaking to journalists after casting his vote, said he doesn’t have confidence in the process because of a faulty system, saying that the low turn out of voters during the governorship election was as a result of people not having confidence in the election process.