…says 2 officers died, others assaulted  A total of 323 alleged electoral offenders were arrested during the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly polls held across the country. Also during the exercise, two police officers lost their lives, while many others sustained varying degrees of injuries. The Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, made the disclosures yesterday at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, during a post-election evaluation meeting with senior officers. According to the IGP, the conference was intended to “debrief” strategic commanders, as well as evaluate the Force’s performance during national elections. This, Adamu noted, was with a view to firming up operational strategies for better policing of this Saturday’s Governorship and House of Assembly elections. “It is noted that updated statistics resulting from Presidential and National Assembly elections, shows that a total of 323 offenders have so far been arrested for various electoral offences and sundry crimes across the country. “Two officers also paid the supreme sacrifice, while some others were assaulted and injured,” the IGP said. The police chief maintained that the “exceptional professionalism” personnel demonstrated during the exercise necessitated the peace and security that characterised the contest. This was as Adamu further disclosed that a directive had been issued to the Electoral Offences Team, to carry out thorough investigation into the cases, in liaison with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The IGP said: “For those arrested for various electoral infractions, I have directed the Special Electoral Offences Team of the Force to undertake detailed and conclusive investigations into all the cases with a view to liaising with INEC in ensuring their prosecution. “As we perfect our plans for the Governorship and State Assembly elections, I also want to reassure the nation and the international community of the unwavering commitment of the Police to work closely with INEC and sister secu-