The chances of Senator Oluremi Tinubu (APC, Lagos Central) to get the position of the Deputy President of the Senate (DSP) in the 9th Assembly faced further challenge yesterday, as Senator Kabiru Gaya (APC, Kano South) joined the list of ranking lawmakers angling for the post. Apart from Tinubu, other senators who are reportedly jostling for the office from the South, if the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) zoned the Senate Presidency to the North, are Prof. Ajayi Boroffice (APC, Ondo North), former Senate Leader, Teslim Folarin (APC, Oyo Central) and the outgoing Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun. Senator Tinubu is the wife of National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. She is going to the Senate for the third term. Folarin is a former Senate Leader on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while Boroffice is returning to the Senate for the third term. Gaya, a former Kano State governor, is one of the ranking parliamentarians among the 43 re-elected senators of the outgoing 8th Senate and serves as chairman, Senate Committee on Works. The lawmaker told journalists at the International Conference Centre (ICC) Abuja, after collecting his certificate of return, that his aspiration is driven by mass appeal from some of his colleagues and his burning desire to serve in the leadership of the next Senate, having returned to the apex legislative chamber for the fourth time “I thank the Almighty Allah who granted me the grace of being elected into the Senate for the fourth time. “As regards the leadership composition of the 9th Senate, majority of my colleagues are mounting pressure on me to run for the position of Deputy Senate President which I want to use this opportunity to announce that I’m running for the position being one of the most ranking senators in the 9th Senate. “By God’s grace and with the permission of the leadership of the party and the Presidency, I will run for the office of Deputy Senate President,” he said. Gaya, however, stated that had Dr. Bukola Saraki remained in APC and won his re-election, he would have still retained his position in the next Assembly as the President of the Senate. His ambition strongly indicates that the position of Senate President may be zoned to the South-East where ranking senators in the persons of Senators Benjamin Uwajumogu (APC, Imo North), and Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia North), have emerged, and not North-East, where the much touted person for the position, Senator Ahmad Lawan comes from. Before Gaya’s open declaration for DSP’s position, the focus was on Senators Lawan (APC, Yobe North), Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South) and Danjuma Goje (APC, Gombe Central) for the position of Senate President. However, the leadership positions for the 9th Senate are still open as far as many of the APC senators-elect are concerned. In separate interviews granted at the ceremony, many of the elected politicians said that the presidency and leadership of the party would give direction to that effect. Senator-elect Adedayo Adeyeye (APC, Ekiti South) opined that for the 9th Senate to avoid the leadership crisis that engulfed the 8th Assembly, the national leadership of the party must provide the required direction on how the positions in the National Assembly should be distributed among the different geopolitical zones of the country, and specific lawmakers to occupy the positions. However, Senator-elect Bamidele Opeyemi (APC, Ekiti Central) said that whatever process that would be used by the presidency and party leadership must be well managed to avoid any backlash. “The calibre and character of personalities elected for the 9th Senate are very solid and promising for the country, but leadership is key, which is the very reason why the leadership of the ruling party must manage well, whatever process it’s going to use for emergence of leadership at both chambers this time around. “Once this is done, the party and, in particular, the National Assembly and the presidency will be on the same page on developmentdriven bills sponsorship, policy formulations and approvals,” he said. Allaying the fears of Nigerians on possible leadership crisis in the 9th Senate as it was in the 8th Senate, Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (APC, Niger North), told journalists at the event that required lessons to be learnt from the leadership squabbles of the 8th Senate have been learnt and such will not repeat itself again. “I was a key player in the leadership configuration of the 8th Senate and the attendant crises that followed. As one of the 43 returnees now, the lessons learnt will be used to prevent the mistakes of the past from happening,” he said. There are strong indications that the battle for the Senate Presidency has begun, with the South-East and the North-East geopolitical zones striving to produce the next President of the upper chamber of the National Assembly. Although the All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to announce a zoning arrangement for the… In “News” An intriguing battle for the position Senate President has ensued within the All Progressives Congress (APC), which won majority of seats in the upper legislative chamber ahead of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, Felix Nwaneri reports   The National Assembly elections have come and gone, with winners and… In “Politics” The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Reconciliation Committee faces a herculean task in reconciling aggrieved members of the party in Ondo State as the rift between Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and Senator Robert Ajayi Boroffice deepens, BABATOPE OKEOWO reports   The supremacy battle between governors and some senators from their states… In “Politics”