With the Premier League campaign winding down, the outcome of today’s clash at Anfield between Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur could be a season defining moment for either club, writes Tunde Sulaiman  FIXTURES  Today Cardiff City v Chelsea – 2:05pm Liverpool v Tottenham Hotspur – 4:30pm   Monday Arsenal v Newcastle – 8pm  Anfield is the setting for the standout game of week 32 of the 38-match English Premier League campaign with home side, Liverpool hoping to keep their title hopes alive when they square up against Tottenham Hotspur, in arguably the Reds’ toughest remaining fixture of the season. Before the International Break last weekend meant that the attention of football fans switched to their national teams rather than domestic glory, the Reds had taken the opportunity to go back to the top of the table courtesy of a shaky 2-1 victory over basement side, Fulham. Although Jurgen Klopp’s side did manage to get the better of Scott Parker’s struggling side, however, the fact that they needed a massive helping hand from the Cottagers’ keeper, Sergio Rico to get the job done once again raised question marks over his side’s mental strength in attempting to end their 29-year wait to be crowned champions again. Going into the match Liverpool was the clear favourite to beat side which has so far only won four matches this season and when Sadio Mane scored his 11th goal in as many games in all competitions it appeared that it would be another easy afternoon for the Reds. But the visitors failed to put a limited Fulham side away, allowing the hosts back into the game. A dire defensive mix-up between defender Virgil van Dijk and goalkeeper Alisson gave Ryan Babel an equaliser against his former club on 74 minutes piling more pressure on the team from Anfield to get a win or see their title hopes suffer an almost fatal blow. And nine minutes to the end of the game, Rico’s clanger in dropping Mohamed Salah’s curling shot and fouling Mane as the Senegal forward went for the ball gifted the visitors an unlikely win. Substitute Milner calmly hit his penalty down the middle as Rico dived right, sending a relieved Liverpool back to the top for the first time since March 1. The win ensured that Klopp’s side moved two points ahead of champions Manchester City, who have a game in hand. With Fulham carrying little threat and unable to keep the ball midfield in the first half, it was a test of whether Liverpool could focus and avoid complacency. They were far from their slick and incisive best – Firmino was poor aside from his assist for Mane’s goal and frequently misplaced passes, Adam Lallana was anonymous in midfield and Joel Matip headed well wide when free at a corner. But in the end they were able to limp over the line courtesy of Rico. Speaking after the great escape, Liverpool’s German coach still sounded very bullish insisting that his side’s nerve was “not in doubt” following their Craven Cottage scare. “We started well but lost the rhythm a little bit,” Klopp told BBC Sport. Klopp said his side were “a bit rusty” in the first half, having beaten Bayern Munich away in stunning fashion to reach the Champions League quarter-finals. “We could’ve finished it off in the second half but if you don’t kill the game, something like that can happen,” he added. “I’m not in doubt about my players’ nerve. I always want perfection but it’s really rare that you get it. “People will say we should be more convincing in games like this but this is us. We are in the middle of a development, not at the end.” “We want to stay in the title race and that’s what we did,” said Klopp. “First is the best position you can be in. City don’t look as if they drop a lot of points, so we have to win, to win and to win. “I didn’t see us panic, I liked how we reacted. The penalty doesn’t say we are sensational – 10 minutes before the equaliser, we had so many little mistakes. “But we had a very intense week, going to Munich, coming back, travelling to London, so I’m completely fine. “Average game, sensational result.” With the team from the blue half of Manchester certain to have beaten Fulham yesterday, Klopp knows that he cannot afford to see his team slip up against a very difficult foe this evening. Incidentally when both sides met in the reverse fixture at Wembley on September 15, Klopp got the better of his Spurs’ opposite number, Mauricio Pochettino courtesy of a 2-1 win. Touted as the Reds’ sternest test of the new league season, Klopp’s side passed with flying colours to secure a fifth straight league win at the start of the season for the first time since 1990. Georginio Wijnaldum scored his first away league goal since joining Liverpool – technology adjudging his header to have crossed the line despite the attempts of back-up Spurs keeper Michel Vorm to clear. The visitors were dominant almost throughout and doubled their advantage after 54 minutes when Roberto Firmino scored from on the line after Jan Vertonghen turned Sadio Mane’s cross on to his own post. Andrew Robertson and Lucas Moura hit the woodwork for either side but the Reds could and should have made this a more convincing win, with Naby Keita and Mane missing chances to add to their goal tally. Erik Lamela pulled one back for Spurs deep into stoppage time and Son Heung-min saw a late penalty claim turned down after he was brought down by Mane but it was all too late and Liverpool’s triumph was fully deserved, with Klopp insisting afterwards that his side deserved their “big result”. “What a game from my boys – that was really, really good,” Klopp said. “If we win at Tottenham it’s a big result. “Tottenham are one of the best teams in the world football, and to come here and perform like that after the international break… I didn’t take that for granted. “We were defensively good, offensively good, and the performance was better than the result. It was perhaps a bit nervy at the end but no problem. I have nothing to be critical about today. If you win games and you’re not 100 per cent with the performance it’s still three points – I like that. It’s a deserved result.” On his part, Pochettino said: “I am not disappointed – the game showed how competitive the Premier League is and we played a really good team who started very well. “In the second half we made mistakes but we were pushing. The goals we conceded came from our own mistakes, but I am calm.” Parenthetically, the reversal was a somewhat of a surprise considering that the Argentine had just seen his side emphatically despatch Manchester United 3-0 on the road and would have fancied their chances against the Reds. But ever the pragmatist, Pochettino pointed out: “After we beat Manchester United at Old Trafford I said we still need to improve, and I’m still saying that.” How far he has been able to improve his side will be put to the test today with the odds heavily stacked against the visitors. In 75 previous trips to Anfield, Spurs has managed to leave the venue with all three points on only eight occasions! The home team has won 44 times and there have been 23 draws between them. Nevertheless, what makes this tie even more tantalising is the fact that with so much riding on the outcome neither can actually afford to lose. As things presently stand Spurs is just a solitary point ahead of fourth placed Arsenal which sees action tomorrow night at home to Newcastle and so a loss will hand the incentive over to the Gunners to further cement their quest for a top four finish by beating the Magpies, which would move them two points above their London rivals with only six games left. For Liverpool the margin is equally very fine with City likely to have beaten Fulham yesterday to replace them on top of the table – meaning that they must win today, especially as The Citizens has a game in hand over the Reds. With so much at stake, it should make for a very interesting high octane game for the neutrals, while for fans it will be a nail-biting evening. However, before the big Anfield showdown, there is the small matter of Maurizio Sarri taking his Chelsea to Cardiff City hoping to bounce back from the humiliation of the shocking 2-0 reversal at Everton before the International Break dented his top four hopes. In a match of two halves, the Blues totally dominated the first but failed to make it count but had their profligacy punished four minutes after the break as Richarlison headed in following a corner for his 13th goal of the season. And the visitors’ woes increased in 71 minutes when Richarlison was brought down in the area by Marcos Alonso, with Gylfi Sigurdsson scoring the rebound from his own penalty. Following the Goodison Park upset, the Italian was to once again the blame on into his players questioning their mental “limit”. “We played probably the best 45 minutes of the season and then suddenly at the beginning of the second half we stopped playing; I don’t know why,” said Sarri. “It is impossible that the situation is a physical problem because if it is, you can go down gradually, not in one second. “It is very difficult for me to explain the change. Probably it is a mental block.” When asked how worried he was that Chelsea’s mental situation has not been solved, Sarri said: “At the moment, this is our limit. “If we are able to play like in the first half with consistency, then we are in another position in the table.” The knives have been out for some time now over the longevity of the Italian’s stay at Stamford Bridge following some indifferent performances, but his survival odds will be cut even more should the Blues fail to leave Wales without all three points against a side currently two points away from safety in 18th spot on the table. All things being equal though Sarri should be able to get his wards to extend his stay by beating the Bluebirds. Week 32 action concludes tomorrow with Arsenal hosting Newcastle. Incidentally, Match Day 33 games kick off during the week with some mouth-watering fixtures including two taking place on Tuesday with Watford hosting Fulham and Manchester United travelling back to the home of their FA Cup nemesis, Wolverhampton Wanderers. Week 33 action concludes on Wednesday with Chelsea hosting Brighton & Hove Albion; Manchester City at home to Cardiff City and Crystal Palace making the short trip across London to tackle Tottenham Hotspur.