An ophthalmologist has highlighted some of the factors that may expose citizens to glaucoma, an irreversible eye disease. Dr. Biyi Kufo, a consultant ophthalmologist and chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) , Lagos State Committee on Eye Health, said a high intraocular pressure increases the risk of glaucoma. Kufo who is also a Fellow of the Medical College of Ophthalmology at the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria, said glaucoma had become more common among Nigerian citizens and often and is more aggressive among people of the black race. These are contained in a statement by the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) to mark the 2019 World Glaucoma Week. “If some of these factors were present in any individual,” Kufo said, “There was a greater chance of developing glaucoma if a person in your family has it; increasing age is also a factor.” Similarly, he added that some diseases such as high blood pressure increases the possibility of developing glaucoma. Glaucoma is a public health problem as it remains a leading cause of blindness worldwide. In Nigeria, with a national prevalence of blindness of 4.2 per cent, glaucoma is responsible for 16.7 per cent of that figure. In addition, management of the disease could be quite costly, Kufo noted. To this end, the consultant ophthalmologist said awareness of glaucoma in Nigeria was poor. “The disease often presents late, and early detection will require screening programmes, which can be very expensive. Glaucoma consists of a group of diseases with common characteristics, which mainly affects the optic nerve. The optic nerve is the nerve which connects the eye to the area of the brain responsible for the sensation of sight, and glaucoma if untreated, results in loss of optic nerve function and irreversible blindness. In most cases Kufo said glaucoma does not present with any symptoms, until the late stages of the disease, meaning that people who have the disease often do not know until it was advanced and the vision was seriously affected. “Affected persons usually experience cloudiness, which gradually worsens vision.” Glaucoma can be treated, with the use of medicines as well as with surgery. However, blindness resulting from glaucoma is not reversible, Kufo added. Furthermore, he said the management of glaucoma on a national level should involve screening programmes designed to detect the disease early and institute treatment. “When treatment begins early, useful vision can usually be maintained and blindness is often prevented,” he said. He urged everyone from the age of 40 years and above including younger persons with family history of glaucoma) to have their eyes checked by an ophthalmologist once a year. “In this way, people with the disease can be detected and treated, which will often prevent blindness.” According to him, treatment may include surgery, which has been found to be more effective in the treatment of glaucoma than medical management alone.