Lame duck governors and the incoming ones have started fighting. There will be accusations and counter-accusations in the days ahead. We will hear things that will make us feel some politicians deserve to be thrown under a fast moving bus. There will also be exaggerations, and some dogs will be given bad names just to desperately justify why they deserve to have the hangman’s noose tied around their necks. In other words, some incoming governors will play politics with everything and find excuses why they cannot hit the ground running immediately they come on board. A noise is already being made in Imo State that the incumbent Governor, Rochas Okorocha, has allegedly withdrawn over N17 billion from different banks under cryptic circumstances. The governorelect, Emeka Ihedioa, has warned banks to be wary of their financial dealings with the outgoing governor who did all he could to have his worthy son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, as his successor, a move that has semblance of monarchical system of government. Always a gadfly, Okorocha, who raised a similar issue against the then governor Ikedi Ohakhim has suddenly realised that meddlesomeness is unconstitutional and if his successor is interested in balancing of books that should wait until May 29. In Oyo State, the incoming governor, Seyi Makinde, is ill at ease and has twice challenged the constituted authority of Governor Abiola Ajimobi on the alleged awards of fresh contracts running into billions of naira at the twilight of an administration that has two months left in office. The governor-elect alleged that instruction had been given to all local government councils “to spend all money in their care, including stabilisation accounts,which are traditionally reserved for emergencies and natural disasters.” Makinde said he wasn’t aware that there was any disaster in any part of the state that would have warranted such order. Time will tell if indeed Makinde is engaging in campaign of calumny to smear governor Ajimobi’s image and rubbish his (governor’s) “eight years selfless service” to the state as claimed by the incumbent governor. Left for some outgoing governors, there is no point in being prudent with their states’ money. They will spend whatever is left in the coffers with reckless abandonment and make a saint out of the biblical prodigal son. Such ploy is deliberate. It’s aimed at making life difficult for the incoming governments and make them look like bad choices in the eyes of the electorate who actually voted for them. God help the incoming government if it doesn’t belong to the same party with the outgoing one. But if they belong to the same party or it’s headed by a stooge of the outgoing governor, the incoming government will rather suffer in silence and pretend as if all is well even if the preceding government was headed by a man more notorious than the infamous Lawrence Anini. Apart from dirty slates left for some governors by their predecessors, another common mischief, is to brazenly over bloat the state’s workforce, a deliberate mischief that will astronomically increase what is payable as salaries every month. Some even compound such unnecessary employments with promotions that do not follow due process. This is aimed at creating a burden for the new government. That government is a continuum is not the reason why some lame duck governors are interested in having stooges as successors except that it’s the only guarantee that their dirty deals and financial recklessness will be covered. Lagos State is the only state in which a governor that has the constitutional right to seek second term is not returning on account of not getting its party’s nomination ticket at the primary election. So, it’s new government but same party. But in the acquatic state, dog won’t eat dog. And if there are issues, it won’t become a “pig” fight like we witnessed after Mr. Babatunde Fashola handed over to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. At the height of the political imbroglio that eventually cost Governor Ambode his second term ticket, I had in my column titled: “Tea master and the tragedy of outshinning the emperor,” stated that beyond the political credentials provided by the governor’s political godfather, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Governor Akinwunmi has no political clout strong enough for him to try his luck elsewhere after the party’s ticket had sadly slipped away from him. The governor was the obvious underdog and there was no way he could have turned the table against his master. I had argued that there was no point fighting a useless fight or going into a war that one will lose. The emperor won’t allow the misty cloud as represented by the tea master to dim his shinning star. In spite of my insistence that the governor should not start what he could not finish, I also maintained that trying his luck in another party wasn’t an option for him. It will amount to political suicide. However, I felt the humiliation of the governor should exclude the insistence by the All Progressives Congress (APC) that he should not participate in the party’s primary. I knew that even if governor Ambode had his say, the party would definitely had its way going by the grand conspiracy against his second term. But when the minority have their say and the majority have their way, the spirit of democracy would be satisfied that one of its tenets and principles had been obeyed. The sudden reversal of fortune for the once poster boy of Lagos politics was too searing and overwhelming for him to survive the nest of intrigues and web woven around him. We may never know all the truth that played out when the governor faced the fiercest political battle of his life. It takes a certain kind of stoicism to endure such extreme humiliation that the governor suffered. Perhaps, it could be understood if he lost the main election but it beggars belief that he was rejected by his party at the primary. The reality will dawn more on governor Ambode on May 29. His expression will be far from stoic. One thought that will likely run in his mind when Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu mounts the rostrum as the governor of the state could be: “it would have been me” except that the Oracle rejected him. He is human and it’s human for him to have such feelings. With less than two years in the saddle, the thinking in Lagos and even beyond the cosmopolitan state was that governor Ambode would dwarf the achievements of the highly rated Fashola. However, what many considered to be the governor’s achievements particularly in road constructions and building bridges in places where hitherto such were considered impossible are now being used against him. The hardship that motorists and commuters now face on Lagos roads has changed the narratives. And people now begin to wonder what’s the need to embark on many road projects in a congested and densely populated state like Lagos at the same time instead of one after the other. Lagos roads have become nightmarish and dreaded by most Lagosians. A journey on Lagos roads is unpredictable in terms of duration. A journey of 30 minutes can take three hours and could be more during peak periods. They are awful and dreadful. The roads have become rougher, bumpy, steep, treacherous and difficult to travel on. They are getting worse by the day because nobody is paying attention to them. People waste man hour on the roads unnecessarily because the government is in a trance. In a place where workers are paid based on man-hour calculation, a lot of workers in Lagos will go home with peanuts because they will be wasting valuable time on the roads on a daily basis. It requires just filling of potholes in some places, yet nobody is talking about them. Some of the potholes have become craters and they are increasing and becoming bigger. Lagos is no longer working because governor Ambode is now only interested in going home. The governor started well and if I were him, I will end well knowing full well that this can leave an indelible mark in the minds of Lagosians and attract sympathy that can translate into gains for him in the nearest future. He should go back to work and make Lagos work again in the next two months. Much can still be achieved with the little time left. Governor Ambode should shun his frustration, embrace quiet heroism, forbearance and fortitude. It is only when a race starts and ends well that success is guaranteed. If the only thing the governor can do is to fix the numerous potholes on Lagos roads before the rainy season peaks, Lagosians will remember him as a governor who swallowed his anger, finished strong and moved on.