 The Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, has following his alleged involvement in politics, where he was said to have allegedly taken sides with former governor Rabiu Kwankwaso’s godson Abba Kabir Yusuf against Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, is said to have asked for forgiveness from Ganduje over his shortcomings. This is coming amidst heated opposition which trailed Governor Ganduje’s re-election, with rumor making the rounds on the alleged involvement of some notable individuals in partisan politics before the just concluded gubernatorial election including the Emir and the Emirate Council.
The Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II, who organised a special prayer session, Saturday, at the Kano Central Mosque, praying for Allah’s protection and guidance for Ganduje’s administration, also said: “You should endeavor to forgive and forget what happened”. Emir Sanusi took more than an hour explaining why it was necessary for forgiveness in anything that has to do with governance and social relationship, insisting that “Misunderstanding is sometime caused by sycophants. It is therefore necessary for us to always pray for Allah’s protection from such elements.” Sanusi made it clear: “It is not bad for anyone to hold on to his or her opinion about happenings in the society. But what is necessary and paramount is the fact that after election, all people should come together and see to the successful tenure of government in power.” It is relief for the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, as the state House of Assembly has dropped its investigation of alleged misappropriation of funds belonging to the Kano Emirate Council, which he presides over. FELIX NWANERI reports Many had thought that history was about to repeat itself with… In “Politics” Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II, yesterday said his loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari and Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s administration remains unshakable. The Emir, who spoke yesterday in Kano, the state capital, also said that his loyalty and support of the Emirate Council to the state… In “News” Kano Emirate and the state government have commenced special prayers for a peaceful Nigeria as preparation for the elections draw near.   The state’s Governor, Dr. Umar Ganduje, led government delegation to the Kano Central mosque, where special prayer session was held for the nation’s peace, prosperity and development, under… In “News”