Policemen at Denton Police Station, Ebute-Metta, Lagos, were speechless, when a 12-year-old girl, identified as Ikimot, walked into their station and declared that her ‘mum’ stole her five years ago. The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Denton Police Station, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Saheed Quadri, not ready to treat her allegation with levity, instructed some of his men to start investigation. Preliminary investigations showed that Ikimot and an 11-year-old boy, Okashetu Musa, who were both living with the said mum, were stolen in 2014. It was also discovered that since then, both children had been with Christiana Onuchukwu, who they both now call Mummy. The police arrested the woman for child stealing. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), CSP Chike Oti, while confirming the incident, explained that Ikimot went to Denton Police Station to lodge a complaint against her ‘mum’ that she was stolen from her biological parents some years ago and handed over to Onuchukwu. He said: “The girl mentioned her abductor’s address and asked the police to reunite her with her parents. It was based on her complaint that the DPO, Saheed Quadri, led a team of detectives to No. 1 Ogati Street, Fadeyi, Lagos, where the suspect was arrested. “When the suspect and Ikimot were debriefed, the girl stated that she was seven years old when she started living with Onuchukwu and that her present age is 12. She mentioned another little boy called Okashetu Musa as another victim, abducted by the suspect. The DPO dispatched a team of detectives to rescue the boy. It was discovered that the boy was abducted when he was six-year-old, but now 11 years old. “The boy, who could still speak Hausa, said that he once lived in the Ebute-Metta area of the state with his mother. The leader of the Hausa community in Ebute-Metta was invited to the station to help link the child with his parents. The leader, after consultation with his subjects, claimed that the mother of the boy, a blind woman, had relocated to Kastina State, having lost hope of ever finding her child.”  According to Oti, the children have been reunited with their parents while the suspect was yesterday charged to Ebute Metta Magistrate’s Court 5 for conspiracy, abduction and child stealing. Oti said that the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, had directed the DPO to intensify efforts in ensuring that all persons connected with the crime were arrested and prosecuted.