Unfazed by his suspension by the national leadership of All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State yesterday intensified campaign for his anointed governorship candidate, Hon. Adekunle Akinlade. Amosun led Akinlade’s campaign tour to Ado-Odo/ Ota Local Government Area of the state, where he declared that the Allied People’s Movement (APM) standard-bearer would win Saturday’s governorship election if the poll was not rigged. The governor’s stance has pitched him against the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who is backing the ambition of APC gubernatorial candidate, Prince Dapo Abiodun. New Telegraph gathered that the governorship election slated for Saturday would be a decisive battle between rival camps of the VP and the governor. Osinbajo is reportedly supporting his friend and kinsman who hails from Iperu-Remo in Ogun East senatorial district while Amosun has thrown his weight behind a federal legislator who hails from Ipokia in Ogun West senatorial district. Ogun West, comprising Yewa-Awori people, has not produced governor since creation of the state. But speaking at the APM campaign yesterday, Amosun said the Yewa-Awori deserves the governorship in the interest of equity, fair-ness and justice. The governor, who justified his support for the zone, flayed critics and political adversaries for misleading the people about his intentions. He charged Ogun West stakeholders not to be swayed by lies and seize their golden opportunity to produce the next governor of the state. Amosun said: “Some wicked and heartless people came out to say it is not yet time for Yewa-Awori to produce a governor, after 43 years. “When will it be your turn if not now? Why didn’t they bring out another Ogun West candidate if truly they love Yewa-Awori? Why Remo? “It is a covenant between me and my God that the next governor after me will come from Ogun West, but these wicked people planned to truncate it. “Only cowards or traitors would not take a stand in critical moments. Every critical moment, you must be found to have taken a position. I’ve said it since the beginning of my second term, I’ve murmured it in the ears of our Excos and we’ve all agreed that the next governor will come from Ogun West. “I didn’t know that some people have other plans. They are not God. Akinlade will be the next governor of Ogun State by God’s grace. We are only human, but I believe that with the help of God and the support of our people, he (Akinlade) will surely be victorious if the election is not rigged, which I believe you people will never allow them to rig. “Yewa-Awori, rise up and fight for your future! They may be lying to you that Amosun is this or that; what else do I want that God has not done for me? Alhamdulillah for that. “Any governor that comes now will likely spend eight years. By then, do you think Ogun Central will be watching? Ogun West, it is your time, rise up!” Reacting to his suspension, Amosun, who visited President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja on Sunday, just replied with a song. “Awon to n ni wa lara baba, ni won lara o (Those who are making things difficult for us, God should make things difficult for them)… E kilo fun bobo yen ko ye gb’ero buburu si wa (Please, warn that guy against harbouring bad intentions against us).” The governor also revealed that his administration would, by April, embark on the construction of a flyover in Oju Ore, Ota. He said a flyover was also needed at the Toll Gate axis in Ota, adding that he has already challenged Akinlade to construct it when elected as governor. On his part, Akinlade said the Yewa-Awori people stood on a threshold of history to make a decision that will have far-reaching effect on the future of generations yet unborn. Speaking earlier, the Olota of Ota, Oba Abdulkabir Adeyemi Obalanlege, described Akinlade as a gentleman to the core and a son of the soil, urging the people to come out en masse and vote for him on Saturday. The traditional ruler, who led the Olota-in-Council and other Awori monarchs to the venue, reiterated his total support for the APM governorship candidate. At the event, some members of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) announced their defection to APM.