 Apprehension has enveloped most of the states, where governorship elections will hold tomorrow. That is as various political parties, especially the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) put final touches to their strategies. The governorship elections will hold in 29 out of the country’s 36 states. The states are Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Sokoto, Kebbi, Niger, Bauchi, Kaduna, Plateau, Benue, Jigawa, Zamfara, Borno, Adamawa, Katsina, Yobe, Nasarawa, Kwara, Kano, Imo, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ebonyi, Delta, Enugu, Taraba, Gombe, and Abia states. The polls will not hold in seven states of Kogi, Bayelsa, Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Osun and Ekiti. A total of 1,067 candidates are vying for the governorship seats in the 29 states on the platform of 91 political parties. Twenty-eight of them are contesting on the platform of the APC, while the PDP has 29 candidates. Nineteen of the governorship candidates are incumbents seeking for second term. They are Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Ben Ayade (Cross River), Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom), Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger) and Samuel Ortom (Benue). Others are Simon Lalong (Plateau), Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi), Jibrilla Bindow (Adamawa), Darius Ishaku (Taraba), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Nasri el-Rufai (Kaduna), Aminu Masari (Katsina), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Mohammed Badaru (Jigawa). On party lines, 10 of the governors seeking re-election are of the PDP, while nine are of the APC. The North- West tops the chart with six – Ganduje (APC, Kano), Masari (APC, Katsina), el-Rufai (APC, Kaduna), Bagudu (APC, Kebbi), Tambuwal (PDP, Sokoto) and Badaru (APC, Jigawa). The South-South trails closely with four incumbent governors. They are Wike (PDP, Rivers), Ayade (PDP, Cross River), Okowa (PDP, Delta) and Emmanuel (PDP, Akwa Ibom). The South-East, North-Central and North-East have three apiece. In the South-East are Ugwuanyi (PDP, Enugu), Umahi (PDP, Ebonyi) and Ikpeazu (PDP, Abia). North-Central has Bello (APC, Niger), Ortom (PDP, Benue) and Lalong (APC, Plateau). Those of the North-East are Abubakar (APC, Bauchi), Bindow (APC, Adamawa and Ishaku (PDP, Taraba). No sitting governor in the South- West is seeking re-election as Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, lost the APC ticket to Babajide Sanwo- Olu at the party’s governorship prima-ry election. The ruling party is not fielding a governorship candidate in Rivers State due to a court ruling that barred it from presenting a candidate in the state due to its governorship primaries. Out of the 29 states, where the governorship poll will hold, the APC controls 18. They are Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Kebbi, Niger, Bauchi, Kaduna, Plateau, Jigawa, Zamfara, Borno, Adamawa, Katsina, Yobe, Nasarawa, Kwara, Kano and Imo. The PDP, on its part, is in charge in 11 states. They are Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ebonyi, Delta,Enugu, Taraba, Gombe, Abia, Sokoto and Benue. The ruling party had won governorship polls in 20 out of the 29 states, where governorship elections held during the 2015 general election but later lost two – Benue and Sokoto – through defection of governors of both states, while PDP won in nine states. But ahead of tomorrow’s elections, both parties have been strategizing on how to either consolidate on their strongholds or expand frontiers. This explains the tension in most of the states, where the polls will hold. For the ruling APC, the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections in which it clinched the presidency for a second term and won majority seats in both houses of the National Assembly has boosted the party’s plan to extend its frontiers. Among PDP states being targeted by the ruling party are Benue, Gombe, Taraba, Sokoto, Akwa Ibom and Abia. Benue and Sokoto were won by the party in 2015, but their respective governors – Ortom and Tambuwal – defected to the PDP after falling out with the national leadership of the APC. In Benue, the presidential candidate of the APC, Muhammadu Buhari, narrowly lost to candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, by 347,668 to 356,817 votes, whereas in Sokoto the ruling party won by 490,333 votes against PDP’s 361,604 votes. Against this backdrop, the governorship elections would be titanic battles in both states. While the ruling party is leaving no stone unturned to reclaim the lost states, the PDP has vowed not to let go. Ortom will square up against the former Managing Director of Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Barr. Emmanuel Jime. While the governor is optimistic of retaining his seat given what he described as his track record of achievements, Jime, who has the backing of Ortom’s estranged political godfather, Senator George Akume, is banking on what he termed the governor’s colossal failure since he assumed power in 2015. It is almost the same scenario in Sokoto State, where Tambuwal battles his former deputy, Ahmed Aliyu, of the APC. The contest is more interesting as Aliyu has the backing of Tambuwal’s predecessor, Senator Aliyu Wammako. Gombe State, which is presently under the control of the PDP was overran by the APC in the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections. Apart from winning the presidential poll in the state, the ruling party swept the three senatorial seats in the state. Among those defeated in the senatorial contest was the incumbent governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo, who lost his bid to represent Gombe North Senatorial District election to Sa’idu Alkali of APC. Another PDP state on the radar of the APC – Taraba – will see its candidate, Sani Danladi, confronting Governor Ishaku. Like in Benue, the result of the presidential election is giving the ruling party confidence that it could turn the table against the PDP in Taraba. The APC narrowly lost to the PDP in the poll by 324,906 votes against 374,743. The ruling party is also banking on its performance in Abia State in the presidential and National Assembly elections, where it lost to PDP by 85,058 to 219,698 votes, but won Abia North Senatorial District through a former governor of the state, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu to unseat PDP’s Ikpeazu. Of all the PDP states being targeted by APC, Akwa Ibom and Kwara seem to be the most critical. President Buhari did not only kickstart his campaign in the oil-rich Akwa Ibom, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo made a stop in the state on Tuesday to drum support for the APC governorship candidate, Nsima Ekere. In Kwara, where Senate President, Bukola Saraki, is battling for political survival, his anointed candidate, Hon. Razak Atunwa, faces a Herculean task in retaining the state for the PDP. This is given the way APC overran the state during the Presidential and National Assembly elections. The state, hitherto under the control of the PDP, was taken over by the ruling party, which won all the three senatorial seats presently in the hands of the PDP, including that of Saraki. Against this backdrop, the APC governorship candidate, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, and the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who is the leader of the party in the state, have been talking tough ahead of the governorship election. The duo – AbdulRazaq and Mohammed – are upbeat that their party will re-enact the feat it achieved in the Presidential and National Assembly elections to completely free the state from the grip of the Saraki political dynasty. As Nigerians prepare for the governorship and State assembly election this Saturday, there are increasing signs that while the voting pattern already established from February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections may not change much, some candidates are set to pull a lot of surprises, even to cause upsets. Even in the traditional strongholds of some ruling parties, there are fears of likely upsets. In Delta, Abia and Bayelsa states, such fears are rife as the ruling party at the centre, the APC strives to increase its tally in the South-East and South- South parts of the country. However, while the APC is plotting how to take over the PDP-controlled states, it is equally apprehension in some of the states where it currently holds sway as the opposition party is waiting to cash in on the internal wrangling in the ruling party to cause an upset. The states include Lagos, Plateau, Oyo, Imo and Ogun. In Lagos, for instance, the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is said to be jittery over opposition to his anointed candidate, Sanwo-Olu, as a result of mobilization by the PDP candidate, Jimi Agbaje. Forty-five candidates, according to the list published by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will contest the governorship poll in the Centre of Excellence, but political analysts believe the poll is a two-horse race between APC’s Sanwo- Olu and PDP’s Agbaje. The outcome of the poll is crucial to both the ruling and opposition parties and that explains why both are doing everything possible to win the governorship seat. Going into the poll, both parties would be banking on their respective feats in the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections. The outcome of the elections brought about a lot of surprises in the state as some political gladiators and candidates failed to deliver their polling units, wards, local governments for their respective parties. The APC won the presidential election in state by a 132,798 vote margin. Its candidate, Buhari polled 580,814 votes to beat Atiku, who got 448,016 votes. APC won 15 local governments while PDP won in five. The result altered initial calculations that APC will win big in the state and, prompting panic in the APC camp. This explains series of meetings and consultations by leaders of the ruling party in the state to smoothen rough edges and position for tomorrow’s poll. Political analysts believe that a lot of factors will shape the governorship and House of Assembly elections and they include post-primary crises, imposition of candidates, role of nonindigenes, parties’ structures, power of incumbency, personality, state and federal might, among others. To ensure their victory in tomorrow’s gubernatorial election, Sanwo- Olu and Agbaje have in the last few days intensified their campaigns as well as held several strategic meetings. The chances of the two candidates were also boosted by endorsements and supports from different quarters and stakeholders in the state. And, worried by the gap between APC and PDP in the results of the February 23 elections, Tinubu is battle ready to do whatever it takes for his party to retain Lagos State. The governorship poll is likely going to be one of the tough elections for Tinubu since 1999 when he was elected as the first governor in the present Fourth Republic. The APC leader, in the last few weeks, has held strategic meetings with party leaders in the state including, Vice President Osinbajo; Ambode; Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola; Lagos APC chairman, Tunde Balogun and the party’s candidate, Sanwo-Olu, among others on the need to deliver Lagos to APC. The APC national leader during a stakeholders’ meeting held at the party’s secretariat on Acme Road, Ogba, on Wednesday, challenged all party members to deliver their polling units for the party. The APC leader even went to the extent of engaging two senators-elect in the South-East, Orji Uzor Kalu and Ifeanyi Ubah, to lead the party’s campaign in some local governments, mostly populated by the Igbo to get their votes. But, the PDP is not losing sleep as its candidate has intensified efforts in reaching out to the electorate through different means, such as town hall meetings, street and door-to-door campaigns. The party is also motivating people to actualise the “O to ge” campaign, which gave the APC edge over PDP in Kwara. Those behind the move in Lagos are seeking to end Tinubu’s reign in the state. In Imo and Ogun states, the situation seems more difficult for the APC. The party in both states has been factionalised ahead of the election, prompting aggrieved members to seek for alternative platforms. The state of affairs within the party in the two states has been worsened with the way the Governors Rochas Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun, threw their weights behind candidates of “opposition” parties – Action Alliance (AA) and Allied People’s Movement (APM), respectively. While Okorocha is rooting for his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, on the platform of AA, Amosun is the arrowhead of the campaign of the APM’s Adekunle Akinlade. The two governors were recently suspended by the APC national leadership over anti-party activities, but the duo appear unperturbed and are determined that their anointed candidates triumph in the governorship elections. In Oyo State, the shocking performance of the PDP in the presidential election sent jitters to the camp of the APC in the state. Given the way Governor Abiola Ajimobi was defeated by Kola Balogun of the PDP, the chances of the APC governorship, Bayo Adelabu, hangs in the balance. This is as the division in the APC in the state seemed to have widened given the declaration by the Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu, that the party has no governorship candidate in the state, and that he and his supporters will not vote for Adelabu because of his prejudice for Ajimobi. PDP won the presidential election in Oyo State despite the fact that APC is in control of the state. The ruling party also faces an onslaught by the PDP in Plateau State. The ruling party lost the state to the opposition in the presidential election by 468,555 votes to 548,665, a development which has put its governorship candidate, Lalong on the edge. Former Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and senator, Gen. Jeremiah Useni is plotting to unseat the incumbent.