He has achieved what is considered to be the highest shock in the 2019 election season with his major upset of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki in the National Assembly race for Kwara Central Senatorial district. In this interview, BIODUN OYELEYE asked Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe how he did it and the implications of Saraki’s defeat, particularly given the great influence his office as commands as chairman of the National Assembly and President of the Senate  How do you feel, after the victory? I think my feeling is that of gratitude to Almighty God. Then I am also grateful to the people of Ilorin, Ilorin Emirate, if course you talk of four local governments in my constituency but there is also a fifth one, Moro which is also part of the emirate. And of course the people of Kwara because Ilorin is the state capital and there is hardly any community without a representative here so I am very grateful to them. I am also grateful to the traditional and religious leadership across the state. the second feeling is that of hope, looking forward to my ability to be able to bear the challenge because the challenge is not about who was there before because that is what most people look at but the challenge is about the gap that exists in governance in the state and particularly the challenge that the people of Ilorin face in the areas of good governance. Based on that there is high expectation on those of us who have just been elected and my hope is that we will be able to meet the expectations of the people to fill those gaps that have been existing. But I am also relieved that God has promised not to place a burden on anyone beyond what he can bear.  I will beat Saraki, silly, you once said. What gave…? There was no other factor than God. The word that comes out of men if it is by good intention and inspiration is God. What made me to utter the statement is if want to analyse it as a human was because I know we have a lot of governance challenges in the state and the poor, the marginalised are looking up to God and praying to God for a change and that is why I said that given the prayers of these people for a change looking at the magnitude of the people seeking for a change, it will definitely happen. When I uttered that statement about defeating Saraki so it was inspired by the prayers and clamour of the downtrodden to have a change and to God’s glory it has happened.  Saraki had defeated you before, what has changed this time? There are severally things that have probably have changed. But there certain things that have not changed, even in 2011 when he said he defeated me and I accepted the verdict but then at the tribunal we proved that there were a lot of irregularities in that election. But through the use of federal might we were not able to get to anywhere. That was unfair. Now we have not used any federal might, we have ensured a level playing ground. Apart from that INEC is now stronger and more transparent. The use of the card readers has prevented many politicians to manipulate the elections. With card readers there cannot be over voting again. What has changed again is that the cup of the Saraki dynasty is full as far as what people can tolerate. People have become intolerable of the bad governance they have been experiencing in the last eight years. Eight years ago, when he left as the governor for the senate things were not as bad as they are now. Salaries of workers were paid then but now they are not paid. The current Abdulfatah Ahmed administration which Saraki installed has not performed at all. Of course, we cannot totally remove his attitude to the APC government. A platform that he used to get the Senate Presidency, he worked against that party to become a minority in the National Assembly. Minority in terms of leaders and not in terms of membership; that is particularly important for us especially Ilorin people as he cannot handle trust. He used his position to work against Buhari. Buhari in Ilorin is a friend by virtue of his friendship and relationship with the late Major General Tunde Idiagbon. Ilorin people see the sincerity and credibility of Buhari.  You rode on the back of the O to ge campaign slogan; what inspired it, what nourished it? Again, I will still say it came as inspiration from God because it came out of the people’s despondency about what is happening in the state in all sectors; the governance gaps in all sectors as I said earlier, increasing poverty, increasing inability of youths and others to get employment or be engaged in meaningful income generating ventures. There was also the poor state of infrastructure particularly water. Kwara was created in 1957, but let’s not talk about the rural areas let’s talk about the capital city. For goodness sake, the government that has been in power for 16 years said they have spent N6.9 billion to provide water and only 40 per cent of the people have water and that is their own statistics which is questionable, but having spent that and if you achieve 40 per cent in 10 years what do you say about that? And there are other areas. The masses therefore cried to God and God said, ‘enough is enough.’ What nourished it was the prayers of the masses, the determination of the masses who came together as one, to say enough is enough.  What did electorate see in you? It is very difficult for me to say. It has to be directed to the people. I am simple and ordinary human being. I don’t sing praise myself other than to say that my intention is to serve the people of my state. The intention is in the mind. How do you exhibit it outside? That is left for the assessors. What did you sell to the electorate? One, I put up a clear agenda which has not been having and which has never happened with my opponent; he will just generally say I will take care of you. In Yoruba, he will say, ‘ma toju yin’. But what does that mean? What can you hold him or his government accountable for? That has been a missing gap. But if you look at my website and other media you will see my agenda. Secondly, I was able to demonstrate to the electorate in Ilorin that I am one of them; I grew up here, I understood their feelings. I understood where we were before and why we are in the current situation and I believe to an extent I understand what we need and I came up with a restoration of our values and heritage for a sustainable development. It means that if you look deeply into our values and if you are able to imbibe that value things will change. What is the critical thing about the value? It is that leadership is a trust and so if you are given that opportunity to lead you should hold it as a trust for the people. Leadership is about service and that is what the two major religions preach. Leadership is about humility. And our heritage is that leaders should have the fear of God; leaders should know that they are accountable to the people and to God. If you have these values at all times you will serve well. With due respect, this has not happened in the last 16 years. And that is what we sold to the electorates and asked them to think through it and I think that they looked through and agreed with us and that is why they acted and spoke through their votes because overall throughout the state if you look at the result, APC has about 70 per cent of the total votes.  How do you react to arguments that a win for the APC in Kwara will bring the state under the dictatorship of Lagos politicians? In the last three and half years, Kwara was an APC state and the leader of APC since inception when the amalgamation of the political parties took place, which included the then nPDP from the state, the leader of the APC has been Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. It has not changed. So it means that even before now, if that is the basis of evaluation, who was leader of the party that was ruling Kwara? It was Asiwaju Tinubu. That is the leadership of APC. That then means that Kwara has been under Lagos over the years since Asiwaju is the leader of the party.  But what I want to say in the positive dimension is that we are not taking Kwara to Lagos. Rather it is the leader of the PDP who I defeated in the election that has made Lagos to benefit from Kwara resources because by birth, by marriage, by business, by association, he is a Lagosian. He was born in Lagos and he schooled in Lagos. That means that his friends are in Lagosians. He married a Lagos woman and as the Yoruba say, even if you give a madman the hoe, he will work towards his own direction. You cannot stop your immediate relation from benefitting. The wife is the closest person to a man. Can he say that in his 16 years of the leadership of Kwara, his wife’s family have not benefited? If they have that means Kwara had been serving Lagos. Can he say that his schoolmates who are in Lagos have not benefitted, if they have then Kwara has been serving Lagos. Can he also point at any investment he has in Kwara compared to what he has in Lagos. In any case, just as I said earlier, Kwara has been serving Lagos.  But now, for my colleagues and I did not marry in Lagos. I did not school in Lagos. I was not born in Lagos. I don’t have any business in Lagos. I am fully Ilorin and you are speaking to me in my father’s house. In this house I have an apartment which I inherited and I still maintain it till date. and that means that whatever it is , if you talk of benefits that will accrue to me as an individual, it won’t go to anywhere other than Ilorin because my wives, my children, my schoolmates, and my relations to whatever extent are all Ilorin.  But in a more specific term, I emerged as a candidate not by appointment by any Lagos person. Tinubu did not appoint me to be a candidate of APC. We went through and election, three of us participated and I scored the highest vote. About 28,000 people voted and I scored about 12,000. That has not changed that means that I emerged through a democratic process, the party people determined my emergence. Also the funding of my campaign has no contribution from anybody from Lagos including Tinubu. All my campaign funding are from family and friends; elites of Ilorin who are interested in a change. As I said somewhere I don’t have money for politics. I am an international am an aid worker and I am on salary. I have no leader except the people. I have only God and the people who voted. As I am accountable to God I am also accountable to the people. Once you know that you will treat people well. I also know that they people are my leaders because they are the ones I am taking my governance to and if I want to come to them for another mandate I have to be judged by what I have done for them. It has shown that it is by the power of the people and not of any man because as we all know the election was very peaceful; and no irregularities and I scored 64 percent of the votes. That is a B+ in terms of assessment. That is the people speaking; that is against an established political dynasty, an estab lished structure with money, with power, with incumbency and everything. But it shows the peoples power. So we are not taking Kwara to Lagos, Rather we are taking power back to the people.   Has Ilorin lost anything by Saraki’s defeat as Senate President? Ilorin has not lost anything and will not lose. One is the fact that the contest is not about Senate Presidency. The contest is for the senate seat. Senate presidency is not voted for by your constituency but by your colleagues. And there is no certainty, it is a conjecture to say that Ilorin will lose. I can say it with all confidence now that if it had been the opposite and my opponent had won, Ilorin would still not get the Senate Presidency because from the results so far, of course it has not been concluded but we know the polling unit results, APC has the majority of senators. Yes you could say that they had then (2015) but they have learnt their lesson. If my opponent had won then he would still not get the Senate President just as it happened in 2015, Senator David Mark returned to the Red Chamber but he did not become the Senate President because his party lost the election. The second thing is that, what has Ilorin gained apart from the individual gain? As far as the assessment of the people is concerned, Ilorin has not had any other special thin other than what any other senator would have had for the state. As far as I am concerned we don’t have any special appointment. Now definitely as a state with the government in power, we don’t need the Senate President to get anything. More importantly with what we have demonstrated to the APC I know we have a bargaining power, we can tell Mr. President that the people voted for you and the vote was massive; 70 percent so we have to demand for what we need. Then our own approach to governance will also change many things. We will ensure that the constituency project gets to where it is needed. Currently it is not like that because some contract you don’t see Kwarans there. But we will ensure that is changed. We will not sell what belongs to Ilorin, what belongs to Kwara to any other place than to the people due.    