The Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, yesterday disclosed that President Muhammadu Buhari would take a presidential ride on the Lagos-Ibadan rail line by the end of May. Amaechi made the disclosure at Ibadan, during the month end meeting of the Lagos-Ibadan Railway Project Monitoring Steering Committee/ Inspection tour of the rail line. This was as he assured Nigerians that the Lagos- Ibadan railway project would never be abandoned by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration, having been voted back to power for another four years in the last general elections. The minister noted that, the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) handling the project, would do track laying on the rail line up to kilometre 98 while completion of track laying to Ibadan would be achieved by the end of May, to pave way for the proposed presidential ride. He said: “In one week time, they will lay the tracks up to kilometre 98. The Presidential ride will take place by the end of May. “But it is not just a ride; we are saying that by the end of May they should have finished laying the double tracks, which means that you can take a trip from Lagos to Ibadan station. Then what will be faced is the construction of stations and communication system. “Thank God that we have won the election, and having won the election, it means that the same government that started the project will finish the project. So, the project will not be abandoned. Even if you change the Minister, it is the same government.” The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo will flag off the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge railway on Wednesday. As a prelude to that, the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi was in Lagos on last Friday to test- run the standard gauge rail from Agbado in Lagos State to Abeokuta in… In “News” •US firm offers $10bn to takeover coastal railway line from Chinese   Shopping for $46bn for rail infrastructure Indications are that the Federal Government’s multi-billion dollars railway projects are yet to gain steam as it has come to light that the only the Lagos-Ibadan railway modernization project has secured… In “Business” •Urges contractor to expedite action before rainy season   Minister of Transportation, Mr. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, yesterday, explained that the construction work at the Lagos-Ibadan railway project was slowed down in the last one month as a result of the 2019 general elections. Amaechi gave this explanation during the March,… In “News”