•Obiano visits victims, promises to settle hospital bills•Obiano visits victims, promises to settle hospital bills  Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State yesterday visited the Toronto Hospital in Onitsha where victims of last Wednesday’s ghastly motor accident that claimed 10 lives are receiving treatment. The governor, who commiserated with the families of the dead persons, was accompanied by the Commissioner for Health, Dr Joe Akabuike, the Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo and Chairman of Onitsha North LGA.  Narrating her ordeal, middle aged mother, Mrs Kate Okafor told Sunday Telegraph that she was travelling from Asaba to Enugu with her son and when they got to Upper Iweka she asked her son to wait for her and while she was buying some items the tanker hit her. When her son saw how people were scampering for their lives he ran towards her direction and saw her lying in a pool of blood.  He raised the alarm calling on people to help him save his mother’s life. Another survivor said he was in a kekenapep and when the tanker rammed into them he did not known how he managed to escape. Governor Obiano shortly after sympathizing with them told them not to worry and promised that the state government will offset their hospital bills.  “I have come to see the victims and to commiserate with the families of those who lost their lives in the accident. Seven of them are recovering and responding to treatment. “This is also an opportunity to draw the attention of all those living in Anambra State that we have a good Medical Health Insurance Scheme and everyone should endeavour to be part of the scheme,” he said.  Earlier before the governor’s arrival, the hospital’s manager, Sir Osy Mbelu informed journalists that three of the victims have been discharged and seven are still in the hospital receiving treatment. A tanker laden with kerosene last Wednesday lost control as it was descending the Enugu Onitsha Expressway at MCC Road and rammed into people and things along the road.  Sunday Telegraph was told at the scene of the accident that 20 persons were killed while scores of others sustained injures; but the state Chairman of the Red Gross Society, Professor Pita Kachy said only seven were confirmed dead on arrival at the hospital, while three others died later in the night while receiving treatment. Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police Anambra State, Rabiu Ladodo, said that the police would liaise with the state government to make sure that the laws restricting movement of long vehicles in the state would be strictly enforced.