The decision by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to unilaterally adopt the serving Senate Leader, Sen. Ahmad Lawan as the next Senate President has not gone down well with some of his colleagues. In this chat with ONWUKA NZESHI, a former Senate Leader and one of the contenders for the position, Sen. Ali Mohammed Ndume warns that leadership imposition is a recipe for crisis  What is your reaction to the announcement that Sen. Ahmed Lawan has been chosen by your party as the next President of the Senate? First of all, let me say that the decision by the party to settle for an individual instead of zoning the position to a particular geopolitical zone and also consulting or allowing the senators from that zone to decide who amongst them they prefer as the candidate and to who should ultimately was to the election on the floor of the Senate is a surprise. We were surprised on Monday night when the National Chairman of our party, Adams Oshiomhole informed us that a decision had been taken to adopt Ahmad Lawan as candidate from the North-East for the position of the President of the Senate. The reason why I am surprised and shocked by that decision, and I believe that is the feeling of many of my colleagues, is that normal procedure for the emergence of the leadership of the Senate is clearly spelt out in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Section 51 (a) of the Constitution says that “there shall be a Senate President and Deputy Senate President who shall be elected by members of the House, amongst themselves. Section 1 of the Constitution clearly states that “this Constitution is binding on all Nigerians and government agencies”. It went further to say that any other law that contravenes the provision of the constitution is null and void. As a party that is supposed to be democratic and as a government that normally insists on allowing due process to prevail, this is strange. In all elections into offices, a candidate of APC normally emerges by one of three means, namely- consensus, indirect elections and direct primaries. As I said, such a decision was taken and we were not even given the chance to ask questions. We were not even given the chance to make comments. The President was called upon to make his remarks and after that, the national anthem was recited and that was the end of the meeting. Even the chosen candidate was not given the chance to thank us or say something about it. Those of us that have indicated interests were not consulted or given the chance to make any comments. I left there with that shock and went home, but I slept well because I am just one among 109 senators. I am not better than any one of the rest 108. I came back and slept well. My wife and children were worried about my feelings such that I was even a bit late for the morning prayers. What are you going to do about your ambition for the position? I try my best in everything I do and I leave the rest to God. I am now leaving this to God and those who elected me. I am going home right away to consult with the elders of my constituency. You’re aware that I was not even in the country when they gathered themselves and asked me to vie for the Office of the Senate President. So, I need to do some consultations with them before I take a final decision. The party has taken a decision. I ultimately will wait on the decision of Almighty God and that of my colleagues. That is what I will say for now.  It sounds a bit confusing. What do you mean by waiting for your colleagues? You should not be confused. The Constitution is clear. It says the Senate shall elect its president and deputy. Like I said, my decision to contest for the position of the Senate President is not personal. Even my colleagues encouraged me to run. Not just the elected ones. They said I should vie for the position. Even then, the party didn’t say it had elected Ahmad Lawan. It only said it has nominated Lawan. The way the leadership of the National Assembly should wmerge is clearly stated. Anything contrary to that is illegal and it can’t stand. As I said, we wait on God. We were shocked, but God has the final say. In my religion, God says He is the one who to give power to. In Islam, God said He will give power to whoever he wills. God will make His decision.  You once said that if the party decides to impose someone on the National Assembly, it will backfire and there will be crisis. Are you standing by that claim? I am not the one saying it. It is the decision of my colleagues. I am one of those offering him to contest for the position. I can’t even nominate myself. Someone has to nominate and second me. I can’t say that a candidate has been imposed on us. The decision is now left for colleagues. If you look at the history of the National Assembly, such decisions have never gone down well. In 1999, Evans Ewerem was imposed. He didn’t last. Adolphus Wabara was also imposed. He didn’t last. The PDP which we have accused of impunity didn’t do this after it saw the trend. In 2007, the PDP showed wisdom by zoning the position to North Central. That was what led to the contest between David Mark and George Akume. Mark won and because of his acceptance by his colleagues, he served for two terms. Mark would have served another term if PDP had won. But he served his tenure peacefully. In the House of Representatives, Patricia Etteh was imposed on us. She didn’t last. Mulikat was supposed to be imposed on us. She wouldn’t have lasted. The House of Representatives rebelled against Femi Gbajabiamila in 2015 and he was rejected. The same thing happened to Lawan in the Senate. These things happened because of the way the party managed it. What happened on Monday night has showed that the party has not learnt anything; rather, it has worsened it. My prayer is that, the Senate should be what it is supposed to be – independent. I feel pained that even in small places in our communities; you don’t impose leaders even on children. They have their natural way of choosing their own. In fact, in traditional institutions where kings emerge, they are elected. There are kingmakers. In our case, senators are the kingmakers. Now, if we let this go the way it is who owns the loyalty of the beneficiaries? Is it the senators or Adams Oshiomhole? Only any leadership of the National Assembly that emerges through the support of members, lasts.  Are you saying that you will contest against the decision of your party? I said I will consult. My decision to contest wasn’t personal. I have a vision for the Senate. The Senate is drifting to a point where it will not serve the interest of this country. The Senate is supposed to be an institution of 109 people with three from each state. They are mature people.  To say it mildly, it is not fair to see someone who is supposed to be a leader to be appointing a leader for leaders. In the Senate, the Senate President is supposed to be first among equals. He is the Senate President and not senators’ president. I think the country needs a Senate President that can lead. We need a president that will represent the interest of Nigerians.  What is your view about the zoning of leadership positions? Like you know, zoning is not in the constitution. The purpose of zoning is to enhance what the constitution says, which equity is and justice in what the government does. That is why the party will say if the President is from North-West and the Vice President is from South-West, the Senate President should come from the North-East. We are supposed to be given the chance to elect our president since it has been zoned. Allow senators from the North-East to decide and consult on who they want. I wrote to the party that I want to run. I deserve that honour to be invited and told not to contest for the position. I wasn’t given that honour. I was thinking that since Lawan has indicated his interest and Danjuma Goje is also indicating his interest, as well as Ad     amu Abdullahi, we were supposed to have been consulted. We deserve that respect and honour. They will say yes, you are qualified to be Senate President, but for some reasons, this person should be supported. Alternatively, you can tell us to contest and get back to you. You can tell the four of us to sit down and decide on who we want. That is better. The President emerged through a democratic process.  In 2015, when the position was zoned to the North, he reluctantly contested. Sen Musa Kwakwanso, former president Atiku Abubakar and others wanted to contest. But because zoning doesn’t matter when placed side by side with the constitution, Rochas Okorocha contested. Muhammadu Buhari emerged as our candidate. Other candidates worked for his victory. In his second term, he contested for the presidency even as an incumbent. Other people bought forms and they were not denied. Even after he turned out to be a consensus candidate, we still went to polling units. We came to Abuja to affirm his candidacy. Mr. President had to submit himself to the electorate to emerge. Mr. President went to every state to campaign. The votes we gave to the President during the affirmation, it turned out to be almost the same votes he got during the general elections. How does this controversy affect your relationship between you and your party and its leadership? I am not desperate. I remain committed to the ideals and principles of President Muhammadu Buhari because he has been my mentor. I don’t have a godfather, but I am a party loyalist. I was elected as Senate Leader, but when the Senate President wanted to do some things to the President, I stood against it. I lost my position as Senate Leader. I raised an issue against Senator Bukola Saraki’s Range Rover and Dino Melaye’s certificate. I was suspended. I moved against the Electoral Act which was in the interest of my party. I have been standing and I will continue to stand for what is right. At the meeting, Oshiomhole just threw it to us that Lawan will be the Senate President. I don’t believe that it is position of Mr. President. Before I joined this race, I consulted with Mr. President. He gave me the go ahead. I consulted with Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and he gave me the go ahead. That was immediately after the primaries, before the elections. I did that to avoid what happened in the past when Tinubu told me that I came late. I have respect for the President and Tinubu. But I am 60 years old. I stand for truth and do what is right. Have you met with your colleagues over what happened on Monday night? What are you people planning to do next? We are not planning anything yet. We are all in shock. I am going to consult right away. I will consult with my colleagues on the way forward. Most importantly, I will consult with God.   There are strong indications that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may encounter a repeat of the crisis of 2015 in its quest to install the leadership of the 9th National Assembly, which is billed for inauguration in June 2019. One of the top contenders for the office of Senate… In “News” Former Senate Leader, Sen. Ali Ndume, (Borno South) has an axe to grind with the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over the adoption of Sen. Ahmad Lawan (Yobe North) as the party’s candidate for the Senate Presidency of the 9th National Assembly. Ndume,… In “News” PDP moves to break APC's ranks, may back Goje Political party lacks power to decide NASS officials –Lawyers     Sequel to the riot act handed down to federal lawmakers elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), by the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the… In “News”