10 years after she was barred from using her valid flight ticket on Emirates Airlines, respite has come the way of an American University student, Miss Promise Mekwunye as the Supreme Court upheld a Federal High Court, Lagos division’s decision awarding a N2.5million damage against Emirates Airlines. Mekwunye, who was then a student of North Texas University, Denton, Texas USA had in 2008 dragged the airline to court for refusing her to use her two-way flight ticket from Dallas to Nigeria for no reason and for further refusing to fully refund the cost of the ticket of American Airline she bought for a Nigeria trip. Mekwunye had in a suit before the Federal High Court, claimed that she was denied boarding with her return ticket for $2,067 by the Emirates in May 2007 upon presentation of the ticket for issuance of boarding pass in December, 2007. She further claimed that the airline offered no reason for its action leaving her stranded for days at the airport until she was able to secure a more expensive flight ticket on a longer route to Lagos. She urged the court to order the airline to refund the full cost of her American Airline ticket and to pay for damage she had suffered as a result of the ordeal. In its judgment delivered on 15th November, 2010, the Federal High Court held that the refusal of Emirates Airline to carry Mekwunye amounted to a breach of contract of carriage. Consequently, the court ordered full refund of ticket without any deduction or charge, and further granted N2.5 million in general damage and N250, 000 in legal costs against the airline. Dissatisfied, Emirate Airline appealed the judgment before the Court of Appeal Lagos. The airline contended that the trial judge erred in law when he awarded N250,000.00 in legal fees when the plaintiff claimed 1,000,000.00 but led no evidence. The airline contended that the award of general damage was contrary to the Montreal Convention which not only limited the damage recoverable but placed obligation to prove willful misconduct or gross negligence against the airline before the airline would be liable for damage. The airline also contended that the award of additional N2.5million damage was double compensation since the trial court had awarded the plaintiff the refund of the amount used in purchasing her ticket. In its judgment of 11th April, 2014, the Court of Appeal upheld the airline’s appeal and upturned the award of N250,000 and N2.5million earlier awarded to Mekwunye by the lower court. But in a lead judgement delivered by Justice Ejembi Eko in an appeal filed by Mekwunye, the apex court in a unanimous decision overruled the decision of the Court of Appeal and upheld the earlier judgment of Federal High Court. The apex court held that the trial court was right in ordering Emirates airline to pay in the circumstances of N2.5million as general damage in addition to ticket refund as the airline would not rely on the Montreal Convention for limitation of liability when it was guilty of fundamental breach of the contract as argued by the appellant’s lawyer and father, Dr. Charles Mekwunye. The Supreme Court further held amongst other things that the Court of Appeal was wrong to have heard and upturned the decision of the lower court when Emirates Airline never obtained leave of court to file the appeal as to costs. The judgement reads: “In the instant case, the appellant paid for flight ticket. She was denied boarding even after confirming the flight three times. In consequence therefore, she was stranded for two days without explanation, apologies and alternative arrangement and was constrained to pay for a longer route on a more expensive ticket. “It would therefore in my view be unfair and unjust for the respondent as the carrier to merely refund the flight ticket without compensation or generally damage for the loss of time, stress, embarassment and inconvenient she suffered in consequence of breach of contract by the respondent.”