The father of late Mrs. Ibisaki Amachree, the ad-hoc staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that was killed by a soldier during the presidential and National Assembly elections in Rivers State, Sir Daperi Amachree, has said that he hates “violence and thuggery,” wondering why anybody would kill his daughter. The killing of Ibisaki by a soldier while returning from election duties on election day has sparked outrage across the state, with residents, civil society groups, the Rivers State government, as well as the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) calling for justice over the killing. The deceased’s father, who took to the social media shortly after the killing, where he posted the lifeless body of his daughter, also said that he had never been part of the death of any youth. He said in the post: “Here lies my beautiful daughter Ibisaki, a post graduate degree holder, full of cheer, love and kindness and mother of two. She was shot dead yesterday by a trigger happy and jittery soldier while she was on a national assignment with INEC. I have never arranged for the death of any youth. I hate violence and thuggery. If law enforcement agents have to kill an enemy, should it be my responsible and peaceful daughter? It is well. Only God knows why it happened. He will surely repay the wicked.” Meanwhile residents of Port Harcourt and civil society groups in Rivers have called for justice for the victims of the violence that erupted in the state during the presidential and National Assembly elections. They alleged that soldiers who were fingered in the killings of some unarmed civilians during the election, were used by politicians to cause trouble and deny some communities the opportunity to cast their votes. A resident of Abonnema, identified simply as Georgewill, who spoke the day after the killings in Abonnema in Akoku Toru Local Government, said that people were not allowed to enter or leave Abonnema. He said: “Abonnema is no longer enjoying the peace that it has long been known for due to the involvement of soldiers in the elections.” Another resident, who declined to give his name said that he travelled from Port Harcourt to Abonnema to vote, but could not leave the town the next day. He alleged that soldiers were shooting indiscriminately on the day of election. “I only managed to leave Abonnema, because the whole town was locked down by soldiers, who were moving into peoples’ houses, kicking down doors. I thank God I am now in Port Harcourt.” Army spokesman, Col. Sagir Musa, in a statement, however, said that political thugs had attacked soldiers and that the “pre-planned attack occurred between Charles and Bob-Manuel’s compounds in Abonnema Town about 1:00pm on February 23. H also said that preliminary investigation showed that the attack on the troops by the armed political thugs, was masterminded by “one Roland Sekibo – the Chairman Akuku Toru LGA, Omodo – the CSO Akuku Toru LGA and Kenneth of Kula currently at large were the masterminds of the unexpected/ unprovoked attack.” It will be recalled that a soldier was also killed in Abonnema. But the Rivers State Civil Society Organizations, in a statement, signed by Dr. Sotonye George, appealed to the international community to intervene in the killing of innocent citizens by soldiers during the election. The group in a statement said: “The presence and operations of the military with party stalwarts at the collation centres and polling units ignited violence that led to the death of several persons including a youth corps member and an ad-hoc staff of INEC in Rivers State. “We cautioned, prior to the elections, that the military has no business been involved in an election as their constitutional duty is to defend and protect the territorial integrity of Nigeria against external aggression. It is on record that a federal high court had earlier made a land mark judgement clearly stating that it is unconstitutional and illegal to use the military for election duties. “Sustained military operations were witnessed in several parts of the state on the Election Day. Soldiers practically took over the conduct of the elections, leading to stoppage in distribution of electoral materials and snatching/hijacking of electoral materials, also disrupted voting and chased away voters from some voting centres.” Also, the Int e r P a r t y Advisory Council (IPAC) condemned the killing, noting that the killings would not have happened if the army had displayed professionalism in its conducts. The state’s Public Relations Officer of IPAC, Comrade Kukang Ledum Joseph, made this declaration at a press conference in Port Harcourt. He said: “By brazenly betraying the public trust, the army can no longer be trusted by the people of Rivers State to be neutral in the electoral process. “Clearly, the army has become a threat not only to the holding of peaceful, free and credible election, but also to the survival of democracy in Rivers State and therefore should be excluded from participating howsoever in the governorship and House of Assembly elections in Rivers.” Joseph added: “Saturday February 23, 2019, will forever remain in the memory of Rivers people as a black and bloody Saturday in the election history of the state simply because the army decided to be overtly partisan in breach of their abiding duty to be neutral and provide security for the electoral process.’’