The outcome of the March 9 governorship election in Lagos state has, again, pitched the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, against some elders and leaders of the party in the state. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE looks at the implications of the crisis on the party  The general elections have come and gone. But the smoke it generated is still thick in the air. While the winners are still relishing the joy of coming through as winners in a keenly contested election, some of the losers have moved on, just as some are still suffering from the hangout of their losses, thereby picking out who failed to do what and why. One of the parties that was badly hit by the outcome of the election and yet to get its balance was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos state. The opposition party arguably puts up his worst performance in recent election cycles at the just concluded polls and that result has set the party on the edge of fresh crisis.  At the governorship election, the party’s candidate, Mr Jimi Agbaje, who is contesting for the third time, got trounced by the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Babajide Sanwoolu. Declaring results of the election at INEC’s state headquarters , Prof Ogunbodede, who is the Vice-Chancellor, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), said Sanwoolu won the election after polling 739, 445 votes from the total valid votes of 997, 476. The don said the candidate of the PDP, Agbaje, polled 206,141 votes to come second in the governorship election held in the 20 local governments of the state. Hence, Sanwoolu defeated Agbaje with a margin of 533,304 votes to emerge as the successor to the incumbent, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, who will vacate office on May 29. Recall that the party came into the race with a lower deficit in Lagos politics. The PDP has not been able to take the seat of power in Alausa since the advent of the Fourth Republic in 1999. Just after the election, darts started to fly from one end of the party to the other. Expectedly, a post-mortem meeting on the party’s poor outing was held at the Ikoyi office of the former Deputy National Chairman of the party, Chief Bode George, and this perhaps unmasked the latest round of crisis in the party. It was gathered that tempers flared at the meeting and it almost degenerated to a free-for-all, but for the intervention of George and other leaders. Agbaje was said to be present at the meeting.   Just after the meeting, the Director-General of Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Council in Lagos State, Chief Layi Ogunbambi, accused Agbaje of being the brain behind the party’s poor showing, saying the governorship candidate frustrated all those who genuinely desire to work for the party at all levels. He said: ““My issue with Jimi (Agbaje) is not about Ceaser and Brutus. It is about a man supported with my time and money in 2015 and 2019 and later discovered that he was nothing but a serial politician coming every four years to use our Lagos PDP platform to amass enormous wealth for himself.”  But not letting Ogunbambi’s comment slide, Agbaje responded through his media aide, Felix Oboagwina said the PDP chieftain has a serious conflict of interest to deal with because, according to him, he had his wife, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Ogunbambi, contesting as a gubernatorial candidate in Lagos State against PDP on another party platform. “I, as the gubernatorial candidate of the party in Lagos, was Chairman of the PDP Presidential Campaign in Lagos. Mr. Leke Osikoya was the State Campaign Director. The national body recognized and related to us accordingly. The title of Director General was reserved for the national campaign council. If there was an Atiku/Obi Presidential Campaign it would have, at best, been a Support Group.” But if Ogunbambi’s allegation didn’t mean anything to Agbaje, that of the party’s chairman in the state, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, appears more toxic, perhaps. Speaking to newsmen, Dominic accused Agbaje of flagrant disregard for party rules and its leadership, including the apex leader of the party, Chief George, adding that he displayed ignorance of the working of the party by taking charge of the campaign finances and refusing to work with the party. Dominic said the party has no record of how the monies were spent, who and who got what, adding, “He (Agbaje) is the architect of this defeat. It is a shame, it is so humiliating to the party. PDP has never had it so bad.    “It is not his name that is on the ballot paper, but the party and the PDP logo”, he said, stressing that the PDP had learnt its lesson and it would never happen again.  “A candidate is sponsored by the political party, it is not the other way round. If any fund is going to be disbursed, there is no way he would be disbursing money by himself to the party or to the candidates, it is the party that would disburse money to the candidates”, he said. The chairman said even though the party did well in the presidential elections, the party had never had it so bad in the governorship. “You can see the effect of what he did. It is true that he did the disbursement of money all by himself. He hijacked the funds and up till now the party has asked him to give us the details of how he disbursed the money, but he has refused to give any record to the party. The party has no record of what was disbursed to whom and for what purpose.  “I, as the party chairman in the state, was never invited to even a single outing of the governorship candidate. I didn’t know what he was doing and his plans. He didn’t carry anybody along in the mainstream of the party.  “Agbaje seems to have his own league of friends who are going about with him. He didn’t hold a single rally, and the party too did not hold any rally because the governorship candidate believed that rallies were not important.  “He is the architect of this defeat. It is so humiliating because after all said and done, it was the party that was voted for, not the candidate. It is not his name that is on the ballot paper, it is the party’s name and logo and it is the party that people voted for,” he said.
Reacting, Agbaje shrugged off allegations he pilfered campaign funds.  The PDP candidate said: “I was not given one kobo by the party or the PDP presidential candidate for the gubernatorial elections. We ran our campaign from beginning to end on a shoe-string budget. You cannot steal or divert what is not given.  According to him, resources sent to the presidential and National Assembly elections were disbursed as per instructions received, and the source had shown satisfaction with the exercise.  “All the fuss stem from the from the fact that, contrary to the Lagos PDP tradition of sharing money to leaders, Agbaje disbursed funds direct to candidates, as instructed.” His words: “The era of taking a share of what is not ours must stop in our party. The bitterness is from those who find it difficult to believe that money can be channelled without a ‘cut’ being taken. Leaders must lead by example.”  But countering Agbaje’s statement on preventing sharing money to leaders, the chieftain of the party in the state, Bode George, told New Telegraph in an interview that Agbaje should mention the leaders that share money campaign money in Lagos PDP. George said: “Which PDP leaders sharing money? Was he here? When he contested in 2015, we ran the elections where we won eight House of Assembly seats, six Federal House of Representatives seats and the margin of defeat at the governorship was nothing embarrassing. Sharing which money?  “So, it is an idea that he personified the party? I have been the leader of this party from day zero, if he has the nerves let him point the names of those who have shared the monies. It is not only an insult; he must be a special candidate in the hospital.”  “The normal practice which Abuja does is that x is going for your election, that election was not his election, it was Atiku’s. The way they were supposed to handle the funds were already tabulated. Is he the chairman of the party?   “Did you ever see Atiku go anywhere without the National Chairman, Uche Secondus, and the DG of the campaign? Where he did generate all those people going around with him?  “So, he had no regard for the party, but the party money that the party sent he now became the owner, driver and face of the party. It is an insult for him to say that and he needs to go for a check-up.  “I had managed a national presidential campaign in this country, I have been the deputy national chairman of the party and I had managed the south-west and what we did was to follow the rules of the party and we won five states out of six. If he raised his own money, then we can say it is his own money.  “But the money from the party is party’s and will come back. You know the effect of what he did, many of the people he purportedly to have given the money disappeared completely. Till today, we haven’t heard from them. If that is his sense of managing a political party, then he needs to go to a primary school to start learning. It is an insult from him to the leaders and elders of this great party. So, what has become of the rubbish he did,” George queried.  Clearly, the on-again-off-again internecine political interest in Lagos PDP is back, but how and when it will be resolved is only given to time to answer.    