The World Health Organisation (WHO) has revealed that cancer killed a total of 41,000 Nigerians in 2018. This, according to the organisation, was from an estimated 166,000 cases recorded in the country. “In 2018, we recorded an estimated 166,000 cases of the cancer burden in Nigeria and 41,000 deaths,” the WHO health emergency team lead in Nigeria, Clement Peter, said at a seminar to commemorate the 2019 World Cancer Day, observed yearly on February 4.  There are over 100 types of cancer. The common being breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, leukaemia, ovarian cancer, skin cancer, cervical cancer, brain cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer and colon cancer, among others.  Their causes are as varied as the forms. Cancer’s key driving factors in Nigeria and most African countries, according to experts, include tobacco use, alcohol consumption, sedentary lifestyle, polluted environments and unhealthy diets. Cancer can be prevented by maintaining a healthy lifestyle, avoiding exposure to known cancer-causing substances and taking medicines or vaccines that can prevent cancer from developing, according to the National Cancer Institute.  The WHO health emergency team lead in Nigeria, Peter, added that cancer could be prevented through healthy lifestyle habits, such as eating proper and healthy diets, engaging in appropriate exercises and ensuring routine medical check.  The figure of 41,000 is alarming and outrageous in a country still battling with high unemployment, endemic poverty, appalling health infrastructure, fragile economy, unstable political environment and provision of basic necessities of life, among several others. The figure also shows that Nigeria has taken a big chunk of the 9.6 million deaths resulting from cancer recorded globally in 2108.  For instance, the WHO report shows that globally, 14 million new cases and 8.2 million deaths were recorded in 2012, while 18.1 million new cases and 9.6 million deaths were recorded in 2018. Although the figure in Nigeria is high, the actual number of cancer- related death might be higher, given the poor data collection and collation in the country. Thousands of other people might have died of undiagnosed cancer or unreported deaths, hence undocumented. Yet, cancer, with the WHO figure, has become the highest cause of death in the country; even higher than deaths resulting from auto crashes. For instance, in 2015, Nigeria recorded 4,500 deaths from auto accidents. One of the most important factors in the treatment of cancer, according to experts, is early detection.  With the ruthlessness of the disease, it is high time a national emergency was declared on cancer. We call on the Federal Government to make a policy pronouncement on the cancer scourge. There must be deliberate and conscious effort to fight cancer, which has become endemic.  Nigeria may continue to experience a rise in the scourge if government, at all levels, does not take drastic and stringent measures to address the key drivers of cancer. By the time cancer is diagnosed in Africa, particularly in Nigeria, it is usually at the end stage where little or nothing could be done to save the lives of the patient. Some notable Nigerians have lost the battle against cancer primarily because they were diagnosed with the disease late. Aside the late or wrong diagnosis, the nation’s cancer treatment centres lack adequate medical personnel.  Another major challenge confronting cancer diagnosis and treatment is the high poverty level in the country. Cancer treatment requires huge resources and, as such, many poor people diagnosed with cancer either resign to fate or seek help from unorthodox health providers. The situation is compounded by nonavailability of cancer diagnostic centres.  The few that are available are ill-equipped. They lack stateof- the-art equipment needed in investigating cancer such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanners, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans, bone scans and highquality Computed Tomography (CT) scanners.  These centres have been virtually abandoned. We call on government, cancerfocused organisations and individuals to create awareness on the scourge because lack of knowledge is a contributory factor leading to late diagnosis. Government also needs to make funds available for research on cancer causes, prevention and cure. Funds should also be provided for cancer patients who could not afford the huge cost of treatment. We suggest government should make cancer screening compulsory and free. This, we think, is not a demand too much from citizens on government. Since cancer is a killer disease, it requires adequate, urgent and proper attention from governments at all levels.