●‘Father: I heard my daughter was under rubble on Facebook  Angry parents and survivors of the three-storey building which collapsed at Ita-Faiji, Lagos Island, yesterday accused health workers of extorting them. They alleged that the health workers asked them to pay for medical facilities and drugs required for the treatment of their children, who were involved in the building collapse incident. This came despite the promise by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode that government would take responsibility for the full medical treatment of victims of the collapsed building. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris, however, said that the government couldn’t give a definite figure on the number of casualties, but was working on ensuring that all casualties received quality care. The Permanent Secretary, state Ministry of Health, Dr. Titilayo Goncalves, said that government would pay for the treatment of all survivors. Meanwhile, father of an 18-year-old teacher,known as Esther, disclosed that he got to hear that his daughter was involved in the collapsed building and under the rubble via Facebook. The man, who introduced himself as Pius, said that members of his church, The Deeper Life Bible Church, drew his attention to the Facebook message. Esther is a West African School Certificate holder, and had accepted the teaching job as a stop-gap measure pending when she would secure admission into the university. Pius said that when he received the news of the building collapse and Esther being one of the victims, he lost consciousness, but was later revived. He recounted: “It was other members of my family that went in search of Esther. They couldn’t locate her at the site. This further increased our fear. However, a visit to the General Hospital in Marina was fruitful. My family members found her among those admitted for treatment.” Relating how some health workers extorted some money from him at the General Hospital, Lagos, Pius lamented he learntthat the Lagos State government had announced it would treat all victims from the incident for free. He added: “I was surprised when a nurse in the hospital requested that I should bring N2,000 for the purchase of some medications needed to treat my daughter. When I noticed that further treatment for her was delayed on the excuse that I did not release the N2,000, I had to give the nurse the N2,000. Thereafter, the nurses attending to Esther commenced treatment, which had earlier been abandoned.” Pius said that he was very happy and grateful to God because Esther was steadily improving. He said: “Although she cannot stand on her own yet, she can now recognise visitors and speak audibly.” The father of another patient, Mr. Tooeb Amao, whose eight-year-old son, Khaled, was rescued from the rubble, lamented that health workers at the General Hospital, Lagos asked him to pay for some things needed to treat his son. Khaled, who was also rescued from the rubble of the building, fractured his left leg and had been in pains since yesterday. He said: “When I informed the nurses that my son needed attention due to his pains and discomfort, they said that there was nothing they could do if facilities needed to effect the treatment were not available. “When I asked them how much would be needed to purchase the needed items, they said N9,000. I provided N4,000, while my siblings who visited my son at the hospital rallied round and brought N9,000.” Activities at the General Hospital, Lagos were back to normal. A visit there showed that only a few relations and wellwishers were moving in and out of the Lagos State Emergency Unit of the hospital. The Medical Director, General Hospital, Lagos, Dr. Ismail Ganikale, said that no new casualty of the building collapse was brought to the hospital yesterday. He said that the management had rallied the medical team and were doing some mop up in order to get the right number of casualties.