The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dissociated itself from Senator Tokumbo Afikuyomi, saying that it is not a member of APC, both at the state and the national level. The party said this notice is necessary in view of Afikuyomi’s clandestine activities to undermine the APC in Lagos so as to promote opposition politicians in the process leading to the governorship election. Lagos APC in a statement signed and issued by its Publicity Secretary of APC, Joe Igbokwe, on Friday said it is aware of Afikuyomi’s activities and his pretension of being an APC member while he is an Accord Party member, who is fully committed to the promotion of interests inimical to APC’s interests. “While we believe it is within the rights of Afikuyomi to work for any interests that suit his fancy, we feel obliged to warn faithful and loyal APC members that Afikuyomi is not one of us, contrary to the impression he gives to unsuspecting party members. “While we don’t grudge Afikuyomi his rights to choose and work for any platform or candidate of his choice, we warn him to desist from claiming to be a member of our great party and proudly own up to the interest of whomever he is working for. We know Afikuyomi as a member of Accord Party and the Lagos State exco of APC does not know him as one of us as we are aware he has left our party for Accord Party. “We therefore alert members of our party and anyone dealing with Afikuyomi to clearly know that he is not a member of APC. We want this notice to be spread among our members in every nook and cranny of Lagos so as to guard against being misled by Afikuyomi and those he is working for. “While Lagos APC salutes Lagosians for their impregnable fidelity to APC, we want them to look for impostors and fifth columnists who have promised their masters that they will assist their doomed campaigns and interests by sowing confusion in APC. This disclaimer on Afikuyomi is an effort to dispel such damned efforts. We urge Lagosians to stick firmly with an APC that has served them so well in Lagos and which had gotten a pan-Nigerian renewal of mandate to give the country continued good, honest and fruitful governance for the next four years.” The Chairman, Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) elections committee for the July 22 local government election, Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi, has given insight into how the party resolved the skirmishes in some areas arising from its primaries. He said the disagreements in some areas were resolved through the conflict-resolution mechanism… In "Politics" Since he left office as Lagos State Commissioner of Culture and Tourism in 2011 after eight uninterrupted years in the Senate, much seem not to have been heard of Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi until recently, when he chaired the electoral committee of the Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election… In "Politics" It would be recalled that Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi, towards the recently concluded local government elections in Lagos was attacked by angry delegates who were not in tune with the position of APC party, Afikuyomi had conveyed to them. As a wife to an active politician, such occurrence among many others… In "Body & Soul"