A 27-year-old suspected cultist, Moses Ikuologbon, on Monday appeared  before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for allegedly stealing an Infinix phone worth N30,000. Ikuologbon, whose occupation and address were not provided, is facing a count charge of stealing. The Prosecutor, Sgt. Modupe Olaluwoye, told the court that the defendant committed the offence sometime in December 2018 at No. 22, Ogundimu St., Yaba, Lagos. Olaluwoye submitted  that the defendant stole the Infinix phone  from one Mr Karayai Owerisi, while he was on his way home from work. She said that the accused also stole N2,000 from his victim. “Upon investigation, it was also discovered that he was a member of the notorious “Eiye” confraternity that has been disturbing that area,” the prosecutor told the court. The offence contravenes Section 287 of Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that stealing attracts three-year jail term. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge and was granted bail in the sum of N20,000 with one surety in like sum. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs Oluwatoyin Oghere, ordered  that the surety must be gainfully employed and show evidence of two years’ tax payment to the Lagos State Government. Oghere adjourned the case until June 5 for trial. (NAN) An 18-year-old auto mechanic, Toheeb Suleimon, who stole four cell phones valued at N120, 000, was remanded in Kirikiri Prisons pending his sentence. An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court, Mr T. O. Ojo, presiding over the case, however, fixed Aug. 10 for judgment following plea of guilty by the accused. The accused,… In “Metro and Crime” An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court in Lagos on Tuesday admitted a hair stylist, Valentine Ogiugo to bail in the sum of N10,000 bail, for allegedly stealing a N5,000 phone. Magistrate A. K. Dosumu, admitted Ogiugo. 21, after she pleaded not guilty to the charge of stealing. Disunity ordered Ogiugo, a resident… In “Metro and Crime” A 43-year-old woman, Yewande Okunoye, was on Monday brought before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for allegedly stealing a Samsung Galaxy S8 plus cellphone, valued at N350,000 from a doctor at a hospital. Okunoye is facing a one-count charge of stealing, to which she pleaded not guilty. The… In “Metro and Crime”