Over the years, players in the telecommunications sector have been complaining about increase in number of taxes payable to various agencies of government in the country. Despite promises by governments to address the issue, the situation seems to be moving from bad to worse. SAMSON AKINTARO reports  For the umpteenth time, telecommunications operators in the country have cried out over the issue of multiple taxation. The latest incidence was the demands for environmental charges by states, despite same being a statutory payment to the Federal Government. The environmental charge is one of many cases where local government and states are demanding for the same tax being paid to government at the centre. Telecom operators under the aegis of Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) had recently written the Minister of Environment, demanding clarifications on the fees being demanded by the state. The Executive Secretary of ALTON, Mr Gbolahan Awonuga, said: “Our members obtain Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) from the Federal Ministry of Environment through NESREA in collaboration with each state Ministry of Environment, however, the states are now coming to demand another process directly from our members, this amounted to multiple taxation and charges.” He added that the telecoms industry is being overburdened with taxes and levies and the operators might be forced to review their tariffs.  Worrying trend According to stakeholders, while telecommunications has been a major catalyst for socio-economic development in the country, agencies of government are seeing the successes of the sector as opportunity to raise revenue for themselves. The quest for benefits, which are, indeed, short term, compared with long term economic gains of telecommunications, often lead to disruption of services. ALTON in a recent statement lamented the huge tax burden telecoms operators bear as a result of statutory and non-statutory taxes and levies from government agencies. It added that the multiple taxes have led to high cost of doing business in the country despite the Ease of Doing Business initiative of the Federal Government. ALTON noted that the cost of running business in the country has now tripled the cost in Ghana and other neighbouring countries. “We have witnessed in Nigeria today that most of the regulatory bodies have left the regulatory functions and now turn to revenue generating bodies and this brings about multiple taxation and regulation. “Please don’t forget that telecommunications operations are not isolated from the ecosystem, the cost of running business in Nigeria, especially telecoms, is triple the cost of running same in Ghana and neighbouring countries. Almost all agencies of government are after telecommunications, why? We cannot afford to have crisis in the industry because we operate one network in all networks,” the telcos lamented. According to the President, Association of Telecommunication Companies of Nigeria, Mr Olusola Teniola, mobile operators currently pay, on the aggregate, 23 different taxes to various agencies of government at the federal, state and local levels. “The challenges are also going to conspire against the six infrastructure companies already licensed by the NCC to deepen broadband penetration, because they won’t be insulated from the challenges facing existing operators in the industry.  Regulator worried The Director, Legal and Regulator Services Department, NCC, Mrs Yetunde Akinloye, recently bemoaned the various threats affecting the industry’s growth, especially the issue of multiple taxes and regulation. According to her, after approval is given by the state authorities to telecom companies to build their infrastructure, operators still face challenges of having to deal with the payment of all kinds of frivolous levies imposed by local authorities and the so-called ‘area boys’. “Refusal to do their bidding means the operators won’t be given the permission to peacefully lay out their infrastructure,” she said, noting that despite this, “demand for telecom services continues to grow in the face of infrastructure that is not growing.” Akinloye said, “Government authorities and different agencies impose these levies in order to boost their revenues and we have met with the Nigerian Governors’ Forum to educate them on the implication of not allowing operators to build infrastructure in their states. “This is because they are asking them to pay all sorts of taxes and levies, majority of which are not backed by any law in the country.”  Dwindling investments Aside other factors, the tax situation in the telecoms sector is viewed as disincentive to investments. Consequently, investment inflow into the sector is currently witnessing a lull without appreciable Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) since the industry hit the $70 billon investment mark last year, according to investigations. This was further confirmed by recent statistics published by the National Bureau of Statistics(NBS) , which showed consistent decline in foreign investments in the sector. According to NBS, capital importation into the country’s telecommunications sector plunged to an all time low in 2018, as it declined by 78 per cent. Throughout the year, the sector was able to attract $114.4 million, which was a steep decline compared with $544.6 recorded in 2017.  Obstacle to broadband While Nigeria had managed to achieve 32 per cent broadband penetration as at last January, according to NCC’s record, telecom players see a bleak future for Nigeria’s broadband project if the current challenge of multiple taxation is not addressed. ATCON President, Teniola while speaking at a Post-National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2013-2018 conference, said the players in the industry have had to cope with the challenges over the years and would want government to take bold actions to address the issues going forward. Although government is yet to set a new broadband target after the expiry of the 2013-2018 plan, Teniola said the stakeholders were looking at 70 per cent as a realistic target for the next five years, but that would not happen with the current regime of multiple taxation. Also speaking at the forum, the Executive Vice Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Danbatta, said the major challenges facing NBP includes inadequate metro fiber infrastructure in several towns and cities that would effectively distribute in the hinterland the adequate bandwidth from international submarine cables at the landing point in Lagos. He also cited high rate of RoW charges, multiple regulation and taxation and delays in obtaining site acquisition permits as part of the challenges.   Solutions The telecoms regulator’s engagements with the states over the tax issue had yielded some positive results. Some states that sealed off infrastructure over non-payment of taxes have had to respond positively to NCC’s interventions. However, that had not stopped the respective states from imposing more tax burden on telecom businesses. Based on this, the telcos have called on the Federal Government to come up with policy that will protect the sector from arbitrary taxes. According to Teniola, government must, as a matter of urgency harmonise taxes in the telecommunications sector and ensure that the operators have a clear picture of what is to be paid. The ATCON president also called on the government to remove obstacles facing telecom operators in the course of deploying Internet infrastructure. ALTON, on its part urged the Federal Government to look into the issue of Tax and Levy Amended Order 2015 hurriedly signed by the former minister of finance in the last administration, Mrs. Ngozi Okonji-Iwaela. “This order has created lot of confusion in the taxes and levies regime and making the environment harsh for business, not minding the Government Ease of Doing Business programme,” ALTON said. “Tax is regarded as oxygen to development but if oxygen is too much, it could lead to disaster. Our members are responsible corporate citizens of the country and natural partners in progress that follows due processes.” With the incessant shutting down of base stations over issue of taxes, the telecom association also urged government to declare telecommunication infrastructure as Critical National Infrastructure as stated in the Cybercrime Act 2015 forbidden any State or agency from tampering with any telecoms infrastructure.  Last line With past regulatory efforts seemingly proving fruitless in ending multiple taxation, Federal Government’s intervention may be the only way out of the current quagmire. It is believed that with the right government policies aimed at addressing current challenges and at protecting investments in the sector, more foreign investors would be encouraged to invest in the sector, which still holds a lot of potentials with the new broadband revolution.