 Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) and Dangote Fertilizer Limited (DFL) have signed a multi-billion dollars long-term agreement deal for the supply of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) to Dangote’s blending plant. The contract, under the Gas Sale and Aggregation Agreement (GSAA), was part of International Oil Company’s (IOC’s) gas obligation to the domestic market through Gas Aggregation Company Ltd. (GACN). While the GSAA was signed by Chevron in partnership with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the GACN stood as the ‘Aggregator’ for the deal. The agreement, Chevron and Dangote said in different statements, was executed on behalf of the three companies by Chairman/Managing Director of CNL, Jeffrey Ewing; Managing Director/CEO of GACN, Morgan Okwoche; and Group Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects & Portfolio Development of DFL, Devakumar Edwin, respectively. “NNPC and CNL are obligated to supply 70mmScf/d of natural gas to Dangote Fertilizer Limited to enable start up and operation of the newly built fertilizer plant,” Chevron’s statement, issued by General Manager, Policy Government & Public Affairs, Esimaje Brikinn, read. The Dangote Fertilizer Plant at Ibeju Lekki, Lagos, is a flagship mega fertilizer project designed to support the Federal Government’s drive to develop the agricultural sector and, in turn, improve the Nigerian economy. Natural gas is the feedstock of the Dangote Fertilizer Plant. In a separate statement, Dangote Fertilizer Limited said that it was poised to start operations after commissioning at the end of this year. Noting that the contract was signed at the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) office in Lagos, the company declared: “Dangote Fertilizer Limited, which is ready to be commissioned before the end of this year, will produce 3.0 million metric tonnes per annum (mmtpa) of Urea.” The fertilizer plant consists of twin train, with each single train having a capacity of 1.5 million tonnes per annum of Urea and Ammonia, which makes each of them the largest train available in the world. Hence, the total capacity of the plant is 3 million tonnes per annum, and it sits on an area of 500 hectares. Speaking at the signing ceremony, Edwin of Dangote commended the Managing Director of GACN for his role in the new business relationship between Dangote Fertilizer Limited and Chevron Nigeria Limited. He said the company is looking forward to having a long-term relationship with Chevron Nigeria Limited as well as synergies in other upstream and wider areas of operations in the oil and gas sector. Chairman/Managing Director of CNL, Ewing, commended GACN, DPR for helping with the signing of the gas supply agreement. He said: “We are looking forward to working with Dangote Fertilizer and maintaining a good relationship with the company. This agreement is very important for the country and Chevron is committed to Nigeria’s economic development.” Managing Director/CEO, GACN, Morgan Okwoche, expressed delight to be part of the domestic gas agreement. “This is the beginning of fruitful relationship between Dangote Fertilizer Limited, Chevron Nigeria Limited and other parties. I am excited that this is happening during my term in office. You cannot imagine my satisfaction in having this contract signed at this time,” he said. Head, Gas Monitoring & Regulation Division, DPR, Sanya Bajomo, said: “I am glad that GACN, Chevron and Dangote have signed this gas supply agreement. I want to say that this gas supply agreement is an issue of national interest and what happened today is going to be transmitted to the presidency. “I believe everybody is going to benefit from this agreement when the fertilizer plant starts operation.”