Justice Mojisola Olatoregun of a Federal High Court in Lagos and a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Rotimi Jacobs, yesterday engaged in a shouting match during the trial of a former Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Ayodele Fayose, over alleged N3.3 billion fraud.  The judge accused the silk of evaluating a ruling she gave regarding the statements of a prosecution witness, Maroun Mechleb. Jacobs had accused the defence of tendering only two out of the three pages of the two statements made by the witness to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) as exhibits. The silk’s efforts to make the witness speak on the issue after he has been crossexamined was vehemently opposed by the defence on the ground that he is not permitted by law to do so.  The defence lawyers; Ola Olanipekun (SAN) and Olalekan Ojo (SAN) argued that Jacobs is only permitted by law to re-examine the witness to clear any ambiguity that arose during cross-examination. They said the prosecution lawyer’s action is tantamount to teaching them how to do their job.  In a Bench ruling on the  contentious issue, Justice Olatoregun agreed with the submission of the defence lawyers, saying they could even decide to tender just a page of the 3-page statements. She said the only option left for Jacobs is to re-examine his witness if he has any reason to do so.  However, after the ruling, Jacobs stood up to address the court. It was while the silk was talking that the judge picked holes in his submissions and accused him of evaluating her ruling, an allegation vehemently denied by Jacobs.  The hot exchange of words that proceeded the allegation is reproduced below: Judge: “Mr Jacobs, you dare not, you are not competent to look into my ruling, to evaluate my ruling. You are totally incompetent, whether you are a Senior Advocate or not.” Jacobs: “I was not referring to Your lordship’s ruling.  Judge: “You are going beyond your bounds. Do not let me trash your practice. Listen to me, if you reevaluate my rulings in this court, you”ll get into trouble. Judge: “You can only go on appeal, Mr Jacobs. Your mode of advocacy, I do not understand it. It looks like what do they call it?…Jankara market.  Judge: “You stand here to reevaluate my ruling, you are incompetent to do that. You do not stand there with impetus and reevaluate my ruling. I have ruled, relying on two Sections of the Evidence Act. If you have an objection, you go on appeal. You have no competence, carrying your wig with arogance and we have a lot of young lawyers here.  What kind of thing are you teaching them? To stand up to a judge and reevaluate the ruling of a judge? It will not happen in my court. Your re-examine your witness; if you are not re-examining, then close your case. Jacobs: “My Lord, I did not refer your lordship to your lordship’s ruling.  I never said a word about your lordship’s ruling. Judge: “I do not take tangential comments here. You are fond of doing that. You are an extremely rude senior advocate. If you are a senior advocate, you are not older than me at the Bar and you are not older than me in age. In Yoruba land, we respect age and in this job, we have what they call professional ethics and respect for each other.  Jacobs: “That is what I have offered my lord. Judge:” You have not offered it. Jacobs: “But For my lord to say that I am Jankara practice lawyer… Judge: “Yes, I am saying it, if we finish here, you can write a petition to the NJC. Jacobs: “No court has ever told me I engage in Jankara practice. My Lord, I’ve been on this job for a while. Judge: “I do not want to know.” Jacobs: “No judge has ever called me a Jankara lawyer. Judge: “How many years have you spent?”  Jacobs: “I take exception to that word, Jankara. No judge can tell me that I am involved in Jankara practice. Judge: “Now, are you reexamining your witness? Jacobs: “Yes, I am. But I take exception to that word, Jankara practice. I take full exception to it. I do my job according to my conscience; according to what God told me. I will never pervert the course of justice; I will never call any man to come here and lie against another person. I fear God. But for one to suppress justice, I will fight against it till date, till end”.  The witness who claimed to be the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of a construction firm, Samchase Nigeria Limited, had told the court that he had done various jobs for both the Federal Government and some states, including Ekiti State. He said he did jobs for Ekiti State in 2006, 2014, 2015 and 2016 when Fayose was at the helm. Mechleb told the court that the jobs he did for Ekiti State were facilitated by one, Abiodun Agbele, an aide to Fayose.  He said there was an agreement that he would “appreciate” Agbele for every contract he facilitated for Samchase Nigeria Limited. Mechleb said though the “appreciation” was not specified, it was usually about 10 per cent of the contract sum. The Lebanese, who told the court that he could neither write nor read English language, said the scope of the contracts was usually communicated verbally. “We agreed that when he got jobs for me, I will appreciate him. We did not specify but it’s around 10 per cent”, he said.