In commemoration of the 2019 World Sleep Day and its continued drive to add comfort to lives since 1959, Mouka Limited, a leading manufacturer of mattreses and foam products in Nigeria has opened another world class Sleep Gallery at its corporate head office in Lagos.
The newly established Ikeja Sleep Gallery is an addition to the seven others across the nation. World Sleep Day is an initiative of the World Sleep Society to recognise sleep and its significant impact on health. This annual event focuses on the many burdens of sleep problems, as well as the importance of healthy sleep at any age. The 2019 World Sleep Day has the theme: “Healthy Sleep Healthy Ageing.” Speaking at this year’s World Sleep Day Press conference, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Mouka Limited, Mr. Raymond Murphy stressed the fact that quality sleep is a treasured function and one of the core pillars of health. Mr Murphy highlighted that when sleep fails, health declines, decreasing the quality of life and this explains Mouka’s relentless commitment to providing the best mattresses, pillows and other products to enhance quality sleep. Corroborating Mr. Murphy’s claims, National President of the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapists (NSP), Dr. Rufai Ahmed stated that sleeping on a wrong mattress will alter the natural curvature of the spine, thereby resulting in musculoskeletal problems and possible injury. Emphasising the importance of quality sleep to overall health at any age, the Senior Marketing Manager Mouka Limited, Mrs. Tolu Olanipekun showcased Mouka’s range of products specially designed for different phases of life. From the Dreamtime mattresses for children, which are water resistant and breathable, to the Regal orthopaedic mattress, Mouka has different offerings from cradle to adulthood. Mr. Dimeji Osingunwa, the Commercial Director of Mouka Limited, expatiated on the features of Mouka’s Sleep Galleries. According to him, consumers can experience Mouka’s wide range of products while experts help them choose the right mattress, pillows, beds, beddings and other lifestyle products to suit their physiological needs, style and budget.  Tobi Bakre, Big Brother Nigeria season three finalist also joined the World Sleep Day celebration at Mouka Limited.