 Over population, old age, lack of maintenance culture among Nigerians and noncompliance to purpose for which they were built, have been identified as some of the causes of the frequent building collapses on the Lagos Island, Lagos State. In the spate of one month, two buildings accidently collapsed, after showing signs of weakness, necessitating Lagos State Government to carry out a controlled collapsed of two other buildings already marked distressed, through Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA), to forestall loss of lives. Preceding the first incident that occurred on 53 Massey Street, opposite Ita Faaji Market, which snuffed out lives from 20 persons including school children, injuring 40 and rendering about 60 others homeless, LASBCA collapsed a-three-storey building marked for demolition at Egerton Square, Oke Arin. More so, out of 80 distressed buildings marked for demolition on the Island, another two-storey building caved in at Kakawa Street on Monday but no casualty was recorded.  Sequel to this frequency with which these buildings are collapsing, Sunday Telegraph sought expertise’s advice on the causes of the tragedy with a view to solving it to forestall attendant loss of lives that comes with it. In separate interviews, experts in different field including civil and structural engineers as well as estate developers among other professionals said over population, old age, lack of maintenance culture in Nigeria and noncompliance to purpose for which the buildings were built, are the reasons for the recurring disasters. One of such experts is an Abuja-based civil engineer, Ezekiel Adegboyega, who stated that some of the buildings on the Island had reached, and passed their life spans, said an average building is meant to last between 50 and 150 years. He noted on the other hand, that some over 150 years buildings are still standing in good state in other countries as a result of periodic maintenance, thereby elements such as water, air and others have little or no effect on them. “Reverse is the case in Nigeria. The owners of most of those buildings on the Island have died and those who inherited them do not care about their maintenance; they are interested only in the proceeds. They develop the buildings by raising the floors without proper structural work on them. In no time, they will come down,” he said. Speaking further, the Secretary of the Lagos State chapter of Brick Layers Association of Nigeria, Muhammad Yahaya said part of the disasters rocking the city of Lagos, are as a result of past mistakes, saying that a number of landlords and ladies didn’t involve professionals while erecting the structures. Arguing in one of the national radio programmes in Lagos, monitored by our reporter, Yahaya said, “Most bricklayers didn’t test the soil and the water which they used in building the houses or test the cement used or sand as well as their mixtures, 20, 30 and 50 years ago.  “We cannot build in Lagos without testing the soil. There are quacks everywhere. We have foreigners who come from the neighbouring countries to lay bricks; they charge lower prices. We have quacks and half-baked bricklayers whose charges are low yet do not know the job.” He noted for instance, “If you want to build a 10-room bungalow and I charge you N1 million but the foreigner says N400, 000, what will you do? Once he gets a place to lay his head, gets bread and beans with water to feed on, he is okay. The job of N1m with proper supervision cannot be compared with that of N400, 000. “Structural engineers and civil engineers are all there. When a client gets N18m and you charge additional N1million or N1.5million to pay professionals for proper supervision, he refuses to do that. For six months, he may not visit the site to see what is going on there regarding material testing –Cement, sand, water and others.” For Olugbenga Oladiran, a Quantity Surveyor and Property Developer, most of the buildings lack professional inputs during construction. He said, “During construction, there is what we call dead and living weight of the property. The former is the weight of the structure itself, while the latter is that of the people or occupants of the building. The vibrations will be able to absorb the weight of the occupants. “In the case of the Massey Street, it was formerly residential which was turned to a school, with the children running around in one of the floors, the vibrations are bound to affect the stability of the building. Building and safety involve a gamut of professionals ranging from architect to quantity surveyor, civil/structural engineers, plumbers, geologist, soil engineers and what have you. “They all have roles to play in ensuring that a building where people will live or work is safe. But how many people engage the services of professionals? They will tell you it is too expensive. “Talking about cutting cost, a burnt storey building on 11 Alhaji Opeodu Street, Gbagada, Lagos, was remodeled and the developer added another floor to it, without demolishing the old structure. When completed, it will be painted and given out for rent. These are the major causes of building collapse.” Also, an Architect, Patrick Chinwike said where a foundation meant for a storey building is used for three storey, the building is doomed to collapse, saying that it might not be immediate but a disaster waiting to happen. He said, “Many Lagosians, especially on the Island, where there is population boom, and expensive rent, many landlords are tempted to create more rooms in their built structures in order to make more money. By so doing, they will remove the roofing and deck it again and continue to build.  “Remember that such foundation can only support a bungalow and when the weight gets so much on the foundation which is not strong enough for the load it’s carrying, it will fall and that is when you say building has collapsed. “Again, you will be wondering why a building under construction with the right foundation will collapse? People for greed try to manipulate the materials measurement. For instance, one bag of cement gives you 26 blocks, using five inches block, for in an instance, but some greedy people will want 40 blocks from one bag and this affects the solidity of the blocks. “For solid concrete, seven sand and five stones are good but some landlords will tell the contractor to make it 10/12 or even 12/14. For a foundation that will carry four- storey building, it has to be strong mixture and must be determined from the beginning of the structure. “If you don’t use the right measurement for the materials, give that building a short time, it will collapse. Inferior materials can cause it likewise soil texture, which determines the depth of the foundation ground to be dug.” According to an Estate Manager, Mr. Kayode Alani, maintenance culture is lacking among the landlords of commercial buildings. They would always want the tenant to maintain it and whereby they didn’t, they will leave it untouched. Former President of Building Collapse Prevention Guild, Mr. Kunle Awobodu, had described the problem of building construction on Lagos Island as huge. He noted that the collapsed buildings were not properly constructed, saying “Ita Faji area, used to be a swampy area which should not take five-storey buildings. “I think there has been so much negligence in the area of regulations. The government has closed its eyes to illegal development. Regulation became too tolerant to have encouraged shoddy development.” But the Chairman, LABSCA, Lekan Shodeinde said the agency does not shirk in its responsibility but that it is hamstrung by litigations hence it is unable to demolish the buildings which structure and engineering have failed. At the Lagos State Materials Testing Laboratory Agency (LASMTLA) mum is the word. Sunday Telegraph’s visit to its Ojodu Berger office, to find out the rate of clients’ compliance, did not yield any result. The Public Affairs Officer said the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development had told them not to grant any interview. “Anyone who needs any information should go to the five-man committee recently set up by the state government, investigating the causes of the frequent building collapse on the Island,” she said. Again, a three-storey collapsed on Lagos Island yesterday barely two weeks after about 20 pupils, teachers and residents died in a similar incident.   But for proactive steps taken by government officials, several lives would have been lost in the incident which occurred yesterday at Number 50, Kakawa… In “Metro and Crime” • I wish they’ll stay, it’ll affect us –Landlady   The frequency with which buildings are collapsing on the Lagos Island is currently sending cold shivers down the spines of some traders who are rethinking leaving Island for safer locations, even as others who do not fancy the idea, however,… In “Sunday Extra” For about four years, two major cases of building collapse have been in court without a likely end to punish the culprits. DAYO AYEYEMI reports   There has been a spike in the number of building collapse in the country with over 20 cases recorded in the last 15 years.… In “Insight”