President of the Court of Appeal (PCA), Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa has told the Court of Appeal Justices, Chairmen and members of the election petition tribunals that they will be under close watch as they dispense their duties. Justice Bulkachuwa, who stated this in Abuja yesterday during the induction programme for members of the tribunal, added that her office would not hesitate to descend on any judge found wanting in the discharge of his duties. According to her, “The judiciary has been a major role player in the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria by adjudicating in all cases that arise from pre-election as well as post-election activities. “By the end of this week, we will be in our various states for the tribunals and the appeals that will follow suit by the aggrieved parties. I need not remind you that the assignment ahead of you is enormous and due diligence and professionalism is expected from each and every one of you.
“Always be law abiding and do not allow yourselves to be stirred by emotions, fear or sentiments. You are expected to be in charge of your courts. “The judiciary is in the limelight and, as judicial officers, we should discharge the responsibilities reposed on us both individually and collectively by dispensing justice in accordance with the law without fear or favour or ill-will within the dictates of our conscience and oath of office.”
Justice Bulkachuwa noted that in an election petition tribunal, time is of essence. She, therefore, urged the members to desist from granting frivolous adjournments and charged them to discourage the practice of employing undue technicalities or any act capable of causing delay in the dispensation of petitions before them. “Like I have said before, each and every one of you will be closely monitored by my office and I will not hesitate to descend on any Judge found wanting in the discharge of his or her duties. “By the end of this induction, you will be abreast with what is expected of you and I am sure by the time you resume your duty posts, you will be ready to carry out the task assiduously.”