U.S. grounds 737 MAX jets Black boxes go to Europe for analysis  The Federal Government has banned Boeing 737 Max airplanes from flying into Nigeria’s airspace until further notice. Also, President Donald Trump of the United States has issued an emergency order to ground Boeing 737 MAX 8 and MAX 9 aircraft after a crash in Ethiopia that killed 157 people. “We are going to be issuing an emergency order of prohibition to ground all flights of the 737 MAX 8 and the 737 MAX 9 and planes associated with that line,” Trump told newsmen at the White House. Boeing shares, which were up earlier in the session, fell 2 per cent to $367.70. The shares have fallen about 13 per cent since the crash, losing more than $25 billion of market value. Three Nigerians were among the 149 passengers and eight crewmembers that died in the Ethiopian Airline 320 that crashed on Sunday. The aircraft was en route from Addis Ababa to Nairobi. Several European and Asian countries have banned the use of Boeing 737 Max airplanes in their airspace. Minister of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, made the disclosure yesterday while briefing State House Correspondents at the end of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to the minister, “Regarding Boeing 737 Max 8 and Max 9, that has been in the news recently, there is no cause for alarm as there is no operator in Nigeria that is using that type of airplane.  “The Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), whose mandate it is to issue advisory, has already issued advisory that nobody should fly into Nigeria or out of Nigeria using Boeing 737 Max 8 and Max 9, pending the determination of the actual cause of the crash in Ethiopia and also pending the outcome of the response of the manufacturer, which is Messers Boeing. “Regardless of the enormous safety records of this plane 737, it has caused concern in the world of aviation and you know aviation is universal; whatever affects one affects the other because aircraft will be flying in and out. So, we have issued directive that no operator with Boeing 737 Max 8 or Max 9 should operate into and outside our airports and this is being carried out.” On the orders made for the 737 planes by Air Peace and Arik Air, the minister stated that the planes would not be available in the country until 2021. “Regarding Air Peace and Arik orders, whether those orders were confirmed or intent, it is to our knowledge in the ministry that they won’t be in the country until the next two years or so. And this is enough period to sort out whatever problem it is with that plane. The world of aviation will not be sleeping just as we in Nigeria will not be sleeping. “And it is normal standard practice that once a particular aircraft type is involved in accident back to back, it is withdrawn from the market and see if there is something they are doing wrong. And if it is confirmed that a particular problem, say for instance, landing gear, they will issue an instruction to ground such plane worldwide until the problem is fixed. “So, this case is not different. We pray for the souls of the departed and pray that the industry will continue to be safe and secure. We promise you that we are alive to our own responsibility which is to secure lives and property as a government,” he added. Sirika expressed the hope that the aviation industry would continue to be safe and secure, saying that “we promise you that we are alive to our own responsibility which is to secure lives and property as a government.”  The minister also revealed that about N4 billion was approved by the Council for the procurement of safety and security equipment including X- Ray machines, cargo scanners, and walk-through metal detectors to be installed at Enugu Airport, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Port Harcourt and Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano. He also disclosed that the FEC approved contract for the upgrade of instrument landing system and 11 KVA circuit at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano. Meanwhile, the black boxes from the Boeing 737 MAX 8 plane that crashed in Ethiopia, will be sent to Europe for analysis, a spokesman for Ethiopian Airlines said yesterday. “They will be taken to Europe,” Asrat Begashaw said.  He said it would be decided “today or tomorrow” which country would receive the boxes. Asrat also said the pilot had reported flight control problems and had requested to return to Addis Ababa, from where the plane took off en route to Nairobi. In October, the same model crashed in Indonesia, minutes after take-off, killing 189 people and sparking concerns over automated flight systems. Asrat said the pilot had been trained on the plane after the October Lion Air crash.