They had their prey in their hold for months. They thought they had a cash cow. But fortune betrayed them as they started fighting over the booty, thereby exposing their crimes to the whole world. DOMINIC ADEWOLE, in Asaba, reports  The penalty for the offence of kidnapping in Delta State is life imprisonment.
Besides, the property acquired through the dubious act by the suspect or the guilty, as the case may be, is confiscated by the state government.
This is not negotiable. The document was reviewed and passed by the state’s House of Assembly and was signed into law by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, whose father was abducted for ransom at Owa-Alero in Ika North-East Local Government Area of the state about seven years ago but was lucky to have been rescued unhurt from his abductors, who kept him in their den within the state for days when Okowa was the Senator, representing Delta North Senatorial District.
Also, the elder brother of the immediate past Governor of the state, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, was not spared. He was abducted for days from his Direct Labour Agency (DLA) home before his release was secured.
In some other states of Nigeria, like the neighbouring Edo State, there is no hiding place; it is death penalty. It is not a different stroke in Anambra State where the law grants that any house established to be kidnappers’ den is to be demolished.
Okowa had course to thank God because many dignitaries, including the paramount ruler of Ubulu-Uku Kingdom, Edward Akaeze, were kidnapped around the same period, and were either killed or buried in shallow graves as their families failed to pay on time.
The monarch’s decomposing body was later found in a nearby bush between Edo -Delta boundary in Umunede axis. The rest is history today!
That the tide came down after the monarch’s saga made residents to relax. No thanks to the pro-activeness of the security agencies, especially men of the state police command, whose gallantry was being bastardised.
But few days ago, the police’s might was put to the test again. Two suspected kidnappers, one Victor and the other, Sunday, abducted an Egyptian expatriate and kept him in their hideouts, a gigantic duplex, at Ogbeowele New Layout in Okpanam, Oshimili North Local Government Area of the state since September 2018, extorting money from his family in far away Egypt.
The victim saw hell in the hand of his abductors. Besides that he was lean when providence smiled at him and he was rescued, he had lost the ability to sustain prolonged physical or mental effort. “If he had stayed for another one month in the den”, an eye witness said, “he would have died and buried in shallow grave by the kidnappers.”
He (the victim) could not recognise those that came to rescue him. He could not face sunlight. He was staggering even when he was been flanked detectives who were invited to burst the hideouts. He has been in the dark for too long. He must have resigned to fate before help finally came.
No wonder the expatriate told those that cared to listen after he was rescued that his wife had paid, paid and paid to his abductors but they refused to release him. Instead, they became Oliver Twist – always asking for more.
It was a mere shout of ‘Help! Help!! Help !!!’ by him that broke the shackles of the den.
South-South Focus gathered that the suspects were quarrelling over sharing formula of the initial ransom that was paid by the victim’s wife and was calculating on another chunk that is underway when the deliverance came.
A resident in the neighbourhood (names withheld) said on March 10, after the conduct of the governorship and House of Assembly elections and people were expecting the results, suddenly a loud voice – came calling for help.
“We looked around to know where the call was coming out from. Low and behold, it was from the exotic duplex. We ran towards the building to see if a fight had broken out or there was an emergency of any sort. We asked what was going on. The owner of the duplex came out and told us he was quarrelling with his brother, and urged us not to panic.
“Few minutes after, he brought out a man and claimed he was the brother he was fighting with. When we asked the so-called brother why he came to challenge his brother in his house, he could not answer. As a matter of fact, what we asked him was strange to him. We became suspicious. We suspected a foul play.
“At this, we laid ambush to monitor the situation. Before we decided to call the police, we noticed unholy movements within the compound. When the police eventually came, they forced their way into the duplex. When the suspects could not provide useful explanations to the detectives, they decided to conduct a thorough search of the building. They forced the doors to the rooms open before they found a whiteman inside one of the rooms.
“What are you doing here, police asked? The white man shouted for help again. That was how the detectives knew something was fishing. They quickly seized the suspects and prevented them from jumping arrest. Facts later emerged that the Egyptian was kidnapped six months ago.
“The victim could not eat the food they bought for him because he has lost so much strength. They had to look for a N60 bread to make beverages for him. The victim told the police and other onlookers that his wife has been made to pay huge amount of money into the account of the kidnappers and that she was on the verge of paying another round when quarrel broke out between the suspects.”
The Egyptian was allegedly lured to Nigeria, after he had been brainwashed with a Solar-Power contract award bidding, in Asaba, the state capital.
A top police source said in the course of the victim’s ordeal, he was made to call his wife under duress to auction one of his Solar-Factories to be able to meet the demands of that suspects.
“Yes, we have them in our custody. We learnt that they were negotiating $300,000 when God set crisis between them. It was like the initial money they received from their victim was not properly shared, hence the heated argument on who is to receive the upcoming chunk”, the officer said.
When confronted on their whereabouts, five days after their arrest, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Adeyinka Adeleke, at the command headquarters declined comments.
He tersely said: “The matter had gone beyond me. Wait for the Force Headquarters briefing on the latest development. The victim and the suspects are no longer in my custody.”
South-South Focus however gathered that one of the suspects’ friends was at the police headquarters the day after they were arrested to effect a bail-bond. He claimed to have arrived Nigeria from Ghana and heard that his friends had a police case. But before he was told the nature of their case, the police allegedly asked him whether he could recognise his friend if he sees him, and he answered in affirmative.
When they brought out his friend from the cell, he was shocked. He shouted Victor, what happened to your leg? Police allegedly disarmed him by shooting one of his legs immediately he was arrested. When he was told of his offences, he allegedly excused himself and never returned to bail him until they (suspects) were taken to Abuja for further interrogation.
Meanwhile, residents of Okonkwo Ezichei Avenue, where the prime suspect’s house is situated, are now living in fear of the unknown, as they do not know before now that they were residing in the midst of men of the underworld.
Now that a fortress has been conquered, let the law on kidnapping be enforced.