The Sixth Round of the world’s oldest knock out competition, the FA Cup, concludes this afternoon with Millwall of the Championship hoping to get the better of their more illustrious opponents, Brighton & Hove Albion of the Premiership. Although the Lions are clearly the underdogs today, for manager, Neil Harris and his players the encounter provides them another opportunity to improve their CVs both off the field and on the field. And the 20,146-seater Dell is expected to be packed to the rafters as Millwall fans attempt to become the 12th man for their side, which is 26 places beneath the visiting team. Although the odds looked stacked against the home team, many Lions still recall with nostalgia their epic march all the way to the 2004 final where they lost to Manchester United and will desperately want to enjoy such a run again this campaign. Harris will once again be calling upon Murray Wallace, whom he dubbed an “FA Cup hero” after he scored the winning goal for the second round in a row as the Championship side beat AFC Wimbledon in the previous round. Normally a defender Wallace, who also netted in the 94th minute against Everton in the fourth round, headed home in the fifth minute, to ensure Lions progressed to a third quarter-final in seven years – and their second in the past three seasons courtesy of some resolute defending and wayward finishing by Wimbledon. Millwall received a massive boost going into today’s tie when they beat Birmingham City 2-0 to move away from the relegation places. Midfielder, Ben Thompson was the hero of the day with two well-taken goals and will be hoping his scoring touch does not desert him today. Speaking after his side’s victory moved them up three places to 19th, Millwall manager Harris said: “It was a strong performance, we came out the right side of key moments, had a couple of counters and scored well, had a couple of opportunities on goal and an offside which went our way. “Recently they’ve not gone for us, but tonight was a really professional performance, looked solid and reliable.” He then warned that the FA Cup will be a good time for them to show their true colours. “The cup game [against Brighton] at the Den will be a good occasion and exciting for the fans.” On the other hand the Seagulls go into today’s game full of confidence after their impressive 2-1 away win at Crystal Palace – the first time they would do the league double over Palace since 1983-84 when the teams were in the second tier. Brighton boss Chris Hughton must be quietly confident that he can remain on course for knock out glory against the Lions, especially with 35-year-old Glenn Murray, who got the first against Palace, and Anthony Knockaert hitting form at just the right time. Speaking after the win, which sent his side to 15th on the table, Hughton said: “Murray is someone used to this level of game and to see him back scoring is great.” Considering their pedigree it will be a major upset should the Seagulls fail to make it to the semis at the expense of their Championship colleagues.