Police in Ogun State have arrested a 25-year-old man, Ajibade Olumuyiwa, for allegedly killing a man he suspected to be his wife’s lover. The suspect was said to have hit the head of his victim, Olakiitan Balogun, against the wall, leading to the death of the latter. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident in a statement yesterday, disclosed that the suspect was arrested about 1.45a.m. on Sunday. According to him, Olumuyiwa was nabbed following a distress call from residents of Doland Estate to the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ajuwon. The police spokesman added that the suspect was infuriated when he allegedly found the deceased lover and his wife, Titilayo Olayiwola, inside his own house. Oyeyemi, however, said the wife denied having any amorous relationship with the deceased during interrogation.
He said: “On the receipt of the distress call, the DPO, CSP Afolabi Kazeem, led his detectives to the scene where the suspect was promptly arrested.
“On interrogation, he explained that he came to his house about 12.30a.m. on the fateful day and met the deceased right inside the house with his wife; this infuriated him and he started beating the man and hit his head against the wall leading to the death of the victim. “On her own part, the woman at the centre of the crisis, Titilayo Olayiwola, denied having any amorous relationship with the deceased. She explained that the suspect has abandoned her in the house for the past eight months with an instruction to the gateman to be monitoring her and give him information if he sees her with any man. “She stated further that the victim was a cobbler living within the area and on that day, the deceased’s girlfriend came to pay him visit and since he is not living alone, he decided to bring the girl to a room in the house due to his closeness to the family. “But as soon as the gateman saw him, he alerted the husband who rushed to the house and descended heavily on the deceased without listening to any explanation from her and the girlfriend to the victim.” The PPRO stated that the corpse of the victim had already been deposited at the General Hospital mortuary for post-mortem examination. He added that the state Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, had ordered the immediate transfer of the case to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for discreet investigation and prosecution of the case. He quoted the commissioner as saying the command would not hesitate to deal decisively with anybody taking laws into his hands.