Former governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) in Ogun State, Ogbeni Lanre Banjo, has urged Governor-elect, Mr. Dapo Abiodun to ensure all and sundry enjoy dividends of democracy all-through his administration with a view to killing the urge for backward zoning system. Banjo, who congratulated Abiodun and voters in Ogun State for the outcome of the March 9 governorship polls in a statement made available to New Telegraph, also commended Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, former Governor Olusegun Osoba, ex-deputy governor, Senator Gbenga Kaka and many others “for rescuing the party and the people of Ogun from a volatile situation and for maintaining their cools and exercising their rights when the President directed Nigerians to vote for any candidate of their choice at an APC rally.” Banjo said: “When we both started this journey in 2003, today was so cloudy to us. God who knows the best time to answer prayers answered yours today. No one can stop the miraculous work of God. From 2003, the flight was harrowing and turbulent, but your sweet victory sent a strong a message to the unwary and those who see themselves as mini-god. It also warns those coming behind that these positions are temporary, like the food we eat, it shall end one day and we shall both live in the same society we created when in power. “Remember what you went through in life, how many times ‘wetting you carry’, custom officers etc. victimized you on Nigerian roads and all the bad security experiences you have had in our dear country and strive to make it better for our children and posterity. Remember the roads to your house in Iperu and similar roads throughout Ogun State. “Work to ensure all and sundry enjoy the dividends of democracy under your rule to kill the urge for this backward zoning system. Work together with experienced leaders to improve our political system – a system that would make elections free, fair and without influence of money from primary to general elections, and a system that would produce the best, not parasites and flatterers.”