After weeks of s p e c u l a t i o n about his state of health and whereabouts, Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai, yesterday said the onus of the proof remains with the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, to show that he actually won the February 23 election. He noted that to the best of his knowledge, Atiku’s victory claim in Kaduna State might be in ‘his dreams’. El-Rufai, who had been rumoured to have been involved in an accident, spoke to State House Correspondents, after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. The governor said he was at the villa to brief President Buhari about his rumoured involvement in an accident. El-Rufai had been rumoured to have been involved in an accident which reports said claimed the life of one of his aides. Speaking to State House Correspondents after the meeting, El-Rufai wondered how possible the claim by Atiku that he won the election based on the returns in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) server. He said: “Well, I heard about that. Initially, I thought it was a joke and when I checked I saw clearly that he said he won Kaduna. It must be in his dreams. “Let me say this without any fear of contradiction, since President Buhari started contesting for the presidency since 2003, he has never lost Kaduna. So, PDP has never won elections in Kaduna from 2003, even with a sitting governor in 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015. It has never happened. “I don’t know what will happen that Atiku will win Kaduna in this election this time. He lost Kaduna, he lost very badly, even though about 100,000 votes he claimed to have got were added because election was conducted without card reader in some parts of the state. That’s how he even got up to the 400,000 that he got. “He has lost Kaduna, he will always lose Kaduna, he will lose Kaduna 10 more times because he has never won Kaduna in any presidential elections.” On Atiku’s access to INEC’s server, the governor remarked: “Well, I don’t know about INEC’s server. It must be Atiku’s server. I don’t know about INEC server, we don’t know how they had access to it. They will tell us during the tribunal proceedings what is this server and how they got access to it and how they got their numbers. “You do not go to court in an election petition by quoting INEC server or any other server. Anyone can create a server, I can go an buy it, it is a piece of equipment and call it INEC server. “But that does not mean that it amounts to anything. We are guided by the Electoral Act and the Evidence Act and other enabling legislation and he has to prove his case.”