Scientists in the United Kingdom (UK) have raised hope for millions of arthritis patients after vaccine could treat their daily agony, was found. According to the findings of a new study published in ‘Annals of Rheumatic Disease,’ the researchers developed a vaccine named CuMVttNGF, which blocks the cause of the agony arising from arthritis – nerve growth factor (NGF). CuMVttNGF, helped relieve pain in laboratory mice when it was given both before and after pain had taken hold.  The vaccine triggers the immune system to produce antibodies that would work against the NGF.  The researchers from the Oxford University in England, disclosed that the vaccine triggered the immune system to work against the naturally occurring NGF in mice, numbing their pain, the ‘Mailonline’ reported. The team at Oxford believe the vaccine could be more effective for pain and cost of treatment.  There is currently no cure for osteoarthritis, but the latest study findings could pave the way for more effective treatment, the report stated. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis, affecting millions of people worldwide. It occurs when the protective cartilage on the ends of your bones wears down over time. Although osteoarthritis can damage any joint in your body, the disorder most commonly affects joints in your hands, knees, hips and spine.  However, osteoarthritis sufferers currently have to rely on painkillers to combat their excruciating pain. Co-author of the study Professor Tonia Vincent said: ‘’This is the first successful vaccination to target pain in osteoarthritis, one of the biggest healthcare challenges of our generation.’’  It was tested in mice that had uneven distribution of weight across the hind legs – which the scientists said was a sign of painful osteoarthritis. The vaccine has been described as ‘very promising’ having shown it could visibly reverse pain in arthritis patients.  Instead of leaning to one side due to the pain in their leg, the mice stood with their weight more evenly distributed. The mice who had been given the vaccine also had higher levels of antibodies, which was ‘appeared to be associated with an analgesic response’. And the vaccine, named CuMVttNGF, helped relieve pain in the mice when it was given both before and after pain had taken hold.