Why do some women end up as second or third wives? Do they love breaking homes, destroying good things between a man and the wife of his youth? Do they have a fetish about being second fiddles, the next best thing instead of being the main madam? We all know that in relationships, nothing is really ever what they seem. The man and his supposed wife of his youth are sometimes just neighbours under the same roof and the good thing is just a façade, flogged face under impeccable make-up and designer eye-wear to deceive everybody but the couple. And then the ‘second fiddle’ might just turn out to be a tired but well-brought up child, defeated by fate, trying to make do with what is available. Complicated, right? Yes, second wives are complicated women with complicated lives seeking to uncomplicate things. Yet, marriage itself is one complicated institution. So it is mightily difficult to make it even look or sound easy, whichever angle you approach it from. It’s hard work already being a first and only wife, so you can imagine the life of a second or third or fourth wife. But how second wives survive the complications of polygamy is a matter for some time soon. Today, let’s deal with why some women end up with other women’s men. Forbidden fruit, they say, is attractive. The more unavailable it is, the more desirable it is. Crazy logic, childish even but it is what it is. There are women who simply love dangerous adventures. Perhaps they never really outgrew the hide-andseek and catch-me-if-you-can pranks of their youth. There are also the fast-lane girls with turbo-charged needs and ambition. They do not see the reason to use the staircase when there is an elevator. Why build a home with a struggling man when you can find a man who has finished struggling and has built a home you can just move into? These ones want meals that are not just already cooked but served and waiting for ‘little madam’ to simply sit and enjoy. Meanwhile, made men are most often married. Joyce, my mischievous younger friend, said, ‘well, that he is married and made does not mean he’s unlovable, after all, his wife loves him, so why can’t I? How do you deal with such bling-bling logic of let’s-both-love-him? It’s even worse for the guy if he’s made, married and loaded downstairs. He’s totally endangered. The Joyces of this world and age will spin all kinds of webs in his path. However, never ever forget that men are usually willing parties in these matters, never raped, never forced to kiss. They just get gummed or glued in their own deception and ‘private practice.’ But there are women who find themselves in the valley of polygamy by accident or circumstance. There are women who after many unfortunate relationships that never led anywhere simply settle for second place because all the first slots have been filled and the single men taken. Faced with option of being single mum or the second wife, they jump at the latter. For these set of women, every other thing is in place except marriage. They are fine and fixed in the corporate world, their careers moving in leaps and bounds but the single men just race past them, or is the successful girls who race past the men? Whatever. Finding Mr Right simply ended up being too hard a nut to crack than juggling two MBAs in the same academic year. So, they settle. Like Mimi. ‘It hit me like a blow between the eyes when on the morning of my 40th birthday, my younger sister’s children, my three handsome nephews, raced into my room to wish me happy birthday. As they sang their off-key ‘we wish you many happy return,’ I knew I had reached a point of tough decision. I was 40 and single. Successful business woman but not married. I did not have a child! My biological clock was not ticking. It was banging, very loudly. Men in my age bracket and those slightly older are all married with children. It wasn’t that I had not made any effort. I had prayed and fasted. You’d be shocked at the number of prayer mountains there are in Nigeria. I had even been to one in Jos. Yes, Plateau State. I decided it was time to take my destiny in my hands. I mean, my secretary was 37 and her first child just got admitted into the secondary school. It was like I was just folding my arms and waiting for the arrival of menopause. That was how I felt that morning of my 40th birthday. ‘I resolved to do what I needed to do as swiftly as I take business decisions. I resolved to go off any and every form of contraceptive. I was going to seize the very first opportunity to become a mum, then I would think of the consequences later. And that was exactly what Mimi did. Her relationship with Otunba was supemonade from the lemons life threw at me.’ So, do you think second wives are usurpers, interlopers or victims of circumstances? Do share your thoughts. From my mailbox Thank you our dear President and renowned columnist for your humanist piece. It’s so touching. Hope they will listen before Sango strikes them and their children dead. -Akogun Tola Adeniyi Typical Funke Egbemode, the only words I have for you “write a wise column and your name will live forever.” Until we begin to heed wise counsel of patriots like you, we will not make progress as a country. Spot on. Your article touched the underbelly of the crop of people we elect to positions of leadership. – M.A. Funke, your “Moving on after Feb. 23” is telling and appropriate. I love your columns. -Anonymous. Madam Funke, your write-up about the love Nigerian politicians have for us is spot on. Please keep telling them the truth. – Christian Iheanacho, Satellite Town, Lagos If you are moving, then we are moving with you. We cannot afford to miss your piece every week. -Hon. Peter Okafor, Orlu Imo State FE, “Moving on after February 23” tells us to focus on issues of voters’ comfort in bondage and lack of education. “Electoral college” is now inevitable for “intellectual aristocracy” to save and advance our democracy for sustainable progress in Nigeria. – Engr. Emma Chiadi, Onitsha