Ex-international, Dosu Joseph, has said that Nigeria need early goals against Libya in their return leg of their Olympic qualifier in Asaba today (Monday). Dosu, who famously manned the post for the Dream Team in their gold winning outing at Atlanta 1996 Olympic Football Tournament, stated that Nigeria’s U-23 team walks a tight rope with the 2-0 deficit from the first leg last Wednesday at Stade de Ben Guerdane in Tunisia “It’s a delicate situation because we failed to score and if they score the task will be much difficult for us. What the team needs is to get early goals and take total dominance of the match. How they are going to go about this lies with the coaching crew. Dosu also says the team which has Imama Amakpakabo as head coach, on paper, looks strong and it is on this note that Nigerians are expecting them to turn the result. Villarreal forward Samuel Chukwueze, Taiwo Awoniyi of Royal Mouscron, Kelechi Nwakali of Porto B, Azubuike Okechukwu Rizespor and Dennis Bonaventure Club Brugge are some of the team members. “The team has players that have experience and are also tested and I don’t really know what went wrong in the first leg because the result was totally unacceptable and it will be a huge setback if we fail to qualify for the 2020 Olympics.” “We have the best record in Africa in the Olympics football and considering that we won bronze the last time, we have the chance to improve in the next edition. Dosu also hailed the drafting of Super Eagles goalie Francis Uzoho to the team coming on the heels of the red card bagged by Adamu Abubakar in the first leg which ruled him out of the decisive leg. “Uzoho has World Cup experience and he will be a plus for the team. My focus is on the strikers; they must be at their best and make sure that they convert chances that come their way. “Hopefully, by end of the first half, we should have cancelled the deficit.” Nigeria won the last edition of the Africa U-23 Cup of Nations held, only for the second time, in Senegal four years ago following a 2-1 win over Algeria at the Stade Leopold Sedar Senghor in Dakar.