He struggled to write WAEC and JAMB in 2014 and made excellent results, but poverty shattered his dream to further his education. UCHENNA INYA, in Abakaliki, tells the story of Alidor Jonah, a young lad given scholarship by a philanthropist, Comrade Chinedu Ogah at the weekend.   It has always been the desire of Alidor Jonah Bonaventure, an indigene of Ihotor, Ameka, Ezza South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State to become a graduate and change his poor status but he was faced with challenges ranging from finance to health. In 2014, he wrote the West African Examination Council(WAEC) and made it. He also wrote JAMB and came out in flying colours, achieved this single handedly without any assistance. He was then confronted with financial problems and couldn’t further his education the way he had wanted. He then went into apprenticeship and stayed for three years to be able to sustain himself but couldn’t succeed. Alidor was thereafter confronted with serious ailment which nearly took his life but he fought the sickness to standstill and survived. The situation ended his desire to further his education until last Saturday when he was given an automatic scholarship by Comrade Chinedu Ogah to study in any University of his choice. Ogah also placed him on N30,000 monthly stipend, which he will be using to sustain himself. Ogah, who contested for the Ezza South/Ikwo federal constituency election in the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections had sighted the boy at Ohataekwe Primary School field in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State while appreciating the constituents for supporting him and his Ikwo Local Government Area for delivering the area to President Muhammadu Buhari. He had sighted Alidor in the area and pronounced the gesture. An elated Alidor said: “I would like to express my deepest gratitude for the generous scholarship you have given me. I feel so fortunate to have been singled out as a recipient of this honor. Your generosity will allow me to pursue my dreams, and for that, I cannot thank you enough. “As a young lad who sat for WAEC and JAMB in 2014, I had wanted to further my education but challenges which included financial, academic and health challenges wouldn’t let me. I didn’t give up because the passion and the desire to succeed was alive. I went into apprenticeship which I stayed for three years with nothing to write home about. “Fortunately, I secured a job at Lugbe Airport Road, Abuja on 6th October, 2017 after the three years horror apprenticeship experience in Rivers State that didn’t work out. I started life afresh. The thought of how I will go to school often envelopes me coupled with my health issue. “Sadly, it worsened that I had to carry out fresh general diagnostic tests and afterwards, I was placed on medication. Hospital to hospital, all efforts to get permanent health solution to my problem proved abortive. I thought that was the end of my life, but God showed himself in a mighty way. “After spending over N200,000 from personal savings and medical help from Prof Steve Egbo and Chief Oguzor Offia Nwali without cure, I decided to live with the sickness even though I’ve been spending with hope that I’ll get well someday. “Summarily, I resigned my job on December 24th, 2018 from where I work at Abuja and earn N20,000 monthly. “I came across Comrade Chinedu Ogah OON like a dream in Abuja when he came to pick APC House of Representatives form. Although I had known about Ikukuoma but I never met him. “Surprisingly, he called me out yesterday among my people from Ezza South at his residence in Abakaliki and asked about my educational qualifications. He was astonished when I told him that I was a Secondary School leaver. He screamed and asked “with such brilliance? I give you scholarship to university and automatic employment in my company in Abuja. Go and write JAMB, I will train you. “Today, he officially called me out at Ohatekwe Amagu Primary School where he organised appreciation event for his supporters and announced that he’s giving me scholarship to the University of my choice and N30,000 monthly for living expenses. “Thank you once again for your generosity. I promise I will work hard to prove myself worthy of this opportunity you’ve given me. I am looking forward to the day I am able to help other students just as you have helped me. I remain ever grateful to you and indebted to you. Thanks to everyone who contributed to actualizing this. I appreciate”. Ogah, while announcing the scholarship said he offered the scholarship to Alidor to study any discipline of his choice in the University, adding that he cannot allow ‘such an intelligent boy to continue to suffer’. He noted that he will continue to assist the young lad to actualize his dream and urged youths who face similar challenge not to indulge in any crime but remain resolute. Ogah explained that he staged the rally to thank the constituents for their support during the election. On the outcome of the election which he lost to the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Laz Ogbee, the APC candidate alleged that he was rigged out. Ogbee got 31 , 296 votes while Ogah got 27 , 700 votes . President Muhammadu Buhari won Ikwo Local Government Area during the presidential election. Buhari polled 20, 768 to beat his PDP rival Alhaji Atiku Abubakar who scored 16, 267 in the local government. Ikwo was the only local government in Ebonyi State the President won while Atiku won 12 council areas. Ogah commended the people of the area for delivering the local government to Buhari and accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of aiding the alleged irregularities which he said aided his loss at the poll; insisting, however that he won the election. Ogah, who encouraged his supporters not to lose hope, said that he would contest the outcome of the election at the court. He said that he was confident that he would reclaim his mandate through legal means.