State civil servants expect a more rewarding phase of governance as far as pension and other welfare programmes are concerned as recently expressed through the governorship election campaigns. Sunday Ojeme reports  Over 11 years after the introduction of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), the fate of majority of state civil servants still hangs in the balance. The state governors, who vote huge pensions for themselves while also struggling to make it to the National Assembly, have found it difficult to fully implement the scheme on behalf of their workers. As new dispensation cruises into the second tier of government with either re-election of incumbent or coming onboard of new faces, the time has come to evaluate how seriously the states have taken the scheme, which has seen majority of federal civil servants and some private firm employees’ future secure. Going by past records of the pension industry regulator, National Pension Commission (PenCom), only four states, Lagos, Osun, Rivers and Niger, were said to have fully implemented group life insurance policy for their workers, a development that is not too healthy for the country and the future of the civil servants. Not long ago, precisely last year, PenCom had cause to raise the alarm again over the poor response of state governors to the scheme as the situation had been made worse by the revelation that over 90 per cent of them have also failed to key their workers into group life insurance. As earlier acknowledged, the revelation obviously represents another failure on the part of state government to guarantee the future of their workers and also ensure proper compensation in the event of death or an accident while still working under them. Poor state response According to PenCom’s report as at first quarter 2018, 28 states had enacted laws on Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), while eight states were at the bill stage and one state is yet to commence the process of enacting a law to reform its pension system.
Similarly, 12 out of the 36 states have commenced remittance of contributions into Retirement Savings Account (RSA) of their employees, while eight have started funding their Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund Accounts (RBBRFAs). Roadmap initiative To ensure a change in the attitude of the states, the pension regulator revealed that a roadmap covering a period between 12 and 18 months had been developed for the engagement of labour unions, state governments, state employees and other stakeholders to positively influence state compliance.
This development has become necessary considering the fact that more employers have joined the ranks of defaulters, despite efforts including enforcement of the penalties by the regulator to put an end to non-remittance of pension contributions.
According to the commission’s report in this regard, it maintained the services of 14 Recovery Agents to retrieve outstanding pension contributions and interest penalty from defaulting employers. Recovery
PenCom noted that following the issuance of demand notices to defaulting employers, whose liabilities had been established by the agents, some employers had remitted the outstanding pension contributions and the corresponding penalties.
“During the quarter, the sum of N465.02 million, representing principal contribution of N335.70 million and penalty totaling N129.32 million was recovered. This brought the total recoveries made to date to N14.38 billion comprising of principal contribution of N7.48 billion and penalty of N6.96 billion.
The sad aspect, however, is the fact that the recovery applies to only the private sector, thereby leaving state civil servants at the mercy of their governors, who are still not certain to fully implement the new minimum wage of N30,000.
Take for instance, in the South West a few years ago, almost all the states in the region joined at least 24 other states to dump the Pay As You Go pension scheme to adopt the CPS for their workers. Initial excitement As far back as 2014 when the new Pension Reform Act was reviewed by former President Goodluck Jonathan, not less than 24 states hurriedly enacted their laws on the CPS besides Lagos, which fully implemented the scheme with a total of 45,730 employees registered and pension contributions remittance of N46.50 billion as at July, 2013. Over time, instead of this momentum to keep increasing, it is gradually waning, thereby becoming worrisome to industry stakeholders as the future of retirees is obviously being threatened.
The CPS is particularly limited as far as enforcement is concerned, as states also have the constitutional powers to enact their pension laws. Regulator’s frustration Acting Director-General, PenCom, Aisha Dahir-Umar, made this clear in one of the commission’s meeting with retirees in Lagos when she declared that there were constitutional provisions that made states independent to enact their pension laws.
She said: “Some of the states are making full remittances, which are the employer and the employee contributions. Some are remitting only employees’ contributions, while others remit employer and employee in an inconsistent manner, which means that this month they may remit both and next month, they may remit only for employees. “The Commission respects the constitutional rights that have been given to states, however, we have a law that empowers the Commission to oversee pension matters in all states and this forum is one of the strategies that the Commission has adopted in encouraging states to support the CPS.” While admitting that the commission has no power to force states to adopt a particular pension law, she maintained that PenCom had the power to guide states that want to move from the Defined Benefit Scheme to the CPS and encourage reluctant states to comply with the CPS. Dahir-Umar noted that the Commission had made efforts to seek audience with state chief executives to explain the benefits of the CPS to them, so they could hook up with the scheme, adding that the matter goes beyond state executives to labour unions in all states, as the CPS was designed for workers. She said: “The workers need to know the benefits of this scheme and for that reason we also engage labour unions in all the states to explain the scheme to them. In some cases, it is the state’s labour union that encourages their state governments to adopt the scheme.” Governors’ greed As widely known, the pension issue has become more appalling for the fact that some of the governors, who failed to implement the scheme in their various states are among those currently benefitting from the N37 billion, conservatively estimated to sustain their pension and other benefits while out of office. Even as organised labour prepares to commence a nationwide economic lockdown tomorrow, the state governors have vowed never to capitulate to the former’s demand for a N30,000 minimum wage. To make matters worse, the sustained campaign by the regulator to get more states enrolled in the scheme currently appears to the governors like distraction, as they are all more interested in the forthcoming 2019 election. Expert’s view Commenting on the development, the Managing Director/Group Executive Officer, IEI Anchor Pension, Glory Etaduovie, said the pace at which states were adopting CPS was disturbing, adding that the situation was connected with history and culture of the country, than attitude of not taking what benefits the masses seriously. According to him, “It will take time for them to fully key in as all of these are transitional challenges. In this country, we take a lot of things for granted and we end up paying the prize. It starts from people’s homes and goes down like that. Talk of governors owing workers for months; it spells a serious problem. Imagine the PFAs chasing after them even though some are on but struggling with accumulated liabilities. In all of these, there is bureaucracy and politicking. He, however, said the fact that about 15 of them had embraced it would compel others to do same with time. “You find out that some civil servants are even frustrating the process because they prefer the old order, not knowing the risks. All the same, we will keep working on it as it is of general concern,” he noted. On his part, the President, Nigeria Labour Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, two years ago, said the sustainability of CPS was under threat, citing Federal Government’s liability, which it said stood at N183 billion.
He said the scheme was being threatened by non-compliance by major stakeholders, especially employers. He said retirees under the scheme go through a lot to access their funds, saying that if the issues and challenges inherent in the scheme were not addressed, the scheme would soon hit the rocks. Last line With new breath being pushed into governance in the states beginning from May, observers are of the view that the welfare of workers should be taken more seriously, especially as it relates to their future. Good enough, the new minimum wage is a good start to ensure that Nigerian workers begin to have a sense of belonging as far as enjoying the resources of the country is concerned.