 Politics they say is a dirty game. There is no doubt that the political scenario that played out in the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections in Benue State that finally laid to rest what political analysts best described as the overbearing influence by former governor, now Senator representing Benue North West, George Akume on Governor Samuel Ortom can only be linked to supremacy battle. Senator Akume, the first democratically elected governor of Benue State to serve eight years on the saddle, became governor through the instrumentality of former National Chairman of the now opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Barnabas Gemade between 1999 and 2007. George Akume, born December 27, 1953, was the first civilian Governor of Benue State to have completed two terms in office. He was elected governor on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and was then elected Senator for Benue North West in the April 2011 elections, running on the platform of the Action Congress of Nigeria, (ACN). He polled 261,726 votes, defeating Terngu Tsegba of the PDP who won 143,354 votes. He was again re-elected to the senate under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2015. He also became Senate Minority Leader from June 2011 to June 2015. He is currently the Chairman Senate Committee on Army and a ranking member of the upper chamber. Even though Akume was made governor by Gemade, the same Akume turned back against Gemade in the just concluded National Assembly elections in Benue as he worked against him by bringing his anointed candidate, Mrs. Mimi Orubibi on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress who eventually lost in the battle in favour of former governor of the state, Dr. Gabriel Suswam for the Benue North West senatorial district. Results of that election as declared by the INEC Returning Officer, Suswam polled 148, 615 votes, followed by Orubibi’s 81, 603 votes, while Senator Gemade and Akaagerger got 32, 534 and 8, 099 votes respectively. While the cat and dog nexus between Akume and Gemade perdidts, the same Akume does not see eye to eye with former Senate President, Senator David Alechenu Mark whom he fought relentlessly to pull the rug off his feet as President of the Senate. Throughout his eight years as governor, people of the state including his immediate Mbakor community did not feel the impact of his administration as the only tomato industry he initiated and which has not been completed has been taken over by reptiles. The Senator was instrumental to the enthronement of Ortom as governor of the state in 2015 under the platform of the APC. At first, when the going was smooth, all programmes and policies of the governor including the Anti-Open Grazing Law which was validly promulgated by the state House of Assembly, received accolades by Senator Akume. But later on, things fell apart and the center could no longer hold when Ortom was issued a ‘red card’ by Akume to quit the party a decision that compelled him to defect to PDP. Governor Ortom’s major problems with Akume according to findings include his (Ortom’s) successful appointment of the new Tor Tiv Prof. James Ayatse, sacking of his loyalists from the present administration, Ortom’s opposition to his Benue North East senatorial choice, promulgation of the anti open grazing law (which Akume was instrumental to but later chickened out to please Presidency) among other issues. His continued animosity against top politicians in the state like David Mark, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, Governor Samuel Ortom, Dr. Gabriel Suswam, Orker Jev, Prof. Iyorwuese Hagher, Comrade Abba Moro, Dr. Terhemba Shija, to mention but a few contribute to his sudden political woes. The general impression conceived by Senator Akume as the kingmaker in Benue politics has now been taken away leaving him between the devil and the deep blue sea. In his Tarka Local Government Area, majority of the people voted against him. For over 20 years that he had continued to be in positions of leadership, anybody desiring to attain any political height that dare not approach “this man” would always find it extremely difficult to achieve such a dream, talk less of been chairman of the local government. Akume’s recent defeat at the just concluded National Assembly elections when he was floored by his godson and serving House of Representative member for Buruku constituency, Rt. Hon. Emmanuel Yisa Orker Jev on February 23, elicited wide jubilation across the length and breath of the state.
But Governor Ortom in a swift reaction, called on PDP supporters and other residents of Makurdi to remain calm despite the provocation by some APC youths who went on rampage and destroying things. He accused Senator Akume of pushing the youths to embark on the destruction of PDP campaign materials and added that since 1999, Akume has been winning elections but those he defeated never went on rampage in town to incite youths against him but accepted defeat in good faith and those who were aggrieved took their cases to the election tribunal to seek redress. He stressed that for Senator Akume to lose the last election and choose to embark on destruction of campaign billboards and posters of his opponents thereby causing traffic problems in town, is quite unfortunate and regrettable. The governor said that as a leader, Akume is expected to be a good example to the young generation by toeing the path of peace in the interest of the state. Akume’s defeat has continued to attract reactions as an Associate Professor of History at the Federal University, Lafia, Dr. Wilfred Uji, who is presently, the Executive Secretary (ES) of the Benue State Teaching Service Board (TSB), Makurdi, described the defeat of the Senator as “the end of an era in Benue politics”. The university don also expressed disappointment over the more than 40 percent votes given to Muhammadu Buhari by Benue electorate despite the President’s disdain for the genocide in the state. He said: “The defeat of Senators George Akume and Barnabas Gemade is a clear demonstration of the Tiv peoples’ protest against feudalistic politics”. “It signifies the end of an era in which the common man in Benue politics will have a great voice and decision in politics of the state”. The defeat of Akume which Governor Ortom said is a retirement from politics really marks the end and fall of his dynasty.  