…describe Buhari’s re-elecion as nightmare  Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN ) has vowed to sustain its protest for the next four years, except the government of President Muhammadu Buhari respects court orders to release Sheikh El’Zalzaky and other members of the Movement still held in custody.
The movement, while bemoaning Buhari’s re-election, said his government was tyrannical, lawless and a nightmare which Nigerians do not deserve. Spokesperson of the Movement in Abuja, Abdullahi Musa, noted that the massive manipulations at the polls to favour Buhari and the ruling party, has forced the country into another round of oppression and misrule. “We believe it is another four years of tyranny and oppression to the whole citizens of the country and not just for the Shittes family. For the past four years, he has been launching attacks against our members at different locations. “In the last four years, Buhari has subjected the masses of this country to abject poverty and hunger. There is no doubt that this administration has been behind all the killings going on nationwide, either in the name of Boko Haram or herdsmen. Before now, we didn’t know anything about using sophisticated weapons by herdsmen. The banditry in Zamfara State has left the level of using matchets to steal cow; now, we have people who use sophisticated weapons to attack and kill people”, he said. Musa, in an exclusive chat with New Telegraph, also debunked some media reports that Iranian government had withdrawn support from the Movement in the country. He said that such falsehood was part of the propaganda which the office of the National Security Adviser ( NSA) packaged to get support for Buhari’s re-election. He stated that before the elections, Buhari was jittery that the 20 million members of IMN in Nigeria were going to vote against him; so he charged his men to use all manner of propaganda to break ranks within the leadership of the movement.
The IMN spokesperson, claimed that Iran never issued any statement that gave the impression that it has turned its back to the Shittes in Nigeria.
He alleged that Iran has not been sponsoring IMN, except for the ideological connection and other religious sentiments which they have in common. According to him, the NSA assembled the people who were using different media platforms to falsely claim that Iran has distanced itself from the activities of IMN in the country. While he noted that members of IMN participated in the polls, even though the votes were not allowed to count, he said IMN would sustain its protest for the release of Sheikh El’Zalzaky and other members of the movement still held in custody. He said: “IMN members voted in the just concluded elections but that does not mean that any particular candidate was endorsed by the leadership of the movement. We have members who are politicians and are into politics. So, our people voted. “Our protest for the release of our leader and other members of the movement still in the custody of government will continue. We shall continue to come out and call the president back to his senses, to respect the laws of the land. “Iran has never been the one sponsoring our activities. It is our individual members that make contributions to support what we do. We have up to 20 million members in Nigeria and it is from them that sponsorship come to IMN. “Before the elections, Buhari, knowing that the 20 million members of IMN will not vote for him; his men went ahead to sponsor the falsehood of Iran’s withdrawal of support to IMN. All such reports were fabrications and scam from the office of the National Security Adviser, who gathered all manner of people who claimed they are were Shittes and were endorsing Buhari.
“There was no statement from Iranian government nor from its embassy here in Nigeria to the effect that it has withdrawn support from IMN. All these people making the claims were sponsored by NSA. We heard them on radio and watched them on Television. What we have in common with Iran is the ideology and some religious sentiments we share, and that connection is still in place”.