 Wild celebration enveloped Yola, the Adamawa State capital, following the declaration of Alhaji Ahmadu Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as winner of state’s governorship election. The outgoing governor, Jibrilla Bindow, has conceded defeat and congratulated Fintiri, who was declared the winner of the state governorship election, following the supplementary election held on Thursday. In his reaction, the presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, described the election of Fintiri as a new dawn for the people of the state. Meanwhile, the Returning Officer of the election, Prof. Andrew Haruna, who declared the result on Thursday in Yola, after the supplementary election in 44 units across 14 local government areas of the state, said Fintiri polled 376,552 votes to beat Bindow of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who scored 336,386 votes. Senator Abdul-Azeez Nyako of African Democratic Congress (ADC) scored 113,237 votes, while Chief Emmanuel Bello of Social Democratic Party (SDP) got 29,792 votes. In the supplementary election, Fintiri of the PDP polled 10,480 votes while Bindow of the APC secured 1, 391 votes, leaving a margin of 9,089. Fintiri was also a former Speaker of the state House of Assembly in 2014 and also served as Acting Governor in July 2014 following the impeachment of then Governor Murtala Nyako. In conceding defeat, Bindow congratulated the governor-elect and further wished him a successful term in office in a state broadcast yesterday.He said: “In view of the outcome and declaration of the results by INEC, I wish to congratulate the Governor- elect, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, over his election as the incoming Governor of Adamawa State and wish him successful tenure. As a democrat, I cherish democratic norms and values, as it is practised in the civilised world.” Atiku in a statement yesterday by his media adviser, Mr. Paul Ibe, expressed delight that the PDP was victorious in the governorship election in his home state. “My home state of Adamawa has chosen the PDP to lead them. I am truly proud of this and let me assure you that you have chosen a leader with the zeal and determination to put Adamawa on the best path. “You have chosen a leader who appreciates Adamawa’s diversity and who will run an inclusive government for the betterment of all.” He congratulated the governor-elect for his resounding success at the polls in spite of the various antics of the ruling party to frustrate the wishes of the people in the state.