  Some staff of the State House Medical Centre (SHMC) in the Presidential Villa, Abuja are currently agitated over what they describe as an alleged plan by President Muhammadu Buhari to privatise the facility. The centre provides special medical services to Nigeria’s President, the Vice President and their families as well as employees of the presidency and other privileged individuals. It doubles as a prime training facility for house officers and other medical personnel. The presidency appears to be seriously worried about these unprovoked fears and criticisms about the poor state of the center especially when coming from prominent Nigerians and has been considering a number of options to reposition the SHMC for optimal service delivery. One of such options is reverting it from a Medical Center to a Clinic. There is difference between these two kinds of health facilities. A medical centre is an outpatient, acute care facility that houses a group of doctors who provide health care services to the patients from a single premise. A clinic on the other hand, is a place where outpatients are provided medical treatment, checkup or advice for their health. Many Nigerians are, however, surprised that successive presidents and vice presidents as well as their family members have not been making good use of this medical centre. Rather, tax payer’s money is used to fly them abroad to seek health care. The SHMC in the recent past has been at the centre of public discourse over what analysts describe as the deteriorating condition of medical services and non-availability of essential equipment. It was in September 2017 when President Muhammadu Buhari’s daughter, Zahra, first took her protest to the social media about the deplorable condition of the SHMC. Her destination was her Instagram handle, @mrs_zmbi, where she called out the management should explain the poor state of the health centre despite huge budgetary allocation which they continue to receive. She specifically asked the centre’s management to provide answers as to why simple items such as Paracetamol, syringes and gloves were not available, leaving patients and staff to individually source for them. Zahra asked pertinent questions about the SHMC: “Why isn’t there simple Paracetamol, gloves, syringes? Why do the patients/staff have to buy what they need in the state house clinic? More than N3 billion budgeted for state house clinic and the workers there don’t have equipment to work with? Why? “Where is the money going to? Medication only stocked once since the beginning of the year? Why?” A few days after the President’s daughter vent her anger against the state of the centre, she was followed by the President’s wife, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, who joined other prominent Nigerians in expressing displeasure on the falling standard of the facility. She lamented the lack of drugs and equipment at the State House Clinic, insisting that the management must explain the use of funds allocated to the medical facility. The President’s wife told Nigerians how she refused to travel abroad for the treatment and had to make do with a foreign-owned hospital in Abuja and wondered what the fate of the ordinary Nigerian who falls sick would be in such circumstances. What is the challenge at the moment is that staff members of the centre seem to have misunderstood government’s plan and suspicious of the fact that the President Buhari’s administration rather, is considering the full privatisation of the centre. In their opinion, any attempt to privatise the centre to worsen its condition, make them stranded, halt training programme for house officers and bring about charging of high fees from beneficiaries. The Permanent Secretary of the State House, Jalal Arabi, has, however, since dismissed these allegations. In an interview with me last week, he said the government was making arrangements to revert the facility from a status of a center to clinic and not outright privatisation as being alleged by staff members. Jalal explained that the decision to convert the facility is to ensure that it efficiently serves the purpose for which it was established. What is interesting is the fact that the Permanent Secretary himself agreed that the SHMC, had faced some challenges including the availability of essential equipment and drugs that continue to hamper its effectiveness to deliver services to patients. Listen what Jalal said about this; ”The good thing about it is, of course, is because it has been in the public domain that there are some challenges in the workings of the State House Medical Center. In the opinion of Jalal, the most important thing presidency is to make sure that those presently working at the facility do not feel side-lined, short-changed or out of job. One thing which most staff members may not know and apparently don’t understand is that they are all working civil servants, and are part and parcel of the system. I have come to understanding having any one of them to lose jobs will be the most difficult thing the government can do even if the centre were to be privatised. Asked specifically if the government would privatise the centre after reverting it, Jala said ”No, not at all. I don’t know whether it is in our psyche or not, sometimes, we detest changes when they come. But I mean far from it, there is not going to be anything privatisation or so. It is still going to serve the purpose for which it is meant. I mean, those that have been going there, will still go there, but as I said, it’s going to be managed purely on the issue of what I can afford, what I do so that I get the best out it. It’s not much of the name but much of the service and satisfaction that people would get. While assuring that the process would be a case of cutting ’our coat according to our size’, Jalal noted that government does not plan to introduce any billing system for patients that will be using the facility. ”There will be nothing like a billing system, remember that the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) has been in place and that is what has been in practice now. The truth is that it is not much what they will be asked to pay but much of the services they will get based on a concise size that the budget can accommodate and the budget can service. No more, no less, and everybody will be happy, I assure you of that.” Managing Director of the centre Husain Munir, had recently lamented the inability of the SHMC to access funds from the NHIS which could help in augmenting the cost of services at the centre. It is obvious that sustaining the system of free medical services to patients presently at the centre especially, at a time when the government claims to be facing paucity of funds may remain difficult. However, amidst the palpable fears coming from the staff, what the government needs to do, is to enlighten and carry them along to avoid the existing suspicion. I am strongly confident from given the special status of the SHMC, its privatisation has not been in any way contemplated by President Buhari and his government. It is only being imagined and completely out of place. Staff members ought not to be jittery.  The House of Representatives recently resolved to investigate the deplorable condition of the State House Medical Center (SHMC) apparently, on the prompting of an outburst by the wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari and her daughter Zahra. Anule Emmanuel examines some reforms being adopted by the presidency to revitalise… In “Politics” The State House (Aso Rock) Medical Centre (SHMC), Abuja is supposed to be a Centre of Excellence in medical care. It was primarily established to cater for the health needs of the President, Vice President and their families. It was also designed to provide medical services for the retinue of… In “Editorial” The State House (Aso Rock) Medical Centre (SHMC), Abuja is supposed to be a Centre of Excellence in medical care. It was primarily established to cater for the health needs of the President, Vice President and their families. It was also designed to provide medical services for the retinue of… In “Editorial”