Prince Benjamin Apugo is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State. In this interview with EMMANUEL IFEANYI, he speaks on the position of Senate President in the 9th National Assembly, re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and the performance of APC in the South-East geopolitical zone   President Muhammadu Buhari has just been re-elected for another term in office. How do you feel about it? I am happy though I expected it. I expected him to win because it was already written that he is the one that will help to sanitize this country. Are you surprised at the margin with which Buhari won, particularly the votes from the North? I am not surprised because APC has a lot of followers in the North and I would have been surprised if they did not vote the way they did. The president did not win any of the states in the South-East, what does this say about the region in the political equation of the country? You can see that the South- East did better now than it did in 2015, though the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rigged election in the zone, which made votes for Buhari to appear low, when compared to other regions. To me, PDP being in control of this area held a meeting and decided to allocate figures, which did not reflect the actual votes the people gave Buhari. Of course I know that Nigerians, particularly here that I come from, love Mr. President. Take for example, from what happened in my state, I can tell you that PDP allotted votes the way they wanted. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) connived with the PDP to steal votes the people gave to APC candidates in Abia State, including that for the President. Some persons are not happy with the way the election was handled in terms of timely delivery of materials to polling units. Did that happen to where you voted? Yes! I went to the polling station three times, but nobody was there and it was on the fourth time that I saw INEC officials. They came five hours late and it was part of the rigging method adopted by the PDP. Comparing the figure your party got this year with that of the 2015 presidential election, would you say there was an improvement? I can say it was an improvement, but not a good improvement. Why I said it was not a good improvement is because I would have wished that we had won throughout the state. The PDP has rejected the result of the presidential election and has vowed to challenge it in court. What is your take on that? PDP always say all sorts of things. You have seen the result yourself; even international observers have congratulated Mr. President for ensuring a peaceful election. Can you imagine anybody talking about manipulation, when some APC bigwigs lost election in their states? Why should they be talking about the North? Why are they not talking about what happened in the South-East and South- South? The South-East has produced some APC senators going by the result of the election. Will this give it the chance of producing the president of the Senate when the 9th National Assembly is inaugurated in June? I don’t think that is negotiable; it is supposed to be for the South- East. Since we now have APC senators, the chance is bright. What lessons have your party learnt as regards to what happened in Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency in particular and Abia Central in general where your candidates lost? What happened was a big lesson. It is not that we have lost completely because we will challenge the outcome in court. We are going to gain it back because the facts are there. Everybody know that Martin, my son and the APC candidate for Ikwuano/ Umuahia won the three local governments that make up the federal constituency, but because he was not in the local government chairman’s office who is a PDP man where they faked the result and brought them out, that was why it appeared he lost. Some of the wards in Umuahia had to vote the next day. What do you make of that? Many people as I talk to you are yet to vote. No voting took place in more than 30 units in Umuahia, the same with Ikwuano. INEC told them they were coming the next day to conduct the election, but never went there, yet they wrote results. We have documents to prove that. A former governor of the state, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, won the Abia North senatorial seat and APC won the two federal constituency seats out of the three in the zone. Do your party winning the governorship election in the state? I have already congratulated Kalu and others, they did well. As for the chances of my party in the governorship election, until when we get to that stage, I will not make statement on that. What’s your advice to the President as he prepares for his second term in office? He has to carry everybody along irrespective of party affiliation, religion or tribe. He may not be the oldest man in the country, but he is the father of all and should treat all Nigerians as his children. I think that he must have learnt his lessons by now. He must intensify efforts in the fight against corruption. But he has been doing that… He has not done that to my satisfaction because those who are corrupt and are supposed to be in jail were the ones who brought the looted funds and paid their way back to the Senate. In my own state, who voted Theodore Orji to go to the Senate? Nobody! I’m telling you the truth. When you allow people like that to be going around, they come out to contest election.