The birth of national microfinance banks may have raised fear of dominance among operators of old microfinance banks, as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) dismisses it as unfounded. Abdulwahab Isa reports  The banking watchdog is the arrow head in the crusade for inclusive banking. By demographics, useful statistics on banking, very high proportion of Nigerians are outside the banking net. These unbanked set of Nigerians comprise the illiterate class, whose bases are in the rural areas. Their locations are major hindrance, and absence of major infrastructures makes them unattractive to conventional deposit money banks to site branches. To deliver economic empowerment to these unbanked Nigerians, and in fulfilling one of the objectives of inclusive banking, CBN and the Bankers’ Committee conceived the National Microfinance Banks. The new microfinance banks are expected to be established in each of the 774 local governments in Nigeria. Looking at the options When CBN and Bankers’ Committee took the decision last year in Lagos, many faulted it, saying there was no reason for the apex bank to dabble into institutions with the same responsibility as the existing microfinance banks. To them, it amounts to waste of resources and effort that should have been invested in strengthening existing microfinance banks. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, in his opening remarks at the 10th annual Bankers’ Committee retreat in Lagos, gave number of reasons for setting up a different microfinance banks driven by government and its allied agencies. Emefiele said NMFBs would enable speedy disbursement of its several intervention funds including the Agribusiness/Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS). Besides, he said for the new institution to have presence in all 774 local governments, it will further enhance financial inclusion and credit to fund agricultural sector and small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs), adding that the national MFB slated for launch in 2019 would leverage on the existing NIPOST presence in the 774 local governments. He said the birth of the bank would help CBN and the Bankers’ Committee in accessing the Anchor Borrowers fund, SMEs fund and other initiatives tailored towards SMEs, farmers and CBN’s financial inclusion drive.
More importantly, the CBN governor said it would aid the success of the N26billion set aside to finance agric businesses and other small informal businesses under the AGSMEIS. The Bankers’ Committee holds 50 per cent stake in the bank; having provided the setup capital, while NIRSAL and NIPOST own 40 per centand 10 per cent respectively.
“Today, the central bank has N220 billion that is set aside under the micro small and medium enterprise fund “ the CBN governor said. “Nigerians were happy when they heard that the banks, out of their magnanimity, decided that five per cent of their profit would be set aside to support agric business and SMEs. “We have over N60 billion sitting in the banks currently in CBN and why should that money be sitting in CBN and just be earning Treasury bill rates. It is meant for the micro small and medium enterprises and for the weak in our economy that would not ordinarily have access to knock at your door.” That was why we voted last week at bankers’ dinner, that a national micro finance bank would kick off by January 2019. In order to collectively address the challenges hindering the achievement of the objective of the AGSMEIS initiative, the CBN is considering the proposal to the establish the national microfinance bank, which would leverage on the Nigerian postal service presence in 774 local government areas across the country. “We have called on NIPOST and they have agreed to join us in this. They would provide their facilities in 774 local governments and this would be their own contribution by way of equity into the establishment of the national MFB. We would provide the infrastructure and this MFB would be available in 774 local government across the nation.” Shedding light on the outlook and board composition structure, Emefiele said the Bankers’ Committee and NIPOST would have representation on the board of the national MFB. “The task and responsibility to improve our rural communities is in our hands and we believe strongly that using this infrastructure of the national MFBs, we would get to achieve the objective of creating jobs and enhance the skills of our people in our rural communities, improve and grow the economy so we can achieve the development that we so badly require in Nigeria today,” he noted. The new MFB, CBN governor said, is expected to engage in strategic partnership with NIPOST while the NIRSAL, which is owned by the CBN, will bring its experience in financing low income entrepreneurs and de-risking credit originated by the national MFBs by providing guarantee in line with its mandate. Expanding financial inclusion While the plan is to have it across 774 local goverments, seven pilot branches simultaneously were flag off last week in Ibadan, Port Harcourt, Bauchi, Kaduna, Enugu and Lokoja.
The Gwagwalada branch domiciled in the premises of NIPOST is actively being driven by NIRSAL. Flagging off the Gwagwalada branch last week, Emefiele said: “We are just inspecting one out of the first seven and we are scaling up to the next 50 in the next phase. We believe that before the end of this year, we would have moved substantially in making sure that they are set up and be able to provide finance to small businesses. This is a collaboration between NIRSAL, Bankers’ Committee and NIPOST and I want to say that we really need to set up microfinance bank that will reach out to the unbanked.” He said the most pressing challenge facing small businesses was lack of access to cheap finance, noting that with the presence of a branch in each local government across the country, the problem would be tackled. “The biggest problem small businesses always have is access to credit; and am happy that with the establishment of this microfinance bank, which would be in at least one local government and we are talking about the 774 locations in all the country, we would be able to have a financial institution that will help deepen financial inclusion to make it easy for people to access credit particularly the small and unbanked people because we have always said that these are the very weak,” he added. “We use this to improve access to credit and the technology that would be used will be a fintech technology. We have already set a target for ourselves that by 2020, the rate of financial inclusion must increase to 80 per cent from about 48 per cent a year and a half ago. So this is just part of our initiative to deepen financial inclusion in Nigeria,” he added. Rivalry challenge As would be expected, existing microfinance banks privately owned are livid over CBN/Bankers’ Committee’s action. They fear the looming loss of their grip on substantial portion of microfinance banking market with coming on board of new national microfinance banks. Emefiele, however, dismissed it as unfounded with no substance.“The existing microfinance institutions are doing their best and I must say that I have heard some of them say that this is an attempt to crowd them out,” the CBN governor said. “It is not an attempt to crowd them out but it is also an attempt to complement their services and also see to it that whatever services that are being provided by these microfinance institutions, which are in their own right also banks- that they should be seen to be fair to their customers. “We know that those who are weak in terms of being unable to access credit- the big issue for them is also the inability to provide collateral. So what are we saying here? They will be able to access credit without necessarily providing any collateral. “The asset that we are financing for them, like the poultry business will act as the collateral – that collateral will be registered in the National Collateral Registry as something that is eligible to serve as collateral or security for a loan that has been taken, he assured. Last line The birth of national microfinance banks is laudable and advantageous to economic development. Its simplicity, zero collateral request and a burden assumed by the National Collateral Registry, makes the initiative a good companion for achieving financial inclusion.