Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, today urged his teeming supporters not to be discouraged by the outcome of the presidential and National assembly elections in the state, but should troop out en masse to vote for the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP)  governorship and house of assembly candidates come March 9 elections. Saraki who was given an heroic reception on arrival at Ilorin International Airport by a mammoth crowd of supporters and well wishers, expressed confidence that the PDP has the number to emerge victorious in the remaining elections. Addressing his supporters at the Charity House at his Iloffa GRA residence in Ilorin, the Senate President urged his people to close ranks and work in unison for the PDP in the governorship and house of assembly elections. Appealing to his supporters and other aggrieved stakeholders to overlook wherever the system might have erred in the overall interest of Kwara state, Saraki reminded them that “those you voted for in anger are not your people and cannot attend to your needs as we, who are your brothers will do.” He thanked the people of the state for their support, assuring them that he would always be around to cater for theor needs. He added “I can’t run away. My covenant with my people transcends politics. I will never abandon my people. We should not fight. I leave everything to God. I will not fight even with those they declared winnners of the last weekend’s  elections. We must cooperate  for the governorship election. Once we do this, we shall win the election.” The Senate President charged his followers to be more committed like the opposition’s supporters. “We should stop internal wrangling. We shall emerge victorious in the remaining election. I’m here to assure you that I shall never abandon you, my people. The people you have voted for are not known to you. We should forgive ourselves and move forward in the interest of our state, ” he stated. Dogara survives APC's onslaught Police detain INEC officer over result alteration Yakubu: Ad hoc official died of stray bullet Police: 128 offenders arrested across the country     The Saturday’s National Assembly election has recorded a major casualty in the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, as he lost his re-election… In "News" The 2019 general election recorded a major casualty as Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki lost his Kwara central senatorial district. In results announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)in Ilorin, Saraki lost to his rival, Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe of the All Progressives Congress (APC). While Oloriegbe polled a total… In "National news" The thugs, alleged to be from the All Progressives Congress, APC, party, attacked members of PDP in the state, injuring many of them. In a series of tweets, Dr. Saraki who paid a visit to the victims who are currently receiving treatments at the Ilorin General Hospital in the state,… In "FrontPage"