 President Muhammadu Buhari has assured that he would work harder in his second term in order not to disappoint Nigerians. The President’s remarks in this regard is coming few days after he had also promised that the last lap of his government would be tough as he moves to tackle security and strengthen government’s institutions. Buhari spoke yesterday when he met with the leadership of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The ACF, led by its Board of Trustees (BoT) Chairman, Alhaji Adamu Fika, paid him a visit to congratulate him on his re-election. According to Buhari, “This is my last lap, I will try to work harder. I assure you, I will not let you down.” Fika had earlier said the group was impressed by Buhari’s performance in his first term, especially in delivering some important projects like the Baro Dry Port in the North. He said: “It is an honour and privilege for me to lead the delegation of ACF on a courtesy visit to congratulate Your Excellency and your Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, as well as your party, All Progressives Congress (APC), on your victory at the recently concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections.”  Fika reminded the President that the delegation, led by late Alhaji Yusuf Maitama Sule, Danmasanin Kano in 2015, had earlier drawn his attention to projects of concern to the North and of benefit to Nigeria at large. The projects, according to him, included the Baro Dry Port, the Mambilla Hydro power, self-sufficiency in agricultural produce, road construction and rehabilitation, and above all oil and gas exploration. “It is pleasing to note that since then, the Baro Dry Port has been commissioned, while all other projects have been reactivated and now being implemented. “We pray that those organs of government charged with the responsibility for the implementation will double their efforts to ensure that these projects are executed fully to their logical conclusion within reasonable time,” he added. The leader of the group said he hopes that as it happened during the first term of the President’s administration, the group would have the opportunities from time to time to be given audience to intimate him about problems and matters that are of concern to the people of the North and Nigeria.