The Governor of Zamfara State and Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), Abdulaziz Yari, is turning out to be the terrible child of the northern part of the country. Yari has not hidden his disdain for the state of parlous security in his state where bandits have made it a habit to kill, kidnap and maim innocent citizens at will. Not long ago, the governor publicly declared that he would relinquish his position as the chief security officer of the state, since he had no power over the security agencies that are deployed in the state to quell the killings. He called for reinforcement of security in Zamfara towards stopping the brigandage in the state by marauding bandits. Last week again, Yari was at his best. Speaking with State House correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, the governor threw a bombshell, saying that bandits in his state were more equipped than the Nigerian security forces. “They are in control of the kind of weapons that the security command in Zamfara does not have. In one armoury alone, they have over 500 AK 47 rifles. We saw it. “I can tell you that till date, we have not received up to 90 AK 47 rifles,” he said. Yari might be outspoken on security issues just as the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El Rufai is on political matters. But the Zamfara State governor’s position, bizarre as it might sound, is symptomatic of the terrible security situation in the North- Western part of the country. Whereas Nigeria has, in the past 10 years, battled Boko Haram insurgents in the North- East zone mainly, kidnapping and armed robbery in the South, a scary dimension has been added to the country’s security issues with developments in the North- West states of Katsina, Kaduna, Zamfara and Sokoto states, where bandits, allegedly from neighbouring countries, have become terrors to citizens of the states. In Katsina State, Governor Aminu Bello Masari recently raised the alarm on insecurity in the state, describing it as worrisome. Less than two weeks ago, the governor’s 80-year-old mother-inlaw, Hajiya Maistiyari, was released by her abductors after spending about seven days in kidnappers’ den. She was kidnapped at her residence, 13, Dandume Crescent, Sabon Gari area of Katsina. Masari had, during the opening ceremony of an extraordinary security meeting in Katsina in January, said that the state was under siege by bandits, armed robbers and kidnappers. “The citizens are on a daily basis being harassed by bandits and kidnappers that are on rampage in the state. “Our state is currently under serious siege of armed robbers, kidnappers and armed bandits who arrest rural people at will and demand ransom, which if not paid, results in the killing of their victim,” he had said. In Kaduna State, since January, over 100 people have been killed in Kajuru Local Government Area state in a lingering crisis between the Fulani and the Adara people. The killings had led to protests by the people, both in Kaduna and at the National Assembly, Abuja, last week. Yet, there is also the case of a famous Islamic scholar and prominent reciter of the Holy Quran, Ahmad Sulaiman, who was kidnapped on his way from Kebbi to Kano. Information has it that kidnappers of Sulaiman are asking for N300 million before his release. He was only released on Wednesday. All over the North-West, the story remains the same as bandits have unleashed violence on innocent people of the area. We then begin to wonder what the Federal Government, states and security forces are doing to curtail the menace. We hold that it is not enough for Yari to abdicate his post as the CSO of his state or to raise the alarm about how equipped the bandits are. It is also not enough for Masari to cry about bandits taking over his state. Neither is it enough for El Rufai to announce the number of Fulani people killed in Kajuru. What is needed is ruthlessness from security agencies and governments at all levels to tackle this emerging disturbing trend. We imagine in a state where bandits have the audacity to kidnap the governor’s motherin- law, what life would be for the ordinary citizen in such state. The experience is better imagined. We recognise the fact that the Nigerian Army, police and other security agencies might currently be overstretched with activities in the North-East and other parts of the country, particularly in an election year. But we state that the army particularly could have used some men it deployed in some peaceful states during the elections to tackle the areas where the country is under threat of being overrun by criminals. There is also the need for the Nigerian Customs and Immigration to up their game to check the influx of people from other countries through land borders in the affected states. The statement that Nigerian borders are porous is no more fashionable in the face of these challenges. We think that the developing challenge in the North-West deserves collective attention before it snowballs into another major disaster that would take the country years on end to settle.There is also the need for the Nigerian Customs and Immigration to up their game to check the influx of people from other countries through land borders in the affected states. The question that Nigerian borders are porous are no more fashionable in the face of these challenges. We think that the developing challenge in the North-West deserves collective attention before it snowballs into another major disaster that would take the country years on end to settle.