For refusing to mobilise their subjects for this weekend’s supplementary gubernatorial elections in Sokoto and Kano States, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) alleged that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has hatched plan to dethrone the Sultan of Sokoto and Emir of Kano, if the party triumphs in the election. Part of the plan, according to the coalition, was to instigate the state Houses of Assembly to step up a panel to indict them of corruption and force them out of office using presidential support. CUPP in a statement said the grouse of APC against the monarchs was their refusal to galvanise support for the party’s candidates in Sokoto and Kano States. “Leaders of APC are accusing the monarchs of allegedly taking side with the Peoples Democratic Party and hence they have hatched a plot that if the traditional rulers do not help them to win the people’s support and
they succeed to manipulate the election, that they will dethrone the respected traditional rulers from the thrones of their forefathers,” the statement said. CUPP warned that any attempt to descreate the two ancient traditional institutions would be an invitation to anarchy. “We are warning the APC leaders to back out of this … for the good and stability of the entire country. “The move to militarise Sokoto and write figures from selected polling units has been perfected like they did in Rivers State and we must stand up against that. “We called on the people of Kano and Sokoto States to not just vote, but vote and defend their votes for their future and the preservation of the stools of their forefathers,” the opposition coalition added. The recent adoption of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar by the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) is threatening to tear apart a group of more than 40 political parties that recently formed an alliance to work against the ruling All Progressives Congress. In this report, OLALEKAN OSIADE looks at the reasons… In “Politics” The undue advantage, which power confers on some political actors, especially in developing countries like Nigeria, explains why they determine the direction of their nation’s politics. In this concluding part, FELIX NWANERI and TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE report on eminent Nigerians who will shape the 2019 general elections   Babatunde Fashola The… In “Politics” The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) yesterday alleged that the plot to remove Justice Walter Onnoghen as Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) was because he refused to compromise composition of the post- 2019 election Supreme Court Appeal Tribunal.   The coalition in a statement yesterday by its national spokesperson,… In “News”