The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may file a petition before the Presidential Election Tribunal today, to challenge the outcome of the February 23 presidential election. Also, the opposition party has vowed to petition the United Nations and other global organisations on the role of the military in the elections. This was part of the decisions reached at the expanded caucus of the party held in Abuja yesterday. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC), winner of the election with 15,191,847 votes, while the PDP candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, came second with 11,262,978 votes. Last Saturday, Atiku inaugurated a legal team headed by Dr. Livy Uzoukwu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), to pursue his case in court. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, at an expanded caucus meeting of the party, said the decision to go to court has been settled, adding that the lawyers assembled would file the petition today. “The decision to go to court has been finalised and agreed and the process is on. The lawyers have been assembled. We may be in court today or tomorrow. No one can stop us. “No matter the propaganda of APC, we will seek justice till the last drop of our blood. We believe justice will be done and God almighty will give justice,” Secondus added. He accused the APC of celebrating criminality, but expressed regret that leaders of the country were not condemning what happened in the election. Secondus further warned that if the leaders fail to condemn the alleged malpractices in the election, there might not be elections in 2023, “because if you have the military, you don’t need the people. All you need to do is to make announcement.” The National Chairman also condemned the alleged intimidation of INEC and its ad hoc staff, as well as the intimidation of a section of people in Lagos not to vote in this Saturday’s elections. “The son-in-law to our candidate and his personal lawyer have been detained without justification. This is full blown dictatorship. “We ask for the release of Atiku’s lawyer and his son-in-law because they are political detainees. EFCC has become an agent of suppression of the masses. They are bothered about critical stakeholders of our party,” he stated. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, who briefed journalists at the end of the meeting, said the party noted the role of the military in the conduct of the elections. “Caucus further noted the role of the military in the February 23 election and resolved that we will report the action of the military through a petition to UN as well as other global democratic institution,” Ologbondiyan stated. He decried the militarisation of the South-South geopolitical zone in the forthcoming governorship election, alleging that it was plot by All Progressives Congress (APC) to rig the governorship and state Assembly elections. “We urge Nigerians to come out en masse and participate in the election and ensure they vote for the candidates of the PDP,” he said. He, however, commended Nigerians for refusing the harassment, intimidation and militarisation of the electoral process and participating in the election. According to him, the caucus noted that the mandate that was freely given to its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar was allegedly stolen and subsequently resolved to go to the tribunal and challenge the result of the presidential election. “Caucus further raised issues about the harassment, intimidation and cajoling of our members on the plot by the Buhari presidency as well as APC to intimidate the people’s president, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and the resolve of the PDP to go to court. “We insist that our party and our candidate have resolved to seek legal redress on the stolen mandate,” he said. On the sack of its governorship candidate in Kano State by the court, the PDP spokesperson noted that an appeal had been filed against the judgement and we will continue to study and follow the situation as they arise. The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is to visit Lagos State within the week to mobilise support for the party's candidates in the Saturday's governorship and House of Assembly elections. Also, other party leaders will visit other states to mobilise support for the party's… In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday told the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, that he cannot be Nigeria's President and should not overstretch his ambition to rule the country. In what appears to be a tone of finality, the ruling party mockingly told Atiku… In "News" Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is not new to the political game of defection, but his return to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the weekend, which is the fourth time he would be switching platforms in 16 years, stands him out in the back-andforth movement among Nigerian politicians. FELIX… In "Politics"