Super Eagles goalkeeper trainer, Alloy Agu, has said that the current players in the national team are very young and have a lot of years ahead of them. Speaking ahead of the final round of Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Seychelles on March 22 and the international friendly match against Egypt four days later, the former captain of the Super Eagles said the team had what it takes to excel when hostilities begin in Egypt later in the year. Agu told New Telegraph that the two matches were as important as the World Cup final and the Eagles would approach the game same way. “Every game is so important, whether a qualifier or a friendly,” Agu said. “All games are important to Nigerians and also to the technical crew because it is going to form part of our preparations for the AFCON, it’s important for team bonding and that’s what we are looking at. “The quality of players invited shows the seriousness of the technical crew towards that game, although we still have some few months before the AFCON, the players invited have to showcase their talent, and justify their inclusion in the team. “Nigeria has a young and very promising team that will do great exploit for the country, we are expecting them to get their acts together and explode in Egypt by going as far as the final.” Meanwhile, Agu has said the goalkeeping department under his watch is very solid and all the three goalkeepers invited are going to make the country proud. He added that they have confidence in the trio even though they are still on the lookout for other capable hands. Agu said: “That department is solid and I am sure they are not going to disappoint Nigerians, they are currently doing well for their clubs, (Ikechukwu) Ezenwa for Katsina United, (Daniel) Akpeyi for Kaizer Chief and (Francis) Uzoho in Cyprus for Anorthosis Famagusta. “All we want is for them to come to the national team and replicate their club’s form. We are also looking out for other able hands but at this moment, those are the best hands with us and we all have confidence in them and they will do Nigeria proud.”