Deputy Chief of Staff to the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, Mr. Gbenga Makanjuola, was yesterday re-arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at a Federal High Court in Lagos over alleged N3.5 billion fraud.  Makanjuola was docked alongside Melrose General Services Limited and one, Obiorah Amobi, before Justice Maureen Onyetenu, on an 11-count charge bordering on the alleged offence. Their re-arraignment came on the heels of the transfer of Justice Babs Kuewumi, who was hitherto handling the matter, to Ado-Ekiti Division of the court.  The defendants were first arraigned before Justice Kuewumi on 3rd October, 2018. Upon their re-arraignment yesterday, Makanjuola and his co-accused, however, denied the offence.  Afterwards, defence lawyers, Okwudili Anozie and Omeoga Chukwu, pleaded with the court to allow their clients continue to enjoy the subsisting bail granted them by Justice Kuewumi. In the absence of any opposition from the prosecution lawyer, Bashir Kamil, the request was granted by the judge. Justice Kuewumi had on 9th October, 2018 admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N250 million each, with two sureties each in like sum.  According to the judge, the sureties who must be owners of landed prop  erties within the Lagos metropolis were to deposit four recent passport photographs and a letter of identification to the court’s registrar. Further hearing in the matter had been adjourned to 20th May, 2019, for trial. Some of the counts against the defendants read as follows; “That you, Robert Chidozie Mbonu (now at large), Melrose General Services Limited, Gbenga Makanjuola and other persons at large sometimes in December 2016 in Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, conspired amongst yourselves to disguise the unlawful origin of the sum of N3.5 billion paid into the account of Melrose General Services Limited and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18 of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as amended by the Act No. 2012)and punishable under Section 15 (3) of the same Act.  “That you, Robert Chidozie Mbonu (now at large) and Melrose General Services Limited, between the 14th day of December, 2016 and January, 2017 in Nigeria, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court took control of N3.5 billion transferred from the Nigeria Governors’ Forum’s Account into Access Bank Plc Account Number, 0005892453 operated by Melrose General Services Limited when you reasonably ought to have known that the said fund represented the proceeds of unlawful activities to wit: conspiracy, stealing and fraud, and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 15 (2) (d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as amended by the Act No. 1, 2012) and punishable under Section 15 (3)of the same Act,” among other count-charges.