…extort victims’ relatives face the music, commissioner warns health workers  The Lagos State Government yesterday said it received 20 dead bodies from the site of the ill-fated school/residential building which caved in on Mercy Street on Wednesday, saying 45 survivors were received and are being managed at government health facilities. This was even as the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, recommended proactive system be adopted by all states in the federation to reduce mortality during emergencies, commending Lagos emergency agencies for prompt response and medical care for survivors of the building collapse. Speaking while receiving the minister at the Lagos Island General Hospital, the state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr Jide Idris, said that the victims were receiving treatment at the Lagos Island General Hospital, Massey street Children hospital, Onikan Health Centre, Gbagada General Hospital, LASUTH, National Orthopaedic hospital, Igbobi and LUTH. Commiserating with the bereaved families, Idris confirmed that 20 corpses were brought to Lagos State mortuaries from the site while 45 survivors were received. The commissioner reiterated that Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s directive on free treatment remains intact for the victims of the collapsed building. He however warned that any government official caught extorting any survivor or demanding gratification would be made to face strict disciplinary actions. According to him, asking survivors who are already traumatised to pay for medical bills is not only unethical but also criminal. He called on family members who have evidence of such extortion to contact the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Dr Titilayo Goncalves, on O8023049478 with authentic proof. Idris also expressed appreciation to some corporate organisations particularly MTN Foundation, Shell and other well-meaning individuals who have been donating items and other forms of support for the treatment of the survivors. He appealed that the donations be well coordinated and properly channelled for reasons of transparency and accountability. Meanwhile, Adewole appreciated the state government for granting free medical care to the victims in order to remove any barriers to prompt, qualitative and comprehensive care needful for the rehabilitation of victims.