House of Representatives Member-elect for Egbado South/Ipokia Federal Constituency, Hon. Kolawole Lawal Mobolounduo, has assured the people of the constituency on the implementation of the AHEAD agenda, which revolves around improvement in the area of Agriculture, Health, Education and Accountability. This according to him, will lead to improvement on the living standard of the people and bring development to the area. Mobolounduo, in a press statement after he was declared the winner of the election under the platform of Allied People’s Movement (APM), also assured that he will bring his experience in the private sector to bear in the development of the constituency. Adding that integrity, prudence, selfless service, fairness and accountability will be his watchword, he said the victory at the polls “is a collective victory for us, the good people of Yewa South/Ipokia Federal Constituency regardless of our political affiliations.” While commending the peace and orderliness with which the electorate exercised their franchise and made their preference known, he noted that the success would not have been achievable without their steadfastness, resilience and belief in him. His words: “We all ran the good race, motivated by convictions of how best we could represent our people and ensure the development of Yewa Aworiland in general and our constituency in particular. Let me assure you that your dreams and aspirations and indeed the energy and all the resources you committed into the campaign is not a waste. We all did it because of the vision and desire to see a developed Yewa Aworiland, and that you shall see and experience. “I stand on the shoulders of all my predecessors in office and on behalf of the people, I thank them for what they have been able to achieve for our constituency within the limits of their capabilities. We recognise them, we salute them. We shall continue to liaise with them and tap into their experiences for the betterment of our people.” He further said: “Being part and parcel of the constituency, talking with you, I am not oblivious of the important issues confronting us as a people. I am not oblivious of the frustration we face daily in going about our businesses. I know that we need to actively engage all relevant stake holders from healthcare, to education, road networks to security within our community. I will work hard with all the good people to transform, consolidate and advance our land. “As a priority, I have set up a channel of communication where you will be able to have unfettered access to me. We are working out how we will run regular constituency clinics where you will have regular physical meetings with me. Governance is a collective work; hence I have commissioned some people to work out modalities on how best to set up a consultative forum where our students, young graduates and technocrats will benefit from leadership.”