…says 84-year-old woman, who lost two grandchildren  “If I had known, I would have listened to the instincts of one of my grandchild, who insisted he wasn’t going to school on that day and hesitated even when I forced and practically dragged him to his death. If I had applied some wisdom, perhaps, he and his younger one would have been alive today. This is one guilt I’ll die with.” The above was how 84-year-old Madam Nimota Ogunro summed up her agony while pointing to the spot where one of her grandchild was exhumed from the rubble of the collapsed three-storey building housing a children’s school at Massey Street, Itafaji in Lagos State on Wednesday. She lost two of her grandchildren aged two and four years respectively under her care on the fateful day. Their mother, identified only as Monsuratu, but who the grandma continuously referred as Iya Alabi had that morning dropped off her younger child for the grandma to take to the crèche of the school. As Munsuratu left, the granny hurriedly prepared them to join their mates for the school assembly at the top floor of the building where the school was situated. But unlike the previous days, the older boy, Alabi, insisted he was not going to school on that day. This was strange to the old woman as the boy had always been enthusiastic to learn. “So, I tried to persuade him, asking if there was anything I could do to make him change his mind. At that point Alabi requested I feed him along with his younger brother who was been fed at the time. Though odd I tried to satisfy him if only that could suede him to hurry up as they were already late. “In spite of all these however, Alabi still refused to put on his shirt and leave for school. By this time I was already angry and I had to flog him and practi-cally dragged him and his younger one to join their mates at school. That decision is now hunting me as I’m feeling guilty for, as it were, dragging them to their early graves. I’ll have to die with that guilt,” the grandma sobbed as she pointed to the spot where Alabi’s remain was exhumed after the building collapsed. Ogunro told Saturday Telegraph at her resident behind the collapsed building on Thursday that her life had been shattered by the tragic end of her grandchildren. “Nobody expected what happened on that day,” she said, adding, “I’d not wish my worst enemy what I am passing through now. I know my days are numbered as I no longer want to stay in this wicked world. What I am living for? Why would this happen to me at this age? How can I ever be able to explain what had happened? How can I ever stop thinking about this unfortunate incident?” Meanwhile, Madam Sidikatu, a confidant of Ogunro who was on hand to console her friend said she also lost some relatives to the ill-fated building as well. The 86-yeartheir old woman explained that the neighbourhood had been their ancestral home where they had all lived in peace. Sidikatu used the occasion to plead with the state government not to demolish their houses as been rumoured since the unfortunate occurrence. She explained that the building which was in front of theirs might have been possessed by evil spirits. Sidikatu said: “No tenant ever stayed up to one year in that house. They have been coming and leaving almost immediately. This was why we suspected the building haboured evil spirits. We even leant the owners of the school were looking for a better place to relocate to before this unfortunate incident. “The night before the incident we heard something like a quake coming from the building and we thought the evil spirits were having their usual meeting. It was after the building came down about 10 the following morning that weheard that what happened the night before could have been a sign that it was disintegrating. But the problem is with the developers; they will come and start putting more floors to already weak structures. This is why the authorities should go after them and not force us out of our ancestral homes. Where do they want us to relocate to?” In addition to the pupils of Ohen Nursery and Primary School, the collapsed building was also said to have accommodated tenants before it caved in. The school was equally said to have occupied the first and second floors of the building while tenants live on the ground floor. Although there are residents who said they never knew there was a school in the collapsed building because the government had marked it more than a year ago for demolition. Lagos State Governor, Akinwumi Ambode, who visited the scene some minutes past 3 p.m. on Wednesday, also said it was unfortunate thing that such a school existed in the building. “It is evident that Lagos State is not aware of such school, it is illegal and the culprits will face the law,” the governor said. Ambode’s statement panicked the residents of the community, who are now worried about the state government’s intention to pull down defective structures within the neighbourhood that have been shaken due to the effect of the one that just collapsed. This fear was given impetus when the Lagos State governor-elect, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, visited to commiserate with the community on Thursday. Sanwo-Olu reiterated what Ambode said in his brief remark that the relevant sections of the law would apply in this instance. Immediately after his short speech, the residents interpreted that to mean that the land where the building was will be forfeited to the government and the marked defective buildings pull down in line with the referred relevant state law. The people had to stage a mild protest to prevent that. To drive home their point, they requested that the government should first provide them with alternative accommodation. Meanwhile, Adesina Tiamiyu, the general manager of LASEMA, who was present at the scene throughout the rescue operation, told journalists that people living in the area had been very helpful in their own little way to not only rescue those trapped but to maintain orderliness within the vicinity. The LASEMA boss however, debunked claims that over 100 pupils were trapped in the collapsed building. Tiamiyu said, “I have seen the picture of the building before it collapsed and I can confirm to you that the floor that housed the school cannot accommodate up to 100 pupils.” A resident who was at home when the incident occurred but declined to give his name, said: “I was at home when we suddenly heard ‘gboom,’ and before we could realised what had happened the building had been reduced to rubble. Upon the collapse of the building, many men in the neighbourhood rushed to the scene and were able to rescue a few pupils before the arrival of LASEMA officials and other rescue teams. Building collapse has become a constant and worrisome feature in this part of the world. In Lagos State, for instance, this worrying phenomenon happens with reckless abandon with most of the incidents attributed to the carelessness of man. Regardless of what is usually responsible for structure failures, one thing ties all building collapses to the same apron strings; they end in fatality. But do Nigerians really draw lesson from the deadliness that results from a building collapse or should the authorities just continue to fold their arms and hope it doesn’t happen again?