Prof. Mamman Lawan Yusufari is a lecturer at the Bayero University, Kano State and Deputy Director, Legal Directorate of the All Progressives Congress’ Presidential Campaign Council (PCC). He tells JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM that the petition of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar against is misinformed  How prepared are you to face the legal team of the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in court? In the first place, I think the position of the opposition PDP was not unexpected. Normally, when politicians lose elections they challenge same. The normal thing they do is to go to court and pour out all their grievances there and as it is that they are not satisfied with the result and we are not surprised that PDP is doing this. That is fine with us. It is what the constitution has made provisions for and it is what the legal system is there for. We commend them for doing it in a civilised way because they are not taking the laws into their hands, they have not resorted to violence and they have not gone against the law. Actually, this is what the law provides for. So, just as they are ready to go to court we are ready to meet them in court. As you are aware, the Presidential Campaign Council has a Legal Directorate that was inuagurated by Mr. President on January, 7 and we did our work throughout the campaign period and since there is a structure in place, as we got the intentions of the PDP, we immediately summoned an emergency meeting of the Directorate and we discussed the likely issues. So, like we said in our statement last week, we are prepared to defend the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari. We believe he has won the election and the election was free, fair and it was transparent and a lot of the international observation groups have attested to that. When you talk about elections, you talk about numbers. We have the numbers, we don’t have any fear as the gap between President Muhammadu Buhari and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is about four million votes and we know that these are legitimate, valid votes. We can defend them anywhere. So, we have no fear. Have you made any research on the allegations of PDP presidential candidate on the election to take the position you are taking? Yes, we are working on it. We have heard their allegations and like I said, they are normal allegations wherever you have the results of elections announced – over voting, etc. They are normal allegations and we are ready for them. Our teams are already working in those areas. Also, it is pertinent to ask if you have been called by the President or the Presidential Campaign Council to submit a preliminary findings and I will like to ask what did you submit? That is between us and the Presidency. Just like a client-lawyer relationship. You don’t disclose what you do with your client. It is a private communications. All l can say is that we are ready for them and normally you have to respond to a petition when you are served. We have not been served or the President been served. As soon as our client is served, we will meet to prepare our response and file it before the court and serve the petitioners. How many lawyers would you be expecting to have on the legal team of the President, taking cognisance that the presidential candidate of PDP has assembled 18-man legal team with Dr. Livy Uzoukwu, SAN as the lead counsel? I think the number doesn’t matter. When you talk about legal team, you talk about quality and not quantity. The quality matters not quantity but I assure you we will have both – the quality and quantity Are you people also thinking about Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) on the issue? Sure! Our doors are open. Normally lawyers would not kick against resolution of matters out of court. In fact this is something that is enjoined by our rules. Whenever parties decide to settle out of court, we encourage them to do that. Talking about the clients, are you saying that the lawyers cannot initiate that? Normally clients initiate that but lawyers too can make a case for that. But as far as we are concerned, we are going to be a respondent to the case. We are waiting. If we are sued, there is no way we wouldn’t respond. We are waiting and if they want settlement, we will not say no to them and if they want to go to court we will not say no to them. We will go to court and face them. We will oblige them if they explore out of court settlement. Are you in anyway threatened on the allegations of exhibit the PDP says they have? Not at all. We are very, very confident. They have spoken and everybody has heard them. It’s a question of number of votes. We have valid and legitimate votes in favour of Mr. President in the election. So we have nothing to fear; not at all in the case. Are you categorically saying that your team has what it takes to face the PDP in court? Very, very confident. If the loser is confident to go to court what about the winner? I mean the winner should be more confident because you are defending what you know you got legitimately and validly. So, why would we hesitate to go to court to defend it giving what is at our disposal? Taking the election results holistically what would be your take on other persons that want to go to court against APC? It all depends. Ours is to defend Mr. President because we are under the Presidential Campaign Council. We cannot speak for the opposition, but generally, the elections were free, fair and transparent, particularly for the Presidential election. The result is a true reflection of what was expected. Of course you know there were opinion polls that Mr. President was likely to win certain areas and he was likely to lose certain areas and surely what came out was a confirmation of what the analysis showed. So, if there were pockets of cases where you have troubles, that is normal with elections and even when you have problems in polling units. If the total number of votes affected could not affect the result of the election the court definitely would not invalidate the election. It would still discover that the President was validly elected notwithstanding troubles here and there. Now would you say that the PDP Presidential candidate was ill-advised to go to court? Well, you know it is a question of choice and it is a question of information available to them. Perhaps they have got the wrong information or they are under the wrong impression that the elections were rigged against them. It is only court that would determine that. If they have evidence let them bring it to the court and we have our own evidence. Courts work with evidence and you will see that Mr. President was validly elected. Even if there were some irregularities here and there, they cannot be sufficient to be injurious to our candidate. We're ready for PDP’s legal battle, says APC The Federal Government has told the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in February 23 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, that he is free to challenge the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in court. Chairman of INEC,… In “News” Prof. Mamman Lawan Yusufari is a lecturer at the Bayero University, Kano and Deputy Director, Legal Directorate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC). He speaks in this interview with JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM on the presidential election and rejection of its outcome by the candidate of the Peoples… In “Politics” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may file a petition before the Presidential Election Tribunal today, to challenge the outcome of the February 23 presidential election. Also, the opposition party has vowed to petition the United Nations and other global organisations on the role of the military in the elections. This… In “News”