Lawyers were at the weekend unanimous that President Muhammadu Buhari should make the rule of law and due process his watchwords while tackling the myriads of problems retarding the country’s progress as he set to inaugurate his new cabinet on 29th May, 2019 following his re-election victory. AKEEM NAFIU reports  Like some of his predecessors, President Muhammadu Buhari will be taking a second bite at piloting the nation’s affairs within the next 86 days having won the last presidential election. According to the official result announced by the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the president polled a total vote of 15,191,847 to defeat the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who was only able to gather a total of 11,262,978 votes. Although the PDP candidate has vowed to challenge the result of the keenly contested election in court, many Nigerians are more concerned about how the nation could progress amidst numerous challenges bedeviling it. Not unmindful of the task ahead, the president has asked Nigerians to brace-up as the last lap of his four years in office as Nigerian leader would be tough. Addressing members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) who are on a congratulatory visit to him at the presidential villa, Buhari noted that no meaningful progress can be made when the country and relevant institutions are not secured. He further revealed that the next phase of his government will continue in tackling insecurity, fighting corruption and creating numerous jobs for Nigeria’s teeming youths “My last lap of four years, I think it is going to be tough because people are being forgetful. That was why wherever I went, I reminded them of the campaign promise of our party, particularly security, as I kept on saying that you have to secure the country well and institutions. “If you don’t secure the country, you can’t achieve anything no matter how many programmes you put in place. Secondly, on the economy, unemployment is a problem of this country as a whole. More than 60 percent of the youths, they need to be kept busy. I realized that God heard our prayers”, he said. Some members of the inner and outer Bar have also been speaking on their expectations from the Buhari- led government in its second term. The lawyers while baring their minds on their agenda for the president as he remains at the helm in the next four years tasked him to prove all his critics wrong by putting programmes that will have direct bearing on the lives of ordinary Nigerians in place. They said the president should be more concerned about how to reduce the ever growing poverty level in the nation. For instance, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Niyi Akintola, asked President Buhari to commence the immediate implementation of the programme of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), regarding the nation’s restructuring. He opined that the implementation of the ‘far-reaching’ restructuring programme will be of immense benefit to the country and its citizens. He said: “I just want the president to continue with his programme of actions, particularly with the fight against corruption, security and of course, he will have to improve on the economy. There are certain things that have to be liberalized. “Besides, we should not be fighting on all fronts now. It should be one step at a time. One of the shortcomings in his first term is this idea of fighting on all fronts. Changes takes time, it has to be gradual. Since we are not ready for revolution in Nigeria, any change we want to effect must be gradual. “The rule of law and the unity of the country are important. We must strike a balance between the two. Nigeria is a heterogeneous society and we must respect each other’s right and opinions. “The programme of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for restructuring as recommended by the committee headed by Governor Nasir El-Rufai must be implemented by the president. In actual fact, the party’s programme for restructuring is far-reaching than the one being canvassed by some people. The party has fashioned out the most comprehensive type of restructuring. “Also, the amended Electoral Act must be signed into law by the president. I believe there are innovations in it that will help us improve the electoral process. I also want to advise the president to be wary of those who surround him”. In his submissions, Dr. Biodun Layonu (SAN) called on the president to be more dedicated to the implementation of his party’s manifesto and policies. “President Buhari must ensure a thorough implementation of the APC’s manifesto and policies with utmost determination”, the silk said. In his own agenda for the president, a former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Monday Ubani, urged him to be more committed to the observance of the rule of law saying it is the bedrock of democracy. He said: “The country today is beset with so many issues. We can talk about the economy, political climate as well as security of lives and property among others. “So, I think the first thing that the president should do is to seek reconciliation with everyone and run an inclusive government. The president should not be comfortable saying that it is certain people from a part of the country that he can trust. The father of a nation shouldn’t speak in such manner. “He should get best hands from all over the country, as long as they are Nigerians, in order to actualize the nation’s dream. There are so many patriotic citizens that want a country that is functional. So, we must assemble our best in order to get a country that is functional. “On the issue of the economy, we should pursue the diversification from oil with so much zeal and vigour. On security, government must professionalize the Nigeria police and fund the institution. The worst thing that can happen to a country is not to have a police that is funded. “Besides, government must be committed to the observance of the rule of law because it is the bedrock of democracy. If laws are not obeyed, then the state will be in anarchy. So, obedient to law is critical. “Government should also know that national interest works under the rule of law. It is only the judiciary that can make any pronouncement on the superiority of national interest over the rule of law. In his own comment, a law teacher, Mr. Wahab Shittu, asked the president to do away with primordial sentiments and institutionalize a policy of no victor no vanquished. He added that President Buhari must in his second term in office deliver on his promises of anti-corruption, security and economy much more effectively and efficiently. “The administration in the last three and half years has recorded modest achievements on anti-corruption, security and the economy. These achievements are not without numerous challenges plaguing the country presently. “The first point to make to the president is that the elections having been fought and won, he should institutionalize a policy of no victor no vanquished believing that the real winner of the election is neither him nor any of the other contestants but Nigeria and fundamentally, Nigerians. “The president must now work the talk that he is the president of the entire country and not the president of a section of the country or a particular party or any such primordial sentiments. “This is very important because in the build-up to the elections, Nigerians were sharply divided with many expressing strong reservations about this administration, particularly, the intentions of the president. “It is important that the president changes this narrative and position our country to prosperity and greatness. “To achieve this, first, he needs to deliver on his promises of anti-corruption, security, economy much more effectively and efficiently, far more than he has previously achieved in these areas. “Secondly, as he has indicated, he must form an all-inclusive government drawing to his cabinet and other sensitive areas of his administration, men and women of great talents across board. These excellent materials must be sourced across parties, across ethnicities and across religions with the intention of attracting only the best for our country. It should not matter to the president who voted for who with the only agenda being to serve Nigeria with its best eleven. “Thirdly, the president must spread even development across the country based on a carefully reviewed needs assessment strategies to meet expectations. “Fourthly, the security of our country should be treated with utmost priority and all without exception should be whipped into line in the objective to secure the country. There should be no sacred cow and no group or individuals should be allowed to take the country to ransom. “The president must be firm, resolute and determined in applying the law without discrimination. “Fifthly, it is important to respect the rule of law in the conduct of governmental affairs. The truth is that to act otherwise is also tantamount to corruption. “Majority of Nigerians are hungry as poverty ravages the land. This is the time to change the narrative. People are no longer comfortable with the slogan of fight against corruption in the midst of empty stomachs. Food should be made available everywhere; jobs should be created for majority of Nigerians. Nigerians generally are yearning for better living standards. “Stolen wealth recovered must be deployed for the provisions of critical infrastructures. Nigeria deserves good governance”, Shittu said. Also commenting, a Lagos-based lawyer, Mr. Ituah Imhanze, want the president to ensure that the heightened tension in the nation is doused. He also wants President Buhari to be committed to the upholding of the constitutional independence of the judiciary. He said: “There is the urgent need to ensure that the tension in the polity is immediately halted. He should stretch olive branch to aggrieved parties and as much as possible reach a truce towards ensuring that there is peace in the land. This is because no meaningful progress can be made in a tensed and charged atmosphere. “The president should as much as possible and within legal confines, consider the six-point demand of one of the opposition party submitted to him by the Peace Committee headed by Rtd Gen. Abubakar Abdusalam “More than ever before, the president should ensure that the constitutional independence of the judiciary and the legislative arm of government is respected. This is very important for the entrenchment of democracy and the rule of law. “Allegations of imbalance and favouritism in political appointments should be revisited and there should be respect for Federal character in appointment of political office holders. “There is the urgent need to revamp the ailing economy while on the fight against corruption mechanism should be put in place to checkmate abuse of office by public office holders. “Our electoral system needs urgent reforms. The president should collaborate with relevant stakeholders to ensure that this much needed reform is carried out.