●Eagles’ captain happy now, returns to team soon –Pascal      Former Super Eagles captain Joseph Yobo believes the immense experience of the current skipper of the team Mikel Obi will be invaluable to Nigeria’s success at the 2019 African Cup of Nations in Egypt.
Mikel has not featured for the team since their last match at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia, missing the side’s AFCON qualifying away victory at Seychelles, back-to-back games wins against Libya and the goalless draw in South Africa.
The former Chelsea midfielder, who spent two years in China, returned to England when he joined Middlesbrough and has become one of the best players at the Riverside following a string of sublime showing for the club in the Championship.
Although the Eagles picked the AFCON ticket with ease despite Mikel’s absence, the midfielder’s rich vein of form has got people talking about having him return to the side.
He was expected to be back for the team’s last AFCON qualifying match against Seychelles and the friendly with Egypt but his name was conspicuously missing in the 23-man list released by Coach Gernot Rohr midweek.
However, Yobo said Mikel deserves to be back in the squad especially for the AFCON 2019. He said the player was performing very well for his side in the English second tier and should be encouraged to take such form to AFCON.
“You can never rule out a player if he’s performing; with the kind of experience that he has, if I were the coach I will keep him close as long as he is fit even though the team has been doing well without him. Mikel is playing for a new club now where he is performing; it is for the coach to decide if he will start every match in AFCON but Mikel actually deserves to be in the team considering his form at the moment,” he added.
Similarly, Eagles’ General Coordinator Patrick Pascal assured fans that Mikel would be back in the team soon.
He said it was the decision of the former Tianji Teda of China skipper to stay out of the team for now and that would inform the coach when he’s ready to come back.
He said Mikel would be given the chance to fight for his place in the squad that would represent the country in Egypt.
Pascal is happy with the form of the former Lyn Oslo player, saying the midfielder has found happiness once again.
“I can assure you that Mikel will be back in the squad soon. The coach has said the door is always open to him; after the World Cup, he tried to face his club career in China, he wanted to help the team survive relegation and injury too also came. I think he sorted that one out with the Super Eagles coach.
“It is good to see him happy again; money doesn’t motivate somebody like Mikel, he’s got a lot of it, so I think he chased happiness to England and he is enjoying it at Middlesbrough now. He will certainly let the coach know when he wants to come back and he can come around and fight for his jersey,” he said.