With the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office, members of the organised private sector (OPS) have set agenda for the new president-elect. Taiwo Hassan reports  Record from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), last year, indicated that the contribution of the real sector to the nation’s gross domestic product dropped marginally amid headwinds that stifled many industries and prevented them from attaining their set targets. Prior to this, private sector group like the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Nigerian Association of Chambers and Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) and others had canvassed that the only way to revamp the country’s ailing economy was for the Federal Government to aggressively focus on the development of the real sector. However, with the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office already guaranteed, it is indeed another opportunity for managers of the country’s real sector of the economy to appraise the economy has and find a lasting solution to the imbroglio. No doubt, the private sector group still believes that the nation’s manufacturing sector is yet to attain its potential in spite of the current administration’s diversification agenda for the non-oil sector. It is, therefore, very necessary and critical for the administration to keep engaging the private sector group for value addition to the nation’s productive sector.  Manufacturing sector It is no gainsaying that these are not the best of times for the economy due to the various challenges that have impaired its growth and development. Consequently, the challenges in the productive arm of the economy have put the once supposed engine room of the nation’s economy into a tight corner following inconsistencies in Government’s macroeconomic policies. Under the current administration, economic indicators from NBC revealed that at different quarters, the nation’s GDP had been nose diving.   FG’s stance Speaking at the 2018 MAN Annual General Meeting in Lagos, President Buhari admitted that the country’s economy was indeed passing through daunting challenges. He said at the event that the role of government in manufacturing was quite apt, stressing that the AGM was coming at a time the nation was faced with urgent need to diversify the economy in the light of dwindling price of crude oil at the global market. “As you know, the dramatic fall in crude oil and other commodity prices has had a serious negative impact on world economies, especially countries like Nigeria which depended on one commodity for its export earnings. “This administration is convinced that the key to our quest for economic diversification and therefore survival lies in agriculture and the manufacturing sector. “A strong manufacturing sector will create more jobs and wealth for our people. It will usher in sustainable economic prosperity because we will produce what we consume as a nation and generate foreign exchange by exporting any surplus,” he noted. Buhari explained that the manufacturing sector was well positioned to be a major driver of Nigeria’s economic growth because of its immense natural resources and the entrepreneurial spirit of Nigerians. He said that government was, therefore, focused on implementing necessary policies and strategies aimed at unleashing the full potential of manufacturing in Nigeria.  OPS views While setting an economic agenda for the new President-elect, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) said that the Federal Government should engage the private sector in order to tackle the ailing economy. It’s Director-General, Muda Yusuf, told New Telegraph in Lagos that government should have discussions with businessmen in the private sector to enable it roll out the kind of policies that will grow the economy. Yusuf explained that if all the policy measures that were in place in the last four years would be the kind of things the private sector would be expecting in the next dispensation, there would be problem in growing the economy. In the light of this, the director general stressed the need by the government to have engagement at a fairly global or micro-economic level with investors in order to tackle some cross cutting issues affecting the economy. In order to make the economy grow, Yusuf also explained government should engage all sectors of the economy. He said: “This is why there are ministries such Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Federal Ministry of Solid Minerals and Federal Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment (FMITI) among others. “Government should engage all investors or players in all sectors and by so doing; government will put its fingers on key issues affecting the sectors. So we need to see more of that.”  Robust engagement Although he explained that the administration had been engaging the private sector, he, however, noted that there should be more robust engagement framework with the private sector led by the vice-president, who is the leader of the economic team. Yusuf said: “So we need to see more of that at sectorial level. We have urged the President-elect, Muhammadu Buhari, to engage our members in a bid to restrategise the ailing economy to in order to douse the uncertainties in the country.”  Slowdown According to him, the headwinds in the country’s economy had slowed down the tempo of economic activities in the country. He added that it was time for government and private sector to foster cooperation on growing the economy positively. Yusuf said: “With the outcome of the general election, there is going to be a better clarity in the direction at which the economy is driving to and that uncertainty will begin to diminish because the private sector operators will begin to restrategise by building business models around the current business clime.” He noted that the OPS had a fair idea of the administration of President Buhari’s economic philosophy on how the economy should be managed, adding that the private sector had been engaging the administration on the path the economy should follow. According to him, LCCI is aware of government policies on tax, tariff, energy, trade and other issues, and the organised private sector could easily predict where the administration stands.  Manufacturing sector agenda Although the diversification of the economy has to be private sector led, government at both the national and sub-national levels have a huge role to play in attracting and facilitating long term investments. Some of the key steps needed to be taken by government in the new dispensation include articulation of clear sector specific policies along with incentive packages that are commensurate with the risk inherent in each sector. Closely aligned to this is the issue of consistent implementation of industrial policies as policy inconsistency destabilises industrial production plans and erodes investor confidence. For instance, the suspension of the Negotiable Duty Credit Certificate (NDCC) to exporters and non-payment of existing claims has discouraged non-oil exports and frustrated contracts entered into with overseas buyers. Also, there should be more support for small and medium scale manufacturers. Since many Nigerian manufacturers are relatively small with limited capital to support their investments, government has to develop industrial clusters with requisite infrastructure for this category of businesses. They should also have access to soft loans and research and development support. In addition, boosting non-oil export to bring in much needed foreign exchange, by ratifying and implementing the road-map recently developed the Nigerian Export Promotion Council. It is also important harmonising the role of various government regulatory agencies so as to eliminate conflict of roles amongst them. For instance, the roles of NAFDAC and SON should be properly aligned. The private sector group emphasised on the developing the infrastructure base of the economy by actively involving the private sector through Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), where viable. Particular attention should be given to transport infrastructure. It also wants adequate patronage by government and her agencies of “Made-in-Nigeria products” so as to galvanise investment in the manufacturing sector. The OPS wants elimination of the incidences of smuggling, adulteration and counterfeiting activities in the country. Therefore, clamouring for stronger penalties should be meted out to those found culpable of these offences. They are also encouraging the establishment of more development banks to cater for the credit needs of the industrial sector and reduce interest rate to single digit levels.   Last line It is imperative that all stakeholders (government, financial institutions, regulators, organized private sector, etc) work together to grow the real sector of the economy in the new dispensation with a view to reducing the nation’s dependence on import as well.