Occupy Nigeria group yesterday resurfaced after years of disquieting silence on the state of the nation. The group took to the streets of Abuja to protest the outcome of the just-concluded Presidential and National Assembly elections. The group, made up of a coalition of civil society organisations and individuals, alleged that the elections which supporters of the ruling party were celebrating as a milestone, was nothing but a sham and outright rape on democracy. One of the leaders of the group, Okpanachi Jacob, told newsmen at the popular Unity Fountain in Abuja during the protest, that the elections were marred by outright rigging and extreme violence. Jacob also accused politicians of insensitivity to national interest and unity. He said the election had further created disunity in the country and subverted the will of the electorate, who he said defied all threats to come out to vote. He said the group had come out to demand for the cancellation of the results released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). According to him, “We are once again set to demand the correction of the electoral anomalies carried out in the just-concluded presidential election, which were visibly marred by outright rigging and extreme violence that reduced the process to an affair of a balance of terror rather than an election.” Jacob further said that the election did not reflect the true wishes of the Nigerian voting populace, who were beaten, maimed and killed while exercising their franchise to elect credible leaders, saying the 2019 elections had made a detour from the ongoing process of restoring integrity to the electoral process and thus required immediate redress so as to earn the confidence of Nigerians. He also called for the withdrawal of military presence in areas where there was no visible or potential crises to be withdrawn immediately and that military should stay out of elections, while the perpetrators of violence in the Niger Delta should be brought to book to account for their crimes.