The family of an officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ogah Ochigbo Jumbo, who was beaten to death by some policemen in Nyanya, Abuja, has vowed to resist any conspiracy by the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) aimed at denying the Late Jumbo justice. Mr. Odi Jumbo, elder brother to the deceased, made this known while reacting to a press statement by the Force Public Relations Officer of the NPF, Frank Mba, who not only denied the allegation that its officers beat Jumbo Ogah, to death, but that he had driven himself, his immediate family and a traffic warden to the Nyanya police Station where he slumped. Speaking to our correspondent in a telephone interview in Abuja, Odi said it was the policemen and not his brother, who drove his vehicle to the police station after the incident occurred. According to him, the family is ready to seek legal means to ensure justice is served to every police personnel who clubbed the father of two to death. He explained that his brother was severely beaten despite the pleas of his wife and eldest child. The policemen, obviously scared of the reaction of the crowd at the station, employed diversionary tactics to take late Jumbo to Nyanya General Hospital without allowing his wife sit in the vehicle. Unfortunately, Nyanya General Hospital rejected him and the policemen insisted on taking him to Wuse Hospital. But he (Odi) had insisted when a call was put through to him, that Jumbo must be taken to Asokoro General Hospital which was closer. “Why Wuse hospital? If he is still conscious take him to Asokoro General Hospital I said; then those who were following them started shouting you must take him to Asokoro hospital. “When they got to Asokoro hospital, instead of taking him to emergency unit, they were going to the mortuary but the crowd refused. At that point, two of my sisters who were already there laid down on the corpse and refused to allow anyone take him out of the vehicle. “Only Thursday night, we were embarrassed with the press release from Frank Mba who claimed my brother drove his vehicle. The vehicle was parked where they had the incident, it was the police people who drove it to the station. “There is a conspiracy to cover up what has happened, we are aware of it and we have briefed our lawyers. We are prepared to take this case to court if the Civil Defense is not ready to. In fact we have briefed our lawyers who will write to the Inspector General of Police this (Friday) afternoon. “We want justice for our brother and we are going all the way to get it because you cannot just kill a man over a minor traffic offence. Someone who was in uniform, a paramilitary and the most annoying thing was he was killed in the presence of his wife and two children. “It will leave a life long psychological effect on those children that the police killed their father. If it is abroad, there would have been a campaign and a protest march. We are getting to that but we want to start with the preliminary first,” he said. Odi who intervened to stop an angry crowd from lynching the District Police Officer (DPO) of the Nyanya Area F Command who accompanied the NPF to pay a condolence visit to the family, lamented that the DPO who was alleged to have been the one issuing orders for the continuous beating of late Ogah, was still roaming the street free. “The police got in touch with me that they wanted to pay a condolence visit and I took them to the wife’s place unknown to me that the DPO who when my brother became unconscious said he was only pretending and said should bring a needle, was in the entourage. “Some people recognised him and said it was an insult, he should be in detention because he was the one giving out the order. They wanted to beat him up there. I had to intervene along with one of my in-laws, an Air force officer, and we asked him to go away,” he added. Ogah Jumbo, a two-star officer, was allegedly beaten to death by the policemen for violating traffic rules when he made a U-turn at the wrong spot around Nyanya market when the deceased was driving his two children and wife to school Wednesday morning. His appeals fell on deaf ears, as the policemen descended on him with a baton, dragged him on the floor to the police station where they allegedly beat him till he died in the process. An Assistant Superintendent of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Mr. Jumo Ogar, yesterday in Abuja, was allegedly killed on his way to work. The circumstances surrounding his death were yet to be ascertained at press time. But unconfirmed reports said he was killed by policemen on traffic… In “Metro and Crime” When Sergeant Daniel Nwankwo left home on April 21, 2017, his family members didn’t know that would be the last time they would beheld his face. Daniel, with Force Number, 424092, from Umuogbuji in Obingwa Local Government Area of Abia State, disappeared after he went for an operation with three… In “Metro and Crime” Residents of Afuze, headquarters of Owan East Local Government Area of Edo State have been counting their losses over Tuesday night’s attack on a police division in the area. That attack by gunmen led to the death of the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Mr. Tosimani Ojo (a Superintendent of Police)… In “News”