Nigeria spends $4bn yearly on cloth import Emefiele: I’m retiring in June The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has restricted access to forex for importation of all forms of textile materials into the country. Apex bank governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, who announced the fresh restriction yesterday in Abuja at a meeting with textile industry stakeholders, also clarified that his tenure ends in June.  Specifically, he said the forex restriction for importation of all textile materials takes immediate effect. The newest restriction brings to 43 the number of items currently on forex restriction ban. Emefiele said Nigeria currently spends above $4 billion annually on imported textiles and ready-made clothing.
Conversely, he said with a projected population of over 180 million Nigerians, the needs of the domestic market are huge and varied, with immense prospects not only for job creation; but also for growth of the domestic textile industries. “One quick example that highlights the potential of this local market includes the need to support provision of uniforms and clothing apparels for school students, military and paramilitary officers as well as workers in the industrial sector,” he said. CBN’s meeting with textile owners was conveyed to find permanent solution to problems bedeviling sector that has led to the collapse of over 100 textile mills in the country. The governor listed CBN’s action plan to resuscitate the sector. These include financial support to textile manufacturers with the provision of funds at single digits rate, to refit, retool and upgrade their factories in order to produce high quality textile materials for the local and export market. He said: “Effective immediately, the CBN hereby place the access to FX for all forms of textile materials on the FX restriction list. Accordingly, all FX dealers in Nigeria are to desist from granting any importer of textile material access to FX in the Nigerian foreign exchange market. “In addition, we shall adopt a range of other strategies that will make it difficult for recalcitrant smugglers to operate banking business in Nigeria. The details of those strategies will be unfolded in due course. “We shall, initially support the importation of cotton lint for use in textile factories, with a caveat that such importers shall begin sourcing all their cotton needs locally beginning from year 2020.” In addition, he assured textile industry stakeholders that the bank will leverage its Anchor Borrowers Programme to support local growers of cotton to enable them meet the needs of the textile industries in Nigeria. Besides, the governor said the apex bank will follow-up with its earlier discussion started in 2016 with the Kano and Kaduna State Governments to establish textile industrial areas in a bid to guarantee stable electricity in those industrial areas. Emefiele lamented the collapse of most textile industries in the country that employed thousands of Nigerians at their peak in 70s and 80s. “It’s no secret that the past 20 years have been very difficult for many textile firms. “They have faced rising operating cost and weak sales due to high energy cost, smuggling of textile goods, and poor access to finance,” he said. The governor regretted the sorry state across the textile industries, with employees laid off while most of the factories had stopped operations leaving only 25 textile factories in operations. “Textile factories operating today at below 20 per cent of their production capacities, and the workforce in Nigeria’s textile industry stands at less than 20,000 people. “In addition, the cotton growing sector has gone dead, thereby depriving thousands of small holder farmers the opportunity to earn a living. “Furthermore, a large proportion of our clothing materials are imported from China and countries in Europe,” he noted. Responding, President, National Cotton Association of Nigeria, Mr. Anibe Achimugu, commended the CBN for its decisive intervention to revamp textile industry. Meanwhile, Emefiele has debunked rumours of his removal that trended on Monday. “At least you can see me here doing my work,” he said. “My tenure expires in June. The interventions of CBN have been on since 1978 and I can tell you that no right thinking person will discontinue an intervention meant to create jobs, grow the economy.”