Ahead of Saturday’s governorship and the House of Assembly elections, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has charged members of the party, especially the party chieftains at ward and local government levels, to work and deliver their respective polling units for the party in Lagos State.  Speaking yesterday at the party’s secretariat in Acme Road, Ikeja, during a stakeholders’ meeting, Tinubu said despite all shortcomings in the previous elections, the party would defeat the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Saturday. He stated that there was no need for the party members to engage in electoral violence.  The APC national leader also tasked the members of the party to intensify their efforts in mobilising voters to the polling units, saying that it was only through such that the party could coast to victory in the governorship and House of Assembly elections.  Tinubu, who cautioned the party members not to engage in violence at polling units on Saturday, implored the party leaders and members to stand firm, work and deliver their polling unit to the party to ensure that the APC governorship candidate, Mr. Babajide Sanwo- Olu and all the 40 House of Assembly candidates won the elections.  The National Leader lamented the poor performance by 15 local governments among the 20 local governments at the last presidential and National Assembly elections in Lagos, saying that there was need for the party leadership in those affected local governments to work with the agents, so as to perform beyond the presidential election.  His words: “It was only five local governments that preformed excellently in the last elections. The local governments are Mushin, Agege, Ikorodu, Lagos Mainland and Lagos Island. We thank them for delivering their local governments without stress.  Those that were unable to performuptoexpectationsneedto put more efforts on Saturday’s elections. “It is shameful that we couldn’t get 50 per cent voters in the state during the presidential and National Assembly elections. Alimosho was disappointing in the last election. Oshodi was struggled; Kosofe and Somolu barely showed off, they didn’t do well.”