 She is an ambassador of different brands. Deborah Akpan also indulges in the habit of taking alcoholic drinks including beer and spirits. In recent time, she has been contending with belly fat, which she finds disgusting. Relating the ordeal she faces from friends, colleagues and neighbours, Deborah lamented that she had been through hell over her current features which presents her like a six-month pregnant woman. Speaking about her typical experience in Lagos, she said, “I go out for fun, I chill with friends and party every Friday; I eat late at night regardless of the time, which may be part of the cause of my belly fat. Although, whenever I feel it or look at it, my protruding tummy appears normal, but its massive size suggests that this perception is misleading. “This is making me feel insecure about myself. I feel ashamed; I don’t feel comfortable with certain clothes that I put on. This protruding tummy makes me look as if am pregnant. “I get different comments on my belly fat from different people every day, majority of who advise me on how to tackle it.” Speaking further, Deborah said, “I eat lots of junks that has profuse calories/fat, sugary beverages. I snore too much, I avoid any smoking area, at a point I thought there was nothing I could do about it till I got a waist trainer which I use every morning to work out and with time I will get the perfect tommy Belly fat is excess abdominal fat surrounding the organs in the stomach. There are three types of fat: triglycerides (the fat that circulates in your blood), subcutaneous fat (the layer directly below the skin’s surface) and visceral fat (dangerous belly fat). Belly fat, also known as visceral fat, is considered the most harmful form of fat in the human body. This type of fat has been linked with everything from insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome, heart disease and type 2 diabetes to an increased risk for certain cancers. Relating his experience, Ekpe Arong, 23 years, said having a big tommy is a normal thing because he likes food. “I eat a lot because when I drink too much alcohol, it makes me hungry. He said, “Having belly fat at this my young age makes me feel uncomfortable. I don’t eat at the proper time; I eat anytime, which is against medical advice. Speaking on the impact of belly fat on health, a Consultant Public Health Physician, Dr. Ime Okon said, “Too much of fat in the belly could compress the lungs and negatively affect respiratory system. Besides, one with belly fat may not sleep well. A Person with belly fat snores and could choke. Speaking further, Okon said belly fat was not good for health. People need to pay attention to their body. To address belly fat, the consultant public health physician urged citizens to eat moderately. Also, they should exercise at least four times in a week, avoid too much sugar, fried food and beverages that have gas. In addition, she said ensuring that fruits, fresh vegetables were regular part of daily diet could help to prevent belly fat According to Okon, the period of time the result of burning belly fat could be seen depends on the commitment and dedication of affected persons. She urged citizens to be aware of their body mass index (BMI) and work towards sustaining normal body weight by checking their BMI regularly. BMI is a simple calculation using a person’s height and weight.. A BMI of 25.0 or more is overweight, while the healthy range is 18.5 to 24.9. BMI applies to most adults 18 to 65 years. Going by the information from the consultant physician, Akpan and Arong whose belly fat experiences were highlighted above, could work to achieve normal abdominal fat, if they followed the counsel of Dr. Okon. 