The 2019 general elections came to an end last Saturday. The winners and losers have emerged by the pronouncements of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The next level of battle for the upholding or dissolution of some mandates pronounced by INEC would be the election tribunals across the states and at the Appeal Court where the presidential election results would be tested. After the noise about the elections, it is gratifying that Nigerians can now breathe fresh air, move on with their lives, while governance, which has been suspended at all levels for the past three months or more, would resume. While we are happy that the elections are over, we cannot but point out some of the ugly developments that showed up in the course of the elections. One of such that we consider very dangerous, grave and antidemocratic by all standards is the use of ordinarily apolitical institutions by the Federal Government to prosecute elections. We note with dismay here, the open partisanship shown by the military and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in the elections. We are worried that such two sacred institutions, with very clear cut briefs on their duties, would be deployed for whatever reasons to intervene in elections to the advantage of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Take, for instance, the case in Rivers State. In Abonnema, in Akoku Toru Local Government Area of the state, during the presidential and National Assembly elections alone, not less than 15 ordinary citizens were killed by the soldiers. The violence in the state orchestrated by soldiers continued almost two weeks after, going into the governorship election. We dare ask: Who ordered soldiers to meddle in the election in Abonnema and Akoku Toru in general? All over the country, there were soldiers deployed to ensure peace during the elections. But were they deployed to directly intervene in elections as witnessed in Rivers, Kwara, Akwa Ibom and some other states controlled by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)? We believe that if it was not right when former President Goodluck Jonathan deployed soldiers in Ekiti and Osun states for governorship elections in 2014 to influence elections, it cannot be right now. Why the resort to military help by government? Are we proud of election results produced with the aid of gun barrels? What manner of democratic future are we laying when the military determines election results, 20 years after the military went back to the barracks to allow civil rule? Directly related to that is the role of EFCC in harassing opposition figures during and after the elections with charges of money laundering and excess cash spent during the elections. We are at pains that EFCC, established by former President Olusegun Obasanjo and credited with credible fight against corruption, has turned out to be a lapdog of government. Just before the presidential election, EFCC arrested Atiku’s lawyer, Mr. Uyi Giwa-Osagie, over money laundering charges. They followed up with his son-in-law and Finance Director of his company, INTEL, Abdullahi Babalele. They have also arrested the Deputy Director- General of PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Taminu Turaki (SAN). The Accountants General of Kwara and Imo states have also been picked up. That is outside many other figures of the opposition, who were arrested by the Police, Army and other security agencies. Make no mistake about it; we are not against the anti-graft war. EFCC and other security agencies have the right to arrest and prosecute anybody for any crime committed. But coming close to the election, picking up opposition figures for different charges does not give an impression of fair play and objectivity. We are aware that a leader of the ruling party had two bullion vans deliver cash in his house on the eve of the election. We are also aware of a plane that was crippled by loads of cash at an airport just before the presidential election. We are not aware that EFCC has interrogated anybody in respect of the two cases involving APC members. Or are we to believe that APC did not spend money during the elections? In a normal society, the plane incident and the bullion van incident are serious issues that by now would have attracted questions from EFCC. But mum has been the word. We object to turning serious institutions into political tools just because of elections. We are all witnesses to what has happened in the United States of America, where aides of President Donald Trump are paying prices for their handling of election issues and finances. President Barrack Obama could have used his office to intimidate Trump before or immediately after the elections, but he left the matters to untainted state institutions to handle after he left office. That, we believe, is the way to grow democracy. Healthy institutions make a great nation, not institutions at the beck and call of one powerful individual as in the case of Nigeria. We totally object to the use of vital institutions for political purposes. It only leaves the country with very weak, vulnerable institutions that cannot stand the test of time. We are of the view that government should limit politics to politicians and preserve state institutions for the jobs they are meant for. That way, we will be able to grow the democratic process in the right direction.