Keniebi Okoko is a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship hopeful in the December 2019 governorship polls in Bayelsa State. He spoke with PAULINE ONYIBE on sundry matters. Excerpts…  What are your impressions on the conduct of the Presidential and National Assembly elections? Well, I am not omnipotent or omnipresent, I wasn’t everywhere in Nigeria, and in the part where I was in my state, and the elections seemed to go accordingly by the book. But if you want to go by the account and reports in the media and the dailies, there was a lot of complain of irregularities, malpractice and violence. But I cannot attest to what I did not see. I can only attest to what I see and what I saw within my geopolitical zone, in my small enclave, in my small ward, voting went peacefully. The outcome of the election is a different thing. Nigeria is at a time when we need to grow our economy to create more jobs. Nigeria is at a time where we need to try and strengthen our currency, Nigeria is at a time where we need to unify the country and avoid ethnicity and religion. And at this point in time, I am not seeing that coming forth. I am an optimistic person, and I want to believe that President Muhammadu Buhari has good intention to try and unify Nigeria and to try and grow the economy. Are you among those that believe that Buhari won the election as against those saying the poll was rigged? As a member of the PDP, I believe that Buhari being the winner of the presidential election, because has gotten his Certificate of Return, is the president, and an incoming president. But Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has a right to seek redress for any grievances he has which he has done through the legal channel. I always believe in the rule of law and I also believe in advocating for all round peace. So we wait to see the outcome of the rule of law. For now I think we should wait for the outcome of the judgment of the Supreme Court. You were quoted as comparing Bayelsa State with Singapore. How do you mean? If you go to Singapore, I have been there at least six times, it is more or less a small island surrounded by water. Singapore has no oil, but has refineries. Singapore exports a lot of fish products and Singapore is doing extremely well economically. Bayelsa on the contrary has oil, which is called black gold. Bayelsa has vegetation for rice farming; I can use the Peremabiri Rice Farm as an example. We have a good texture of soil to grow crops. Bayelsa is bigger than Singapore in size and in population if am not mistaken. What is so difficult in developing Bayelsa? That was why I made that comparison. We have more resources. From the past to the present administration, would you say the governments have utilized the state money well? This question seems like a trap. But I will answer you. Bayelsa is being developed. Bayelsa is a work in progress, Bayelsa will get there. That’s what I have to answer you. As someone hoping to lead the state, what do you think is the solution? I believe that Bayelsa as a whole need to focus on education. Mental poverty is worse than financial poverty. If a mind is not developed and equipped, a man cannot give what he does not have. Our people are not completely exposed to good educational systems. Our people are not well traveled like other tribes. The Ijaw man is determined to succeed, if you give the Ijaw man the right playing ground, he will perform, I can assure you. So I believe that what we should do as a people is to focus on education. Classroom education is one aspect, and outside classroom education is another aspect. Not everybody can experience education in the classroom or to the university level. There is a proverbial saying that all fingers are not equal. But you can balance the gap of the fingers. Creating skill acquisitions with the right personnel to man them give you the opportunity to train the less privileged on the skills that can develop them. For example, if you go to China, you have where they train people on ICT, you have where they train people on brick laying, you have where they train people on every artisan job you can think of. When the Amnesty Program was going on, I was privileged to try to get something for some of the people, so I went to China to look at some of the schools in Wanzu. I was amazed, it was almost like a university of any magnitude, but it was just a skill center. If we have three in the three senatorial districts that are of high class, it will help to reduce the number of children that are not equipped to fend for themselves, or not equipped to face the future. On the other side, classroom education, in the universities today, I don’t know what is happening. You hear stories of lecturers abusing students; you hear stories of excessive selling of handouts. The educational system has gone down the drain. We need to refocus on the educational system, encourage our people with scholarships to go to school. We should sign c o n t r a c t s with the schools that their certificates would be returned based on the fact that students will come and work for four, five years, and then you release them so they put what they have learnt back into the system. But the state government declared emergency in education, what is your assessment of that? I think the governor has given it a good try; the intentions are good. I believe that he has genuine intentions for the job, and I believe he has tried his best. My duty as a leader is to try and add to what he has done, to build in any way we can help the government to improve where they have stopped in any capacity we find ourselves with good suggestions, and trying to develop a good road map to drive the Ministry of Education, to push his policies forward and help him, being that I am in the same party with him. Talking about skill acquisition, are you aware that in Kaiama, some youths and villagers looted the Vocational Training Center? Something must have triggered it. If a man does not understand the good around him and what it is for, he doesn’t value it. If a man is not part of a project, he cannot value the project. If a community does not understand why something will develop them, over and over again they will do it. That’s mental poverty. What will develop you is what you are killing, that is the mental poverty. Hope is dead in Bayelsa. The young people don’t have hope so they are looking for any means. Give them back hope. Sell leadership through qualities; be transparent, and open to them. Take them through processes of trainings. Mentorship is important. Who is your mentor or who are you mentoring? Who are you looking up to? Why do you wake up in the morning? What is the core reason for your existence? Have someone you look up to. I have someone I look up to everyday. I have three people I look up to, Professor Kimse Okoko, Pastor David Ibiyomie and Bishop (David) Oyedepo. By any standard, these are men to look up to. So I aspire to want to be like them. Who are these young men looking up to? What are we selling to them as leaders and parents? When I was growing up, Prof. Okoko will always tell me, my son a good name is better than riches. My son I don’t have money, but nobody can insult me in Nigeria. He is going to be 80 with diabetes but he is looking younger than people that are in power. He is healthy, strong, vibrant and sometimes driving himself. These are the things we should be asking ourselves if we want to be true; if we are not going to be political about everything. What are we giving the youths, what are we selling to them? I come to the village and young men are chanting ‘Keniebi iwee’ and I say shut up, what’s that nonsense about? I say stop it and don’t vote for me if that is what you will be doing. I asked them; what do you want for your future? You say you want to support me for governor, what am I doing for you? They were quiet because they have nothing else to trade on. With one thousand naira, they started carrying guns and shoot themselves. What are we teaching the young ones? So let’s be true to ourselves. The reason those things were stolen is because they didn’t know the reason and the value those things were there for. What is your take on the heavy deployment of military personnel for elections? We are in a country where anything goes. The same people that will sit down and criticize are the same people who will do that thing they condemned. So in every democratic nation, the military man at any point in time is not supposed to be seen by any civilian. His duty post is in the barracks, combat ready to defend the sovereignty of the nation, combat ready to defend the borders of his nation with integrity. The duty of the military is to uphold the dignity of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I have not seen it in any civilized democratic nation where you deploy the military for elections, I have not seen. Even in Venezuela that is in a problem now, it is rare to see the military trooping out except in extreme situations that the police cannot handle. Venezuela is 10 million times worse than Nigeria, their currency has zero value, they have no food and they have to cross to Columbia to get food, but I still don’t see the military coming out in full force, you can see pockets of them but more of the police. The police are trained to have interaction with the civilians, to combat and quell unrest. The military is trained to kill, to destroy any adversary of a nation, so who are they going to destroy during the elections, that’s the question. I ask everybody, via your training, what’s your training coming to do on the streets? Are we at war here? There is no war in Port Harcourt, there is no war in Bayelsa, but there is war in Sambisa Forest. I would rather they deploy those soldiers to Sambisa so that our soldiers can deal with the Boko Haram once and for all, because Nigerian soldiers have the capacity and capability to do that. As an aspirant for the governorship position, what are you bringing on the table? I’m a graduate of the University of Port Harcourt majoring in Economics after which I proceeded to the renowned Carleton University Ottawa for another degree in Political Science. I am an entrepreneur of no mean repute, growing businesses and shaping industrial platforms. I have demonstrated this entrepreneurial flair by growing several business units and consolidating them into the group structure. I am a leading entrepreneurial figure who takes time to share valuable business knowledge by speaking to groups, economic summits and industrial evolutionary meetings. My flagship company is a multi -faceted company with interests in engineering, construction, marine services and dredging. I owns the KDI Group, which spans the energy, infrastructural, agricultural and real estate sectors. I have attended several management and leadership courses at the Harvard Business School, Boston USA, Wharton Business School, Pennsylvania and CWC Energy Institute, Doha.