 For the second time in two weeks, Nigerian exporters have cried out over that inefficiency and congestion at the Lagos ports are hampering export of non-oil products from the Lagos ports. This time around, they are raising the alarm that cashew nuts valued at $300 million (about N108billion) have been trapped at the Lagos ports and called on the Federal Government to come to their aid by addressing the challenges of congestion and inefficiency at the Lagos ports, which have affected exports. The exporters said gridlock and inefficiency at the ports of Nigeria’s commercial hub, Lagos, delayed shipment of 50,000 tonnes of cashew nuts and is threatening this year’s output as traders are cash-strapped. President of Nigeria Cashew Exporters Association, Tola Fasheru told Bloomberg.com that the fruits from last year’s harvest should have been exported by January; “Instead, they are still in containers on trucks waiting to enter the ports or on wharves.” “Roads to Lagos ports are badly congested; with hundreds of lorries queuing to enter the premises and either deliver or pick goods. In addition, inadequate capacity and infrastructure, stifling red tape and corruption are hampering export processes, “Fasheru said. “There is a palpable lack of synergy among the port operators and this is affecting the business of our members,” he said. Some members of the cashew association, he added, have defaulted on contracts to the extent that foreign buyers are now walking away from them. “They are no longer willing to give us fresh contracts,” said the group’s president. The delay is likely to affect the output target of 260,000 tonnes for the current season, which started in February and will end in July. “Not one single cashew exporter is in the field now as he owes on contracts and as a result has no money to operate with,” said Fasheru. Revival of Easter ports Port industry experts and stakeholders had told Sunday Telegraph two weeks ago that unless the Federal Government revives the Eastern ports to take the excess cargo causing the congestion at the Lagos ports, the congestion and Apapa gridlock will persist and the economy will continue to suffer. Nigeria enjoys a large market advantage over Benin Republic because of her population, but sadly, it is Benin Republic that benefits from the large market of Nigeria. According to Mr. Lucky Amiwero, President, National Council of Managing Directors of Licenced Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), many countries of the world do not have the luxury of having multiple seaports. Some are landlocked. Fortunately, Nigeria is blessed with many natural harbours and ports. “Sadly, we are not taking advantage of this blessing.  “Meanwhile, Nigeria has four other sea ports that are underutilized or abandoned. The seaports are in Warri, Calabar, Koko and Port Harcourt. Indeed, Nigeria needs deep seaports. However, if fully utilized, the abandoned and underutilized seaports in Nigeria have the capacity to significantly increase our national revenue and indeed our Gross Domestic Product (GDP),” he said. Weeds and empty containers have taken over large part of the Lilypond Container Terminal at Ijora in Lagos. The terminal, with a capacity of 7,000 Twenty Equivalent Units (TEUs) and space of 120,000 square members was dedicated as export terminal for agro-allied produce by the Federal Government in 2017 with… In “News” Nigeria is to realise N441billion ($1.22 billion) from 175,000 metric tons of cashew this year as the selling price of the nuts surges to $7,000 per metric tons in Vietnam, which is the major importer of Nigerian cashew. It was learnt that both imports and exports at Vietnam cashew market… In “Business” The notorious gridlock on the Apapa-Wharf axis in Lagos could lead to a worsening of the non-performing loans (NPLs) crisis in the banking industry as the nation’s exporters have said that they are having difficulties repaying and servicing loans obtained from lenders mainly due to difficulties occasioned by the… In “Business”