A 32-year-old mechanic,  Chinedu Ezebuka, has been remanded in prison custody by an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos for allegedly defiling a 13-year-old boy through his anus. Ezebuka was remanded after being arraigned on a one count charge of sexual abuse by penetration. The defendant however pleaded not guilty to the count charge. The Lagos State Prosecutor,  Olayemi Sofolu,  told the court that the accused committed the alleged offence on January 9, 2018 at Adewunmi Street,  Itire,  a suburb of Lagos. The Sofolu said that the defendant was caught in the act in the act by some vigilant neighbours. According to him, Ezebuka was then apprehended and thereafter handed over to the police at Itire Police station who subsequently charged him to court. The prosecutor further said that three witnesses have been listed to testify against Ezebuka. However, the Defence Counsel,  R.A Yusuf informed the court of a pending bail application filed on behalf of his client while urging the court to hear same. The presiding Judge, Justice Abiola Soladoye thereafter adjourned the matter till April 12 for hearing of the pending bail application. An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court on Wednesday, remanded a 32-year-old man, Victor Martin, at Kirikiri Prisons for allegedly defiling a 10-year-old boy through the anus. The Magistrate, Mrs B.O. Osunsanmi, while refusing to take the plea of the accused, said he should be kept behind bars pending legal advice from the… In “Metro and Crime” An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court yesterday remanded in prison custody a Lagos landlord, Ishola Idris, and his tenant, Linus Okonkwo, for allegedly defiling a 13-year-old girl. Idris, 51, and Okonkwo, 32, were arraigned before Mrs. Bolanle Osusanmi on a two-count charge of defilement and sexual assault. The landlord allegedly deflowered the… In “Metro and Crime” An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, yesterday remanded a 47-year-old man, Emmanuel Kalu, in prison custody for allegedly defiling and impregnating his 16-year-old daughter. However, Kalu, who was arraigned on a one count-charge of defilement, denied the allegation. But, according to the police prosecutor, ASP Simon Imhonwa, the accused committed the… In “Metro and Crime”