Fever of possible eviction has gripped residents of houses near the collapsed three-storey building on Mercy Street, Ita-Faji, Lagos Island. While some of them envisaged that the state government might force them out and demolish their houses, others were already moving out their belongings. One of the apprehensive residents, who identified herself simply as Mama Murtala, called on her husband to look for another house before government takes the decision. She called on govern- ment for assistance. “We want government to help us by giving us some money to rent another house,” Mama Murtala said. She claimed to have been living in the area for more than 15 years. The woman explained that the collapsed building was originally a storeybuilding before additional two floors were added to it. Another resident, Kemi Abbas, said her neighbours were already contributing money to buy some planks to demarcate their house from the collapsed building so that government would not mistake it as part of the collapsed three-storey building. Yesterday, some of the bulldozers used for the rescue operation were pulling down some makeshifts and market stalls blocking entrance to the street. It was learnt that the collapsed building was marked for demolition thrice by the officials of state government in charge of building control, but no action was taken to enforce the demolition notice. Mourning the lives lost in the incident, another resident, Afolasade Mosere, said that more than 30 people died under the rubble, but that government was economical with the truth. She said her 92-year-old grandmother was rescued under the rubble but she was responding to treatment at the Lagos Island General Hospital. Mosere blamed government’s inaction for the collapsed building, saying that despite marking the building for demolition about five years ago, nothing was done about it. She said the building was a storey-building before two floors and a pent house were added. Another neighbour, Mrs. Ronke Pedro, said residents living there had complained to government that the house wasvibrating, while the wall was already cracking, but that no action was taken to avert the disaster. . She also said the developer was at large now, adding that she learnt he was to hand over the house to original owner after expiration of the lease agreement. An old woman, Mrs. M. Olorunosebi, who claimed to have lived in the next house to the collapsed building, belonging to Salawe Family, for 14 years, said the house was built 12 years ago by a developer. She said that right from onset, the building was not strong, by looking at it physically