Justice Mohammed Aikawa of a Federal High Court in Lagos has ordered the arrest of three officials of Akwa Ibom State Government who were named in a N1.4 billion charge against the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN). The court’s order was sequel to the granting of a motion by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) seeking the arrest of the officials, said to be at large. The officials are: Commissioner for Finance, Nsikan Nkan; Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Uwemedimo Nwoko and the Accountant General of the state, Mfon Udomah. The court also ordered the arrest of one, Margaret Ukpe, who was also named in the charge but is still being sought. The order for the arrest of the officials came on the heels of the re-arraignment of Mr. Usoro (SAN) before the court on a 10-count charge of alleged N1.4 billion fraud. Usoro’s re-arraignment before Justice Aikawa was sequel to the re-assignment of the case to the judge by the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice Abdul- Kafarati, after Justice Chuka Obiozor of the same court excused himself from handling the matter for personal reasons. The NBA chief was first put in the dock before Justice Sule Hassan on 18th December, 2018 but the case was later taken away from the judge after Usoro petitioned the Chief Judge alleging bias. Upon his re-arraignment yesterday, Usoro pleaded not guilty to the charge and he was subsequently granted bail in the sum of N250 million with one surety who must not be below the rank of a Director in the public service in like sum. The NBA President was further ordered to deposit his international passport with the Court’s Deputy Chief Registrar (DCR), which will be verified for genuineness. The court then ordered that Usoro be handed over to a counsel of the inner bar, Mr E.B. Effiong (SAN), pending perfection of his bail terms within two weeks. “The defendant shall be released to Effiong pending fulfilment of his bail conditions, which shall be on or before March 15,” the judge said. Prior to the issuance of Bench warrant against the Akwa-Ibom state government officials, there was a a heated debate between EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Oyedepo and Usoro’s lawyer, Chief Ifedayo Adedipe, on the propriety of the request by the anti-graft agency. In his arguments, EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Oyedepo urged the court to compel the appearance of the officials due to the commission’s inability to produce them. He said the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) empowers the court to compel the appearance of a suspect either by summons or warrant. “We seek your Lordship’s order to compel their attendance. We seek to bring them before the court in the interest of justice,” he said. Oyedepo’s submissions was, however, faulted by Usoro’s lawyer, Chief Ifedayo Adedipe (SAN). The silk noted that those sought to be arrested were not named as defendants in the charge. “The individuals were not charged before the court. Until they are charged, you cannot order their arrest,” Adedipe said. The matter has been adjourned to 18th March, 2019, for commencement of trial. In the charge marked FHC/418c/18, the EFCC claimed that Usoro converted and laundered the money in connivance with Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa- Ibom State. The governor was however not listed as a defendant in the charge, as the anti-graft agency indicated that he is “currently constitutionally immune from criminal prosecution”. The offence allegedly committed by the NBA President was said to be contrary to Section 18 (a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 and punishable under Section 15(3) of the same Act. A’Ibom commissioners at large Justice Muslim Sule Hassan of a Federal High Court in Lagos has directed the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to serve the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN), with a copy of a N1.4 billion alleged fraud charge it slammed… In "News" Akeem Nafiu The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has concluded plans to arraign President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr Paul Usoro (SAN) at a Federal High Court in Lagos over an alleged N1.4 billion.   He would be arraigned before Justice Muslim Sule Hassan on the 10th… In "News" Justice Chuka Obiozor of a Federal High Court in Lagos recused himself from the hearing of the N1.4 billion alleged fraud case instituted against the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN) by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Citing personal reasons, the judge disclosed… In "National news"