Residents and political associates of Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, yesterday trooped out en-masse to celebrate the electoral victory of the governor, following the upholding of his election by the Court of Appeal sitting in Ado-Ekiti. Various interest groups celebrating Fayemi’s judicial victory include members of Organised Private Sector, Okada Riders’ Association, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), Odua Peoples Congress (OPC), and Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP). They had marched round the major streets of Ado Ekiti before taking their procession to the Government House amidst drumming, singing and dancing thanking God for the governor’s victory. The appellate court in Abuja had on Thursday night upheld the victory of Fayemi, of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the July 14, 2018 governorship election dismissing the appeal of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, as lacking in merit. The Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, while addressing the crowd assured that the victory of Fayemi at the Appeal Court in Abuja would spur him to double its efforts at delivering the dividends of democracy to the people of the State. Egbeyemi, who was represented by his Special Assistant on Political Matters, Tokunbo Adeparusi, maintained that there were various empowerment programmes for various groups and associations in the State. Egbeyemi assured that the APC government would continue to implement policies that will better the lives of the citizenry who gave their mandate. He said the court victory would serve as a motivation to use the mandate given at the last governorship poll to do more for the people. It was another victory for Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, last week, as the Federal High Court in Ado Ekiti dismissed the suit filed against him by ex-Governor Segun Oni, challenging his eligibility to contest the July 14 governorship election in the state, FELIX NWANERI reports   It was not… In “Politics” Coming barely two weeks to his birthday, the judgement of the Ekiti State Election Petition Tribunal which re-affirmed Governor Kayode Fayemi as the validly elected governor of Ekiti State in the July 14, 2018 governorship election is seen in many quarters as a befitting birthday present to the Ekiti State… In “Opinions” The Ekiti State Election Petitions Tribunal recently affirmed that Governor Kayode Fayemi was duly elected in the July 14, 2018 governorship election, but it does not appear to end there yet, WALE ELEGBEDE reports   It was jubilation in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State capital recently, when the election petitions tribunal… In “Politics”