Four journalists were yesterday injured by hoodlums who hijacked a protest organised by some youths in Ilesa, Osun State to condemn the disconnection of electricity by Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) in Ijesa land. This is as the state House of Assembly yesterday moved to resolve the crisis. Trouble started last Thursday when IBEDC management alleged that some of its customers assaulted its staff and disconnected all electricity in the zone as a punishment to the alleged offence. The issue led to crisis as Ijesa people insisted that the disconnected electricity should be connected because it was not all the people in Ijesa land that assaulted IBEDC officials. However, the IBEDC did not listen to their argument but instead stood its ground on its decision. This forced residents of Ilesa, mostly youths, to organise a peaceful protest against the electricity company. During the protest, four journalists were attacked and their cameras were damaged by hoodlums who joined the protesters to condemn IBEDC. The victims are Rafiu Muhammad, a TVC reporter and his cameraman, Taiwo Adu, Channels TV reporter, Shittu AbdulFatai, and his cameraman. However, the state government has promised to settle their hospital bills. During a visit to the victims in the hospital, Mr. Adeniyi Adesina, the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Governor Gboyega Oyetola, decried the attack. However, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Osun State Council, has condemned the attack on its members at Olomilagbala, Bolorunduro, Ilesa East Local Government. Meanwhile, the state High Court sitting in Ilesa, yesterday directed IBEDC to restore electricity to Ilesa and its environs. In his ruling, Justice A. L. Adegoke directed IBEDC to restore electricity with immediate effect. Adegoke said the decision of the electricity distribution company to throw the entire Ijesa land into darkness was an illegality. Also yesterday, the state House of Assembly directed its Committee on Public Petition to meet with management of the IBEDC and representatives of affected areas in Ijesa land to resolve the issue.