…seeks justice, equity for South-East  Former Abia State Governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has joined the race for the Deputy Senate Presidency in the Ninth National Assembly due for inauguration in June 2019.
Kalu wants the All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the position to the South-East in the interest of equity and justice. The Senator-elect from Abia North zone said he could even contest for the Senate Presidency if his party fails to back him for the position in order to upstage the plan of his party to back Senator Ahmed Lawan who is said to be favoured by his patty to clinch the position.
Kalu, who fielded questions from journalists at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos yesterday, described himself as a party man and somebody who respects the supremacy of his party. His words: “I am a very loyal party man. The party has zoned the Senate presidency position to the North-East and I want to respect the party’s will, but the second position is what we are not going to allow to leave the South-East.
“So, as far as I am concerned, in the South-East, I am going to run openly on the floor of the House for the position of Deputy Senate President. “I am not going to listen to the party, neither will I listen to anybody. Nobody that wants to be the Deputy Senate President is more loyal than I am to the party.
“I have suffered for the party and have been called by Nigerians to come out. I want the party to respect the will of every other person and I am committed to democracy and contesting on the floor of the House. “I learnt they ceded the Deputy Senate President to the North-West, but it is not right to do anything like that. We are going to contest this vehemently on the floor of the House. I have the backing of my colleagues. I am going to be withdrawing from the Senate Presidency to run for Deputy Senate President because the party is supreme.” He, however, described Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of APC as a good friend, stressing that the party would not cede the Deputy Senate Presidency to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as it happened in the Eighth National Assembly under Dr. Bukola Saraki.
He also explained that President Muhammadu Buhari, as a man who believes in justice and equity, would not support any illegality against the South-East. “So, if justice must prevail, you have to bring the Senate President from the North-East and you bring the Deputy Senate President to the South-East.
“The chairman of the party is from South-South. The President is from North-West. The Vice-President is from South-West and also the Senate President will come from North-East.
“Whether it is Senators Ahmed Lawal or Ali Ndume, this will be decided on the floor of the House. “So for me, the tripod in Nigeria is Ibo, Yoruba and Hausa and we are going to get the Deputy Senate President and I will fight on the floor of the House like no other person has fought.
“That is not challenging the party, but this is about looking for justice. Buhari said recently after the elections that he will be addressing issues of injustice and this is part of the issue,” Kalu said. He further stated that he was willing to add values to the nation and ready to serve the country better in that capacity.
He further maintained that he was qualified for the position, having been a former member of the House of Representatives from 1991 to 1993 and also a two-time governor.