Whenever her name, Eugenia Abu, was mentioned, heads turned, eyes opened wide and ears stretched to listen to the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) network news, where she was a regular feature. Aside being a newscaster, Abu is a writer, poet, educationist and a great mentor. She is also someone who one would love to be with as she is warm and inspirational. She is widely experienced in many other ways. Abu speaks with OLUWATOSIN OMONIYI on her life and the work she has been doing   So, what have you been doing?
I was a Beijing delegate, so I am involved in women and development, women in conflict management, women and communication and women in the media over the years. Also, why women don’t get enough space, why there aren’t enough women owning media institutions and even the way women is reported are what Beijing action plan talked about. It talks about giving women enough space, giving them voice. One of the 12 action plans involves the media and it was very active. I believe the women voices are hardly heard and women in the media are not given the most important roles, so overtime women have been left to do the cooking tips. The presence of people like Chris Ayanwu who went on to cover petroleum and Lola Alakija who went on to cover foreign news, I believe these people broke boundaries, they broke those ceilings, so it was easy for more women to go in there including Wunmi Adebayo a friend of mine who became Defence correspondent. And I think The Guardian Newspapers had a very brilliant young woman who went on to cover their Defence and went on to study war in one of Britain’s finest universities. She was brilliant. She went on to study War studies in school of African and Oriental Studies in London. Her thesis was on Shaka the Zulu. She did such a fantastic job of it. So, how come, we don’t have them back into the media?
You see, the media doesn’t pay very well and so when women or men find an opportunity where it pays better to do something else other than being in active journalism, they take it. Some of us stayed for a very long time because we had a passion for the job. Retiring after 35years, I enjoyed what I did. Knowing what the space is like for women in the media, how will you describe your experience?
My experience was a mixed bag. When you are a woman and you know your onion which is the advice I give to women in the media, know your job very well. If you know your job very well, you won’t allow somebody to talk to you anyhow. It doesn’t matter if you are liked by everyone and that’s a lesson for the world, you can’t make everybody like you and you shouldn’t even try it because it becomes cheap. People should like you because you bring something to the table, because you are kind, you are light-headed, you are intelligent and you are giving. Charity is not just about money, it’s also about being able to give your talent, able to teach people, to get them to listen and learn from your wealth of experience, that is being able to be a teacher and mentor. That even goes beyond money because the currency of money goes quickly but the currency of mentoring remains for life. And for me, believe if you are building something, it’s not about you, you should build an institution. So some of the things I did in NTA, I did for posterity sake; I didn’t do them because of my person. I fought a lot while I was there because I felt that newscasters did not get their due, nobody was dressing them, nobody was paying wardrobe nobody really did so we had to find our own clothes and it was very difficult. Young and upcoming presenter who doesn’t have your kind of wardrobe is going to have a hard time. So long before I became deputy director-training, I was manager in charge of presentation which meant I was in charge of newscasters as well and being in charge of newscasters meant you worried about what they wore, how they looked, how they dressed, projection and how they presented the news. News casting is not about reading, it has to be presentable but you should not dress to distract viewers from the news. So I prefer to always explain to newscasters that they should be smartly dressed and not over the top, not wearing all your jewelries or tie a two-storey head gear (gele). Otherwise, you become visual noise and the listener can no longer pay attention because they are looking at your scarf and necklace. Of course, you need to learn to be stylish but when you overdo it, it shows like you don’t know your work. If everything you are wearing is shouting, it’s going to be difficult for me to hear you. What that means, is that you have mute the work you are doing by your over dressing which is really the message you wanted to pass across. I think simple is very classy. It takes a lot to be simple while it easy to pile in junks. So how did you come up with your skill of speaking several languages?
I think it’s a gift How?
Emmm….I think it is a gift because my elder sister is not married from my place and she hardly speaks the language of her husband and she is been married there for a long time but she doesn’t have the gift. If I lived with you for three months in a village in Epe for instance, I will pick it up, it’s a gift, I don’t know, I can’t describe it, it’s a gift from God. So I speak up to seven languages, combined. I speak French, Swahili because I lived with East Africans when I was doing my first masters in London before I got my flat and they don’t speak English or Pidgin. I had to learn to speak Swahili so that we could interact about what we wanted to talk about, without other people hearing. I probably speak about five Nigerian Languages. Fantastic! So, as a writer, poet, educationalist and a mentor, what would you say is your source of inspiration?
I think I’m lucky. I’m gifted and I’m grateful, because it’s not given to everybody, it’s a gift really. Whichever area I pick up an interest, I pay attention, I dive in. For instance, mentoring came to me naturally because my mother was a mentor; she was an only child of her own mother. Everybody was her child, she had eight of us. I would turn up in my mother’s place and there would be a mechanic sitting down to eat amala! I’m like who is this and she is like, ‘he is your brother’. so I had shoe makers who are my brothers. Truth is, she tried to touch lives, she was a hospital matron and a midwife. When she retired, she would walk up in Lokoja to the mountain areas of the waterside to go and take delivery of babies for women. She opened a hospital in Lokoja but she really, even though, it was a business, it was really charity, she would call to say her panadol has finished, I am like I bought you a carton, what happened to it? She went distributing it, she did not sell it. She would take deliveries and she would call you that she was broke. She took less than what she is expected to collect and then she won’t be able to buy her drugs, then she would go and take delivery in a village and she will say they have no money, and then she will give her own money out. So, I learnt early that touching lives is more important than being rich and it was something she taught me well. I believe that whatever I do, let me do it well, let me impact in that area whatever it is. She literally lived her life for others. But also as a broadcaster, you were also writing, how were you able to combine them?
That was talent; it didn’t struggle with my time for my work, I gave my work 80% to 85%. My father would say give your full attention to your work and if you complained that it wasn’t paying well, he would say, well give it your full attention whether it pays well or not. If you choose that you are not happy with it, you leave it but as long as you are in it, you give it your full attention even if it is N2 they give you. So, I remained on my job even though the pay was not fantastic and still never was, I stayed there, when God was going to reward me for my time and my hard work, he elevated me to executive director, I am thankful because we are plenty but God chose me, I could have been another person, so I’m grateful. Writing comes to me naturally, I think I started learning to write at age 7, I was writing little stories of little people, I was drawing stick men and women, give them names and my father would come and say what happened to marry? I would answer that she broke her leg. I’ve been a story teller for a long time, so writing non-fiction like I did for Business Day newspapers for nearly nine years and by holding a column in Sunday Trust newspapers, writing for different papers, being on Thisday Editorial Board, it was talent and it did not compete with my work. I was just passionate about it, not really looking for rewarding money from it. I wrote for The Guardian newspaper for nearly 23years which became my first book, ‘In the Blink of an eye’. Being a columnist at that time, appearing on the Guardian newspapers was a reward where my name appeared on the same page with Wole Soyinka. Really, for me, that was a big deal. How were you able to combine writing skill and busy schedules at NTA with your family and friends?
That is an area or field I talk a lot about, work life balance, it’s an area of field women have to pay attention to. I am not going to say it was easy because it was not but I managed it and everybody has to manage it. One of the things you must learn how to do is give unto Caesar what belongs to him especially because our job is relentless. When you are a journalist, its relentless, there’s no time, you don’t even have time for yourself. Let me give you a typical day of my life as an active broadcaster when I was bringing up my children. First of all, I tried to make friends with many of my sisters as much as possible, my blood sisters and adopted sisters like my friends. I made friends with my neighbours because one of the days, you are going to be going to work and your house girl has just sacked you and your editor or your producer is not going to understand because they will tell you that the story is not going to wait for you. So you needed to have as much friends as possible, you needed to have persons that can help you in the bringing up of your children, not only did you need to have relationships, you needed to be careful where you deploy or inherit this sources so that you do not put your children in danger. My work did not know day time from weekend, did not know week day from weekend and when I look back, I don’t know how I was able to do it, it has to be the grace of God.
Most importantly, you have to learn to manage your bosses and manage your time. You also have to learn that work is not the ultimate. When I tell people they are surprised, your family is the ultimate and if the work is getting in my way of being able to manage my family, I’m going to leave it. Even though everybody needs a job but if that job is getting in the way of me raising my kids properly, I’m going to leave it. If the resources shut down for a month, it didn’t happen but if it had happened at all I would have left. Where was your husband when you had to be here?
My husband is very supportive. Without him, I wouldn’t have had a career, good husband and excellent father he is. when I say these things about all these resources was because when I was posted to Abuja my husband was in Lagos for a year and half but when we are together, I don’t even suffer that much because he would pick the kids from school, he would ensure they do their home works. Without him, I don’t have a career, I always tell people that. My parents created the foundation, my husband sustained it. He helped with the kids, he was very good, and he’s still very good with children, fantastic father. As a mentor and a figure who stands for women, what will you say about the dehumanization of women, especially now that there is the craze for idiocy of stripping women naked in public?
I’m very disappointed with our society. A woman is a sacred being and as a catholic Christian band, we all know how much strand of my catholic faith how we revere the mother of Jesus, she’s special. Do you think the Nigeria society honor women?
I don’t think so. I think it’s a two way thing and ill explain. There is no excuse what so ever but I think also there’s a lot of dehumanisation of women by women themselves. How?
When you look at today’s society, you find a woman doing those things that women never really did. You find a woman who is ready to give everything for a role in the film industry for instance, you find a woman who is ready to sleep her way to the top. You find a woman who you probably used to respect until you saw her naked, all her breast outside as she’s dressed, it rubs off on men and, they begin to dismiss the women but it is not a justifying excuse to dehumanise a woman.
I think it is disgraceful collectively on us when we disgrace our women and I think it requires the kind of thing that we talk about voters education, we should talk about gender education. Women are not treated well in their homes by their husbands in many homes, marriages are packing up, a woman doesn’t have a say. In some societies, the woman doesn’t even have a say over a nine year old son that she gave birth to, in some societies, the woman doesn’t even have a say about the things in the home. And I think we lose our way if we treat our women less than that. I just finished reading a book called half of the sky, women own half of the sky and half of the sky is a book that was written by woman activist and her husband about how the percentage of women indicates that we should be getting as much as the men but in societies today. The culture and society also seems to relegate women…..
The society relegates woman all the time. When you are growing up amongst your brothers for instance, they ask you to keep quiet, it did not happen in my home because my father was very civilised but there are lot of homes where your younger brother will take precedence over you. So the society needs to understand and change that. In the home, the men and the women who are parents should learn that the boy can cook too and that the girl can be an engineer. We need to encourage women so that they understand that they can do anything they want to do and you need to get the boys to learn to cook so that they know it’s not just a woman’s role to cook. Would you say our society is becoming ritualistic against women, most of the kidnappings done, it is the breast that is gone, eyes, and vagina
I think the society is becoming more money conscious than it used to be and our traditional institutions need to look at it more carefully because all those people who are involved in ritual know them in the places they are coming from. And traditional institutions used to be the one to fish out people who are cultists because the women are the ones who suffer the most. I think our disrespect for women is heightening, our love of money is becoming more incredible and ridiculous because now I read in the paper how people are trying to harvest pants, I’m ashamed. So what can we do?
We should talk more, we should be lauding these issues. Our men should help us stand in the gap and stop keeping quiet about it because the young boys doing these things are men in the society. If they are not coming along with us to condemn it, it can happen to your daughter, so you better be ready to stand up for women. Men in Nigeria should stand up for women because it can be their daughters next, keeping quiet is not an option. All of us collectively should shout and say this should not happen. A nation that continues to disrespect its women cannot move forward, a nation that respects its women, holds their hands and understands that together we will do better because women today in societies all over the world, are now understanding that managerial positions and positions of executive roles is better in the hands of women. I am telling you based on research; it’s not something out of the middle of my head. Men are harder in the work place and today’s work place is complex, it requires empathy, it requires kindness, understanding, it requires reliability, those are the qualities women have. Women executives are becoming more and more available especially in the West because they understand that if your business is going to grow, it better for you. Men are beginning to learn to be like women in other to survive in the complex work place result.