The Presidential Committee on the North East Initiative, the agency established for the coordination of humanitarian activities in the North East has targeted 36,000 IDPs in its March food and non-food and shelter kits support to IDPs in Maiduguri, Borno State. In a press release signed by the Head, Media and Communications of the agency, Alkasim Abdulkadir, he said the exercise was in continuation of the regular support the agency provides to Internally Displaced People as part of its mandate in protecting vulnerable people in the North East. “It had become imperative to provide food and non-food support to the IDPs as the burden was becoming unbearable on some of the host communities, the PCNI also supported returning refugees from Central African Republic and IDPs who lost their houses to recent fire incidents” he said. “The items were presented by the Head of Maiduguri office, Hajiya Amina Maibe at the Gajiram, Gubio, Molai Hospital and other host communities within and outside the periphery of Maiduguri. The distribution was done in conjunction with the National Emergency Management Agency NEMA. The items distributed include -beans, Masaflour, Masavita, Vegetable Oil, Maggi, Maize, Sugar, Tomato Sauce and Salt. The Non-Food Items -Mats, Mosquito Nets, Wrappers, Guinea Brocade, Blankets, Sleepers, Soaps, and clothing for women men and children” the media lead said. At Molai General Hospital, 20,000 packs of medical consumables were donated to the hospital these include anti-biotics, anti-malaria drugs. While at Gajiram Camp it will be recalled that a recent fire disaster destroyed the entire camp, the IDPs were presented with 5,570 shelter kits made up of zinc, ceiling sheets, woods and nails to help 1,500 households were reached to rebuild their houses.  Returnees from the Central African Republic also received support from the distribution, 300 households received 720 food items and 1000 nonfood items. At Gubio Camp 1,830 IDPs who were displaced from Kala Balge and Kukawa local government areas also benefited from the ongoing food distribution from the pro-active palliative food measures. A total of 1,670 food items and 8,400 non-food items were distributed to them. Other host communities reached were -Bamodu House camp, Fato Kura Camp, Biafra Camp, Bajauro Camp, and Bash camp they received 1200 food items and 4710 nonfood items. The exercise will continue periodically in order to effectively stabilize the health and nutritional needs of IDPs in the North East, especially in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe States.