President Muhammadu Buhari has backed the decision of the Bauchi state Governor Mohammed Abubakar who he is heading to court to challenge the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC’s resolution to resume collation of results in the state instead of supplementary elections earlier declared. Bauchi state is among other States of the federation where INEC had declared results inconclusive and rescheduled March 23 for supplementary elections. Speaking to State House Correspondents after a meeting with President Buhari at the presidential villa Abuja, Governor Abubakar described INEC’s decision as illegal and an attempt to reverse itself in its previous decision to hold supplementary elections in the state. The Bauchi governor said he was at the presidential villa to brief President Buhari on what steps he would be taking on the matter within the next few hours about the matter. “One of which is that i am a lawyer and I am pursuing the legal angle. I briefed him and he emphasized on that legal angle that it is the best way to go, ” he stressed. The All Progressives Congress (APC) had also rejected INEC’s decision to resume collation of results in Bauchi and Rivers states ahead of supplementary elections declared in six states. According to the Bauchi state governor, “I briefed him (the President) on the issues surrounding the inconclusive elections. The Returning Officer for Bauchi State at the end of collation, rejected the result of Tafawa Balewa local government and then 36 other units spread around 15 local governments of Bauchi state and ordered a rerun. “Surprisingly, we woke up one morning and INEC came up with a procedure that is not known to law. Because, where a Returning Officer has declared the result, only an election petition tribunal can reverse the result. But INEC is attempting to reverse itself in the case of Bauchi. And when one juxtapose that of Bauchi and other states with inconclusive elections, one wonders why that is happening only in Bauchi State. “So, for that reason there is a need for me to come and brief Mr. President because that has the potential of touching on the security of the state and it is our paramount duty to secure the state.” Asked if what is happening was extra illegal, the Bauchi governor said, “Of course it is definitely extra illegal. It is a straight forward matter. The returning officer is the final arbiter even with respect to scores and declaration of result. And once he makes a declaration, no power can reverse that declaration except duly constituted court of the land.” On what he expected President Buhari to do when INEC is an independent body, Abubakar said, “No no no. I said I came to brief Mr. President, I am not seeking any action of Mr. President. We all know Mr. President, he is a stickler for procedure. What I pointedly told him was that I am not here to seek for you to interfere on our behalf, sir but to brief you on what is happening and what actions I have taken. When the governor was asked if he was not satisfied with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s handling of the matter which explains why he sought an audience with President Buhari, he replied, “No no no. There are procedures in these matters and levels of authority. I am a stickler for procedure, I started at the right place and I have also ended up at the right place.” Speaking on the security of the state, the governor said, “We are on top of the situation, thank God. We have since ordered the ban on procession in the metropolis and things are very very calm.” He said his party and the state government was prepared for the supplementary elections is INEC does the proper thing.  “If they are going to do it now, we are ready. I don’t know who is afraid of anyone in Tafawa Balewa.” END