OJIEVA EHIOSUN, in this report, writes on how the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, allegedly ‘tricked’ Esan leaders into voting for his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), thereby erasing the legacies of the late political leader, Chief Tony Anenih.   Will the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor Godwin Obaseki fulfill their promises to the people of Esan Land? Will the governor do as he has promised in the speakership race? Will this one be another Aburi accord? Was this just a diplomatic method deplored by the APC to get Esan votes? Will the powers that be in Edo State allow power return to Edo Central?
These are some of the questions begging for answers after the state House of Assembly polls that gave 100 percent victory to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State.
Since 1999, Edo State, particularly Edo Central, has always been the strong hold of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a situation that a purported agreement between the APC and leaders of the zone has turned around.
Before now, it has never been so easy for other political parties aside the PDP to win election in that part of the state. This is because of the commitment and the believe of the people of the area in the party, which also played out recently during the Presidential and National Assembly elections.
But the table turned in the just concluded states House of Assembly polls where Governor Godwin Obaseki of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) took the bull by the horn to change the permutations, leaving behind, pains and joy.
In the minds of many APC candidates, their smiling and cruising home to victory could not have happened if not hinged on the flying wings of the pragmatic efforts of the innocent looking governor, who after a careful and critical study of the political situation in Edo State, particularly in Esan Land, decided to talk the people into a deal.
Capitalising on the non existence of a leader in the mold of the late Chief Tony Anenih aka Mr. ‘Fix it’, the governor went all out to take over the mantle of political leadership in the area, using the speakership and 2024 governorship as bait.
Saturday Telegraph investigations revealed that the APC leadership and the governor had dangled the position of speakership and a power rotation agreement between the people of Esan Land.
When Anenih was alive, voting another party aside the PDP was seen as a curse on the people of Esan Land but whether the change is positive or negative, the average Esan man seems to have been liberated from the shackles of dogmatism, with the diplomatic approach adopted by Obaseki in wooing the people into believing in his course.
Unlike the days of his predecessor, when Esan Land and some other parts of Edo State suffered a total neglect because of their political affiliations, Obaseki changed the situation in order to woo the aggrieved people to his side.
The former governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, was seen as a man who did not believe in having diplomatic approach to issues, as such, he did not have any round table talk in settling matters with those that opposed him. His was ‘by fire by force’ method which most political analyst in the state described as crude method of resolving issues.
But for Obaseki, the best way of killing a monkey is to behave like a monkey. The systematic approach adopted by the governor, has no doubt, paid off, going by the result of the last election.
The House of Assembly election in Edo State was a departure from the 2015 general elections where the PDP had some seats in legislative house, winning four out of the five local government areas that make up Edo Central. This time, it is 24 all over 24 for the Godwin Obaseki-led APC.
His reasons for going all out into winning the entire seat for his party is not farfetched. As an incumbent, he has to do everything to get hold of the state House of Assembly knowing fully well that 2020 is fast approaching. APC victory at the House of Assembly election did not only portray the governor as serious minded person but has also send a signal to some of the APC power brokers who are already contemplating on replacing Obaseki in 2020.
His victory at the House of Assembly polls has further prove that he is fully in charge. It has also shown that he would be able to dismantle any group conspiring against his second term ambition, not even his political godfather can stop him.
Saturday Telegraph also gathered that one of the major reasons Esan and top PDP members fell for the governor’s ‘trick’ and lobbying is because of the general believe that Obaseki will make one of their sons speaker and at the same time hand over the seat of power to the zone in 2024.
But some of the questions keep coming as people are eager to know whether the governor and the APC will fulfil their promise. Whichever way the pendulum swings, Obaseki, no doubt, deserves commendations for breaking the jinx in Edo Central.
As opined by one of the political leaders in the area, who preferred no to be named, “now that the election has come and gone, it now rests on the people to fight for their right when the time comes.
“But one thing is clear, if ever the dead do see and hear, late Tony Anineh’s spirit will continue to hunt those leaders particularly PDP big weights that conspired with others to betray the trust and confidence he had on his people.
“Traditional rulers, chiefs, market men and women, taxi drivers, Okada riders, office workers were part of the deal that change the tide in Edo State”, he said.
Hon. Victor Edoror of Esan Central Local Government Area, who defeated Barrister Ekoh Innocent of the PDP, to return to the assembly for the third consecutive time, said: “my victory at the election is a clear demonstration of the peoples’ belief in me and the dream of the Esan man.
“I told them that I will continue to give them the basic needs of their daily life. I am going back to the House to continue from where I have stopped. My victory is the victory of all our people and I thank them for their courage and supports”.
On his part, Hon. Frank Okiye of Esan–North East constituency II, who defeated PDP’s Barrister Emankhu Addeh Isibor to also return to the House for another term, said: “I’m happy that God has finally given us victory, this victory marks the beginning of freedom for the people.
“We fought for it vigorously because we wanted the best for our people and our party. I have journeyed and worked very well for our party, so I am going back to develop our people and ensure that they get the dividends of democracy”.
“Now that it is an all APC affair at the legislative chamber, it is expected that the party will do well in all areas of human endeavour”, he said.
In his thank you message, the governor said that his administration was determined to take Edo State to the next level of infrastructural development, that a vote for the APC is a vote for him to continue with ongoing development that will create more jobs for the youths, and also ensure that Edo will be a better place for all.