  Again, a three-storey collapsed on Lagos Island yesterday barely two weeks after about 20 pupils, teachers and residents died in a similar incident.  But for proactive steps taken by government officials, several lives would have been lost in the incident which occurred yesterday at Number 50, Kakawa Street on Lagos Island. However, some children sustained injuries as the building collapsed on a nearby bungalow at the back of Number 47/49 Odunlami Street.  It was learnt that the occupants of the collapsed building, which caved in about 1p.m. yesterday, were evacuated on Friday, after the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA), identified the structure as weak and distressed. This came as LASBCA warned against unlawful demolition of distressed buildings by the owners.  Sources said building, which collapsed yesterday, was also one of the 80 distressed structures identified and marked for demolition by LASBCA.  Yesterday, onlookers besieged the site of the collapsed while efforts were on to evacuate property trapped under the rubble.  The General Manager, LASBCA, Mr. Lekan Shodeinde (an engineer), said that no life was lost in the incident.
Shodeinde said the occupants were evacuated on Friday.  The GM warned against illegal demolition of distressed buildings by the owners, saying they must also get government approval before they pull down any structure.  He said: “What we are saying is that nobody or family is allowed to pull down their buildings themselves without government’s involvement. We are not saying they shouldn’t remove building but they must get government’s approval to do so. They need to inform the government about removal of their distressed buildings. This is to ensure protection of lives and property.”  Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Prince Rotimi Ogunleye, said a relief and resettlement centre had been opened to accommodate those affected in the ongoing demolition of distressed buildings in the state.  In a statement, Ogunleye urged occupants of marked distressed buildings across the state to immediately vacate them pending the arrival of the demolition team of LASBCA.  He said: “The building in question had been identified as distressed by the officers of LASBCA and all the necessary statutory notices had been duly served. It was one of the defective structures marked for removal by the agency.  “Fortunately, occupants had been evacuated before the incident occurred. Immediately, the Lagos State Rescue Team and LASBCA were alerted and they moved to site promptly to check all adjoining buildings so as to evacuate the occupants to avoid further hazards.”  Already 25 buildings have been removed by LASBCA as government has stepped up measures to rid the state of distressed buildings to prevent loss of lives and property. Speaking at the Resettlement Centre in Igando, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Kehinde Bamigbetan, said government was working in line with international best practices as “it begins the resettling of persons displaced by the ongoing demolitions of defective/distressed buildings on Lagos Island”.  Bamigbetan said the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Resettlement Camp/Relief Centre in Igando, which has been approved, was ready to accommodate 500 displaced persons starting from March 26.  Bamigbetan said the exercise was part of government’s efforts to ensure that the effect of losing their homes was mitigated to the barest minimum.  Tiamiyu also said the camp would be working with the Igando General Hospital in case of referrals. He added that the medical team for the camp would arrive today.  It was learnt that the Igando Resettlement Camp/Relief Centre has five hostels with 22 rooms each, four double bunk beds and is capable of accommodating eight persons per room.