Chairman of the Bayelsa State Civil Service Commission, Dr. Peter Singabele, has given a detailed account of how he was brutalised by thugs of the All Progressives Congress (APC) before the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the violence and breach of peace in the state before, during and after the general elections. Singabele, who is the 29th witness to appear before the panel, appealed to members of the commission to ensure effective use of the evidence before it with a view to bringing masterminds of elections-related violence across the state to book.
Narrating how he was attacked by an APC House of Reps candidate and his thugs at Peretorugbene Community in Ekeremor Local Government Area on February 24, Singabele said the thugs assaulted him by throwing him on the ground at the collation center, when he went to observe the process as a stakeholder. The Civil Service Commission boss said the incident left him with bruises, which were treated at the Federal Medical Center, Yenagoa. He added that he had to prevail on youths of the community from embarking on a reprisal to avert bloodshed. Also testifying before the commission, the PDP agent for Unit Seven in Foutorugbene Community, Ekeremor Local Government Area, Cheif Ebiowei Miller, said he was assaulted by mobile policemen, who ordered him to leave the collation centre. Earlier, the PDP candidate for the Nembe/Brass federal constituency in the National Assembly election, Mrs. Marie Ebikake, stressed that it was important for those behind the violence that rocked the state to be identified for prosecution. Others who have appeared before the commission are the PDP candidate for Bayelsa East Senatorial District, Chief Blessing Ipigasi-Izagara; former Chairman Nembe Local Government Area, Chief Kurogbofa Walter-Benwari; Vice Chairman Nembe Local Government Area, Mr. Ayebainaemi. Walter-Benwari told the panel that APC thugs led by an oil surveillance contractor attacked PDP members in Bassambiri and Okipiri. He added that the rampaging thugs broke into his house, destroyed several valuable items and carted away others. The former council boss, who flayed the conduct of security agents during the elections, said his life is under threat, adding that he had written to the Commissioner òf Police in charge of the Bayelsa Command to notify him of the security threat.
So far, a total of 32 witnesses have testified before the commission with several others scheduled to appear today when the commission is expected to resume hearing.