The Council of the Nigerian Society of Engineers has disclosed its plans to confer the Fellowship of the Society, the highest honour of membership in the engineering profession, on the Executive Director, Engineering and Technical Services of Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited (NDPHC), IfeOluwa Oyedele. The apex society of engineers said this in the 2019 edition of the award. It noted that the award, which also marks the 60th Anniversary of the Society, is in recognitions of works put into the engineering professions by the awardees. President of the Nigeria Society of Engineers, Adebayo Mokuolu, said that he would confer the honour on Oyedele among other colleagues who have attained the highest level of professional standards in various disciplines at a Gala Night taking place in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. Oyedele, an Electrical Engineer has, in a career spanning both public and private sectors, been in active engineering practice for over three decades. The award is in recognition of his commendable achievements in the field of engineering. Ife Oyedele is also a Fellow of the Risk Managers Society Of Nigeria The Nigerian Society of Engineers has conferred its fellowship on Ifeoluwa Oyedele, executive director, engineering and technical services of Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited. It is the highest honour of membership in the engineering profession. Oyedele’s career in active engineering practice, according to NSE, spanned both public and private… In “Business” ...bag NSE fellowship     Managing Director of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo), Bayo Ojulari, and three other senior engineers with Shell companies in Nigeria have been conferred with the fellowship of The Nigerian Society of Engineers, the highest professional recognition in engineering practice in Nigeria. Pulling… In “Business” Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) has conferred honorary fellowship on the Executive Chairman, Nestoil Limited, Dr. Ernest Azudialu-Obiejesi, at the 2017 edition of its yearly conference and Annual General Meeting (AGM). Speaking at the ceremony in Abuja, President NSE, Otis Anyaeji, noted that the society honoured Azudialu-Obiejesi with its fellowship… In “Business”