 The imperative of culture to the development of a society or nation was again brought to the fore recently as Akure, the historic city and capital of Ondo State was agog with arts and cultural activities. The event was the maiden edition of Ondo State Festival of Arts, Culture and Tourism, an annual festival, a rally for colourful display of a multi-ethnic experience in Ondo State of Nigeria, organised in partnership with Lagos-based Oshodi Arts Gallery.  Held 15 to 21, December, 2018, the festival tagged Ondoartfest, is aimed at promoting cross-cultural awareness, social and economic development, and the beauty of the cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue, creating jobs, intercultural relationships, community contributions, mutual respect, understanding and unity. This is why it was tagged Togetherness, said the founder/director of Oshodi Arts Gallery, and co-organiser of the festival, Seyi Paul Oshodi.  The festival featured array of Ondo State arts and cultural performances, exhibition of over 5000 art woks, cultural day, trado-modern carnival parade of all the 18 local governments area in Ondo State, food stalls and artistes in traditional costumes, which create a memorable and unique experience. There were also music & comedy concert, economic summit and Gala/Award night. Highpoint of the festival also include an Economic Summit In his presentation, foremost art journalist, dramatist, theatre director, and musician, Ben Tomoloju, who was the guest speaker, underscored the imperative of arts and culture to development.  In his paper titled “Art, Culture And Tourism: Forging A New Economic Route For Ondo State Towards A Sustainable Future”, Tomoloju called for greater attention to be given to arts, culture and tourism for development of the state.  According to him, culture is all-encompassing. “It is, therefore, instructive that sustainable development, as the Ondo State stakeholders aim to achieve, should be holistic, not isolating and prioritizing one aspect of life from and over the others in a smothering compartment. Rather, it is most worthwhile to explore the organic connection of these components as it is most beneficial for society. Even as it is essential in these modern times to give specialized attention to individual fields of human endeavour on the basis of division of labour, they should ultimately converge at a point where jointly they serve as an index of civilization across time and space.  “The language of economic development, of transformation of nature, of the re-organisation of social activity is basically cultural, and not, as some economists want us to believe, a mechanistic substitution of man’s activity with abstract categories – Dr. Sule Bello (1989).  “Sule Bello’s statement, cited above, reflect current thinking among experts on the symbiotic relationship between culture and economic development. It is one which demands that culture should be the fulcrum of development. Series of convention and policies since the 1980s have sounded this note, albeit in different tones. UNESCO’s World Decade for Cultural Development (1987-97), the Convention of the Coalition of Nigerian Artists, CONA, (Lagos, 1991) both address issue of culture and development. Also, the European Commission/African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States Colloquium of 2009 explored the theme ‘Culture and Creation as Vectors of Development’. This is the spirit that rules reflections on culture and creativity in Nigeria today. “And it is appropriately reflected in the theme of this summit, ‘Culture, Art and Tourism: Forging A New Economic Route For Ondo State Towards A Sustainable Future.’  He urged the government of Ondo State to utilize the creative arts to mobilize the people for socio-economic action; change their mindset in a positive direction; galvanize their creative energies to enhance values of development dimension; and create avenues for recreation, reflection and education.  Mr. Tomoloju also said that the Ondo State agenda for economic development through tourism should recognize the fact that tourism relies on resources from other professions for its mainstay. “Tourism taps into the heritages and the creative industry, into geography and the sciences, into culture programming, curatorial services and publishing. “Beyond the pleasure principle, tourism provides education in an informal way. It also facilitates socialization among hosts and guests even to the extent of acting as a bridge builder across cultures. In this connection, it sometimes leads to business partnership, thereby yielding economic dividends.  “As such, it is incumbent on Ondo State to take a bold step in institutionalizing tourism by establishing schools to train specialized practitioners. Apart from privately-owned catering and aviation support schools, I do not think there are other institutions of higher rating in Nigeria handling the multi-faceted sort of professionalism demanded by a well-developed tourism sub-sector. But I am aware that Morocco has a university that produces graduates specializing in tourism. Ondo State can score a first in Nigeria in this respect,” he said. In a chat with journalists in his studio in Lagos, Oshodi hinted that the festival will be an annual event. “Ondoartsfest 2018 was a celebration of the uniqueness of Ondo State spirituality, the vitality and resilience of our unique cultural expressions – from the invigorating musical rhythm of our traditional musicians, drummers to the amazing traditional music, local jazz and fusion interpretations of the iconic local musician.  “It was design to market the creative genius and to expose the touristic natural endowment of the Ondo State, his people history, values foods Ondo state creative arts, performing arts, visual arts, literal arts both their mind and spirit, with the communal character and their personality.  “Our goal is to create and support the growth of the creative industries, such that they generate their own revenue streams and are not just dependent on government funding, foundation, or corporate charitable giving, which may change from year to year. A key goal in this respect is to contribute to the togetherness of Ondo State people despite the similarity in religion, economic value differences, traditional and cultural differences also re-introduction of the creative arts and culture back into school curriculums, also developing youth empowerment programmes with a focus on Cultural Reconstruction,” he said.   The Ondo State Government in collaboration with Oshodi Art Gallery, has unveiled plans to host 2018 Artfest with the aim of promoting arts, culture and tourism potentials of the state. The Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Alhaji Ismaila Ayodeji Olurimisi, who disclosed this while speaking at the launch of the… In “Arts & Entertainments” The Ondo State Arts and Cultural Festival, tagged ONDOFEST 2018 will surpass the Second World Black and African Festival of Arts and Culture (FESTAC), which Nigeria hosted in 1977, the Chief Executive of Oshodi Arts Gallery, Seyi Oshodi has said. Oshodi, who is a co-sponsor of the event, stated… In “Arts & Entertainments” The co-organiser of this year’s Ondo State Cultural and Festival (Ondofest), Mr. Seyi Paul Oshodi, has said the event will not be limited to drum and dance performance art but a cultural reconversion and reconstruction in the country. Oshodi, who is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Oshodi Arts Gallery,… In “Arts & Entertainments”