A Kwara state High Court sitting in Ilorin, has refused the request for a post-mortem analysis on the corpse of Michael Ashley, the principal suspect in the April 5, 2018 bloody robbery at Offa, in the southern part of the state. However, the court granted the prayer of the defence asking for an independent  medical examination of the alleged gunshot injuries sustained by the first, second and third accused persons while in police custody. The first, second and third accused persons had at the last adjourned date accused the police of shooting them on the legs to instill fear in them before extracting statement from them. They also alleged that the police shot dead Michael Adikwu while in their custody contrary to claim that he died of an ailment in a hospital. Fifth accused person in the case, Niyi Ogundiran
also narrated in the court how the police extracted his confessional statement from him under duress. It was based on the testimonies of the accused that their counsel, Mathias Emeribe applied for independent medical examination of the legs of the first, second and third accused persons to determine whether the wounds on their legs are products of gunshots. He also applied for an order to carry out autopsy on the death of Michael Adikwu, the principal suspect so as to find corroboration to evidence of especially the 5th accused person as well as all the other three
persons. He told the court: “The essence of this is not unconnected with the fact that Adikwu was initially one of the accused persons charged along with others and it is important that one of their own was allegedly killed before them. “The fact of the cause of the death must be determined in order to find out the truth as top how the confessional statements were obtained. “The name Michael Adikwu was repeated consistently by all the four accused persons in this trial within trial and I think it will be in the interest of justice for the accused persons to put in a proper defence to get the result of that medical examination.” But prosecution counsel Professor Wahab Egbewole (SAN) opposed the application vehemently, describing it as strange and asked the court to throw it out. Egbewole said: “I urge the court to refuse this strange application, justice is not a one way traffic. It is available to all the parties and not only for the accused. “For the record, this is a trial within trial specifically to determine the voluntariness of the statements of the accused persons. It is not for the court to look for evidence to corroborate his allegation. It is for him to do that. “This application is tantamount to inviting your lordship to come to the arena. The application is clearly shopping for evidence. The shooting of Adikwu has no relevance to the issues of a trial within trial.” In her ruling after a short break,  Justice Halima Salman rejected the application for post mortem  examination but acceded to the request for independent medical review of the wounds sustained by the accused. The court said: “the court will avail all the parties all the facilities available in this case. It is therefore in the interest of justice and fair hearing to allow for a medical examination to know whether the healed wounds on the three suspects’ legs emanated from gunshots. I therefore grant the first prayer. “On the post-mortem examination of the corpse of the dead Michael Adikwu, there is nothing the autopsy will add to this case. It is baseless and pointless to grant the second prayer.” She ordered the court Registrar to prepare the “enroll order today to be served on both the defence and prosecution.” The case was later adjourned to April 8, 2019 for continuation of defence in trial -within -trial. …Saraki, NOPRIN demand probe   A Kwara State High Court, sitting in Ilorin, was told yesterday that Sunday Adikwu, the principal suspect in the April 5, 2018, deadly robbery at Offa, during which about 30 people, including nine policemen were killed, is dead. The state Attorney General and Commissioner for… In “Metro and Crime” The principal suspect in the deadly April 5, 2018 robbery attack on banks in Offa, Kwara state, Michael Adikwu, is dead. Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, Alhaji Kamaldeen Ajibade (SAN), who led the prosecution at the first hearing of the case by the High court, gave… In “News” Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) has said that the five persons accused of involvement in the April 5, 2018 robbery at Offa in Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State do have a case to answer before the court. The DPP also directed the police to carry out more investigation… In “Metro and Crime”