Mohammed Abba-Kura is the Controller of Apapa Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). He spoke in his last position as Controller in-charge of Post Clearance Audit (PCA) in Zone A NCS, Lagos and efforts to collect proper duties. PAUL OGBUOKIRI brings the excerpts.   Give us an overview of the operations of the Customs Post Clearance Audit (PCA) Unit, Zone A under your watch? I reported at the PCA Zone A on January 30, 2018. After taking over, I had to go back to Abuja to handover the PAAR(Pre Arrival Assessment Report) Ruling Center to the then incoming Controller, Comptroller Yusuf Bashar who left Tincan Island Command. So effectively I resumed on February 6. It’s entirely a new environment in the sense that we deal with consignments or declarations that have already been exited from the ports within the Lagos zone, that is Zone A. So in essence we do targeting, profiling and once we profile and discover infractions or discrepancies, we normally write letters to the importers and their Clearing Agents. Some, immediately they receive the first letter, will respond but most of them you have to send reminder letters before they respond. Some will not even respond until you block them from the system. Blocking them from the system is that you block them using the Tax Identification Numbers (TIN) of the agent as well as his importer so with that they will be compelled to come and answer the queries of those declarations.
Because once their TIN Numbers are blocked, they can’t lodge in new declarations, so they definitely come forward and if they come forward, if it is an issue of Harmonised System (HS) Code, we sit down with them; we show them based on their declarations in the system. So the things we look at are what the importer declared, the inspection done by the releasing officer and further research is done on the exporter forms guide us in taking decisions. We profile the importer himself, a look at the tariffs, look at explanatory notes, any other document are considered for them to see and we prove the underpayments to them.  There is this issue of improper address of people who have relocated long after they made transactions, how do you track them? Yes, when I first resumed we had so many issues on this address matter. In fact, I remember forwarding a list of about 60 importers and Clearing Agents that their addresses were not correct and the only way they come to respond is by this blockage of their TIN. So I wrote a memo to headquarters with the list of those who have wrong addresses and I think it was handed over to License and Permit Department and Inspection Department for necessary action. The other challenges we faced on this wrong addresses was that letters could not be delivered if they cannot trace their current addresses. There is no way you can get hold of them except you block them. Normally what they were supposed to do is that when they change addresses they should write to Customs officially that “we moving from address A to address B”, which they don’t do. Since most of them write letters through various commands, they can write letter to CG through the Controller of that Area Command. That letter will be forwarded to the appropriate level at the headquarters, which is Licenses and Permit and by extension, Inspection. So once that one is done that change of address is going to be effected in the system automatically. Are they complying now because of the blocking strategy? Yes they are complying with that. In fact some, as they are coming forward to answer their queries, they come with copies of letters that they wrote for change of addresses. Some after leaving here that is when they will write the letter to headquarters for change of address. Compliance level is increasing.  How do you resolve disputes in calculations between PCA and importers or agents? Yes that one is there. If you look at the World Customs Organisation (WCO) standard working procedure for post clearance audit, it gives the person being audited rights. He has rights and we respect their rights. We can say we are arguing HS Code for a particular item, he will disagree. He can write to CGC complaining that PCA identified that he has been carrying his consignment on a particular HS Code and PCA is insisting on a different HS Code.
You know, HS codes determine percentage of duties to be paid; wherever the HS Code changes, duty to be paid may very likely change too. So once he writes that letter to headquarters, it will go through the normal channel. CGC will minute to DCG Tariff and Trade and she will minute to the Controller Tariff, so Controller Tariff will sit down look at it and classify correctly. Sometimes it is sent back to us for our own input.   Are you saying that between PCA and the importer or agent, its still the Customs headquarters that is the final arbiter? Yes, because the Tariff department is the department having the responsibility of settling disputes on tariff classification and they are the custodian. They go to WCO periodically to attend meetings on tariff disputes, not only within Nigeria. Disputes are coming from all Customs administrations in different WCO member countries. If there is an issue that cannot be resolved even within the headquarters, it can be forwarded to WCO. They have a technical team on that, it normally sit periodically and look at things and classify them properly. Once they do the classifications, they send it to all administrations because the world is dynamic and a lot of things are being invented everyday. Some things you think that can be classified on a particular HS Code may not be on that HS Code appropriately.They will have to get a correct HS Code for it. For instance , if you buy an explanatory note, explanatory note is a set of documents or set of books that give further explanations on items classified in the tariff, it will give you the vivid and exact description of an item. Sometimes if people come here they will say no “we have been importing this particular item for a long time so it has to be on 5 per cent duty rate because we are manufacturers”. I had this dispute with a particular company, like I said the people being audited have rights; I will not mention the company’s name. I showed them their underpayment; they disagreed and took the matter to headquarters, as part of their rights. Luckily after going to the headquarters, they got a reply that was not in their favour.
I told them that they are going to pay to the last dime. They thought I was joking, that I was not serious about it. I blocked them from working until they paid a substantial part of it and it was huge. It was about N2.3billion. They finished paying by January this year because after they paid an installment of N1.2billion, I allowed them to continue their work and they paid the rest gradually. In 2018 alone we recovered over N17 billion being underpaid duties.  Post clearance audit appears to be silent in the scheme of Customs operations. We want to know what has been the collaboration like with other units of the service? You see, the issue here is audit, you cannot see us coming out like those working in the field either revenue or enforcement officers. We don’t work like that; we go back some years to profile declarations.  Like how many years? It depends.  It goes to mean that somebody somewhere may either have made a mistake in the course of collection of duty or valuation or may have deliberately played down on standards because post clearance audit have a way of tracing officers who have been found to allow under payments, do you trace them? The issue is ignorance of the law is not an excuse. Sometimes it can be a genuine ignorance and sometimes it can be deliberate. As an officer you cannot know everything. Wherever you find yourself as an officer that wants to perform, definitely you must develop yourself. You must optimally read and do researches on various items being imported and processed. The knowledge acquired on the job over the years contributes to expertise. It’s not possible to know everything at a go. Knowledge increases with time and customs operations cannot be an exception. 