…says Aigbogun must comb everywhere for Number 9’  Former Technical Director of the Nigeria Football Federation, Tunde Disu, has said Flying Eagles need players with strong physical presence to do well at the FIFA U-20 World Cup in Poland. The coach who led Nigeria to the final of the 1989 edition of the tournament said football at the U-20 level was not for ‘babies’ but where physicality and strength are required to excel. He says coach Paul Aigbogun still has a chance to get players who could help the team in Poland. He said: “I think he has some players with good height in the defence, almost 5’8, 5’9, the goalkeeper too is not bad. But we need these players with good height, great physique across the pitch and that is why he has to start going round and play friendly matches. When you get to the World Cup, you will see players with big moustache, very broad chest and you will think they are old but they are not, that is the way they are. “The level they are playing now is not different from the senior one; all the big boys that we have in football played at this stage.” He said the team’s poor scoring record underlines how much work Aigbogun needed to do before the World Cup. He said the time was not too short for him to start looking for players who could become world-class strikers. The former Super Eagles assistant coach said the technical department of the NFF must also assist the coach in the venture, insisting young talent that can fit that role are abound in the country. He added: “He has to go back to the drawing board and look at where he has made mistakes and correct them because I think he should have played in the final of the African Cup of Nations. He has to go round the country; it is not that the players are not good but he needs to look for world class strikers, if they play against the South American teams they are going to have problems. “He has to get the team working; the attacking midfielders must help the strikers. He needs a finisher; you can see Obafemi Martins when he was playing, he was a finisher but the young boys that we have now are really not pulling their weight.” Disu, who masterminded the famous ‘Daman Miracle’ which saw the Flying Eagles recover from 4-0 down to win a semifinal match against the USSR in 1989, counselled Aigbogun to spread his net beyond the country and scout for players who were in born Europe but of Nigerian decent. “It is important he gives those players born abroad and willing to represent the country the chance to play. Most times these players are groomed by top class academies abroad and they are usually more exposed than most of the Nigerian players, football is more scientific now and many of these guys have that strong background,” he said.