Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has named four newly established secondary schools in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, after four prominent citizens of the state. The four secondary schools which would open for academic work in September were newly established to cater for the growing population of students in Ado-Ekiti, which has led to over- stretching of learning facilities in some of the existing public schools in the state capital. According to the governor’s approval, the four schools were named after the four illustrious sons of the state. They are Afenifere leader and Second Republic Senator, Pa Ayo Fasanmi,, a former Permanent Secretary and Chairman, Committee for the creation of Ekiti State, Chief Deji Fasuan, a renowned Historian and Second Republic Senator, Prof Banji Akintoye and a linguist and member of the Senate during the second Republic, Professor David Oke. The newly established schools, according to the government would provide alternatives to secondary school students who trek long distance by the day. The secondary schools were being established in critical areas of the capital city. For instance, the Banji Akintoye Comprehensive High School is sited on Emirin Junction, Federal Poly Road, Ado-Ekiti; while the Ayo Fasanmi Comprehensive High School is situated along EKSU/Iworoko Road in the capital city. Also, the Deji Fasuan Comprehensive High School is sited along Old Iyin Road, beside Police Children’s School; while the David Oke Comprehensive High School is along Ikere Road, Ado-Ekiti. Fayemi said his administration had placed high premium on education development and would continue to do everything possible to restore the state’s lost glory in the sector just as it would continue to celebrate positive contributions of citizens of the state both old and young. The governor, who has also given approval for the establishment of two additional secondary schools next year, has also commenced arrangement for the upgrade of three technical colleges in the state in partnership with the World Bank.