Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP) has highlighted the importance of sleep to overall health, saying that adequate sleep improves quality of life. To this end, NSP has commended Mouka Limited, Nigeria’s leading foam-based mattress and other bedding products manufacturer, for spearheading healthy sleep culture in Nigeria. National President of NSP, Dr. Rufai Ahmad, who spoke at the commemoration of this year’s World Sleep Day by the company, said that Mouka has been the vehicle through which the campaign on healthy sleep culture, has consistently been propagated across the country. World Sleep Day is marked on 15 March. He explained that the campaign included education on proper ways of sleeping as well as the use of quality mattresses and pillows by all sections of Africa’s most populous country. “Sleep is an essential component of physical and mental health… Sleep determines your quality of life and when we say quality of life, we mean how you relate with people, how you do things, how you interact with your environment. Sleep can help you maintain a good quality of life,” Dr. Ahmad explained. Dr. Ahmad further said: “Let me thank the owners of sleep in Nigeria… It’s not surprising that Mouka is successful. They know how to give their customers what they want and they also know how to relate with the people, and they value their customers more than they value themselves… It’s an honour for the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy to identify with them. Coincidentally, the Society and the company were founded same year. So they are both celebrating 60th year anniversary…” He pledged the body’s unalloyed support for Mouka, adding that the brand would continue to enjoy its partnership in the healthy-sleep-culture campaign drive. The physiotherapist pointedly identified the importance of sleep to overall health and quality of life “Sleep is an essential component of physical and mental health… Sleep determines your quality of life and when we say quality of life, we mean how you relate with people, how you do things, how you interact with your environment. Sleep can help you maintain a good quality of life,” Dr. Ahmad explained. At the event, Mouka also launched another Sleep Gallery in Lagos to bring to eight the number of such innovative facilities across the country. Manned by experts who help the consumer make the right choices, the Sleep Gallery hosts a range of premium sleep products that are exclusive to the Mouka Sleep Gallery outlets. The project, which is an offshoot of the own-brand manufacturer’s resolve to remain a foremost supplier of branded mattresses and foam-based products for sleep solutions in the country, reinforces Mouka’s uniqueness in proffering sleep solutions to teeming consumers in the Nigerian bedding market. Mouka has been at the forefront of healthy sleep culture and production of bedding materials specially designed to cater to the sleep needs of virtually all sections of the society. The World Sleep Day is aimed at celebrating the benefits of healthy sleep and to draw society’s attention to its impact on overall health at any age.