Anxiety mounted among residents of New Benin and New Lagos road areas of Benin, the Edo State capital, following the sudden death yesterday of a middle aged man. The deceased identified simply as Mr. Victor (a.k.a Biggy), was shot dead at a popular traffic light junction at New Benin Market, in the early hours of the day His death may not be unconnected with the raging bloody war between rival Aye and Eiye cult groups whose deadly activities have claimed more than 25 lives in the last one month in parts of Benin City and adjoining towns. Victor, who until his death was a former Vice-Chairman of the Ikpoba Hill branch of the Commercial Bus Drivers union, New Benin Market Unit, was said to have resumed work when his assailant emerged from nowhere and shot him in the head at close range. Sources in the area said that Victor was shot few minutes after he had alighted from his C-Class Mercedes Benz car which he parked by the side of the road leading to Upper Mission area and proceeded to work. According to a source, he was discussing with an unidentified man when he was shot from behind after which he fell down in the process and in his own pool of blood. Policemen attached to the New Benin Divisional station later came to take away the corpse of the dead man as people gathered around the area while his car was taken to the station. Sadly, Victor’s wife who operated one of the shops within the New Benin market was said to have died last year in the capital town. Residents of the ancient City have taken their destiny in their hands as they go to bed with one eye closed over the spate of blood-letting by the two groups in their reprisal attacks. The security agencies including the army have arrested more than 70 of suspected members of the warring cult groups locked in supremacy battle over the control of the soul of the town. Investigations revealed that densely populated Upper Sokponba community in Ikpoba Okha local government area of the state has been the haven and of the deadly groups who recently were locked in a battle until soldiers were deployed in the troubled spots. Business centres, eateries, night clubs, drinking spots, churches and even centres have been major targets of victims of these bodies even as markets and shops now close as early as 6pm, a development that has drastically brought daily earnings to the lowest ebb. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, on resumption of duty had taken the battle to the doorsteps of the bodies and has vowed to ensure the prosecution of suspected members of the groups. He had also appealed to groups and individuals including politicians in possession of illegal arms to surrender them to avoid arrest and prosecution. Tension has continued to mount in parts of Benin, the Edo State capital and adjoining communities following deadly activities of rival cult groups in the state. This is despite the clamp down against the groups by operatives of the state police command. Findings showed that a middle-aged man and a… In "Metro and Crime" Daredevil armed men yesterday reportedly killed a policeman, wounded three others and set ablaze a patrol van in the process in Edo state.   New Telegraph gathered that the incident happened when the gunmen ambushed the policemen in the early morning close to Ovia River Bridge along Benin-Iguobazuwa road in… In "Metro and Crime" Violent clashes between rival secret cult members of the Eiye and Aye confraternity have so far claimed eight lives in parts of Benin and adjoining towns in Edo State. The clashes, which occurred in the past four days, have caused anxiety and tension among residents of Benin. The development has… In "Metro and Crime"