With his hit single, “Legbegbe” released in 2017, Mr Real didn’t just win the hearts of music lovers in Nigeria and beyond; the song propelled him to the top of the charts. With the song feeding off the story of Seun Egbebe, a Lagos-based socialite, who is standing trial for alleged fraud and theft, and arguably the most popular song on the streets in 2018, it launched Mr Real, whose real name is Uchenna Okafor into limelight as he noted in this interview with ADEDAYO ODULAJA   Seeing that Legbegbe aligns very well with the trendy Shaku Shaku style, were you into that kind of tune before that song? Yes. I was doing that kind of vibe and I was doing another kind of vibe as well because Mr. Real is an artiste that is versatile. I don’t do one vibe; I do a lot of other vibes. It was on account of this that I did “Legbegbe” and it came out at the right time and people latched onto it. Now known for only that type of sound, how will you explain or attempt to prove your claim to being versatile? I know it won’t be a lot of good talking about it much but I intend to show it to everyone soon. I will urge my fans and pretty much everyone to watch out for Mr. Real and before the end of this year, you will hear something different from me. Like any new act, many are wondering about Mr. Real’s ability to drop another hit like Legbegbe not long from now. What is your response to this? The truth is that everything depends on God. “Legbegbe” being a hit is not by my power or might. It is not like the song is the best among songs released by many around the time but the favour of God just fell on me. It just happened the way it did, but let’s keep our fingers crossed. I believe that my next single is going to be a hit. I just pray that it is better and bigger than “Legbegbe”. You literally came out of the blues with “Legbegbe”. What was your story like before the time? I have been in the music industry for 10 years but I can’t argue with the fact that “Legbegbe” was my breakthrough. I have been doing songs and I have been dropping songs, but nobody recognised me. So, I guess the “Legbegbe” vibe brought out the man. Does it mean none of the songs you released before then enjoyed favourable reception? Sometime you really can’t put a finger to it. For me, I would say maybe it just wasn’t the right time. When your time comes, no man can stop your shine, that is what I have always believed in. How true is it that “Legbegbe” was motivated by the unfortunate experience of Seun Egbegbe whose name you truly mentioned many times in the song? Well, that is what they say. I don’t know about that, but I know that the inspiration came, I vibe on it and it just happened. Whatever they are saying about the song on the street doesn’t really matter. I just told a story. Do you know the man in question at all? No, I don’t know him and I have never met him. But how do you feel about his situation since you must be aware of his story? Of course, I do feel sorry for him. I heard about the story and his inability to meet up with his bail conditions. I feel sorry for the victim and I hope a miracle happens so that he can be freed. Were you always Mr. Real because people hardly knew the name until two years ago? I wasn’t known as Mr. Real until recently. I used to be known as Real Self. I wanted to drop a new song and I just thought of a new name. I thought that I had been known by the name and nothing was happening, so I thought that I should re-brand and give myself something simple. So, I took away the Self and added a Mr. to the Real and it becomes Mr. Real. It has been singles for you, when is the album dropping? It can happen anytime because the songs are ready. It depends on the vibes that comes. However, it is likely going to be this year. What inspires your fashion sense and style? I inspire my own fashion. When I wake up and I know the event I am attending, I decide on what to put on. I decide if it is going to be a suit or a s h i r t and trouser. Nobody styles me, I style myself. What stage would you say your career is presently? I am an up and coming artiste. I have not yet done anything because I am still looking up to 2face and he is doing it like he has not yet blown. So, who am I? I am not even an up and coming artiste, I have not even gotten there. You have a good sense of humour. What would you ascribe that to? My family. I come from a very responsible and religious family. It is not that my family is poor or couldn’t provide for me, I am the one who went into the street because I felt that being a good boy doesn’t put food on the table and it doesn’t make you a star. So, you have to do something different. I decided to go into the street and hustle for myself. When I tell people that Mr. Real has hawked Gala, pure water (sachet water), Sun Top and has even scavenged dust sites they don’t believe. Forget that I am fresh today. In terms of family members rooting for an act, who is your biggest fan? My mum is my biggest fan. My dad didn’t like the fact that I was doing music. He wanted me to be a businessman, an importer, but I wanted to do music. So, we kept fighting and fighting. We never settled. Unfortunately, he is dead today.