Dr. Yele Okeremi is the current President, Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria (ISPON) and the Chief Executive Officer of Precise Financial Systems Ltd. In this interview with SAMSON AKINTARO, he speaks on government policies, economy and the role of technology, among others  Though it is still less than a year, can you tell us how it has been since you became the president of Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria (ISPON)? Serving as the president of ISPON has been a privilege and a very great opportunity, to serve my constituency. I also became the president at a very auspicious time, being the fifth president of ISPON at the very year when ISPON is turning 20 and that is worth celebrating. But it also calls for sober reflection for ISPON, because when you have a 20-year-old child who is still trying to crawl or learn how to walk, it is not very nice, but when the child is alive there is hope. What is the state of local software currently? Local software is trying to discover itself; I will like to know what the minister of finance will have to say about how much software has contributed into the gross domestic product (GDP) but I have a feeling that it is going to be an infinitesimal percentage and I will not be surprised if it is so. But the question is why shouldn’t software be major? Rather than talk about software, the government is focused on agriculture and I do not blame government because this government is very interested in poverty alleviation. It is a way to think but I think a smart government would think about wealth creation and wealth maximization. It is like saying rather than talk about darkness reduction, why don’t you talk about light expansion. What happens when you focus on poverty alleviation is that rather than focusing on things that will give you maximum leverage and maximum multiplier effect, you are looking at giving N10, 000 to people, which is a waste of time. If you take a look at the social services in the United States, they are funded by taxes; taxes are generated from people that create wealth. So, ordinarily, social services are funded from wealth that has been created. The kind of things our government is dancing about is not normal; but then again, it is all about perception. What the government is looking at is concentrating on Agriculture, which in itself is not bad, but again, with all due respect, if I were to concentrate on Agriculture, it won’t be the way the government is looking at it. Look at what Israel is doing with agriculture. How much land do they have in the whole of Israel? It is all rock. But they have used pure technology to drive agriculture. What are we doing about technology in Nigeria? Who is talking about it? What is the policy direction of the government for technology? We just sit down in cabinet, talk about mundane issues and we are happy, going about the places saying we are doing well. In other places they form what our governments are dancing on from normal situations and like I said, it is about what your perception is and what they are looking at is their concentration on agriculture. Just recently, the government of China extended $328 million loans to Nigeria for ICT development. How far do you think this will go to improve the sector if the fund is well utilised? Fela sang a song many years ago, and the way that song went was that ‘what you should have seen that you refused to see, you should be crying’. Let’s assume that the money is a gift, which will never be, what China will do is that they will never give you that money in cash. They will give you service and you know how that works. They come and give you their service to you, they monetise it and that becomes a loan. You are happy and clapping that you have attracted foreign investment when you should be crying. What you are doing is that you are exporting employment and importing unemployment. And that is why you see many Chinese on Nigerian streets today doing things that ordinary Nigerians should be doing. Some are even hawking. I don’t intend to be a government critic, my job is to proffer alternatives and engage. I want us to have a very healthy debate of looking at the alternatives to some of the things we are doing and see whether we can get maximum leverage. What we call foreign investment in Nigeria is foreign enslavement. I think one question we should ask ourselves, as a country is that, are we being led by our own best? If you look at what is happening in some countries like the US, UK, and China, before you can occupy certain position, you must have proven yourself. They know where you must be at certain stage of your life if you are ever going to aspire for any office. Why do you think unemployment issue persists in the country despite the existence of a number of young people creating jobs with technology? First of all, there are two aspects of it, usually people would say when technology comes in, it makes human more idle, but nobody has ever argued that technology creates more wealth. As I said earlier that rather than talk about darkness why don’t we talk about light, rather than talk about reducing poverty, why don’t we talk about creating more wealth, which is what smart nations are doing. Why don’t we create mega institutions that have the capacity that every additional naira you put in? You create N15 and you create more employments? We need to shift our thinking from one side. Back to unem- ployment, talking about capacity, which nation would y o u want to compare with Nigeria in the world, when you do not have a value system that galvanizes youths together, you will continue to be in the state of yoyo, other countries are looking for how to develop pupils from primary schools, we are waiting for when oil prices will go up. This is the reason why unemployment exists because we have chosen not to focus on things that creates value. Human being is the only thing God created with a will that has the capacity to say I will defy gravity. For all other things, whatever goes up must come down; only human being has the capacity to say I want to sustain it up there. And what that means is that we are primordial, and we are not so far from the apes only that we wear suits and agbada and that is the real challenge we have with the system and it is very sad. Are there no smart Nigerians? I was reading about it that the highest paid robotic engineer in the world is a Nigerian. Let’s get real, many Nigerians have excelled in all these areas but when they come on this soil what happens? When Zuckerberg came to Nigeria even the president wanted a picture with him and the irony of that is that there are many unemployed Nigerians that are in the class of Zuckerberg, and he exist because he belongs to a system that allows him to thrive and there are many people like that here who will not see the light of the day except by criminality. This is the sadness of this country. Talking about leadership, the people in government often travel around the world and they see the level of developments over there. Why are they not making moves to replicate such in the coun- try? Anybody can travel anywhere and see things, but what does your mind tell you? I am sure you have read this story before about two salesmen that were sent somewhere in India to sell shoes, and the first one got there and realized they do not wear shoes and went back home and shortly after, the second one went and said why did you send me here alone! Can you please send my wife? This is where I want to be, there is no market that is like this, and it tells us that what you see is different from what you interpret or perceive and your interpretation from what you see, which is now called perception is a function of your education and when you talk about education is not just about going to school, it is about the type of conversation you have, do you see opportunities or do you see obstacles? You know that a number of our officials, when they travel overseas, what do they do? We see them on television, others are in plenary but they are sleeping while some are looking for how to shop. So you are expecting much from such people? Well, your guess is as good as mine. So, they can see but they do not perceive appropriately. Have you noticed one thing about this country? Ever since this country became Nigeria, has it ever produced a leader who is an entrepreneur and who has created anything in his life before going into government? So why are you surprised at where we are? If you do not know how to create value, you cannot give what you do not have. I have said this several times that what Africa needs is entrepreneurial leadership and I say this without no fear of equivocation, these are the same principles that you need as a father in a home and it is not different from what you need as a CEO of a company, a president of a country. There is a belief that education or lack of education is what defines the society, how would you rate Nigeria’s educational system? Do you think some of the curriculums need to be reviewed to fit into what the developing countries are doing now? Education is actually the basic minimum for a country that will develop. Why? You need a sound mind and a sound body for you to get creativity. When I talk about soundness of mind I talk about what do you perceive, who do you talk to, who are your companions? When you go to our universities, you will see there is a huge disconnect between our academia and practice to the extent that the same notes you used to teach me (I graduated more than 30 years ago) is the same notes they still use to train my children and grandchildren. Then you and I know what to expect and they are not improving. They do not have interaction with what is current, it tells you why some of those challenges are there. That is why if you go to some countries such as the US, for example, the interaction between academia and industry is so interesting that when you see a Professor in Harvard, he is on the board of two or three companies. And that is how he became a Professor because his Chair is funded; the industry knows that he is doing something that is relevant to them. He is using industry data for research. And he is using that information to teach in the class. That is why by the time most of their students are in year three; they are already doing things that will change the society. These are the things that we need to understand and know that if we want to really increase knowledge and become productive people, we have to think that way. I think we have a long way to go. We have to adjust many things, not just curriculum, if we are going to develop as a nation. Since banks cannot be divorced from economic development, how will you access financial institutions in the country in terms of lending? The role of banks in the economy is financial intermediation from surplus financial units to deficit financial units and in-between, they make a reasonable spread to create their own profit. But in Nigeria, it is increasingly difficult for them to function as banks and I will tell you why. I was reading Harvard Business review this morning, the latest edition, and it’s talking about the cost of efficiency and what happens when you over concentrate on one thing. Smartness dictates that rather than having one strong organisation, you can have 35 more malleable, more controllable organisations, so that if there is a failure of ten per cent or even 30 per cent, you can still survive. As it stands today, if Dangote Plc has a problem, the entire economy of Nigeria will suffer. The system is such that it has over concentrated privileges on a few people and that is one of the major challenges of our banking system. So, you find out that the playfield is not level at all. You have majority, more than 98 per cent down there and only about 2 per cent who have privileges and able to do what they want to do. There is no society that works that way. So, rather than lending to small companies, the banks are investing in Treasury bills, which is the most secure investment. With that, the financial institutions are not playing the roles they are expected to play. It is not surprising that if you look at the economy today, you will see that the banking industry is perceived to be doing so well while the real sector is not doing well. But you can’t really blame the banks, we don’t have a functioning identity database so the risks are too high to lend to people that cannot be traced. So we have a combination of factors encouraging the banks to put money in Treasury Bills rather than lending. With the current situation where established companies are unable to get loans from banks, what is the fate of small companies, especially tech start-ups who need funds to become fully established? For them, there is good news and there is bad news. The good news is that there is hope for tech start-ups because money is like water; it always finds the lowest level. There is money everywhere and you may be aware that there has been a lot of foreign money coming into the country recently for tech start-ups. Andela raised $100 million, where did that money come from? It’s from foreign investors. Wakanow raised $40 million few weeks ago, tens of billions of dollars are still coming. But you know what the problem is, and which is the bad news? I told you earlier that the things that we should be crying over are what we are dancing over. When Andela raised $100 million from foreign company, who owns Andela now? They are not Nigerian concerns, so once again, Nigeria finds itself importing finished goods and exporting talent. Even though they are sitting in Nigeria and developing solutions, when they sell to Nigerians, the money goes abroad. So, the tech startups are getting funding and will still continue to get, but at the end of the day, the money goes back to the source.