Abuja-based Pastor, Joshua Iginla, recently said his marriage to Yemisi Iginla had crashed due to acts of infidelity which led to children outside the marriage. While condemnation by many persists, members of the church who spoke to REGINA OTOKPA insist only God has the right to judge the cleric.   Unlike every other Sunday service, the sermon of March 3rd, stunned members of Champions Royal Assembly Chikakore in Kubwa Abuja. The Senior Pastor of the Church, Prophet Joshua Iginla, had stood before a large congregation of worshippers in the 80,000-seater capacity of his church in tears, and made a shocking revelation and confession of how he and his wife, Yemisi, got involved in separate acts of infidelity that produced illegitimate children from both parties. Iginla, who damned the consequences of his confession on his 12-year-old church and his 25 years in God’s ministry, further revealed that his marriage had crashed. According to him, his wife refused to forgive him for having a child with another woman whereas, he had forgiven her when she brought an “illegitimate child” into their home. Further pained by the ridicule he got from some of his “sons in the ministry” and colleagues who knew the challenges confronting the Iginla family, the cleric in tears said he covered up his wife’s betrayal because of his status as a pastor but was no longer ready to do that due to her recent outburst about his infidelity. However all that has changed with her recent outburst when she learnt he had a baby mama. “I and your mother in the Lord met and we had a wonderful marriage; before we got married, we started by checking our genotypes. She was AA and I was AS. We had our first daughter, a wonderful child, and eventually we discovered she had sickle cell anaemia. I receive healing for people here with sickle cell and God has been doing miracles. “I saw it as a battle and a challenge for me as your father which is a trial of faith for me; it is not a problem for me. I embraced my daughter and we had a good relationship. I may have been the first man of God to do it in this fashion but that is how I was led to do it. I want you to throw your stones at me, abuse me, insult me and I will take it but I want to stay alive, if not for you, for my destiny. “We later discovered in the course of time that she (Yemisi) was actually AS and I was AS. No problem. It was not a battle but one thing led to another. What happened was what would make a man divorce his wife scripturally and I had the backing for that. But I had to cover it up to be sure that my marriage moved with your mother and that led to so many things.” “So, I chewed it as a pill and so this battle has become a big one which some men of God are taking advantage of, and sons who are under me, who are very bad, have fed on this battle. “I have tried for seven years. She brought an unholy child into the marriage which was difficult for me to chew. I don’t want you to judge my wife or anything. I just want you to know. We had serious battles here and there; family interventions and everything. We covered it. We would have not got to this point today if my wife had listened to me when we had the battle. I also went to have a child outside wedlock and then it became a battle in the family. “The battle is bad; it has pushed me to this point. I want the world to know; I want you to insult me. This battle didn’t start from Papa. I am not sleeping and then children who don’t know my story are insulting me unnecessarily. I felt I wanted to end the struggle. I want it to be in the media; insult me. “I knelt down; I begged her but she chose to make me the laughing stock before people and I said the day I come on air and say this to the people, it marks the end of our union. I covered her and I didn’t divorce her, but when mine came, she threw me to the world, calling people to send me pictures ”As it is now it has become a pain because when your wife begins to fight you everywhere you go and she refuses to settle in secret. I told her to settle in secret or I will go to the world Confess my sin, receive the insult and end the marriage. And that is what I am doing now please pray for us if you love us,” he had confessed. However, mixed reactions have continued to trail the popular cleric’s confession. While some have applauded Iginla for his courage to open the can of worms in his closet, many have continued to throw stones at him. Known for his prophecies and stunning miracles including raising of the dead to miraculously opening the womb of a 60-year-old barren woman, the cleric cum philanthropist has given financial assistance to those in need, given out brand new SUVs to his staff, Nollywood stars and a host of others. However, the popular cleric had a rough start in the early days of his ministry. Born into a poor Muslim family, he was reportedly persecuted, rejected, cursed and chased from home in the middle of the night by his father for converting to Christianity. To further worsen his pain as a new convert, the pastor he ran to for assistance equally turned his back on him out of fear of what Iginla’s father could do to him. After over three years of alleged persecution and immense suffering, the day he went back home forcefully, his family got converted to Christianity following the miraculous revival of Iginla’s sister who was half dead after laying his hands in prayers on her. What followed was opening of an interdenominational ministry called Atmosphere of Power in Army Day Secondary School and later Overcomers Prevailing Evangelical Ministry all in Ibadan, Oyo State. However, things got tougher, the majority of his members and pastors whom he was living on had to leave. Shortly after, Iginla said he got a divine instruction from God to move to Abuja and in 2006, the Champions Royal Assembly was born with only four members in Millionaires Quarters, Byazhin in Kubwa. The church’s breakthrough came when a member who dropped dead in the middle of church service was resurrected back to life by the cleric. From that day till date, the church has grown to have the highest congregation in Kubwa. Like a cult, the overwhelming members of Champions Royal Assembly who have grown over the years to respect their shepherd, have rallied round their senior pastor, defending his actions and commended his courage to publicly lay bare what has been termed by many Nigerians as “a scandal”. Joel Abamson, who has been a member of the church since 2014, said it was wrong for anyone to judge Iginla for giving in to sins of the flesh. Angry over the attitude of some Nigerians especially on social media platforms after the confessional video went viral, he said any church member who joins others to criticise and judge the cleric was not worthy to be called a ‘son’. “Why should I cease to be a member of the church simply because my pastor derailed? Am i perfect myself? We must be careful how we judge people. He came out to the world to confess his sins. Who are we to judge him? Are we perfect? “Since he has confessed his sins, God the most forgiving has already forgiven him. It was destined to happen but I am happy he found the right path again.” T h e r e s s a Ohonu noted that leaving your spiritual head in his time of need is the worst betrayal by any Christian or Muslim. She stressed that even though Iginla is a man of God, he is also a human being who is confronted with all manner of temptations greater than those faced by others. “I really admire Papa’s courage to open up. Nobody is immune from falling into temptations or committing one sin or the other. All we need to do for him is to pray God grants him strength and Grace to overcome these trails.” Commenting on the divorce, she however urged Iginla to forgive his wife and look for a means to make his marriage with Yemisi work for the sake of their kids. On his part, Ivie Kanam warned sternly it was wrong to bring the issues of a Pastor to the fore burner. “It is not in our place to even talk about this matter. The Bible says touch not my anointed. The same Bible says Judgement is of the Lord. “He was courageous enough to face the public and the disgrace that comes with such actions. How many pastors will do this? His action is proof that he respects us his followers. So we should do so by standing with him in his time of need.” A member who gave his name simply as Nwanesi, said like David, Solomon and every great man in the Bible, God has forgiven the cleric for his sin. “Why should we punish him because he committed a sin? He is a true man of God. I respect you Papa even though I think you shouldn’t have committed the same sin but again, we are all humans with blood running through our veins. With the manner in which some of these ladies dress and behave, it takes the Grace of God to overcome the temptation. I even think he is trying.” On divorcing Yemisi, he said: “God is more interested on his life than a marriage that wants to kill him. The amount of battle he has been facing in that home is too much. For him to take such decision I am sure that is the best way of getting his happiness as a man back. He is the one who really knows what he has been through in his marriage with Mummy Yemisi.” Emanuella Idakwo expressed displeasure with those who were criticising Iginla’s infidelity. According to her, several pastors have committed worse sins but chose to sweep them under the carpet only to lambast their members for committing a lesser sin. “My respect for him tripled the moment I heard him confessing before the whole congregation. I was stunned at first but i later realised no man is above sin. This is far better than those pastors who commit a lot of atrocities and sweep them under the carpet yet they come out and condemn others. “My only worry is divorcing mummy. Papa if you are reading this please forgive her, I don’t see a need for a divorce. Forgive each other and sort things out.” Dorcas Eche however insists there was need to hear Mrs Yemisi Iginla’s side of the story to know what actually went wrong. She believes that there is more to the confession by her pastor than meets the eye. Asked if she was going to change church, Dorcas noted that even though she wasn’t comfortable with all that has happened, her respect for Pastor Iginla has not reduced at all. “I am heart broken because it could be anybody’s turn but all we owe him is our prayers. Again, we need to hear her own side of the story, who knows there might still be a lot of things going on here. But what is important is he has realised his mistake and I believe he will finish his purpose here on earth. “I can’t criticise him because I am not free from sin myself. He is a human being, even David who the Bible made us to understand that he was a man after God’s heart fell to adultery yet God still used him when he repented. So, I am not leaving. “He who has no sin should cast the first stone. The gospel is not for condemnation but saves and gives life. Papa has confessed before God and man and God has forgiven him. So shouldn’t we? Please everyone stop judging him.” Friday Uka and his family are strong members of the church, although distraught about the recent happenings in his church, he told Saturday Telegraph he is glad his Pastor took the initiative to give a directive for the confessional video to be uploaded on YouTube for the world to hear. Accord i n g to him, Iginla’s seven-year-old marriage with his wife has not been rosy, but the couple have been confronted with several challenges which the Pastor was forced to endure silently given his status in the society. “There are many things that happened. We were even told that most times when the family of the man comes to the house she will chase them away. The marriage has been having problems for a very long time before this happened but he can confidently sleep now because all this while he has not been too comfortable. It is unfortunate it happened to a man of God, it can happen to anybody.” “For about four years the woman relocated to the United States. He took her there thinking there will be peace. It is just unfortunate he ended up with that kind of a woman without having a background check.” Uka who maintained that his salvation has nothing to do with his pastor’s personal problems said, “I am going to church not because of the pastor but for my own personal salvation. “The church is solidly behind him, there are certain things that happened underground which cannot be disclosed publicly. Can you imagine a man of his status shedding tears? Once a marriage hits the rocks there is little anyone can do. Is it because he is a pastor? But they are humans too,” he said. All efforts to get an audience with Pastor Iginla met a brick wall. Our correspondent, who was at the church on two separate occasions was not allowed to see him. On the first occasion, some members who put up a strong defence in favour of their spiritual head, argued that the media was only trying to escalate the issue by trying to dig further. “Why are you people hell bent on causing more trouble? Papa decided to tell the whole world the truth, is that not enough information for you? What else do you want to hear. “Please leave our pastor alone. He is human like every other person. Let’s stop judging him please,” a member retorted. Our correspondent who was also unable to reach Iginla’s personal assistant, however got the cleric’s lawyer Mr. Charles Osaque, on the phone but like every other person, he rose in defence of his pastor who he claimed was out of town. “I don’t think you can see him, it is not possible. You probably got my number wrongly. It is not possible, I am not his media man. He travelled, he has a programme somewhere hopefully he will be back next week,” he said.