The much talked about 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections have come and gone, but the memories will remain fresh in the minds of millions of Nigerians particularly the people and major actors in Edo State. While some parties and candidates that sailed into victory are celebrating, jubilating and popping champaign, others are swimming in pain, anguish, bitterness, anger and counting their loses. Giving a general assessment of the whole exercise, one cannot but say that the electoral process was free and fair, though not without pockets of hitches, as there were reported cases of manipulations, snatching of ballot boxes and intimidation of voters in some quarters. In Edo State, a lot of issues played out, which coloured the outcome of the election, and at the end of the exercise, winners emerged leaving others to their fate. The major factor that shaped the last Saturday polls in Edo State is godfatherism. While in some areas, the godfathers triumphed, even dead names like Tony Anenih cropped up, others were shown the way out. It was a battle of the titans, as names like Anenih, Igbinedion, Oshiomhole and Inegbedion resonated on the battle field. In the senatorial battle, seven candidates from various platforms contested the senatorial seats, but as expected, only three of them passed the INEC examination. Also, in the race for the House of Representatives were candidates of the APC, PDP, ADC, and ADP, contesting to represent their various constituencies, but luck smiled on two APC candidates in Edo South, two PDP candidates in Edo Central and three APC candidates in Edo North. On the whole, the PDP got seven seats why the APC party got five seats. Taking a look at the election, two big political warlords fought the chief Dan Orbih– led PDP, but in spite of all the political gragra, intimidations, police and military brutality aided by the powers that be, PDP candidates across the length and breadth of Edo State scored higher against the state and federal powers. With the outcome of the election, one does not need to be told that the generality of the people in Edo State are set for the 2020 battle. Since the state is not having governorship election, the battle will be shifting to the state assembly polls next Saturday, in readiness for the 2020 gubernatorial polls in the state. Some analysts had however argue that it would be difficult for the ‘Wake and See’ governor to retain office, especially with the rumour making the rounds that APC leaders are already shopping for a replacement. Edo Central It’s the people vs the state Senator Clifford Odia has just secured a return ticket to the upper legislative chambers in Abuja to represent the people of Edo Central senatorial district. His election was the easiest among all the National Assem-bly elections held in Edo, being a candidate that was heartedly accepted by the people of Esan Land without questions. The reason is that he had been an old time grassroot politician and he has paid his dues. Though the general opinion about him is that he could, at times, be very difficult to access, but his supporters said if there is an opportunity to come across him, “it means holding him down until he blesses you”. One of the major factors that aided his victory is being an opponent to an APC candidate that was not accepted by the people, Hon. John Osagie Inegbedion, the man who retired as finance commissioner just two weeks to the election. The anger of the people against Inegbedion is that he was allegedly imposed on Esan voters by the governor without due consultation. Out of the five local governments that made up Edo Central, Senator Odia won four with a wide margin while Inegbedion won one, which is his own local government.Speaking on his victory, Odia said: “I’m elated that the good people of Esan Land have sent me back to Abuja. What else can I say that to say thank you Esan. One thing I promise is that I will not disappoint them. I have done it before; I hope to do it again by the special Grace of God.” Be that as it may, it won’t be out of place to say that Inegbedion, the newcomer into the game of politics did his very best while having his first baptism of fire. One would say that he has learnt some political lessons in a sweet and bitter way. One of the political players in his zone, who craved anonymity said the election would have shown Inegbedion how to play Edo politics. “I do hope he will put all his experiences into use when next he dreams of contesting any political post. Edo North It’s Oshiomhole show Senator Francis Alimikhena is an APC senator representing Edo North senatorial zone. He defeated his PDP opponent to return to the senate. Running against a strong PDP candidate like Engineer Abubakar Momoh, it was actually a fight between two elephants, but the presence of the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, aided by federal powers brought a strong force that gave Alimikhena the victory. Some Edo politicians have argued that, on a level ground, it would have been an impossible mission for the senator. Alimikhena cannot but thank Oshiomhole for the role he played in his election victory against the dreaded Abubakar Momoh of the PDP, who had always gave Oshiomhole a stiff fight. With this victory, Alimikhena is back to the senate for another four years. Edo South Obahiagbon’s pride Senator Matthew Urhohide of the PDP is a man described by Edo people as God sent. He came, he saw and he has conquered. Many had been wondering why his teeming fans call him the promise keeper but the reasons are not far fetched; he keeps to his words and fulfills promises made. Before the umpire (INEC) blew the whistle for the big fight, Urhohide said he was going to the battle field with the stones of David against the war lord Goliath. Today the articulated senator is dancing and singing songs of victory. His victory against the popular orator, Patrick Obahiagbon of the APC was not a small battle. Just like a resident put it, “it is like when two elephants fight it is always the grass that suffers. “Thank God for Urhohide for being a man of the people. There is no doubt that he had bigger forces that wanted him down. But the people of Edo South stood behind him in all of these”. Nonetheless, he has promises to keep beacuse he promised to do more for the people he has gone to represent. His victory against the ruling party is a wakeup call to the PDP that the party can be stronger in the state despite losing the presidential seat to APC.