The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has told the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, that the deployment of soldiers for elections may likely trigger uncontrolled crime against humanity in the country. The party, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, accused the military of usurping the responsibility of the police in the conduct of elections. It alleged that involvement of soldiers in the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections, led to the gruesome killing of over 30 innocent Nigerians in the Niger Delta as well as arbitrary arrest and detention of opposition figures, resulting in escalated insecurity in the region. “The deployment of soldiers for the 2019 general elections, despite the extant ruling of the Supreme Court against such, is part of the grand plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to use the military to suppress opposition, instil fear in the citizenry and forcefully rig the elections,” PDP stated. It noted that the outburst of the Chief of Army Staff on Wednesday, that the Army would be ‘tough’ on trouble makers, particularly in the Niger Delta, the South-East and the North Central, “appears to be a license to trigger-happy security agents to re-enact or even scale up their February 23 aggression against PDP figures in the March 9 governorship and State Assembly elections.” The party added that following Gen. Buratai’s statement, soldiers allegedly commenced a targeted manhandling and mass arrest of PDP leaders in Delta, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa states. “In Rivers State, PDP leaders are being tracked down, arrested and taken to unknown destinations. “Furthermore, compromised security agents have been hounding, arresting and detaining PDP figures in the North-Central states of Kogi, Benue, Kwara and Plateau ahead of the March 9 elections,” the party said. The party also accused the APC of pitching the military against Nigerians, not minding the collateral damage that usually occurs whenever soldiers clash with civilians. It advised Buratai to redirect his officers and men from participating in the March 9 election so as to avert any breakdown of law and order in any part of our country before, during and after the March 9 elections.