Four people were injured yesterday when a fuel tanker crashed and exploded at Ido-Ekiti in Ido-Osi Local Government Area of Ekiti State. Motorcycles belonging to commercial motorcyclists parked around the place were burnt.The intensity of the fire caused panic in the town as those living around the spot were already evacuating their property. The accident occurred on Ido-Ifaki highway about 9.30a.m. The tanker blocked the road as the fire which emanated from the crash lasted several hours. This made the road impassable while those travelling from Ifaki-Ekiti to Ido were forced to take a detour. It took men of the state Fire Service several hours to put out the fire. Those wounded were taken to the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido-Ekiti for medical attention. One of the victims was admitted at the Intensive Care Unit owing to the severity of the injury he sustained. A witness told journalists that the driver of the tanker lost control of the vehicle, when the brake failed and swerved off the road as he approached a sharp bend. He said: “The driver lost control and when it got to the road bend, it swerved off and somersaulted. “Immediately this happened, the fuel spilled and caught fire which made those within the vicinity to scamper for safety. “When it was obvious that people could no longer have the capacity to put out the fire, they made emergency call to fire service which came with superior equipment to fight the inferno.” When contacted, the state Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) Public Relations Officer (PRO), Mr. Mohammed Olowo, said four people were rescued at the scene and taken to the hospital. He said: “The prompt action we took helped in reducing the severity of the fire. Though people were wounded, no death was recorded.” At least four persons lost their lives while several others were injured when a petrol tanker fell, burst into flames while its content poured into a waste water channel surrounded by makeshift settlements in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The victims, among them a woman and a baby, were said to… In “Metro and Crime” Four persons were burnt beyond recognition yesterday when a fuel-laden tanker fell and exploded around Fidiwo area on the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway. Two others were seriously injured in the accident which occurred about 2.28 p.m. on the ever-busy highway. It was learnt that two tankers were involved in the accident… In “Metro and Crime” The gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has described the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti State as a vote for freedom. He said the election is an "opportunity to reverse hunger, want, disease and hopelessness" that have been the lot of the people in… In “Politics”