ADEWUMI ADEMIJU writes on how grassroots’ connectivity paved the way for All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in Ekiti State to scale through the hurdles to win National Assembly elections  When the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) shifted the date of the general elections few hours to the commencement of the February 16 presidential and National Assembly elections, the decision was trailed by mixed reactions.  But, despite the postponement of the elections, the people of Ekiti State still trooped out in their numbers to exercise their franchise and the outcome of the elections eventually showed the strength of the All progressives Congress (APC) in both the presidential and National Assembly elections as they voted en masse for the party’s candidates to represent them at the National Assembly.  APC senatorial candidate in Ekiti Central Senatorial District, Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele, won in his senatorial zone. Bamidele, a former House of Representatives member between 2011 and 2015, scored a total of 94,279 votes to defeat the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Barr. Obafemi Adewale, who polled 48,707 votes.  Bamidele during his time in the House of Representatives was the chairman, House committee on Budget and Research. Immediately he was declared winner, Bamidele in company of party loyalists stormed Iyin Ekiti to celebrate and appreciate the electorate.  The Senator-elect, who was a victim of gunshot during the APC rally organised to flag off the campaign of the party’s candidate for the July 4, 2018, governorship election in the state, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, described his participation in the National Assembly elections and his emergence to represent Ekiti Central Senatorial District as divine and miracle.  He said that he never knew he could survive the gunshot he suffered on June 1, 2018, during a rally organised to flag off Fayemi’s campaign in Ado Ekiti.  It would be recalled that Bamidele, who was the Director-General of the Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation, was accidentally shot by a policeman, which landed him at a London hospital to seek medicare for several months.  After being announced by the Returning officer, Prof Jeremiah Omotola as winner of the election, Bamidele said his incapacitation through bullets that hit his stomach and thigh could have robbed him the opportunity, but for divine intervention.  “I participated in this election by miracle, I received divine favour and I will never take that for granted. Surviving such a gunshot was a rare privilege and opportunity. Ekiti has a lot of intelligentsia; I mean those who are more intelligent and more exposed than me. But, I believe that I received divine favour and I am prepared to give my people qualitaty representation to reciprocate this gesture, because I never knew I could win with such a wide margin.”  Bamidele beat the record since 1999, as he scored 94,279 votes to emerge the highest vote scoring Senator-elect. On how he was able to break the record, Bamidele, a legal practitioner turned politician said politics is a game of number and it revolves around the people.  “There are three Ps in a democracy – the people, the party and the politics, but the most important thing is the people. When you are into politics, don’t take people for granted, most especially, when you have enjoyed the opportunity of being elected into political office. Use the position wisely to better the lives of your people. That has always been my belief in politics and it has been working for me.  “Don’t forget that I also broke the record in 2011, when I represented Ado/Irepodun/Ifelodun federal constituency in the House of Representatives, I scored a total of 44, 235 votes, which nobody contesting for House of Representatives had ever scored till that year. So, I have penchant for breaking records because I take the people as my strength.  “When I was in the lower chamber of the National Assembly, I attracted 89 projects to my constituency. Apart from that, whatever empowerment I wanted to do, I used to consider all Ekiti residents regardless of race, ethnic group and political affiliation. So, this has made me popular beyond my party, APC. The votes I got were a challenge and I will not betray that confidence reposed in me by my people.”  Bamidele said he was not oblivious of the people’s desperate quests for more dividends of democracy, saying he was ready to partner Governor Fayemi to improve the economy of the state and the wellbeing of Ekiti people in the areas of education, job creation, agriculture and industrial development.  He said being a former member of the House of Representatives will put him in a good stead to be able to contribute more in the upper chamber by sponsoring bills, moving motions and performing oversight functions that will move the nation forward in all facets.
“I look forward to being able to represent our people in a qualitative manner. They are expecting more dividends of democracy. I know that a lot of mistakes can be corrected in our nation through enactment of new laws, abrogation of bad ones and by ensuring that our MDAs comply with financial regulations.  “I also know that there was a deafening level of unemployment in Ekiti and the only thing government can do is to provide enabling environment for the private bodies to thrive. All the nine members of the national Assembly will find way to work with Dr. Kayode Fayemi to improve farming, because we can’t run away from it. If we abandon it, that means Ekiti has to be at the mercy of the federal allocation. “Ekiti is basically agrarian and we have to encourage agro allied industries to provide jobs for our army of unemployed youths. Also, our education needs a facelift. I am encouraged by what Governor Fayemi is doing in education through free education. We have this responsibility to work with our governor in all these areas to make the lives of our people better,” he said.  The Senator-elect described the triumph of President Muhammadu Buhari in the presidential poll as a signal that poor Nigerians have taken over governance in the country. According to him, the era when few big men dictated where the pendulum of the presidency should swing at the expense of Nigerian masses, was over. He added that Nigerians now enjoy unfettered rights to elect a president in a democratic fashion.  He advised Nigerians to be hopeful as Buhari’s second term will bring more democratic dividends to their doorsteps.  Also speaking about his victory in the National Assembly election, former Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon. Femi Bamisile, said he won the election to represent Ekiti East/Gbonyin/Emure federal constituency of the state owing to his connection to the grassroots. “Any politician who takes the people for granted will be dealt with on the day of election,” he said, adding: “I therefore I urged politicians to always make themselves available to people at the grassroots.”  Bamisile said many of those perceived to be heavyweights in the country’s politics lost in the National Assembly elections because some of them took their people for granted.  He stated that aside from his connection with the people, Governor Fayemi winning the July 14, 2018 governorship election in Ekiti State, also swayed votes for APC National Assembly candidates in the state. Bamisile defeated the incumbent federal legislator and candidate of the PDP, Hon Akin Awodumila.  On his victory, Bamisile said he would make up for the incompetence of the present occupant of the seat by ensuring that he attracts federal projects to the constituency. He added that the people decided to vote against some politicians because they didn’t feel the dividends of democracy in the last four years.  The former speaker further noted that he would partner with the state government to bring radical improvement to Ekiti in the areas of infrastructure, youth and women empowerment and educational advancements of the youths.  He promised to use his contact as a federal legislator to call the attention of the federal government to the reconstruction of Ado-Ijan-Ikare road and Omuo-Isinbode-Ode-Agbado road, which he stated were federal roads. INEC also declared APC’s Prince Dayo Adeyeye, as Senator-elect for Ekiti South Senatorial District. According to the senatorial result announced by INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Laide Lawal, Adeyeye scored 77,621 votes to defeat PDP candidate and incumbent, Senator Biodun Olujimi, who polled a total of 53,741 votes. The APC candidate won five out of the six local councils that make up the senatorial district.  Similarly, INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Sunday Abayomi Fasina declared Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi of APC as the winner of Ekiti North Senatorial district poll. He polled 60,689 votes to defeat the incumbent Senator Duro Faseyi of PDP, who recorded 49,209 votes. Also candidates of APC in both Ekiti South Constituency 1 and Ekiti North constituency II, Hon. Yemi Adaramodu and Olarewaju Ibrahim were declared winner with a wide margin of victory respectively. Adaramodu won with 41,864 votes as against PDP candidature, Mr. Segun Adekola, who polled 24, 707, while Ibrahim polled 29,388 votes against PDP flag bearer, Arch. Olusola Omotosho, who garnered 23,684 votes. Governor Fayemi said he remained grateful to God for the peaceful conduct of the presidential and National Assembly elections in the State. He also expressed gratitude to Ekiti people for their peaceful conduct during the election, thereby making the conduct of the election peaceful and orderly in the state.  Governor Fayemi spoke at the Government House Chapel, Ado-Ekiti during a church service, where he worshiped along with Adeyeye, Hon Sola Fatoba (member–Elect, House of Representatives, Ekiti Central 1) and a former deputy governor of the state, Prof. Dupe Adelabu.  The governor, who recalled that the congregation had two weeks before the election, prayed for the peaceful conduct of the general elections in Ekiti State, said God has indeed answered the prayers of the people as the elections were held in a peaceful atmosphere in the state.  He however sympathised with families of victims of election violence as reported in some parts of the country, while urging Nigerians to always seek for peace at all time. Fayemi also urged winners in the election to be humble and focus on service delivery. He advised them to see their victory as a product of God’s grace and not as a result of their power or might.  “We have every reason to thank God for the peaceful conduct of the election in Ekiti State. Two weeks ago, the congregation here raised prayer points concerning the peaceful conduct of the election in our state. And God indeed answered our prayers.  “The elections held in a peaceful atmosphere in Ekiti. We pray for the repose of the lives lost during the election in some parts of the country and pray that peace will reign supreme in the country.  “While I rejoice with the winners, I will also urge them to be humble realising that they could not have won by their power or might but by God’s grace. Validation by God and the people in itself is an admonition to continue to do good, and to exhibit generosity of spirit,” he said.