Nigerian Army said soldiers deployed during the March 9 Governorship and House of Assembly elections held across the country rescued ad-hoc staff allegedly kidnapped in Abia and Cross River states.
This was as the Army announced the arrest of 19 suspects in connection with alleged ballot box-snatching and other electoral offences during the exercise. The Acting Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Col. Sagir Musa, who disclosed this in a statement, said the suspects were arrested in Imo, Cross River and Abia states. He said: “Troops on patrol around power plant substation in Odukpani Local Government Area of Cross River State rescued Mr. Authur Nkama, who was earlier kidnapped at Ikot Ansa in Calabar Municipal Area Council, Cross River State. “In another development, troops also rescued the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) staff abducted by hoodlums at Ohafia Technical College at Anna village in Abia State on March 9, 2019. Four of the suspects have been arrested while efforts are on to apprehend other fleeing members of the gang. The suspects have been handed over to the police for further action.” On pockets of arrests during the exercise, Musa stated during the periods of the 2019 General Elections, Nigerian Army supported the police to ensure a secure and peaceful conduct of the elections across the country. He added: “Despite pockets of crisis witnessed in a few states, the election was conducted in a secure and peaceful atmosphere.
“To achieve this, the Nigerian Army (NA) in conjunction with other security agencies struggled to checkmate criminals, kidnappers, political thugs, ballot box-snatchers from having a field day to perpetuate their selfish illegal activities, in some instances at the detriment of soldiers’ lives as witnessed in Abonema and Andoni in Rivers State. “Specific instances abound where kidnappers and other hooligans were intercepted by the personnel of the NA in many parts of Nigeria.
“For example, around Everyday Super Market in Owerri, Imo State, four impostors in military uniform (Woodland camouflage), Mr. Chinedu Odogwu, Longinus Okelue, Oguzie Princewell and Kelvin Samalia , were arrested while escorting a prominent female politician in a political party vehicle. “This development further reaffirmed NA’s earlier warning to members of the public of the activities of some unscrupulous individuals that sponsored thugs to deepen and further their selfish political objectives.
“Accordingly, 34 Brigade troops on Operation Safe Conduct deployed around Osisioma junction, Abia State, also arrested Mr. Allwell Enwereji and five others conveying already thumb-printed ballot papers in his vehicle. “On questioning, he claimed the ballot papers were specimens for campaign. Investigation is on to ascertain the culpability of the suspects.”
Musa added that troops also intercepted and arrested suspected ballot box-snatchers at Air Force junction near Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo State on March 6, 2019. He said: “On sighting the troops, the suspects abandoned their vehicle and ran into the bush. Items recovered included one Sienna bus, one pump action gun with 11 live cartridges, voter’s cards and assorted Automated Teller Machine (ATM) cards bearing different names.
“Similarly, five political thugs were nabbed at Lokpanta, on March 9, 2019 while on their way to disrupt election in Lekwesi community in Abia State. Items recovered from them include camouflage trousers, daggers and assorted charms.”