The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has told the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, sitting in Abuja that President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) gave false information about his academic qualification to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), which enabled him to participate in the February 23 presidential election. This submission was contained in a petition filed by Atiku through his team of counsel comprising 20 Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) led by Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN) before the tribunal. Other SANs in the team are Kabiru Turaki, Chris Uche, Pius Akubo, Adebayo Adelodun, Saka Isau, Isiyaku Ibrahim, Paul Erokoro, K .C.O Njemanze, Eyitayo Jegede, Mike Ozekhome, Sebastine Hon, Chukwuma Machukwu, Prof. Maxwell Gidado, Emeka Etiaba, Gordy Uche, Dr. (Mrs.) V.J.O Azinge, Emeka Okpoko and Olalekan Ojo. The INEC had declared Buhari as the winner of the February 23 election, having polled 15,191,847 votes to defeat his closest challenger, Atiku, who polled 11,262,978. Not satisfied, Atiku had through his team of counsel approached the tribunal to challenge the validity of Buhari’s victory. The former vice president, who concluded the process of filing his petition on Monday night through his team of lawyers premised his petition on five grounds. Cited as 1st to 3rd respondents are INEC, Buhari and APC. The petitioners stated that the grounds upon which the petition is based are as follows: “The 2nd Respondent (Buhari) was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes cast at the election. “The election of the 2nd Respondent is invalid by reason of corrupt practices. “The election of the 2nd Respondent is invalid by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended). “The 2nd Respondent was at the time of the election not qualified to contest the said election. “The 2nd Respondent submitted to the 1st Respondent an affidavit containing false information of a fundamental nature in aid of his qualification for the said election.” Expounding on the facts, the petitioner submitted that the 2nd Respondent was not duly elected by a majority of the lawful votes cast at the said presidential election and did not score one-quarter of the lawful votes cast at the election in each of at least two-thirds of all the States in the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The petition read: “The petitioners state that contrary to the result declared by the 1st Respondent, it was the 1st Petitioner, who indeed won majority of lawful votes cast to satisfy the mandatory constitutional threshold and spread across the federation and ought to have been declared winner and returned as duly elected President of Nigeria at the said election to the office of President which held on 23rd February 2019. “The 1st Respondent wrongly and unlawfully credited the 2nd Respondent with votes which were not valid or lawful votes at various stages of the election, namely, at the polling units, the ward collating centres, local government collating centres and the state collating centres, with the result that the 2nd Respondent was wrongly returned, when the said 2nd Respondent did not score majority of lawful votes. “The petitioners shall lead oral and documentary evidence at the trial to show that the results of the election as announced by the 1st Respondent and especially the votes credited to the 2nd Respondent do not represent the lawful valid votes cast. Lawful votes were deducted from the 1st Petitioner’s scores by the 1st Respondent in order to return the 2nd Respondent. “The petitioners shall also call evidence of statisticians, forensic examiners and finger-print experts at the hearing of the petition to establish that the scores credited the 2nd Respondent were not the product of actual votes validly cast at the polling units. The petitioners plead and shall rely on electronic video recordings, newspaper reports, photographs and photographic images of several infractions of the electoral process by the Respondents. “The petitioners plead, state and contend that from the data in the 1st Respondent’s Server, as between the 1st Petitioner and the 2nd Respondent, the true, actual and correct results upon a State to State computation are as reflected under the scores of the 1st Petitioner and the 2nd Respondent.” Atiku also gave details of his allegation that the presidential election conducted by the 1st Respondent is invalid on account of corrupt practices. “The particulars of corrupt practices before and during the disputed election include but not limited to the following: Compromised printing/production of electoral materials; manipulation/misuse of state resources; manipulation of the ballots and ballot boxes; manipulation of card readers; manipulation of accreditation and collation; manipulation of security agencies and militarisation of the election; manipulation of election material delivery; arbitrary arrest and detention of petitioners members and supporters and massive thumb-printing of ballot papers. “The petitioners state that the 2nd Respondent does not possess the educational qualification to contest the election to the office of the President of Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The petitioners state that by Section 31 (1) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), every political party shall not later than 60 days before the date appointed for a general election submit to the commission in the prescribed form the list of the candidates the party proposes to sponsor at the elections. “Further, by Section 31(2) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), the list or information submitted by each candidate shall be accompanied by an affidavit sworn to by the candidate at the Federal High Court, High Court of a State or Federal Capital Territory indicating that he has fulfilled all the constitutional requirements for election into that office,” the petition stated. On the ground of submission of fake academic result, Atiku contended that the 2nd Respondent filled and submitted Form CF001 to the 1st Respondent, which was declared before the Commissioner for Oaths at the Registry of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja on October 8, 2018. The said Form CF001 was accompanied by an acknowledgement indicating that the 1st Respondent received same. Atiku’s petition further read: “The petitioners aver that the said Form CF001 filled by the 2nd Respondent and submitted to the 1st Respondent for the Office of President was also accompanied by the Curriculum Vitae of the 2nd Respondent as well as GENERAL FORM OF AFFIDAVIT duly sworn to by the 2nd Respondent at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, along with copies of his Membership Card of the 3rd Respondent and Voter’s Card. “The GENERAL FORM OF AFFIDAVIT which accompanied the Form CF001 submitted by the 2nd Respondent for the office of President on or about 18th October, 2018 to the 1st Respondent for the 2019 General Elections was surprisingly sworn to on 24th November, 2014 before High Court of Justice of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja almost four years preceding the 2019 general elections. In this regard, the Petitioners plead and shall found on the following: “Form CF001 filled and submitted by the 2nd Respondent to the 1st Respondent numbering six pages including the Declaration/Oath page and ACKNOWLEDGMENT page. “Curriculum Vitae of the 2nd Respondent attached to the said Form CF001 submitted to the 1st Respondent on 18th October, 2018. “GENERAL FORM OF AFFIDAVIT sworn to on 24th day of October, 2014 which accompanied the said Form CF001. “Copy of Membership Card of the  2nd Respondent, which also accompanied the said Form CF001. “Copy of Voter’s card of the 2nd Respondent, which accompanied the said Form CF001. “The 1st Respondent is hereby given NOTICE to PRODUCE the original of the said Form CF001 together with all the accompanied documents as listed above. “The petitioners aver that the 2nd Respondent accompanied Form CF001 with a stale GENERAL FORM OF AFFIDAVIT earlier on deposed to on 24th day of October 2014 instead of an Affidavit specifically sworn to in respect of the 2019 General Elections indicating that he had fulfilled all constitutional requirements for election into the Office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “In the stale GENERAL FORM OF AFFIDAVIT deposed to on 24th November 2014 which accompanied Form CF001 filled by the 2nd Respondent in respect of the 2019 general elections, the 2nd Respondent claimed that all his academic qualification documents as filled in his Presidential Form, President APC/001/2015 are currently with the Secretary Military Board. The Nigerian Military has since denied that it held or was in possession of the 2nd Respondent’s educational certificates. The Petitioners will rely on the video clips/newspaper reports of the press statement issued by the Military through the then Director of Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Olajide Laleye in January 2015. “The petitioners further aver that the 2nd Respondent did not submit any academic qualification documents whatsoever to the 1st Respondent let alone fulfilling all the constitutional requirements for election into the Office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
“Besides the foregoing averments, the Middle School Katsina and Katsina Provincial Secondary School, which the 2nd Respondent claimed to have attended in his Curriculum Vitae between 1953–1956 and 1956 – 1961 respectively were at the material time, non-existent. In this regard, the petitioners plead and shall found on the archival documents of school system in Katsina, including Middle School, Katsina and Katsina Provincial Secondary School following: “The 2nd Respondent in Form CF001 filled and submitted by him to the 1st Respondent claimed at Paragraph C, Column 2, Page 3, under SECONDARY, wrote “WASC,” thereby falsely claiming that qualification ostensibly obtained in 1961, whereas there was no qualification known as WASC as at 1961. “The petitioners contend that the cumulative effect of the foregoing is that the 2nd Respondent was, at the material time, not qualified to contest election for the exalted office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The petitioners further aver that all votes purportedly cast for the 2nd and 3rd Respondents on 23rd February, 2019 during the Presidential Elections and as subsequently declared by the 1st Respondent on 27th February, 2019 are wasted votes in that the 2nd Respondent was not qualified to contest the said election in the first place or at all. “The 2nd Petitioner had stated on oath by affidavit deposed to on 24th November 2014 and filed along with his Form CF 001 in respect of this election as follows: ‘All my academic qualifications documents as filled in my presidential form, president APC/001/2015 are currently with the Secretary, Military Board as at the time of this affidavit.’ “The information submitted to the 1st Respondent by the 2nd Respondent is false and of a fundamental nature in aid of his education qualification, notwithstanding that he had declared in the said sworn affidavit as follows: ‘I hereby declare that all the answers, facts and particulars I have given in this Form, are true and correct and I have to the best of my knowledge, fulfilled all the requirements for qualifications for the office I am seeking to be elected.’ “The Petitioners contend that the 2nd Respondent did not possess supply any of the qualification he claimed to have possessed in his Form CF 001 (affidavit in support of personal particulars of persons seeking elections into the office of the President) sworn to on the 8th of October 2018) at the time of the election. The said form is hereby pleaded and shall be relied upon. The 1st Respondent is hereby given notice to produce the Form CF001 and documents submitted by the 2nd Respondent to it in respect of his nomination for this election. “The educational institutions the 2nd Respondent claimed to have attended and the certificates presented by him namely, Elementary School Daura and Mai Aduaa purportedly between attended by the 2nd Respondent between 1948 and 1952, Middle School Katsina between 1953 and 1956 and Katsina Provincial College (now Government College, Katsina) between 1956 and 1961 and mentioned by the 2nd Respondent in his curriculum vitae attached to Form CF 001, were not in existence as at those mentioned dates. “The petitioners shall rely on the certified true copies of the relevant documents from the National Archives at that material time.” Atiku in his reliefs, however, prayed the tribunal to declare that Buhari was not duly elected and ought not to have been returned and that the election is null and void. He also prayed that he (Atiku) be declared as the validly elected winner of the election having polled the highest number of votes as provided by the Electoral Act. He also prayed for an order of the tribunal to direct INEC to issue a certificate of return to him, having been validly elected by the majority of votes cast on February 23. In the alternative, he prayed the tribunal to nullify the February 23 election and order a fresh presidential election    The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja yesterday turned down the request of the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, for access to scan and conduct forensic audit on all the electoral materials, including technology used in the conduct of the February 23 election.… In “News” The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 election, Atiku Abubakar, and his party, yesterday, commenced legal process challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the polls. The applicants had, yesterday, approached the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may file a petition before the Presidential Election Tribunal today, to challenge the outcome of the February 23 presidential election. Also, the opposition party has vowed to petition the United Nations and other global organisations on the role of the military in the elections. This… In “News”