Women number over a hundred om Sunday night trooped to the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office in Minna, saying the Governorship Elections in the state is a sham. The women who are members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) called on the PDP Chairman in Niger state, Tanko Beji not to sign the results sheet as the result being collated does not reflect the election done. They arrived the INEC office at about 8pm where the collation of results for the governorship election was taking place to protest over what they termed ‘a scam election.” According to some of the aggrieved women, “we are calling on Barrister Tanko Beji not to sign the results sheet as the result being collated does not reflect the election done.” The women were chanting “Ole’, ‘Thief’, ‘declare the right result’, The results did not reflect the people’s will. The people voted massively for the PDP but with this result, our chairman must not sign.” The Spokesperson for the women, Honorable Talatu Sauka said they were protesting because they do not agree with the result being collated adding that “the result being collated is a lie. “We are here because we are not in agreetment with the result. It is never possible for election to be held in 25 Local government areas and not even one was given to PDP. “Nasko has made all the efforts and he has a lot of people that love him. This result is rubbish and as far as we are concerned, we are protesting because it is never possible to have a competition in politics and in 25 local government areas and not even one for PDP. “It is a life and we are saying the election is a scam. We are here protesting and raising out voices as women that we do not agree with the declaration of results.” When it was pointed out that the party agents signed the result sheets at the various local government areas, Talatu said, “party agents that were bought” adding that other party agents were driven away from the polling units. All efforts to get the PDP state chairman Tanko Beji to speak proved abortive as he refused to either address the PDP women or to speak with Journalists.