The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State yesterday vowed to challenge outcome of the House of Assembly election results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the State. Chairman of the party, Clement Faboyede at a press conference, said the March 9 Assembly election in the state was marred by massive irregularities and violence. Faboyede alleged that the security agencies and the INEC officials were used to rig the election across the state, saying the result did not represent the wish of the electorate. He said: “What happened on Saturday was simply unacceptable across this state, uncivilized and undemocratic. Security agencies failed from being unprofessional unlike the Presidential and National Assembly polls. “This last election was exactly opposite: there were sporadic shooting of guns in the state capital, all the avalanche of patrol in Akure City, no arrest was made. What happened in the last election was vote buying and selling. “The state government spent nothing less than N500, 000 per polling units aside the polling centres. Where do they get the money from? “An appointee of Mr Governor, Hon. Victor Olabimtan, the former Speaker of the Assembly, turned himself to hijacker, controller of thugs to the extent that people were shot in Oba Akoko and the governor declared curfew.” “Up till now, no report of arrest was made; we are calling on security agencies to arrest Olabimtan forthwith. Why must the governor place a curfew on Oba Akoko if not for that pandemonium and confusion caused by Olabimtan? “We cannot comprehend it that thugs were being backed up by armed soldiers, snatch of ballot boxes, open and untechnical buying and selling of votes; the election was 100 per cent compromised in Ondo State. “We have two senators, three House of Representative members and 34,000 votes to defeat APC in the Presidential election; we are now having two state Assembly members out of 26 seats, courtesy of violence, N500, 000 per unit and support from armed soldiers, not the will of the people. “All the stolen mandates shall be retrieved; PDP is strong and virile in Ondo State. At the top, we shall continue to provide good leadership: we are recovering our stolen mandates at the Federal and state levels.” …says govs bribed top electoral officials   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the outcome of last Saturday's governorship election in Ekiti State as a daylight robbery. The party, therefore, rejected the result of the election in its entirety. The opposition party declared that the result was concocted… In “News” Three persons were injured yesterday when thugs loyal to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) clashed at Idanre in Idanre Local Government Area of Ondo State. One of the victims is the state House of Assembly candidate of the PDP, Mr. Featus Akingbasote, The state… In “Metro and Crime” One of the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mr. Olusegun Agbaje, does not look like somebody who can court controversies. But in the past one year or so, REC Agbaje's name has been mentioned in bribery-related circumstances.   In 2016, Agbaje was in the… In “Columnists”