Several accidents have been recorded at the Upper Iweka end of the Enugu-Onitsha highway. Efforts by the Anambra State government to curtail the recurrence of such incidents appear not to pay off yet. OKEGWO KENECHUKWU reports from Onitsha  It is a true logical argument that all men must die and so, death, must come at a given time of one’s life on earth. However, no living being wishes to die a violent death as the prayers of every living being is to live and die a fulfilled life leaving a worthy legacy at a ripe age. Unfortunately, this dream is sometimes not realized by many as sometimes the cold hand of death strike.  There is also no doubt , however that death has no formula, neither could one predict when, where and how he or she will die. Therefore, children, infant, young and aged are all vulnerable to death. But the most painful one is that of the accidents, particularly when such could be avoidable. The crux of the matter in this focus is on the incessant Accidents which has claim lives of hundred Nigerians at a particular spots at Upper Iweka area, in Onitsha North Local Government Council of Anambra State.  It is becoming worrisome not only to the residents of the commercial city, visitors, but to the Anambra State government. In fact, it’s now an annual ritual that dozens of death are recorded in this area every year. Available statistics reveals that between 2012 to 2019, over 100 deaths have been recorded in this particular spot. It could be recalled that Upper Iweka, before the coming of former Governor Peter Obi of Anambra State to power, was a hideout for all kinds of criminals with its adjoining motor parks at all corners.  Residents, traders and visitors alike were killed, maimed and robbed on daily basis even in broad daylight . This however prompted the Obi administration to quickly on assumption of office demolish all the motor parks obstructing vehicular movement along the Enugu-Onitsha–Asaba express way. One of such park was the popular P.N. Emerah park located at the centre of the road. It is on record that several accidents of different magnitude had taken place there before the state government barricaded the area and converted it into a convenience park by the Governor Willie Obiano administration.  One of such accidents was that of May 30, 2015, that brought the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo to Anambra State for the first time immediately after his inauguration as the vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In that singular accidents, over 70 persons were roasted alive while scores of people were burnt beyond recognition. A tanker laden with Petrol had lost control as it was descending from the Army Barracks Onitsha toward the Bridge head, rammed into the Asaba park and exploded, burnt alive including a woman and her child still on her back. Another major Accident that look place in the same park on the January 25, 2017, claimed over 20 lives and torched several vehicles.  As if that was not enough, on March 13, 2019 another major one claimed yet another 10 lives and injured scores of people. Some of the victims had their heads chopped off while others had their brain shattered on the main road. It could be recalled that after the 2015 mayhem, Obiano, who wept uncontrollably at the scene directed that movement of long vehicle into and out of Anambra State be restricted in the day time.  However, this order was short lived as both the trailers and other long vehicles as well as the township buses not only violated the order but converted the area as a loading bay. Some influential transporters, according to New Telegraph investigation, who took over the control of these parks never observed the government’s directives. To worsen the situation too, even the law enforcement agencies such as the police, Army and Road Safety Corps, who are usually posted to man the area seems to be compromised by the touts and transport union.  Obiano had during his visit to the Toronto Hospital at this latest incident promised that the state government will set up a panel of inquiry to look into the causes of such calamity in the area. He said: “I have come to see the victims of the accident and to commiserate with the diseased families of those who lost their lives in the accident. Seven of them are recovering and responding to treatment.  “This is also an opportunity to draw the attention of all those living in Anambra State that we will have a Medical Health Insurance Scheme and everybody should endeavour to be part of the scheme.  “The people here are being treated by the state government. It is also an opportunity to advise Ndi Anambra to insure their lives and property, so that Ndianambra should invest in insurance because it is not all the time that the government will have the money to settle Hospital bills and damages of accidents victims.  “I want to assure you that the state government will investigate the cause of the accident because I was told that it was a brake failure but with the combined effort of the police and the Road Safety, we will be able to find out what are can do to stop these accidents in this area. “This is the 2nd time we are having this type of accident. The first was in 2015 when a similar tanker laden with petrol crashed at Asaba park and killed over 70 people”.  “And I want to remind and warn again that the ban on the street trading is still in force in Anambra State. I thank the management of the Toronto hospital, the doctors and staff as well as the police, Road Safety and as the state Commissioner for Health, Dr Joe Akabike for the effort made to save these lives. Thank you for a job well done” he concludes.  Earlier before his arrival, the Hospital manager, Sir Osy Mbelu, informed Journalists that three of the victims have been discharged and seven are still in the hospital receiving treatment. It could be recalled that a tanker laden with Kerosene last Wednesday lost control as it was descending the Enugu- Onitsha express way at MCC road and crushed everything on its way until it plunged into a drainage in front of the Peace Park.  South East Focus also gathered at the scene of the accident that 20 persons were killed while scores were injured, but the Anambra State chairman of the Red Cross Society, Prof. Pita Kachy, said only seven of them ware confirmed dead on arrival at the hospital.  Three others died later in the night at the hospital. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police Anambra State, told South East Focus that the police would liase with the state government to make sure that the laws restricting movement of long vehicles in the state would be strictly enforced. He expressed happiness on the effort of the DPO Onitsha Central police station who was physically present throughout to ensure adequate security as well as other paramilitary agencies and sympathizers.