It sounds incredible but true. A Lagos-based medical practitioner is offering free surgery to indigent patients. The hospital is in Igando and the name is Crest. With its state-of-the-art diagnostic equipment, modernised theatre and other facilities to improve medical health, the hospital and its doctors are touching the lives of the downtrodden in a special way. ISIOMA MADIKE visited the hospital during the week and returned with a story that is hard to believe  Nigeria, it seems, is a land of skeptics. And the reason is not far-fetched. But Dr. Waheed Abayomi, managing director of Crest Hospital located in Egan Igando area of Lagos State appears to be proving the doubting Thomases wrong. During the electioneering campaign leading to the just concluded presidential election of February 23, Abayomi had promised Nigerians, especially Lagosians that he will be offering free surgery for indigent patients should President Muhammadu Buhari wins and retains the seat he won in 2015. Many at the time did not believe him. But, when the results of the election were announced and the President won, Abayomi took to his social media handles to announce like he promised that the doors of his hospital were opened for those who might need his services in this regard. He made it known to all that the free surgery will last for one full month, effective February 1. Soon the news spread to all the nook and cranny of the “Centre of Excellence” and beyond and the people responded in their numbers to benefit from this laudable philanthropic gesture. Many though rushed in to find out if the news is real. On the reason he is doing this, Abayomi said: “It’s my own little way to show love to Mr. President. Remember other people promised different things if he wins. There was someone who promised to trek to Abuja and another said he would drink from a septic tank. But I asked myself, ‘how would all these benefit the ordinary man on the street’? So, I came up with the idea of putting a smile on the poor masses faces since that is what I perceived Buhari to be doing. “I love Buhari, no presences about that. I started following him when he was made Head of State in 1983. I had followed him since then till now. To me he has lived an exemplary life, one that many should emulate. That he is Mr. Integrity is no longer in doubt, everyone could see that. And he has lived a very modest life, not one that is given to frivolities. He’s neither loud nor extravagant and I see him as someone who cares for the poor. These are the attributes that endeared him to me. “Let me also be clear one point here; I’m not a politician and I don’t belong to the All Progressives Congress (APC). I have equally not met him and may never meet him. Those who know me are aware that I’m not one given for cheap publicity as I’m a thoroughbred professional who wants the good of the greater number. “Incidentally, we had planned to treat only 30 patients, one in a day for 30 days. But the way the people responded exceeded our thinking and we have no choice than to expand the scope of our philanthropy. The way it stands now, we might even go be yond 50 at the end of the month. Our strategy is simple and the beneficiaries are well spelt out. But we treat each case based on the seriousness and urgency of the ailment.” However, this reporter, who was in the hospital during the week, spoke to a few of patients, who had already benefited or waiting to benefit from this gesture. For instance, a woman, who introduced herself only as Mosunmola, told Saturday Telegraph team that she came to the hospital on January 9, when her friend who knew that she had fibroid referred her to this hospital. “That was my first time in this hospital. When I met the doctor, he examined me and told me how much it will cost me to remove. But I responded by telling him that I had no Kobo and that was why the problem had remained with me for this long. He just looked at me and asked me to go and pray that Buhari wins. I was confused and couldn’t rationalise the link between my problem and Buhari’s election. “The man had to explain to me that he had promised free surgery to indigent patients should Buhari wins. I went home and turned a prayer warrior immediately as I saw that as my last chance to get rid of this problem. So, when the President was declared winner of the presidential election, I returned to the hospital hoping for the best. And indeed the best was what I got as you can see I had been operated upon; I’m only waiting to be discharged. I did not pay a dime, the hospital has even fed me all through,” she said. Another patient, who gave his name as Anthony, also said he had been battling with hernia for over seven years now. Like Mosunmola, someone who heard about the free surgery informed him to try the hospital. He said: “I have been with this condition for so long now. When I tried to operate it I was told to bring a huge sum which I could not afford. I then decided to die with it but this God-sent said no to that. He did it without collecting any money, explaining that it was his own little way to touch the poor masses positively and put a smile to a few faces. I really don’t know how to thank him; it’s only God that can repay him. He is a rare Nigerian.” Crest Hospital is situated in Egan, Igando in Lagos. It is a private, multispecialist hospital that focuses on providing sound medical attention with state of the art diagnostic equipment, modernised theater and other facilities to improve medical health. It renders good health care in a relatively cheap manner to everyone. But the hospital is equally famed for its love for the downtrodden. It was founded in 2003 on that philosophy. What kept the hospital running and growing, Saturday Telegraph learnt, is its cheap, simple approach at reaching everyone who needs health care. In an era when most hospitals, including government-owned, are refusing to treat patients who cannot afford to deposit an initial payment and detain others for their inability to settle their bills, Crest has had an astonishing number of patients, who have literarily become part of its growing family. To the management, life supersedes every other consideration. For those who live around Igando and the environs, Crest Hospital nobility is sometime that is already a virtue of a sort. The DPO of Igando Divisional Police station had this to say on the hospital and the doctors. “It feels so good meeting Dr. Abayomi of Crest Hospital. He is a rare person. I wish Nigerians can live beyond religious sentiments and political divides the way he has thus far conducted himself. “He has shown love to many and even the vulnerable aged persons in our society as my policemen testified massively about his goodwill. This may not be the case with some Ustaz and pastors; it’s not the title but the content of one’s character. Again, God bless him immensely and reward his kind gestures.” For a pastor who craved to remain anonymous: “He is a great man. Despite the fact that he is a Muslim, he doesn’t discriminate as he attends to all regardless of religion, tribe or status. He is God-sent for the poor and only Him will reward this exceptional doctor and bless even his children’s children.”