A former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, and his political followers in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday resolved to defect to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The decision was taken during a meeting held at his Asoludero residence in Sagamu, which had notable PDP chieftains and supporters of the ex-governor in attendance. The defection option was reached after the loyalists vehemently rejected his decision to quit partisan politics. Although they welcome his resignation from the PDP, Daniel’s supporters said the former governor should lead them to the APC, having worked for the victory of the party’s candidate in the March 9 governorship election, Prince Dapo Abiodun. Daniel, who was the Director-General of Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign, had, at the weekend, announced his decision to quit partisan politics and also resigned his PDP membership. In a letter addressed to the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, the ex-governor had stated that he was going to rejuvenate his charitybased organization, Gateway Front Foundation (GFF), in order to continue to dispense succour to people in need and assist in their health challenges. New Telegraph reliably gathered that the decision did not go down well with Daniel’s loyalists and political supporters across the state. At a meeting consequently summoned yesterday in Sagamu, the former governor told his apparently disgruntled loyalists that he felt his job was done, having been a part of those who enthroned the incoming administration in the state. Daniel, who recalled his entry into politics and how he served as governor between 2003 and 2011, said he had no regrets supporting Abiodun to succeed incumbent governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. He stated that by such decision, he had given political freedom to his followers, adding that they now have the licence to claim whatever party they like. He said: “By the (governorship) election on Saturday, we have returned all of you into government which effectively means you are no longer in opposition. When the husband has known the wife, the intermediary would have to give way. “I have done my bit. I have now set you free. You now have the licence to claim whatever party you like. If you want to remain in PDP, you are free. If you want to go to APC, I’ve now given you the political freedom.” Daniel explained that political calculation made him to throw weight behind Abiodun rather than supporting either Prince Gboyega Isiaka of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) or Hon. Adekunle Akinlade of Allied People’s Movement (APM) for the governorship. His words: “After we considered all options, it was a most difficult decision. You know I was the Director-General of the Atiku campaign. But they say all politics are local. To that extent, we took a decision and we supported Dapo Abiodun to win that election.” After Daniel’s remarks, some of his supporters, including Chief Ibukun Ojosipe, Gboyega Okenla, Hon. Waliu Taiwo, Chief Iyabo Apampa, Chief Bisiriyu Popoola, took turns to speak, but disagreed with his submission to quit partisan politics. But amid the drama, a former House of Representatives member, Kayode Amusan, stood up and said he would apply legislative approach to whatever decision to be taken. Amusan, a two-term federal lawmaker, said those who wanted Daniel to remain in PDP should say “aye” but nobody said anything. However, when the former lawmaker asked if they wanted the ex-governor to go to APC, the audience unanimously shouted “aye.” Speaking with reporters after the meeting, Daniel said he would yield to the demands of his supporters. He said: “This process is about leading people. What we have done today is to call all our people across the length and breadth of the state to subject our decision to a kind of plebiscite and of course, you have listened to what they have said. “Basically, they said they agreed that I could resign from PDP; they said I must lead them to APC and they said I cannot retire from politics. That’s the summary of what I heard and then, we have to take a look at it.”