Angry mob yesterday overpowered policemen at a police station located at Oro in Irepodun Local Government Area of Kwara State and set a detainee on fire.
A witness said the incident occurred about 9a.m. following the discovery of the body of a commercial motorcyclist who had been missing since Sunday night. The suspect, identified as Femi Tete of Salawa area, Oro, had asked the cyclist to take him to Agbamu, a neighbouring town. On the way, Femi reportedly lured the cyclist into the bush and allegedly killed him, before stealing his motorcycle. The deceased was identified as AbdulGaniyu Tunde, popularly called Afobaje of Oke-Ola. Angry residents, along with members of the commercial motorcycle association in the area, were said to have descended on the police station, demanding that Tete be released to them. They said that Tete had often been arrested and later released without justification. The cyclists complained of incessant cases of cyclists being attacked and killed in the same way that Tunde was killed. When the police refused to hand over Tete to them, the mob started hurling sachets of water at the station. The police were said to have fired shots into the air to disperse the crowd. Rather than flee in fear, the mob became infuriated and descended on the station.
A police source said: “The police had to make a tactical withdrawal before calling for reinforcement from the Area Command, Omuaran. The mob thereafter vandalised the station. The mob also seized the suspect and set him ablaze. His corpse was moved to the General Hospital at Omuaran.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ajayi Okasanmi, said he was yet to be informed of the incident as at the time of filing this report. A commercial cyclist, Mr Ofim Ejike, was shot dead yesterday by a police sergeant after he allegedly refused to part with N50 bribe at Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. Ejike, from Amachi community, Abakaliki Local Government Area, was shot in the eye and died instantly. The alleged trigger happy police sergeant has… In “Metro and Crime” The life of Ofim Ejike, a cyclist in his 20s was cut short by a trigger-happy police sergeant, who shot him dead for allegedly refusing to give him N50 bribe. Also, a police sergeant, who sustained injuries in a violent protest arising from the killing has died. UCHENNA INYA, in… In “News” Zamfara youths attack police station, set vehicles ablaze Youths beat up DPO in Ondo   Four policemen have been sentenced to death in Akwa Ibom State for killing a commercial motorcyclist otherwise called Okada rider in Uyo, the state capital. The convicted policemen are Inspector Moses Akpaete, Inspector Idoko Sampson,… In “Metro and Crime”