Stockbrokers and other stakeholders in the financial markets have concluded arrangements to participate in a professional course on the fundamentals of financial technology and its applications to their businesses in pursuit of global competitiveness.
The course, slated for Wednesday in Lagos was part of the Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Programme of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS).
The objectives of the course according to a statement from CIS include, enhancement of the participants’ understanding of Fintech, an expository overview of the global Fintech market and practical examples and ways of using Fintech in asset management.
Others include numerous benefits of Fintech and its prospects in the African market. “This is part of the Institute’s determination to help companies, business owners, asset managers, traders and investors better understand and properly manage their financial operations, CIS explained in the statement. “The course will place premium on the utilization of specialized software, which can leverage technology to improve activities in the financial market as a radical departure from the traditional services delivery in the financial industry. “The facilitator is a renowned Canadian Scholar, Advisory Partner and Chief Economist with PwC West Africa, Dr Andrew Nevin. He is bringing his over 3 decades of experience working at the complex intersection of economics, strategy, capital markets and investment in creating a strong and vibrant economy.”
The statement added that participants will be exposed to “Introduction to Fintech” The workshop is also designed for the Institute’s student, members and non-members alike. The professional course however, does not require any prerequisite knowledge from the participants “All that is requested is a course registration fee from non-members of the Institute and for members of the Institute are covered by their annual subscription fee,” the institute said.
“It is a welcome development for all who are interested in a way to better manage their financial operations and processes. It will also enable the participants to utilize the specialized innovative software to improve their activities financially.” The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has concluded arrangements to train stockbrokers on the technical analysis of capital market asset classes as part of its capacity building policy to enhance its members’ global competitiveness. The training, under the Institute’s Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Programme, according to a statement, is a… In “Business” Good regulations that would guide technology driven capital market and protect investors are imperative, writes CHRIS UGWU   According to Investopedia, FinTech is a portmanteau of financial technology that describes an emerging financial services sector in the 21st century. Originally, the term has to do with technology applied to the… In “Business” The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) opened three windows of certification in order to grow its membership base as part of the on-going globalization programme.   Under the new regime, the three windows of certifications include Diploma Programme, Specialised Certification and Omnibus Certification.   Speaking at a Forum to address… In “Business”