An Assistant Superintendent of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Mr. Jumo Ogar, yesterday in Abuja, was allegedly killed on his way to work. The circumstances surrounding his death were yet to be ascertained at press time. But unconfirmed reports said he was killed by policemen on traffic duties. The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Command of the NSCDC, Mr. David Akinbinu, said Ogar was killed in the presence of his wife. However, Akinbinu did not accuse the police of killing Ogar. He only said investigation to unravel the circumstances was ongoing. The PRO said the incident occurred along the Nyanya-Mararaba stretch of the AYA-Keffi Road. He noted that the FCT Commissioner of Police, and the Commandant, visited the scene of the incident. “The officer, Assistant Superintendent of the Corps, Mr. Jumo Ochegbu Ogar, served in FCT command. We were there to confirm his death. But the circumstances that led to his death are so complicated.
“Investigation is ongoing. I’m assuring the general public that justice must definitely take its cause. “I was there (at the scene of the incident) with my commandant, and the Commissioner of Police.
“When we got to the hospital, (there were) different stories – some said he drove one-way, some said he beat traffic light,” Akinbinu said. He added: “But there is no traffic light along the Nyanya-Maraba axis. So one needs to be very careful. “Now, all the ‘unciver’ (operatives) are out there, to get the real facts.”
Asked if the officer was killed by the police, he said: “Nobody knows. They said it was traffic warden. But his wife was inside the car with him.” But the FCT Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Anjuguri Manzah, could not be reached on his mobile line. Also, he failed to respond to a text message sent to his mobile line on the incident. A grieving sister, Mrs. Folawewo Opeyemi, has revealed in chilling details how an official of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) allegedly shot her brother, Abdulqudrid Toefeek Omotolani (31), twice on the head at close range. The incident occurred at the Pipeline Ile-Epo area of Lagos. Opeyemi, recounting… In “Metro and Crime” Armed youths suspected to be cult members have killed an officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Ekiti State, Sunday Afolabi. Afolabi, attached to the Intelligence and Investigation Unit of the NSCDC, was shot dead on Afao road, Ado-Ekiti on Wednesday. An insider source within the… In “Metro and Crime” Hundreds of commercial motorcyclists popularly called Okada riders yesterday took to the streets of Akure, Ondo State, to protest the death of two siblings. The victims were allegedly killed by men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The protest started at the State Specialist Hospital, Akure, where… In “Metro and Crime”