 Ahead of the March 23 supplementary elections in five states, some governors, yesterday, held private meetings with President Muhammadu Buhari over the inconclusive governorship polls. Some of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governors had met with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo over the matter. Yesterday, Governors Muhammed Abubakar of Bauchi and Simon Lalong of Plateau separately met with the President. While Abubakar said he was going to court to challenge the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to cancel the supplementary election in Bauchi, Lalong expressed confidence that he will win overwhelmingly. Bauchi and Plateau are among other states of the federation where INEC had declared results inconclusive and rescheduled March 23 for supplementary elections. Speaking to State House Correspondents after a meeting with President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Abubakar described INEC’s decision as illegal. The Bauchi governor said he was at the Presidential villa to brief President Buhari on what steps he would be taking on the matter within the next few hours about the matter. “I am a lawyer and I am pursuing the legal angle. I briefed him and he emphasized on that legal angle that it is the best way to go,” he stressed. According to the governor, “I briefed him (the President) on the issues surrounding the inconclusive elections. The Returning Officer for Bauchi State, at the end of collation, rejected the result of Tafawa Balewa Local Government and then 36 other units spread around 15 local governments of Bauchi State and ordered a rerun. “Surprisingly, we woke up one morning and INEC came up with a procedure that is not known to law. Because, where a Returning Officer has declared the result, only an election petition tribunal can reverse the result. But INEC is attempting to reverse itself in the case of Bauchi. And when one juxtapose that of Bauchi and other states with inconclusive elections, one wonders why that is happening only in Bauchi State. “So, for that reason, there is a need for me to come and brief Mr. President because that has the potential of touching on the security of the state and it is our paramount duty to secure the state.” Asked if what is happening was illegal, the governor said: “Of course it is definitely illegal. It is a straightforward matter. The returning officer is the final arbiter even with respect to scores and declaration of result. And once he makes a declaration, no power can reverse that declaration except duly constituted court of the land.” On what he expected President Buhari to do when INEC is an independent body, Abubakar said: “No no no. I said I came to brief Mr. President; I am not seeking any action of Mr. President. We all know Mr. President; he is a stickler for procedure. What I pointedly told him was that I am not here to seek for you to interfere on our behalf, sir but to brief you on what is happening and what actions I have taken.” He said his party and the state government were prepared for the supplementary elections if INEC does the proper thing. “If they are going to do it now, we are ready. I don’t know who is afraid of anyone in Tafawa Balewa,” he said. Meanwhile, Lalong said the election would be a walkover for him. Plateau State is one of the states that INEC declared the result of the March 9 governorship and state house of assembly elections as inconclusive. Speaking to State House correspondents after meeting with President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Lalong, who is ahead of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the results declared so far by INEC, alleged that the renewed insecurity in the state was politically motivated. He boasted of emerging victorious during the rerun. According to him, workers in the state employment were interested in his re-election in order to guarantee prompt payment of their salaries. The governor, who said he was not in any panic mood as the supplementary elections comes up on Saturday, asked rhetorically:”How can I be when all the votes that were cancelled were my votes? “These were areas that I won. There was no need for cancellation, but then as a lawyer, I still want to comply with the rules, I don’t want to be talking about infringing on the rules when the elections result is very clear. “They said registered voters were 49,000 whereas the votes were not up to 20,000, but people were still saying we need 49,000 and I was already on top with 45,000 votes. So we are going to get the 49,000. How can you imagine that a sitting governor cannot get 3,000 votes out of 39,000 in an area that I have well dominated for a very long time? “So for me, election is as good as concluded in Plateau State. I see it as an opportunity for people whose votes were cancelled for them to vote. People came and said their votes were cancelled, it is for them to go back and vote and ensure their vote counts this time around. “That is why I support that we go back and conduct the elections. If they (INEC) like, let them conduct the elections more than once, we will soon win.” PDP: We're confident of victory   Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday met with Governors Jubrilla Bindow (Adamawa) and Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Although no official reason was given for the meeting between the three leaders, our correspondent gathered the visit may not be unconnected with the… In “News” President Muhammadu Buhari has backed the decision of the Bauchi state Governor Mohammed Abubakar who he is heading to court to challenge the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC’s resolution to resume collation of results in the state instead of supplementary elections earlier declared. Bauchi state is among other States of… In “News” ...says party members upset over inconclusive polls   The Presidency yesterday declared that President Muhammadu Buhari would not influence the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to change results in favour of any candidate in the forthcoming supplementary elections scheduled for Saturday, March 23. Buhari, in a statement by his Senior… In “News”