Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has done very well in the aspect of caring for children with disabilities and to get this done, the efforts of his Special Adviser on Social Development, Mrs. Joyce Onafowokan can’t be waved aside. Onafowokan, US based certified health worker, who is on assignment in Nigeria, in this interview with WOLE ADEPOJU, speaks on her job as an aide to Lagos State Governor, challenges of the job and why she’s particularly passionate about children with disabilities   Tell us how you started this work. Almost four years ago when Governor Akinwunmi Ambode was campaigning, he said that his administration was going to be one of inclusivity. It was part of his way of ensuring that despite our differences, we are all Lagosians; the rich, the poor, Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba, all the tribes and even those who have challenges of disabilities. That is all part of inclusiveness. I believe that he saw that not much was done in the area of disability. Since I came, we have tried to address and cater to the needs of families and children with one disability or the other. My background is more on children who have disabilities. I’m an Early Intervention Specialist certified by the State of Massachusetts, Department of Public Health. Early Intervention is based on the philosophy of ‘a stitch in time saves nine.’ That is what I have done for the majority of my adult life. When this administration assumed office, I relocated to Nigeria to work with His Excellency, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on disability matters.  There are fewer cases of disability where you’re coming from. When did you realise the enormity of the job you signed up for here? I think it was on my first trip to one of the homes. When I saw the kids that had cerebral palsy, I saw that their bones had restricted because once your bone restricts, there is likelihood that it will not retain nutrient. The children had already lost all their muscles and looking at them, you would discover that everything within their body was already falling apart. I knew that they were all just being managed and they were going to die. When I stepped out of that home, I cried. It was a visit, but I cried. I had never in my life seen kids who looked that way. In all the years of my working with people with disabilities, I had never seen kids who looked that way. For me, it was purely because nobody intervened on time and treated them early.  Having seen what was in the offing, how quick did you settle to work? I have spent more than two years working on this project in Nigeria, and I am still acclimatizing. I think those that I have worked closely with have begun to understand who I am. One thing that I will tell you is that I am passionate about my job. I am a person of integrity. Integrity and passion, those are my guiding principles. If you do not have passion for the job you do, when you wake up every day and go to work, you will just do it for the sake of your paycheck at the end of the month. I do my job because I enjoy it. I see the joy in the eyes of parents of the children I work with. I look at the parents and they are happy that they have a state which says I have got your back; I will hold your hands on this journey. I know what it is when you are given that news that something is wrong with your child. I am a mother and when you are pregnant for nine months, and you are waiting for the birth of your child, there is no way in your wildest imagination that you would think that you would not have a perfect baby. So when the baby comes and the baby is not perfect and you are being told, you go into a state of denial that says they must be crazy, my baby is perfect. Then, you begin to focus on the strength and not the deficit. However, what early intervention is all about is to say let’s grieve, but let’s hold your hand, let’s begin to see those things that you are refusing to see, but we will hold your hands.  How far would you say you have actually gone doing this job? I don’t think that I should be measuring my success. I think you need to go and talk to others. You need to go and talk to the service providers, the parents, they are there. However, I will say that I have worked to the best of my ability. Does it mean that we could have done more, we were set to do more, it is my hope that somebody takes it from where we stopped and it just doesn’t die because if it dies, that will be unfortunate.  What is your view of Nigerian government‘s effort towards disability eradication? You cannot eradicate disability because there are some that do not go away. What we need to be thinking as a government is how to manage it, how to ensure that the cases are reduced and not increased. To reduce the incidences, you have to think of nutrition, you have to think of environmental risk factors. Cooking with charcoal will pollute the environment, see the cars on the streets, they are all polluting the environment. Pregnant women are in this environment and they breathe in the toxins. It depends on how much you breathe in; it depends on your trimester. If it affects the brain, men drink, and they have sex with their wives and they get pregnant, is that child going to have foetal alcohol syndrome, nobody talks about that in this country, but they are there, I see kids who have foetal alcohol syndrome. The features are there, so we need to be talking about environmental risk factors. For pregnant women, do they go regularly for check-ups? Some don’t, their medications have to be given to them for free; the pre-natal medications must be given to them for free. I sincerely believe that these are the things we need to do not just as a state, but as a country because the incidences will continue to go up. A mother who is struggling to pay her rent, who is struggling to eat, she is pregnant and you are asking her to make a choice. Do I pay my rents, do I eat or do I take my vitamins? What do you think she would do, the likelihood that she would go to a pharmacy, we also need to ensure that there are no fake drugs in our pharmacies. They are there, we are just pretending to ourselves.  Are there hopes for African children living with disability? There is a future and the future is in diagnosing them early because with the early treatment, you can maximise their potentials. There is a boy I worked with, I met him when he was 15 months and he could not sit, he was not crawling and his vocabulary was barely two words ‘Mama and Papa’. That’s all he had, we started working with him and realised that his face lights up when he hears any music. We thought him language through music, he sang his needs. By the time he was going to pre-school at age three, we had already told the school that the only way that they could get to our little guy was through music. Today, he has a full scholarship to the Barkley School of Music. If he sits behind an instrument, he brings down the roof. Will he be able to feed himself, will his parent die happy? Yes. That is the key to disability. It is early diagnosis and early treatment.  It’s a tasking job you have, where does your satisfaction come from? When the faces of parents of children with disabilities light up when they say thank you, those things go a long way, they call me and say we are praying for you; that is all I want. At times, I ask God why he gave me this ministry, but he has not answered me. 