  They were the kingmakers; no one supposedly takes the crown without their consent. They had done it times without number and 2019 was supposed to be another election cycle to showcase their influence as godfathers. But their aspiration met a brick wall as they were humbled at the polls. For the first time, many godfathers and kingmakers failed to install their ‘anointed candidates’ and this has brought them to their knees. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE looks at how some powerful political ‘fixers’ ate humble pie in the tsunami of losses that swept through the recent elections  One lexicon that is synonymous with Nigerian politics is ‘godfatherism’. The godfathers, as they are called, are men, and in rare cases, women, who ordinarily don’t run for office themselves but who picked among the contestants who becomes what, when and how. To put it succinctly, they are the ones who pull the behind the scenes strings to decide the election winners and losers. They merchandise politics by using money and influence to garner support either for themselves or their preferred candidates. For them, what matters is their interest and loyalty, and not much about competence. While godfatherism is as old as politics itself, the return of democracy in 1999 in Nigeria and all of the transitions in 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015 had seen the emergence and dismantling of godfathers and expectedly 2019 wasn’t an exception. With 20 years of interrupted democratic process, the pattern has been the same at both the state and national level. Interestingly, the 2019 elections ushered in another version of godfatherism with some erstwhile godsons becoming political players in their own right and this inevitable set them up against estranged godfathers. The election has come and gone. Some godfathers were able to sustain their grip in their area of controls but the losers, who are a handful in number, are already pensive and humbled by the outcome of the 2019 elections. Olusegun Obasanjo: Failed in bid to install Atiku Abubakar Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is a no-nonsense accomplished former military Head of State and twice democratically elected president of Nigeria. ‘OBJ’, as he is fondly called, is a fearless, relentless and combative national leader, who can be ruthless when stating his case against any individual or government he has found wanting by his own assessment. In and out of office, Obasanjo has installed leaders and has in the same measure, dethroned leaders. He, perhaps, has a measuring rod which is exclusive to him to determine who gets what, when and how. Apparently, the most unique of the Obasanjo style and identity of politics is that he makes and unmakes people. He has a rich vein of stories of helping to install governments and ends up successfully plotting against the same governments. This singular trait, regardless of the reasons adduced to legitimise it, has put the former president in two contradicting positions of whether he is a statesman or state enemy. Perhaps reading the minds of Nigerians on his unstable positions, Obasanjo said at a recent event held at the Obasanjo Presidential Library in Abeokuta, Ogun State to mark his 82nd birthday that the basis of his criticisms is to foster development and deepen democracy. He said: “The purpose of criticism was to deepen democracy and ensure economic growth and development of the nation. “You see that in a democracy, to criticise a policy of the government is not a family affair; even if it is my brother that is there and is not doing the things that I believe he should do, he must be criticised.” But far beyond the former president’s rationalization of his position on issues and leadership, there are existential moral issues that many Nigerians usually pick out in his sermons. Ahead of the 2007 presidential election, he handpicked former President Umaru Yar’Adua to succeed him, but just after he became president, he was up in arms against the late Yar’Adua and they didn’t reconcile until the former president passed on. The story was same with former president Goodluck Jonathan who he singlehandedly backed for the 2011 race. No sooner had the former Vice President assumed office, the godfatherism in Obasanjo came to the fore again and he went after him, they couldn’t reconcile until he played a big part in him not getting a second term. Obasanjo’s reputation in this regard continued when he rolled out his support for President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 but characteristically called it quits on him just two years into his tenure. However, the 2019 general elections turned the tide against Obasanjo as he failed with his support for the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, at the expense of President Muhammadu Buhari. While he is yet to make any categorical statement on his baptism of the political crash, it is left to be seen how Obasanjo will play his way back to the heart of Nigeria politics.  Godswill Akpabio: An ‘uncommon’ humiliation Former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, is a man that has mastered the art of political warfare. In the past 12 years, the former Senate Minority Leader has been the recurring decimal in the politics of the state. Over that period, he was able to build a veritable political structure for himself. But regardless of the influence, he could not save himself from defeat in the 2019 senatorial race. The former governor, who left the PDP for the APC in 2018, lost his bid to return to the Senate as the lawmaker representing Akwa Ibom North West. Fondly called the ‘Uncommon Governor’ and ‘Senator’, Akpabio lost his seat to a former deputy governor of the state, Mr. Chris Ekpeyong, though he still insists that, “my mandate is waiting for me”. As if that is not enough, his anointed governorship candidate, Nsima Ekere, who served as deputy when Akpabio governed the state, was defeated by the incumbent governor, Udom Emmanuel. This, however, ended any anticipation of Akpabio springing back after losing his seat. The same fate befell Akpabio’s allies who sought to be elected into the state assembly. He also failed to deliver the state for President Buhari in the presidential election.  No doubt, the ‘Uncommon Senator’ was badly bruised and this is because the same Akwa Ibom electorate that gave him the platform to blossom is the same which rubbished him despite his monetary influence and federal might appeal.  Bukola Saraki: Cut to size by the ‘O to ge’ movement Since he took over as governor in 2003, Senator Bukola Saraki has had a firm grip on the politics of Kwara State. Like his father, the late Olusola Saraki, whom he succeeded as the political leader of Kwara politics, he determines who gets what and when. Under his leadership, the Saraki dynasty waxed stronger and the influence of the structure even extended to the national level as Bukola was able to secure the number three seat in the country, the Senate presidency, against all permutations of his erstwhile party, the APC. For years, the structure stood the test of time. Up until three weeks ago, the Saraki political structure had produced six governors in the state since 1979. After serving out two tenures as governor between 2003 and 2011, he got elected to senate to represent Kwara Central the same year. In the build-up to the 2015 election, Saraki joined other aggrieved governors of the PDP to form the nPDP. The nPDP would later join other parties to form the All Progressives Congress (APC). Regardless of the party switch, Saraki still had control of the Kwara’s political machinery in his grip and he was re-elected into the Senate and his political godson, Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed, also got his re-election; all on the platform of the APC. But he swam against the tide of his party and climbed his way to the Senate presidency seat without the blessing of his party. That signified the beginning of the troubles of the trained medical doctor. However, after twists and turns, he could not stand the heat in the ruling party and he, alongside his supporters and allies, dumped the APC for the PDP in 2018. Just after his departure, the APC pulled itself together and organised a movement with the slogan of “O to ge” (meaning “enough is enough”). Running on the platform of the PDP, he contested the Kwara Central Senatorial district election and lost to Ibrahim Oloriegbe, a medical doctor like the senate president. Oloriegbe polled 123,808 votes to defeat the senate president who had just 68,994 votes. As if that was not enough, Saraki was hit by yet another blow as Razak Atunwa, his preferred candidate for the governorship poll in Kwara, lost to Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of the APC. Across the board, the senate president appears to be the ranking godfather that the current dispensation did much to demystify. The forces that pushed him out apparently played on mass psychology and grassroots sloganeering to edge him and his lackeys out of relevance.  Abiola Ajimobi: Disrobing the ‘Constituted Authority’ Not a few have singled out Governor Abiola Ajimobi as the cause of the magnitude of the devastating defeat, which the ruling APC suffered in the hands of the PDP in the 2019 general elections in Oyo State. Ajimobi, the outgoing governor of Oyo State, lost the Oyo South Senatorial District election to the candidate of the PDP, Kola Balogun. The PDP candidate garnered 105, 716 votes to defeat the APC candidate, Ajimobi, who got 92, 218. Aside from losing his own bid, Ajimobi’s anointed governorship candidate, Adebayo Adelabu lost the governorship poll to Seyi Makinde, still of the PDP. Even in the state House of Assembly election, the PDP won 26 of the 32 seats, while APC has five. The Action Democratic Party (ADP), led by ex-Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala won only one seat. The question many have asked over the defeat is: “What could have been responsible for the shocking defeat of a ruling party after about eight years in power?” To many people, particularly commentators on the social media, the style of administration of the incumbent government and majorly the character of the governor were responsible. To them, he did many things, not in the interest of the masses; did not do many things which the masses expected of him and only tried to make amends at the eve of the election, when the masses had already made up their minds to kick his party out. No doubt, Senator Ajimobi is by all standards a very cerebral person with power of oratory. In terms of infrastructural development across the zones of the state as well as maintenance of security, the 69-year-old former Managing Director of the National Oil and ex-senator, he did well. But, for a man who won himself the accolade of “Koseleri” (a jinx breaker in the annals of Oyo political trajectory after governing the state for two terms), the painful fate that befell him ought not to have. Ajimobi was until the election, ready to tell whoever cared to listen that he is endowed with wisdom that surpasses that of others. However, some people tagged this as an intoxicating display of arrogance from an ordinary mortal. The governor also tackled tradition to the extent that he elevated and enthroned 21 kings in one day in 2017, against the customs of Ibadan and without recourse to the Olubadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji.  George Akume: Beaten at his own game George Akume, a former governor of Benue State, is the leader of the ruling APC in the state, following the defection of the state governor, Samuel Ortom and Senator Barnabas Gemade from the APC. The former governor has been in the Senate since 2007 but his fourth term re-election bid ended in defeat. He was beaten by a member of the House of Representatives, Oker Jev. Against all pre-election predictions, Jev got 157,726 votes while Akume garnered 115, 422 votes. For some analysts, Akume’s defeat in the NASS election did not come to the people of Benue State particularly the Tiv people as a surprise. They believe that the strings of defeat was initiated by his estranged political godson, Ortom; perfected by the Tiv traditional rulers and executed by the Tiv electorate, especially the people of the Benue North West Senatorial District. Akume came to political reckoning when he served as a personal assistant to Dr. Iyorchia Ayu in 1992 when he (Ayu) was the Senate President. From then, he steadily rose to become the governor of the state in 1999 through the help of Gemade. While some said support for Akume by his people waned over the disposition of the former governor to herdsmen attacks in the Tiv nation and other parts of the state, others said the revolt against him was a conspiracy piloted by his estranged political godson.  Governor Ibikunle Amosun: Made to eat humble pie Although Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State recorded victory at the February 23 senatorial election, his plans to produce a successor, however, failed as the people of the state kicked against his preferred candidate, Hon. Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied Peoples’ Movement (APM). For a state that has a record to show that no incumbent ever produced his preferred successor, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Prince Dapo Abiodun, was elected as the man to take over from the incumbent. Amosun, the senator for Ogun Central District from 2003 to 2007, lost in his bid to become governor in 2007. But he ran again in 2011 and he was re-elected for a second term in 2015. With just a few weeks to the end of his tenure, the 61-year-old politician is set to go back to the senate to represent Ogun the Central. With the controversial governorship primary of the APC conducted by the party in the state, pitching the party leadership against one another, Amosun vowed to work against his party’s governorship candidate in the state, after setting the stage for Akinlade to use the APM platform. Seeing that the governor is not relenting in his bid to install his godson at any expense, the leadership of the party in Abuja, slammed him with suspension from the party. Still, the governor did not lose any sleep. For political watchers, the array of forces against Amosun in the South West are interested in happenings in the Gateway State ahead of the 2023 elections and for them, the structure of APC cannot be carelessly left with the outgoing governor, hence, the backing for Dapo Abiodun. On his part, however, Amosun, a professed promoter of power shift to Yewa/Awori zone, a zone that has never ruled the state, since its creation in February 1976, believes that power must be balanced in the state, hence, his choice of Akinlade who is from the zone. But the battle has now been won and lost. What remains is how the subsequent war will be pursued by all interests. With Abiodun becoming the automatic leader of the party after May 29, it is left to be seen whether the outgoing governor will eat the final humble pie by reconciling with his estranged bosom friend, Abiodun.  Rochas Okorocha: End of an empire Even before becoming governor of Imo State in 2011, Governor Okorocha has had a strong presence on the political scene. The 56-year-old astute businessman had contested for governorship in 1999 and lost, contested for presidency and was special adviser to former President Olusegun Obasanjo. The governor has also enjoyed unfettered movement across parties, from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), APC and also formed the Action Alliance (AA), under which his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, contested as a governor. When he contested in 2011, Rochas Okorocha, like a hurricane, swept into office as governor of Imo State, expectations were high and many believed the long-awaited watershed for Imo has finally come. Okorocha rode on the wing of massive public goodwill and people’s power to office and many hoped he understood the gesture. As governor-elect, he started by freezing the account of the state while there was still a sitting governor whose tenure was yet to elapse. He ran government by impulse jettisoning protocols and processes; he called himself an ‘unusual politician’ but Imo still didn’t get his drift. From a first term that left so much on the pipeline, Imo still gave Okorocha a second berth in 2015. By the beginning of his second term, Okorocha’s family members became a serious talking point for being a part of every profitable government business, peddling influence and allegedly dominating contracts in government circles. While Imo people were still grumbling over the exploitative activities of his siblings and immediate family, Okorocha further overreached himself by shoving his son in-law in the faces of Imo people as his ‘successor in waiting’. For political watchers, Okorocha was a victim of its own political misfortunes. Apart from stoking internal strife in his state through policy dissension and hero worshipping of his potential, he also acted as if the voice of the people do not count and never mattered. Adding salt to the injury, Okorocha’s name was omitted from the INEC’s list of senators-elect. “Declaration made under duress”, was boldly written instead. Unless he is quickly recognised by INEC as a senator-elect, and mend his ways with the APC, the 2019 elections may signal the end of the Okorocha dynasty in Imo politics.  Others: Other godfathers made to kiss dust at the just concluded election include Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State; Olusegun Mimiko, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, Chief Olabode George, Senator Chris Ngige among others.   