Gunmen, believed to be warlords, have unleashed terror on the agrarian town of Afuze, headquarters of Owan East Local Government Area of Edo State. The armed men invaded the Police Division in the town about 8p.m. on Tuesday and killed four policemen. Those killed were the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the station, SP Tosimani Ojo; the Divisional Crime Officer (DCO), Inspector Sado Isaac; a pregnant policewoman, Sergeant Justina Aghomon; and Corporal Glory David. The attackers also burnt down several vehicles including police patrol vans and police station office complex with explosives suspected to be dynamites. They also set ablaze a van parked on the premises of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the area. The hoodlums used dynamite to gain entrance into the commission’s complex. Sources close to the station said the suspects had, immediately after killing the officers on duty, set about six inmates of the station free before setting it on fire. The armed men had, on arrival at the station, demanded to see the DPO and immediately shot everyone on sight. They also stole guns of policemen on duty and others in the armoury before zooming off. Awe-stricken residents of the area scampered for safety as sounds of gunfire and explosives boomed endlessly for about one hour. Sympathisers and residents wailed uncontrollably as they thronged the station and houses of the victims in the early hours of yesterday. A resident, Mr. Godwin Ikpekhia, said the incident occurred about 8p.m. when many of the officers of the division had gone home. He said: “We only heard gunshots and nobody knew what happened until this morning. “The divisional police officer and three other officers who were on duty were killed inside the station. The hoodlums didn’t stop at that; they went to the INEC office and were shooting sporadically in order to attack men who were on duty. Police van in INEC office was burnt down by the hoodlums.”
Some residents said that how the gunmen entered the community and later escaped were mysterious to them. Sources, however, said the attack might not be unconnected with issues relating to hard drugs as the Owan axis of the state has been touted as the route for drug cartels. A similar attack occurred on July 14, 2018 at a checkpoint near Uzeba-Aviosi junction on Ifon Road, Sabongida-Ora in Owan West Local Government Area. Four policemen on night duty were murdered by gunmen while their Hilux patrol van was burnt. The attackers also went away with the policemen’s rifles. Also, suspected kidnappers had, on January 24, 2019 abducted a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a member of the state House of Assembly representing Owan West Constituency, Hon. Michael Ohio-Ezomo, from his residence at Eme-Ora in Owan West Local Government Area. The kidnappers also killed his police orderly. Ohio-Ezomo was released near a village in Owo, Ondo State after spending about 38 days in the den of his captors. But the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Danmallam Muhammed, who visited the scene of the attack along with Governor Godwin Obaseki, yesterday, said that investigation would commence immediately. Muhammed vowed that those responsible for the attack on the Police Division would be brought to book. He said: “Urgent steps will be taken to curb the increasing cases of criminality in Owan axis of the state.” The CP said that four police personnel were murdered, part of the station destroyed while three vehicles: two at the station and one at INEC office close to the station were burnt. He said that three out of the five suspects freed during the operation had been re-arrested while nine improvised explosive devices (IUDs): five at the police station and four at INEC office were recovered. Mohammed said that the incident was being investigated while he encouraged the people in the locality to go about their normal lives. “We are at the first stage of investigation and we cannot say for now the motive behind the attack. “We believe in community policing and we are doing what we can to get useful information from the members of the public to get to the bottom of the case,” he said. The CP said that the arms and ammunition of the police at the divisional office were not taken away during the operation.