Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday said that former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has been instrumental to electoral reforms, including the recovery of stolen mandates in four states after the governorship elections in 2007. In a tribute he delivered at the 11th Bola Tinubu Colloquium held in Abuja, Osinbajo recalled that after the then Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) lost the governorship election in Osun, Ekiti, Ondo and Edo states to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), it took the ingenuity of Tinubu to reclaim these mandates through the election tribunals and court processes. According to Osinbajo, it took the legal team and forensic experts assembled by Tinubu, a thorough scrutiny of the ballot papers and other materials used during the said election before they could prove that the elections were rigged in favour of the then ruling party. The beneficiaries of the reclaimed mandates were Rauf Aregbesola (Osun), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Segun Mimiko (Ondo) and Adams Oshiomhole (Edo). Mimiko belonged to the Labour Party at the time, but was supported by ACN leader. His words: “In 2007, when our party, then the ACN, was rigged out of the elections in Osun, Ekiti, Ondo and Edo states, Asiwaju invited me to his residence at Bourdillion. He said to me that the only way by proving that there were multiple voting is by going through the courts, i.e. proving that a few people simply thumb printed the ballot papers, dumped them in ballot boxes and they were counted in favour of the opposition. “He then said to me that the only way we can do it is by somehow proving by forensic evidence that this is exactly what happened. I said to him that nobody has ever proved an electoral petition by forensic evidence; there is just no history of it. And I said what is even more, is that there are over a million ballot papers, about 1.3 million ballot papers in all the states. So, how can you prove multiple voting? He said to me, “Yemi, you have heard my view about this issue, just go and find a way of sorting this out.” “So, I went to the UK and met with possibly the most experienced finger print expert in the entire United Kingdom, a gentleman called Adrian Fortyintroduced to me by some of the Queen’s Counsels. When I told him the enormity of the problem, he laughed and almost fell off his chair. He said in almost 50 years of his experience as a fingerprint expert, he hasn’t done up to 4,000 fingerprints, and now we asked him to do 1.3 million fingerprints. “We parted that day which was a Thursday, and then he got in touch again on a Monday and said we should discuss further. Somehow, we designed a way and used a bit of technology. Most importantly, we got the number of fingerprint experts that have never been assembled before, and we hired 63 of fingerprint experts. Fifty of them were from the UK Police. What was more interesting about that is getting the UK Police to support us was for Asiwaju to come all the way from Nigeria to the UK to talk to friends and people who he knew, to persuade the UK authorities to allow us use UK Police. “In the end, they allowed us to use the policemen in their spare time. We got 63 policemen working flat out for almost six months. We were able to put together, for the first time in the history of elections tribunal in the history of the world, we put together a solid forensic case that showed all of the places we were defeated was on account of multiple thumb printing. “We also showed that for instance, you cast 20,000 votes, when we calculated the time to cast one vote, it is usually about five minutes, but we discovered that our friends in the other political party were able to cast that number of votes in five seconds. All they were doing was simply thumbprinting booklets, as many as possible. “We demonstrated this in court, and one by one, we were able to get back the states that had been taken away from us. The only way that could have ever been achieved is surely not just by the vision, but by the determination of our leader at that time, the leader of the ACN. He showed the kind of leadership that was very rare and not only defining what he thought was the way forward, but also supporting it in every way and backing it to the very end. “The last state that we finally won was Osun State, after almost three years of battling. One of the things that we would agree about our celebrant today is his dogged attitude and his refusal to accept no for an answer.” Osinbajo also eulogised Tinubu for his pioneering role in promoting merit and inclusiveness in the Constitution of a state cabinet and other government appointments. He said that before Tinubu came on the scene, governors and other political office holders did not think that merit and competence were important criteria in getting into public offices. “Asiwaju demonstrated in the years when he was governor, that political appointments, especially cabinet appointments, should be based on merit. He looked for those that he considered the best possible material at the time, regardless of where they were from. “For the first time in the history of Lagos State, we had cabinet members from other parts of the country, beginning with other parts of the South-West. Rauf Aregbesola from Osun State, I from Ogun State, Arthur Worrey from Delta, Lai Mohammed from Kwara State, Dele Alake from Ekiti State, Ben Akabueze from Anambra State. “We also had the appointments of Judges from all over the country; Justice Onyeabo, and Justice Sybil Nwaka were appointed Judges of Lagos State. There is no other state elsewhere in the country, except in some places in the North, where we have seen the appointment of individuals from other states. Picking people for positions, no matter what part of the country they are from, is an important part of our story as a country. “Every once in a while, I think that history gives us one or two persons who are gifted transformative leaders. I believe that our country has been gifted with this transformative leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. I believe very strongly that this man’s political trajectory has only just begun. He is a man who has tremendous gifting and God has great plans ahead for him,” Osinbajo said.