…seek nullification of Presidential election  Three more presidential candidates have separately approached the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Abuja, challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and its party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the February 23 election. The petitioners are the Presidential candidates of the Hope Democratic Party (HDP), Chief Ambrose Owuru; Pastor Aminchi Habu of the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM), and Geff Chizee Ojinka of the Coalition For Change (C4C).
The petitioners are asking the tribunal to void the outcome of the February 23 presidential election.  In their separate petitions, the three presidential candidates urged the tribunal to invoke its powers and quash the declaration of President Buhari as the bona fide winner of the 2019 presidential election.
The petitioners separately alleged that the election was characterized by manifest irregularities, adding that the Electoral Act was not substantially complied with by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Owuru, whose petition marked as CA/ PEPC/001/2019, cited the APC and the INEC as Respondents.
Owuru had secured a total of 1,663 in the presidential election. In another petition that was registered as CA/PEPC/004/2019, Habu equally challenged the outcome of the presidential poll.
Similarly, in his own petition marked CA/PEPC/003/2019, Ojinka also urged the tribunal to nullify President Buhari’s election.
However, unlike what played out in other petitions, the C4C, which garnered a total of 2,391 votes at the presidential poll, cited the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, as the 2nd Respondent in its case. It told the tribunal that its candidate, Ojinka, was validly nominated to participate in the February 23 election in order to secure votes to occupy the presidential seat.
“Petitioners contend that the above election was vitiated by substantial non-compliance with mandatory statutory provisions, which irregularity substantially affected the election such that the 1st Respondent was not entitled to be returned as the winner of the Presidential election,” the party added. Specifically, HDP and its candidate, Owuru, in their petition submitted that Buhari and his party, APC, were unduly returned and that the INEC which is saddled with the conduct and organizing elections, reneged and abdicated, sabotaged in its duty. The petitioner further contended that the rescheduled election was invalid by reason of non-compliance with the provision of the Electoral Act stipulating the condition to due and lawful postponement of the duly scheduled February 16 polls. Also the petitioner alleged that INEC intentionally placed its name in an obscured place on the ballot paper and therefore not visible for elections in a way that affected its chances in the said election.