Bayelsa State Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson, at the weekend charged the pioneer Governing Council of  Bayelsa medical university to work towards making the university one of the best in medical research urging them to bring their wealth of experience to bear in translating the vision of the university to reality. To achieve that, the governor approved a take off grant of 50 billion naira for the university promising to increase it as the university continues. Speaking in Yenagoa during the inauguration of the   pioneer governing council of the university led by Professor Emeritus Nimi Briggs-led council, the Governor explained that the rationale behind the  establishment of  the university was to provide specialized training to all categories of medical professionals and promote research in line with global standards. The governor said BMU would churn out qualified medical graduates to man the various hospitals and health centres his administration has built across the state in order to improve healthcare delivery. He appreciated the state House of Assembly for passing the bill establishing the university which made it possible for it to be recognised as the second state-owned specialised medical university in the country. Hear him “The Bayelsa Medical University is one of the very few specialised medical universities in this country. When I was receiving the Certificate of Recognition from the National Universities Commission, they made it clear to me that this is the fourth  specialised medical university in Nigeria and the second state-owned. “Our dream is to make BMU one of the best centres of medical research and education in the world. I therefore call on you to bring your vast experience to bear in this onerous task of building a world class university. “We have already started a partnership with the University of Louisville and the Brown Cancer Center, which is affiliated to it. It is your duty to work, deepen and strengthen the bond of the relationship that has already started.” Assuring the partners of the state government’s readiness to fulfill its obligations contained in the Memorandum of Understanding, Dickson said the university was poised to meet every international standard in the training of its medical personnel. He said “This is the beginning of what I believe is one of the most fruitful academic collaborations between our university and yours in the United States.  And this will be a model for a number of people to look at. “We are happy we have an Oncologist in your team because as part of our efforts in healthcare, we are concerned about the development of an excellent cancer centre. “We will do everything on our part to fulfil our obligations arising from the agreement that we have already signed.” In his remarks, the Dean of Public Health, University of Louisville, Prof. Craig Blakerly, commended Governor Dickson’s examplary vision in the promotion of healthcare systems in the state. According to Prof. Blakerly, various initiatives being introduced in the state health sector are highly commendable. He expressed the belief that the collaboration would yield positive results for the two parties. The chairman of the Governing council of BMU, Professor Briggs however   commended the efforts of Governor Dickson toward building the Ijaw nation, particularly in the area of education. He expressed gratitude to the governor for their appointment and assured of their preparedness to work for the achievement of the university’s set goals. Members of the council are Amb. Godknows Igali, Prof. Tarilah Tebepah, Dr Aziba-Aloaguo Seibofa, and Prof. Rose Ezonbodor-Akwegbe. Others are Dr Afolabi Ogunlesi, Dr Herbert Oye, Mrs Tuate Alagoa Nene while the Commissioner for Education, Hon Jonathan Obuebite and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and NUC are to serve as Ex-Officio members.