Chief Mike Ahamba, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) in this interview with AKEEM NAFIU speaks on 2019 general election, the nation’s multi-party system and sundry issues  To what extent will the establishment of Electoral Offences Commission help in stemming the tide of violence associated with elections in Nigeria?
Has the creation of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) stopped corruption? Definitely, the establishment of Electoral Offences Commission will only complicate issues. What I think we can do is to create some department in the police force to handle some of these things. The problem is the provision of a Section of the Electoral Act which says it is only INEC that can prosecute electoral offenders. I have been complaining about that particular Section and no one has listened to me. How can a possible offender be the only one that can prosecute? What was earlier provided for was that matters involving electoral offences should be referred to the Attorney-General. But the subsequent legislation that was enacted by the National Assembly makes reference to INEC and that it is only the electoral umpire that can prosecute. Is INEC a court of law? So, the particular Section of the Electoral Act that said it is only INEC that can prosecute electoral offenders must be amended, otherwise the problem will continue. Do you agree with Mr. Femi Falana (SAN) that the failure of successive PDP and the APC-led Federal Government to reform the electoral process has created insurmountable legal obstacles for election petitioners?
I don’t agree with him absolutely. No. I don’t. This is because the two political parties he has mentioned were also expected to subject themselves to the rules that guide electoral malpractices. The problem is that those who are supposed to control the politicians have failed in their duties. It is not about APC or PDP-led governments. The military, police, as well as the judiciary does not belong to any political party. These are institutions that are expected to serve as watchdogs on the politicians and issue red or yellow card as the case may be. It is their failure to issue these cards by these umpires of our democracy that is causing the problem. We should beam the searchlight on the umpires and not on the political parties which are players on the field.
Despite court orders against deployment of soldiers for election duty, the military has continued to be part and parcel of the electoral process as can be seen in the just concluded 2019 general election. What is your take on this?
I believed that once it is established that soldiers were part of an election, it is a nullifying factor. This is because it amounts to undue influence. Somebody controls the military and once the soldiers are called out to duty, they are bound to obey his instruction. Trouble starts at the point when instructions are obeyed. This was the major issue in the 2003 election petition which I fought for President Buhari. Do you know that after the petition was dismissed, the then President of the Court of Appeal condemned the deployment of military for the election. Look at Section 217 of the Constitution; it stated that armed forces can only be deployed to restore order where disorderliness has gone beyond the capability of the police. Under the Constitution, military has no business maintaining order, it is the police that is saddled with the task of maintaining peace and order in the society. So, as far as I am concerned, the deployment of military for election duty is a voiding factor. What should happen is that soldiers should be put on alert at their barracks and anywhere their services are desired they will be summoned to restore order. So, it unconstitutional to deploy soldiers where there was no disorder. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared governorship elections in six states as inconclusive owing to violence which allegedly characterized electoral process in those areas. Do you think INEC has power to make such pronouncement?
I don’t think INEC has power to declare any election inconclusive. That power does not exist in the Electoral Act and I have not seen it in the Constitution. INEC has power to postpone election and not to declare any election inconclusive. It’s a very serious statement which means there was no election. When an election is said to be inconclusive, it means nothing existed on which a result could have been declared. The Court of Appeal has given a judgement on this sometimes ago. Once a result is declared from an election, we should not be talking about it being inconclusive again. If there is a need to do further things, INEC can postpone the election for some time to do the needful. The point is that the moment a returning officer declares a result, INEC does not have the power to tamper with it. It’s only a tribunal that can do that. If anyone has issues with what a returning officer has written, then, he or she needs to challenge it in a tribunal. Do you think INEC should be blamed for inconclusive elections?
I blamed INEC legal team which has failed to issue appropriate advice as to the fact that inconclusiveness does not exist in our law. There was a court’s judgement that indicated that if a situation arises that makes it impossible for a result to be declared, then, there was no election. When there was violence which hampered smooth conduct of elections, INEC need not to announce any result until a rerun poll is conducted where violence took place. But as long as elections have been conducted and a winner has emerged, nobody touches it. The winner has to be declared. The rest will be settled at the tribunal. Do you share the view that it is counter-productive for the country to retain the current size of political parties going by what happened at the last general election where only the two major parties, APC and PDP, made meaningful impact?
I agreed that we should not have too many political parties but we must be careful because it is a right. For anyone who has a right to be stopped, he must be given opportunity to take advantage of his right. Besides, I believe that the presence of many political parties in this country is an element of corruption in INEC. This is because not up to 25 percent of all of them are qualified to be registered. I knew of a party that was registered which membership is a man and his wife. Their office was a flat where they were living. If you move around the country, you will discover that most of these parties don’t have a registered office. The question is why are they registered? This confirmed what I said earlier that there is a corruption element in the proliferation of political parties in this country. What is your assessment of the just concluded general election?
Well, I don’t think the first set–the Presidential and the National Assembly elections were properly conducted. The last part went well in some part of the country but this was not the case in other areas. Elections were declared inconclusive in states where a particular party expects that it would win. What should we do to have a better outing in 2023?
It is a pity that the longest surviving Electoral Act is that of 2010. Otherwise, every election in this country has been done with a new Electoral Act beginning from 1978. In that year, there was an Electoral Act for the 1979 elections. In 1982, there was an Electoral Act for the 1983 elections. Also, in 1998, there was an Electoral Act Decree for the 1999 elections. Then, there was the 2002 Electoral Act for the 2003 elections. There was the 2006 Electoral Act for the 2007 elections and then, we now have 2010 Electoral Act for the 2011 elections. This is the one that has survived so far with series of amendment. So, I want the National Assembly to put up a good Electoral Act that can last centuries. This is what we should do to allow people to know the law. There will be lack of knowledge of the law if we keep changing it at all times.