 Despite generally reporting increased profits in their full year 2018 results, deposit money banks (dmbs) in the country are bracing for more challenging times ahead, writes tony chukwunyem   In a report released in May last year, Moody’s Investors Service had projected that Nigerian banks’ earnings will decline in 2018. According to the credit rating agency, although liquidity risks had eased in the Nigerian banking industry, “loan quality risks remain.” The report stated: “Despite the stabilization in banks’ foreign currency funding and liquidity profiles, Moody’s expects bank earnings to come under pressure. Capital metrics will also decline marginally over the 12 to 18-month outlook period. Additionally, asset quality will remain weak, but a further deterioration in loan performance will be marginal as operating conditions slowly improve.” Shedding further light on the report, Senior Credit Officer at Moody’s, Akin Majekodunmi, said: “Operating conditions for Nigeria’s banks will continue to gradually improve over the next 12 to 18 months, but remain challenging. Nigerian banks’ profitability will nevertheless decline on account of lower yields on government securities, as well as a likely reduction in income from derivatives. However, these pressures will be partially offset by a recovery in loan growth and transaction income from the expansion of digital platforms.” Similarly, in a report released last November, another global credit rating agency, Fitch Ratings, had expressed concern over the impact of Nigeria’s sluggish economy on the performance of the nation’s banks. The rating agency had stated: “The fragile economic recovery restrains banks’ growth prospects and asset quality. Operating conditions are still difficult for banks. Despite stronger oil prices in second half of 2018 (H2’18) supporting economic growth, credit demand is weak and banks face pressure on margins and capital.”  Higher profits Although only a handful of banks had so released their Full Year (FY) 2018 results, the available figures indicate that despite the tough economy, top lenders in the country still declared record profits. Specifically, New Telegraph’s analysis of the FY 2018 results released by Zenith Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank, Access Bank, United Bank for Africa (UBA) and Stanbic IBTC, show that they declared a total of N626.09 billion profits for last year compared with N527.64billion, which they reported for the 2017 financial year. This means that compared with their 2017 performance, the banks’ total profits jumped by N98.45billion or 18.66 per cent last year. A breakdown of the results shows that Zenith Bank declared the highest Profit After Tax (PAT) of N193.42billion, indicating 11. 30 percent increase over the N173.79billion it reported for 2017. The lender was followed by Guaranty Trust Bank, which declared PAT of N184.64billion for 2018, showing that the lender’s profit grew by 9.96 percent when compared with the N167. 91billion it declared for the 2017 financial year. Also, Access Bank declared a 58.27 percent increase in PAT to N94.98billion last year as against the N60.01billion the lender declared for the 2017 financial year. Similarly, UBA declared a 2018 PAT of N78.61billion compared with N77.55billion, which it reported for the previous year. Tier 2 bank, Stanbic IBTC, also reported increased PAT of N74.44billion for 2018, indicating that the lender’s profits increased by 53.86 per cent when compared with the N48.38billion it reported for the 2017 financial year. Merchant Banks also seem to have performed as well as their commercial counterparts last year, as NOVA Merchant Bank Limited, last week announced a PAT of N1.15 billion for the 2018 financial year, compared with the N510.6 million it declared for 2017.   Rising non-interest income However, as analysts point out, the banks reported higher profits, in spite of the tough economy, because they were able to devise strategies that not only boosted their non-interest income, but also allowed them to significantly reduce their Operating Expenses (Opex).  For instance, according to experts at Nairametrics, some of the lenders that have so far announced their 2018 full year results, especially Zenith and Guaranty Trust Bank, were able to report the record profits that they did, due to the increased income they were able to earn from their electronic products. Generally, electronic products refer to income banks generate from online transfers and transactions such as Point of Sale (PoS) and mobile payments. In fact, the analysts cited National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) data showing that Nigeria’s electronic payment market has a transaction value of about N426 billion per month. According to the analysts, the country’s DMBs see the fast growing e-payment industry as: “An area of incremental revenue and have invested billions in this segment of the financial services sector.” Equally, experts at Coronation Research attribute the higher profits reported by the lenders in their full year 2018 results to the surge in their non-interest income during the period. In addition to increasing their non-interest income, the banks, according to the published FY 2018 results, generally reduced their impairment provisions and also tried to curb their personnel costs Specifically, Coronation Research while commenting on Guaranty Trust Bank’s 2018 financial performance, said: “GT bank reported net profits of N184.6billion, which grew 10 per cent y/y. This stellar performance was largely driven by non-interest income that grew 41per cent y/y and a significant reduction in loan loss provision, down 60per cent y/y. “Asset quality improved with Non-Performing Loans (NPL) trending down from 7.66per cent at FY 2017 to 5.67per cent at FY 2018, approaching the prudential threshold of 5.00per cent. Loan loss provisions were also down 60per cent y/y relative to FY 2017. “Expenses ticked up by 1 per cent y/y, as the bank was able to manage its costs through a significant reduction in finance costs and communication expenses. The increase was sub-inflationary.” Interestingly, responding to a question recently on what accounts for the recent downward trend in banks’ stocks despite the increased profits they declared in their 2018 FY results, the Chief Executive Officer, Financial Derivatives Company, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, was quoted as saying: “The banking industry is facing some very challenging times because if you look at the results, the revenue profile is growing at a rate of about almost 3 per cent or 4 per cent in top-line, while the incomes are more from extraordinary income rather than from normal operations. “The cost structure of the banks is a major threat to their sustainable earnings, so I think that this is a temporary dip…but there is a fundamental problem in the banking system in Nigeria, which has to be addressed in the near term.”   Anxiety  Indeed, this newspaper gathered that despite declaring higher profits, some of the banks are really not excited about their FY 2018 results. A top bank official, who did not want to be named, said: “If you closely examine the results that have been released so far, you will discover that banks did not really do much business last year. For instance, a lot of banks have drastically reduced lending to businesses. Besides, given the sluggish economy, there are not too many eligible borrowers out there. Much of the profits that have been announced come from non-interest income and cost cutting.” The official noted that with the economy set to remain subdued in the short to medium term, banks’ major focus these days continue to be on how to further reduce Opex. “The fact is that businesses are not expecting this administration to significantly change its economic policies when it begins it second term on May 29. So, if you ask a lot of bankers, they will tell you that they are not too optimistic about the industry’ prospects. A lot of them are either planning to emigrate or are looking for opportunities in other sectors before they are told their services are no longer required,” the official said. According to the “Selected Banking Sector Data Q4 2018” recently published by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the total number of DMBs’ employees rose to 104,669 in Q4 2018 from 90, 453 in the same period of 2017, indicating that a total of 14, 216 new staff were hired during the period.  However, the data shows that a total of 12,879 contract staff were hired by DMBs during the period, thereby making up about 91 per cent of new employees engaged by the lenders.   Last line
But despite prospects for the industry not looking particularly exciting these days, the consensus in industry circles last Monday was that banks still stand a better chance than other companies in coping with Nigeria’s tough economy. …frets over lenders’ earnings, loan quality   International credit rating agency, Moody’s Investors Service, has maintained its stable outlook on the Nigerian banking system, citing reduced foreign currency liquidity risks of lenders, occasioned by rising oil prices and a more liberal foreign exchange policy. Moody’s stated this in a report… In “Business” Moody’s maintains stable outlook on lenders   Although Nigerian banks posted good financial results for 2016 despite tough operating conditions, one of the leading credit rating agencies, Fitch Ratings, has said that the industry will continue to grapple with financial risks. In a report released yesterday, Fitch said: “The banks'… In “News” With their H1 2018 earning season turning out to be quite impressive, banks in Nigeria seem to be successfully implementing the International Financial Reporting Standards 9 (IFRS9). However, the new accounting rule has also put the spotlight on lenders’ Capital Adequacy Ratios (CARs). Tony Chukwunyem writes   Around this time… In “Business”