Former Governor of Kano and leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso said he had formed the cabinet of the PDP gubernatorial candidate, Abba Kabir Yusuf. He insisted that only those loyal to him and the Kwankwassiyya Movement were part of it. Kwankwaso added that the list of Abba’s cabinet is already with him and would be announced less than two weeks after inauguration on May 29, 2019. Kwankwaso, who is father in-law to Abba, said that he has used his contacts to ensure that Abba emerges victorious in the supplementary election. Speaking in Kano, the former Minister of Defence, stated: “As the leader of PDP in Kano, I have the right to choose only those loyal to me and the Kwankwassiyya Movement to run our government. “I have to take this decision because I don’t want a repeat of what happened to me in Ganduje’s government. “Already, I have my list of loyal Kwankwassiyya members and they will be announced less than two weeks after the inauguration of the new Governor.” According to him, Kwankwassiyya Movement had already taken over Kano, “and we are going to run this government based on absolute loyalty to me and the supreme ideology of the Kwankwassiyya.” The political combat between the former governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso and his successor, Umar Ganduje, is still festering. Will the former governor disregard the advice of the police and visit the state today or will he heed the warning and shelve his proposed visit? WALE ELEGBEDE reports… In “Politics” A former Commissioner of Works during the reign of Dr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso in Kano State, Abba K Yusuf, who is his Son in-law, has emerged as the governorship candidate of the Kwankwassiyya wing of the PDP in Kano State.   Yusuf, a national leader of the Kwankwassiya Movement was… In “News” MUHAMMAD KABIR reports on the decline in the fortunes of the Kwankwasiyya Movement led by a former governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, ahead of the 2019 general elections   Kwankwasiyya is a political ideology and a movement as exemplified by its leader and former governor of Kano State,… In “Politics”