A right activist and President of Campaign for Dignity in Governance (CDG), Comrade Razaq Olokoba, has urged the people of Lagos State to support the Governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, when he assumes office on May 29. Olokoba, in a statement, stated that Sanwo-Olu’s landslide victory through the overwhelming electoral support given to him by the people of Lagos State in the March 9, governorship election will motivate him to hit the ground running immediately he assumes office. He stated that the people of Lagos State are anxiously waiting to see Sanwo-Olu execute his people’s oriented programmes as contained in his manifesto. The CDG boss, who expressed confidence that the Lagos State Governor-elect will perform, said with the antecedence of all progressives like him, who have been consistently respecting the yearnings of the people since 1999, he will not deviate from the path of progress, growth and development. His words: “The people of Lagos under Sanwo-Olu will prosper. They will have good story to tell in two years about this man that has just won an election to take up the leadership of government in Lagos State and I can assure that the people will not be disappointed as he will beautify Lagos and turn it around. “Since Sanwo-Olu’s victory has assuaged the expectation of the people as reflected in the election, it is now incumbent on him to prove to them that they have not made a wrong choice and so would not be disappointed.” He also urged the people of Lagos State to continue to extend the kind of goodwill, support and patriotism they have exhibited since 1999 that made successive administrations to succeed, so that Sanwo-Olu wil equally do well. While setting agenda for the Governor-elect, Olokoba, said: “There is a big challenge when it comes to environmental development. The roads have suffered a bit of lack of attention in Lagos, but given the track record of Sanwo-Olu, I know he is going to hit the ground running. I can assure Lagosians that in six months we are going to get to Eldorado. “I know that security in Lagos is also calling for attention vis-a-vis traffic in the state. Environmental issues concerning dumping of refuse is also calling for attention. Drainage issue is also to be attended to and the morale of public officers in Lagos others needs to be boosted.”