 There is no doubt that Nigeria’s higher education sub-sector, especially the university system, is going through tough times, given the events of the last four months. What is more astounding and unpardonable is how the system has been held in the jugular for over three years in the last three decades at every provocation by the various workers’ unions in the university system, which always find it convenient to throw the system into abysmal state under the guise of agitating for betterment of their welfare and that of the ivory towers.  Now that the strike had been suspended, Nigerians and the entire university system are still licking the wounds inflicted on it by the paralysis of academic and research activities in the institutions for that long. It is laughable though that for over three months, between November 4, 2018 and February 7, 2019, when the strike was finally suspended after several failed meetings, the entire university system, which holds the nation’s developmental profile could be confined to the trenches, while the gates of the institutions were shut against students by the lecturers, who kept the keys.  Though, the suspension of the nationwide indefinite strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) would serve as a great relief to students, parents, guardians, other stakeholders and the entire system, its negative import against the collective quest for a virile university education has continued to trigger concerns among critical stakeholders and policy makers.  Basically, as the students returned to the campuses after three months of academic idleness, the unquantifiable loss already suffered would, for a long time to come, hunt the entire nation.  The failure of the Federal Government team and ASUU to resolve the logjam and hasten the suspension of the strike not until after the 10th reconciliatory meeting in its series, is the height of disservice to education and the university system, on the part of government and the leadership of the union respectively. In the first instance, it is unfortunate that the strike was allowed to drag for too long, contrary to expectations of Nigerians, due to slackness on the part of the two gladiators in the crisis, the Federal Government and ASUU, to shift ground and save the nation from such calamity and public opprobrium.  In view of this, attempts by government and any of the teaching and non-teaching unions on campuses, for that matter, either remotely or in the future, to play with the nation’s integrity and interest, without recourse to the pivotal role of university education   as a fulcrum of national development, is vehemently condemned and unacceptable.  At this critical stage in the nation’s development, what should be paramount to government, ASUU and other unions is how to implant an enviable academic environment that will mitigate the incubation for industrial and technology growth desired to ensure the country’s economic rebirth in all fronts. Against this backdrop, the Federal Government, as a matter of urgent consideration, should ensure that the nation, for whatever reason, is no longer confounded with this kind of crisis that has, over the years, bogged down the system.  If other countries in the West African sub-region such as Ghana have shaken off the toga of strike for over 20 years, despite the fact that the countries share similar peculiarities with Nigeria when it comes to higher education delivery, ASUU should look for more dignifying means of agitating for its members’ demands without necessarily throwing the entire university system into chaos through strike. While we condemn in strong terms strike in whatever form, essentially at the university system, the supposed opium of knowledge, the Federal Government should be bold enough to apply the “no work, no pay” rule or policy. This step, though without its strings, will necessarily cut down the excesses in the nation’s higher institution system and prevail on workers from cheating on the system, as they don’t deserve to be paid for work not done.  A situation in which lecturers in conventional university system, who set the institutions on strikes only to serve as Adjunct Lecturers in private universities, as the case may be, is unacceptable and should be frowned at.  The fact that the industrial action was only suspended, going by the announcement by ASUU National President, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, should be more worrisome to Nigerians, as the university system’s crises are yet to be over. In as much as we agree that the role of the National Industrial Court should be allowed to come to bear in matters of labour law, policy and strikes, ASUU should be civil enough to respect the rule of law, rather than setting aside the court as an arbiter in such labour matters.  We call on government, as a matter of exigency, to always respect its allegiance on matter of agreements reached or signed with the workers’ unions and on no condition should government allow any form of strike take its huge tolls on the education system. In fact, as part of its responsibilities to all sectors of the nation, government owes the obligation to adequately fund education in the scheme of national agenda.