Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, yesterday visited the family of late Seidougha Taridi, the Ward Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), killed by men in army uniform in the state during last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly election to condole with his family. A statement by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media Relations, Fidelis Soriwei, noted that the governor was accompanied during the visit by top officials of the state government and PDP leaders. The governor said that the state government, the PDP and indeed the state were saddened by the gruesome murder of the PDP Ward Leader in the community by men in Army uniform alleged to be soldiers. He described Taridi’s death as shocking and painful as it was indeed a needless case of cold blooded murder of an innocent man, who was not involved in any incident near a polling unit, but was killed in his own house right inside his toilet. He said that Taridi’s killing was not just a cold blooded murder, but also a collective assault on the Bayelsa and its people. “The late Taridi was in his house when soldiers were invited to gun him down, and a Government House photographer, Reginald Dei, who survived the attack,” the governor added, assuring the griefstricken family of the determination of the state government to ensure that those who perpetrated the heinous acts are brought to justice. The governor said that his administration had inaugurated a Judicial Commission of Inquiry to formally investigate and document the violence that rocked the election in some parts of Bayelsa State for posterity. He said: “We grieve with all of you and the entire Oweikorogha community, the party and the entire state grieves with you because this gruesome cold blooded murder shouldn’t have happened. “There was no need for it. He was not fighting with anybody, he was not armed in any way, and was never near a polling station; he was not by way near electoral materials. He was in his own house, in his sitting room and the people came, they were soldiers invited to gun him down in the privacy of his own home. “This is not just a gruesome act of terminating the life of a promising young man, it is a collective assault on our state and that is why I have led this delegation to personally come to condole with you, his father, wife, children, brother and sisters as well as all other members of the Taribi family. “And, we again state our resolve to bring the perpetrators of this gruesome murder to book in any way we can. I want to thank you all for your courage at this moment of grieving.”