There was uproar in Senate yesterday as the Chamber considered a motion on the massive use of the military forces in the conduct of the 2019 general elections. The debate on the militarisation of the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections and the March 9 governorship and state assembly elections, followed a motion brought to the floor during plenary by Senator Dino Melaye (PDP, Kogi West). The motion, which he entitled, “the militarisation of the Nigerian electoral process and the inconsistent application of electoral laws by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),” was co-sponsored by seven other senators. While leading debate on the motion, Melaye drew the attention of the Senate to the various infractions perpetrated by the military in the last general elections, and the need to address the problem to avoid subjecting Nigeria’s democracy to jeopardy. While adopting the prayers, the Senate condemned the alleged massive use of military forces in the electoral processes in the country, particularly as widely reported in the February and March polls. The lawmakers urged President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the recent amendment to the Electoral Bill, so as to address some of the encumbrances witnessed in the 2019 general elections. According to the Senate, signing the bill into law will ensure a level playing ground and adoption of equal standards in the country’s elections for a strong and peaceful democracy. The Red Chamber further urged INEC to ensure the unrestricted and consisted application of all electoral laws without bias to a candidate or a party in all elections. It also directed the Senate Committee on INEC to investigate all perceived inconsistent application of electoral laws by INEC in the 2019 elections, and report to the Senate, with a view to tackling the problems. However, the chamber became rowdy when the Minority Leader of the Senate, Mrs. Biodun Olujinmi (PDP, Ekiti South) was recognised to comment on the motion. Olujinmi had, while seconding the motion, stated that: We are Nigerians and for the country to be a safe place we must not be partisan because what is wrong is wrong. “Whoever is supporting what happened because of partisanship is not fair to the country and our unborn children. The election was a sham. It could not have been an advancement on the 2015 elections. INEC was inconsistent and different parameters were used for different states.” The minority leader said in the event that the bill was not assented to before the end of the 8th Assembly, the 9th Assembly should make it a priority. She lamented over the sharp practices that characterised the 2019 general elections, saying, “rigging was legalised and vote-buying was the order of the day. Nigeria belongs to all of us. Nigeria has to move forward.” The senators of the All Progressives Congress (APC) became uncomfortable with her criticism of the military involvement in the electoral process, and tried to shout her down, but she was not deterred from expressing her views. On the other hand, their opposition colleagues from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) supported her and encouraged her to continue with her comments, which made the chamber to be charged and almost got out of control. It took the intervention of the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, to restore relative calm to enable the lawmakers continue with discussion on the motion. Saraki advised those making contributions to the motion to restrict themselves to the prayers in the motion, to avoid provoking unnecessary pandemonium, which might truncate the actualisation of the intended goal of the motion. Following interventions by Saraki and other senators, the upper chamber finally considered the motion and adopted the four prayers moved by Melaye and his co-sponsors. Presenting the motion, Melaye observed that the militarisation of the Nigerian electoral process and the inconsistent application of electoral laws by the INEC was worrisome. He said that the need to grow the country’s democracy through institutionalisation of procedures, application of civil laws and restriction of excessive use of the military in civil affairs was paramount. “We are aware of the growing militarisation of our nation’s electoral process and the inconsistent application of electoral laws by the institutional umpire, INEC. The presence and use of extreme military force akin to war was applied in electoral polling stations and the declaration of ‘inconclusive elections’. “This poses serious threat to our democracy and has security implications that must be nipped in the bud. The nation is on the edge of a precipice and our democracy can be for posterity,” he said. The lawmaker called for building of strong institutions that could operate within established laws, lamenting that democratic institutions in the country were operating outside the provisions of the law in discharging their duties. Speaking on the motion, the Leader of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, said that the essence of having a legislature was to provide legislative intervention to smoothen governance, fairness and equity. “When INEC postponed the election, we were sad and we felt we should find out because it has become a trend which leads to loss of lives and property. So, we should invite INEC chairman to hear from him,” he said. Ruling on the motion, Saraki put the prayers to voice vote and they were unanimously adopted by the lawmakers. CHUKWU DAVID reports on the recent amendment to the 2010 Electoral Act by the National Assembly, reordering the sequence of elections, which triggered uproar in the Senate and caused a division among members of the upper legislative chamber As the 2019 general elections approach, battle for self-preservation and survival has… In “Politics” Senator Abdullahi Adamu, who represents Nasarawa West senatorial district in the National Assembly, is a fearless politician, who is always ready to tackle people and issues without fear or apology. But his courageous tendency was tested last week when the Northern Senators' Forum removed him as its chairman, WALE ELEGBEDE… In “Politics” CHUKWU DAVID reports on the intrigues trailing the recent amendment to the Electoral Act in the Senate and the looming sanctions awaiting some senators, who condemned the action   There has been some level of disquiet in the Senate in the last two weeks, when the apex legislative Chamber passed… In “Politics”