 Nigeria’s manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose slightly to 57.4 in March from 57.1 in February, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said yesterday.
According to the March 2019 PMI report posted on the Apex Bank’s website: “Manufacturing PMI in the month of March stood at 57.4 index points, indicating expansion in the manufacturing sector for the twenty-fourth consecutive month. The index grew at a faster rate when compared to the index in the previous month.”
Specifically, the report stated that 11 of the 14 subsectors surveyed reported growth in the review month. Sub-sectors that reported growth include: Cement, food, beverage & tobacco products, fabricated metal products, furniture & related products and paper products.
Other sectors that also reported growth are chemical & pharmaceutical products, plastics & rubber products, electrical equipment, printing & related support activities, transportation equipment and nonmetallic mineral products.
The textile, apparel, leather & footwear Petroleum & coal products and primary metal subsectors, however, recorded decline in the review period. The study also shows that at 58.3 points, the production level index for the manufacturing sector grew for the twenty-fifth consecutive month in March 2019. The index indicated a faster growth in the current month, when compared to its level in the month of February 2019. Nine of the 14 manufacturing subsectors recorded increased production level, while 5 recorded decline.
Furthermore, the report stated that at 56.7 points, the new orders index grew for the twenty-fourth consecutive month, indicating increase in new orders in March 2019, adding that eight subsectors reported growth, four remained unchanged, while two contracted in the review month. Similarly, the report stated that the manufacturing supplier delivery time index stood at 58.4 points in March 2019, indicating faster supplier delivery time. It noted that the index has recorded growth for twenty-second consecutive months.
Equally, the report indicates that the employment level index for March 2019 stood at 56.9 points, indicating growth in employment level for the twenty-third consecutive month. According to the report, of the 14 subsectors, nine reported increased employment level, one reported unchanged employment level while four reported decreased employment in the review month.
Likewise, the report stated that the composite PMI for the non-manufacturing sector stood at 58.5 points in March 2019, indicating expansion in the Non-manufacturing PMI for the twenty-third consecutive month, adding that the index grew at a faster rate when compared to that in February 2019.
According to the report, sub-sectors such as utilities, health care & social assistance, agriculture, information & communication, real estate, rental & leasing, repair, maintenance/washing of motor vehicles construction, were among 14 of the 17 surveyed subsectors that recorded growth during the review period.