In many African communities, soap making has been a vocation and a tradition from time immemorial. The black soap has been an ingredient in the making of beauty queens. DEBORAH OCHENI reports  Everybody loves a flawlessly glowing skin and as such, producers of natural beauty products that are effective, affordable and also not harmful to the skin are having a good business time in Abuja. Inside Abuja’s encounter with some beauticians revealed that the major ingredient they need in making natural soap is the African black soap that guarantees glowing skin when properly combined with other ingredients. African black soap, or black soap is known by various local names such as sabulun salo, ose dudu and ncha nkota in Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo languages. It is a kind of soap that is made from the ash of locally harvested African plants, which gives the soap its characteristic dark colour. Made with secret recipes passed down from generation to generation, there are several formulations of African black soap on the market today that mayhave oats, honey, or aloe vera added to them. But the core ingredients of traditionally made African black soap include native plants like plantain skins, cocoa pods, shea tree bark, or palm tree leaves. Once plant matter is collected, it is first sun dried and then roasted at a consistent temperature until it turns into ash. The ash is then added to water and various fats like palm oil, coconut oil, shea butter, cocoa butter, and palm kernel oil are added. This mixture is then heated and hand-stirred for at least 24 hours until it begins to solidify before it’s scooped out and left to cure for two weeks. A beautician, Oyiza Mohamed, CEO of Yizand Creations, said the black soap is an effective topical cleanser. “The lauric acid in palm kernel oil and coconut oil creates a nice lather and is naturally antimicrobial. Due to the presence of shea butter and other moisturizers in African black soap, it will clean your face and body without stripping oils from the skin,” she said Sadiat Usman, black soap hawker told Inside Abuja that the business is very lucrative as she make minimum of N3,000 n daily and from the profit she makes, she is able to send her three children to school. “People patronize us a lot especially big aunties that drive cars. I sell not less than N3000 worth of Sabulun Salo daily and from the profit I make from my business, I pay my children school fees and buy food items.” Another hawker of black soap who simply identified herself as Sikirat said users of black soap appreciate the fact that it is made with natural ingredients and as such, it is less harmful to skin and it cures skin infections. “Black soap is made from natural ingredients and it not harmful to the skin. Both fair and dark people use Sabulu, depending on your completion; we mix it with other ingredients for faster effective result. Sabulun cures eczema, ring worm, itches and any skin rash. It is 100 per cent natural and skin friendly.” The beauty business is one of the businesses that is on rise in Abuja. Presently, people are more conscious of how their looks as both men and women desire to have a glowing skin without wearing out the outer layer of their skin. What is more important is the fact that many people especially the middle and high class are more careful with the products they use on their skin; as such, they don’t just pick anything they see from beauty shelve at stores. Rather, they opt for locally made product that is 100 per cent natural. Speaking on specific research for individual skin, Oyiza said: “I find out from my clients what they will like to achieve with my products, then from their reply, I will be able to know their needs and give them a products that meets their need”. Ingredients that are used to achieve a radiant skin are sourced both locally and internationally depending on what the client wants. Health benefits According to experts, black soap can be used to cure eczema and minimize skin blemishes. “Eczema symptoms can be swiftly treated with African black soap. Free of artificial chemicals that can irritate sensitive skin, African black soap is enriched with plenty of things that can counter inflammation and add moisture to the epidermis. Coconut oil, shea butter, and red palm oil, in particular, provide deep hydration while soothing the swelling and pain that often accompanies an eczema flare-up. “The unique combination of ingredients in African black soap also means it is excellent for reducing the appearance of acne scars, evidence of past skin wounds, and stretch marks. Shea butter is a well-regarded ointment for repairing skin tissue and boosting collagen production. Red palm oil is a good source of vitamin E, a crucial element for the maintenance of healthy skin. And lastly, the essential fatty acids in palm kernel oil, red palm oil, and coconut oil bolster the regeneration of skin cells to help scars fade away”, she said.