 Amidst a plethora of issues dominating our political landscape, I decided to choose a man who has been chosen by God to add value to humanity through hardwork, patriotism, creativity and courage to take decisions at the most auspicious hour. At first, I thought of dedicating today’s piece to my friend and brother Rt.Hon. Aminu Tambuwal, such a cerebral governor, who was able to break the backbones and evil machinations of godfathers from Lagos, through Abuja to Sokoto, to emerge as the winner of last weekend’s gubernatorial election. He literarily battled with INEC, Bola Tinubu, Police, Army, political thugs and “Federal Might” to strike the final goal that fetched him the victory. Tambuwal’s boyish face conveys a different outlook on the surface, but in terms of politics, he is made of steel with an uncanny ability to alter permutations and calculations. I will reserve my dissection of his political drudgery till next week when all the factors and dust raised would have simmered. I was looking forward to Oseni Elama’s 60th birthday which held in Lagos 72 hours ago, until fate dealt a blow on my schedules. The final firdau prayers for my late Royal Majesty, Alhaji Andrew Yesufu Eshiorahme Dirisu, OON, the Okuokpellagbe of Okpella held on Saturday, 23rd March, at Okpella. As a bonafide member of the Palace, it was customary for me to participate and pay final respects to a father-figure whose subliminal personality impacted on the growth and development of Okpella in his 48 years on the throne. A man of peace with an uncommon interest in human capital development, he was a rallying point for all Okpella sons and daughters anywhere around the world. It was for this reason that I missed the occasion that would have fetched me a free sumptuous lunch in this era of frugal economics of Buhari’s austerity measures. For a man like Oseni Elama who doubles as the Gimba of Auchi Kingdom and the Okhaiviobre of the great Benin Kingdom, he surely understands the importance of customary rites especially as they affect the passage of a King. But for his celebration, he would have been one of the dignitaries to pay last respects to our Okuokpellagbe. Oseni Elama does not only connect with the traditional institutions, he has become another visible ambassador for the promotion of culture and traditions of our people. As a Palace Chief, he carries himself with candour and elegance to the admiration of all. Not given to frivolities, Elama is a shining example of diligence, philanthropism and perseverance. Aside from being a bridge between the young and old, his life is tempered by love for mankind. Tough, bold, resilient and stubborn with an uncommon panache for excellence, Elama represented one of the eloquent testimonies of the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s intervention in the political dynamics of Edo State from 2008 to 2016. On June 8, 2008, when he was in the trenches with Oshiomhole in the legal battle to reclaim the mandate of the 2007 gubernatorial election, Elama had accompanied Comrade Oshiomhole on a solidarity visit to the Afegbua Royal Family Palace in commemorative celebration of our late monarch, HRH Alhaji Abdulmalik Asekhome Afegbua who died on June 8, 1954 at the ripe age of 109. As a mark of remembrance, every June 8 is set aside by the family to offer prayers for the repose of his soul. Afegbua fathered over 300 children from 52 wives and opened the gateway for formal education to take firm roots in Okpella. Welcoming Elama to that 2008 remembrance in company of Oshiomhole, his comments at that event still reverberate in my consciousness till date. He was surprised to see the huge members of the Afegbua Family. And I remembered him saying “with this population from one King, you don’t need more recruits to make a political rally”. When Oshiomhole finally got victory on November 12, 2008 in the Court of Appeal, Elama was right on hand to give the needed introductory valve to fire the government on its agenda and vision for the state. Given his courage, he was appointed as the Chairman of the Assets Verification Committee; a committee that was saddled with the enviable responsibility of ascertaining the true position of the state, establish its data base and unravel its financial wellness. No sooner than the committee started its work that it began to unravel the rots that pervaded the state under previous administrations. Despite repeated pressure on Elama to slow down and allow the new administration take a life of its own, he ensured that the assignment was completed to set the right template for the proper take off of the new administration. Till date, the committee’s report remains the most authentic, reliable and verifiable piece of information on the assets and liabilities of Edo State. Done with that assignment, Oshiomhole wasted no time in making him the Chairman of the Edo Internal Revenue Service to create a new paradigm for appreciating revenues and other ancillary matters related to revenue generation in the state. At inception, Edo State was earning between N200 million and N250 million from internally generated revenue through consultants and middlemen tax collectors. Elama felt it was a waste of resources for any government to recruit tax consultants when it could utilise her own internal mechanisms to jumpstart a process that could fill that void. He did not just transform the Edo Internal Revenue Service, it became the engine room for all governmental activities. From N200 million per month IGR, Edo internal revenue rose to N2.4 billion at some point and finally settled at between N1.5 billion and N1.8 billion throughout the span of that regime. Elama was a nonsense tax collector no matter who was involved. He stepped on big toes and ruffled feathers. He developed a system that has endured till date. Rather than bend the rules and processes to favour anyone, he would rather bend the defaulters using the Police as supporting strength. The fear of Oseni Elama was the beginning of wisdom especially for tax evaders and defaulters who often enjoyed cutting corners under previous administration. In most contemporary societies, the tax man is often not the friend of many. He escaped several assassination attempts and came out stronger on each occasion to insist that the right thing must be done. The closure of the Benin Airport over outstanding tax payments amounting to several millions was one incidence that rattled the federal establishment. Having obtained a court order, Oseni Elama personally ensured that the Police enforced the order. While the then Airport Manager Sunday Ayodele wanted to flex some federal muscles, Elama ensured his arrest and detention in compliance with the court order. It became a ding dong affair until commonsense and reason prevailed over sheer braggadocio, before the manager was later released after extracting a commitment of staggered payment within a given timeframe. Just to make the point that Oseni Elama, a proud member of the National Institute, Kuru Jos, was one of the competent hands that gave valve, direction and vision to the administration of Comrade Oshiomhole. He cut a niche for himself and deployed his professional expertise as a Chartered Accountant to create a system that has today become one of the enduring legacies of that administration. Unlike some appointees whose understanding of the governance process was awkwardly low, Elama’s capacities and capabilities were in a class of his own. There were cockroaches, serpents, backbiters, rats and simpletons within the corridors of power whose knowledge of their responsibilities was hollow, yet you see them gallivant about like some conquistador. Elama was in a world driven by knowledge, quintessence and substance. He was down to earth, humble, friendly, serious-minded and result-driven. He was a stickler for excellence and hardwork. As a goal getter, he was afraid of failure. He has brought similar gusto to his new position as Executive Secretary of the Joint Tax Board at the Federal Inland Revenue Service, Abuja and has introduced a number of innovations that have redefined the responsibilities of the Board for optimal service delivery.  At 60, it calls for celebration of a man of class and distinction especially in a socio-economic milieu where life expectancy stands at a ridiculous age of 47. Aside from being a devout Catholic, his humane and urbane disposition to fellow beings is exemplary of a thoroughbred professional and responsible husband and father. I may not have been opportune to grace the formal celebration of this dependable ally and brother, here is wishing the delectable double chief happy birthday. Long life and good health in service of our dear fatherland. Congratulations my “Oga at the top”.