Detectives attached to Area D, Lagos State Command, have arrested a computer science graduate who created fake Facebook accounts of the some General Overseers. He posed as of the General Overseers of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministry (MFM), Dr. Daniel Olukoya; Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Enoch Adeboye, and the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), Temitope Balogun Joshua. The 27-year-old suspect, Atanda Yusuf, a graduate of Ekiti State University, who is an indigene of Ora in Kwara State, was tracked by detectives led by the Area Commander, ACP Akinbayo Olasoji. Yusuf said: “I am into telecommunications business, I send and download music. I flash phones. I have MTN mobile kits which I also use to register subscriber identity module (SIM) cards. I am also working for Airtel with their registration kit also at No 2, Isuti Road, Igando. “Everything I am saying is nothing but the truth because there is nothing to hide anymore. I created a Facebook account with the name of Dr. Daniel Olukoya, which I use to defraud people and I regret every bit of my action. “I also opened another Facebook account with the name of RCCG GO, Enoch Adeboye, and that of Synagogue Church of All Nations, Temitope Balogun Joshua. “I ask people through the Facebook to pay N1,000 and get N10,000 after four days. It is like ponzzi scheme where you pay N1,000 and get N3,000/and more than 100 people have been paying. I rented a shop at Igando. I rented it for N72,000. The total sum would be going to about N500,000. I started late last year, sometime in September 2018.” Yusuf further said: “I believe that what I am doing will not last forever. Initially I used my Diamond Bank account to receive money from people before I got one Amos account, which is the one I am using presently before I was arrested “Whoever that pays N1,000 and gets N3,000, once it is four days after the person had paid, I would then block the person’s number on WhatsApp, and such a person wouldn’t be able to reach me anymore. “I slammed my WhatsApp number on the Facebook page. Once you click on the page you will see the number and then contact me. I actually regret every bit of my action and I have decided to stop. In fact, I had a feeling that I was about to be caught. Nobody lured me into it; I am in it on my own. I did it all alone, no partner. “Manacy Amos, the man I use his bank account number to transact the illicit business is a colleague from the factory we were working together, which is Okosupreme Natural Resources Limited. We were in the same department. We worked as quality control inspectors. After Amos gained admission, I was still working there before the company had issue, so we shut down. During that period I met him and said a friend of mine is a bricklayer and he had issues with his account, that we have not seen any other account to pay money into and he agreed. “I told him that the bricklayer friend was ready to pay N5,000 and so he agreed to sell it. He sold his account and gave me his ATM card. That was how I got it.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said Yusuf had been on the police wanted list for over three months. He said: “We arrested the suspect following a tip-off. We have been looking for him for over three months now. We would soon charge him to court.”