Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as posing a threat to democracy for withholding his certificate of return.   Particularly, the governor berated INEC for withholding his Certificate of Return to the Senate, insisting that the electoral umpire lacked requisite powers to withhold his Certificate for reasons that were overtly frivolous.  Besides, Okorocha accused the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Imo State, Professor Francis Ezeonu of wrecking democracy in the state with his worrisome handling of the 2019 elections.  The governor, who said this yesterday while addressing youths who were protesting against the conduct of the 2019 elections, said that the REC had acted illegally by ignoring provisions of the Constitution which made it mandatory for a candidate to have 25% votes in 2/3 of the local governments in the state by announcing the PDP candidate, Emeka Ihedioha who only met the requirement in 9 local governments instead of 18 LGAs.  The governor also expressed worry on why the INEC should accept outrageous figures from three Mbaise Local Governments including Aboh Mbaise where the PDP candidate had 64,219 votes and maintained that Uche Nwosu, the governorship candidate of Action Alliance (AA) won the election by having 25% in 21 of the 27 LGAs in the state.  Okorocha said: “I say so because going by the actual calculation, the person that won this election is Ugwumba Uche Nwosu. Uche Nwosu won the election landslide, if you remove the manipulation results from Mbaise, Uche Nwosu won with over 50,000 votes, if you cannot declare him a winner because you have someone already, then they should go for a rerun because you cannot change the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria because you want to favour a candidate.  “In the course of this manipulation, we all observed that the REC decided not to use the collation officers from Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO), which he disbanded for reasons he gave that they have met with politicians. ”  Again, he brought some people whom he introduced from the University of Agriculture Umudike. They arrived just a night before the election date and we thought we have gotten the collation officers. Again, those ones were disbanded on the same reason that they have met with politicians, I wonder how this is possible having arrived the State past midnight on the election eve.” “Now, the REC went to his own University in Awka to bring in collation officers. We believed him not knowing that he brought people he has been training for a hatchet job for some weeks now in Anambra State to come and carry out this injustice in Imo State. “These men arrived with heavy security from Anambra and went straight to the various local governments. We never knew that these were relatives of the PDP candidates and from the same local government.”  “Let me tell every Nigerian that I fight no one and no one should fight me. If anyone fights me, he will be the loser at the end of it all. My INEC certificate cannot be touched and seized doing so is belittling democracy in Nigeria. It is only the tribunal that has the right to say otherwise once a result is declared. INEC cannot seize my certificate by mere petition written by somebody in a case I was not given the opportunity to present my own side of the story.”