The Double Wahala Reloaded show has been packed with many surprises and drama for viewers since it kicked off on March 18, 2019. First, the internet was thrown into frenzy when Ifu Ennada claimed that she makes N5 million sales daily and later denied uttering the statement. It was also an interesting moment when Ahneeka and Ifu almost exchanged blows on live television, leaving fans both ashamed and annoyed on their behalf. Recently, the topic of discussion was about viral moments and relationships back in the Double Wahala house and for the first time, Cee-c opened up about how she felt about Tobi in the house. Recall that Tobi and Cee-c were a major topic as they tried their hardest to have a relationship. While Cee-c appeared possessive and controlling, Tobi was sociable and had a thing for the hot-tempered Cee-c. While they had more fights than pleasant moments, one thing was clear and it was that they both had feelings for each other. During the reunion show, Cee-c admitted to liking Tobi and being extremely attracted to him, however, they were incompatible. According to Cee-c, she did not want to share Tobi with anybody. She confessed she just may have been hard on Tobi with all the insults she hurled at him back in the house but reveals it’s because she takes her time where these things are concerned. Speaking on their relationship in the house, Tobi said Cee-c is someone who likes to own everything. Meanwhile, Cee-c had spilled the beans about Tobi and Alex’s relationship. Cee-c had claimed that the two had slept together after the show ended. According to her, Nina told her that the two slept together at the hotel where they all lodged after the show. She said the story was funny to her because the two had claimed they were just best friends in the house. Scheduled to hold for 14 days – between Monday, March 18, 2019, and Sunday, March 31, 2019 – the Reunion show ends today. The 86-day reality show, Big Brother Naija season three dubbed ‘Double Wahala Edition’ ended last Sunday, April 21, amid pomp and to some extent, in consonance with the expectations of many. The MultiChoice Africa sponsored show won the hearts of many by crowning the deserving man’s efforts with the grand… In “Show Biz” Controversial former Big Brother Naija housemate, Cee-C, has disclosed why she engaged in so many fights with Tobi. You’d recall that Tobi and Cee-c were emotionally involved and fought at every given opportunity while in ‘Double Wahala’ edition of BBNaija 2018 reality show. But, speaking during ‘DoubleWahalaReloaded’ reunion show, Cee-c… In “Show Biz” Casting her mind back to their stay in the Big Brother Naija house, Cee-C has said she doesn't think she owes Tobi any apology. The housemates made this known during an interview with Media Room Hub, as both spoke about their controversial relationship, which was one of the highlights of… In “Show Biz”