Oluwole Bolanle Obasa is an expert in large Population Registration Systems with over 20 years experience across the globe, having been involved with identity card projects, national registration and election registrations in Uganda, Ethiopia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cameroon, South Africa, Burundi and Liberia. In this interview with BIODUN OYELEYE, he condemns INEC’s refusal to allow those holding temporary voter cards issued by the commission, to vote. Excerpts…  Can you expatiate on your argument that the general elections could not be fair, based on the technology used by INEC? From a very informed point of view, I strongly believe that the election could not have been fair. I say this as an expert in Large Population Registration Systems. INEC seems to be oblivious of what it is doing. INEC does not even have a clue and their position on the election is terrible flawed. INEC claimed that we have 84 million registered voters, now the question is, do we have 84 million registered voters? Of course not, we do not have 84 million registered voters who could have voted. But how many of this 84 million registered voters can vote? INEC cannot give this number. It is gross incompetence for INEC to have a database and not know how many who can vote. The elections cannot be fair, because not all registered voters can vote, due to what I consider the incompetence of INEC. As such what is the guarantee that the winner in any of the elections would have won if all or more of the 84 million registered voters were able to vote? Can’t the number be easily determined by the number of PVCs? For a start, the permanent voter ID cannot be permanent, what INEC produces will fade over a couple of years and render it useless because INEC uses a wrong technology type to print the ID. When the ID card fades, the voter may need a replacement, and that continues ad infinitum. INEC is using dye sublimation technology, a technology used for on-demand IDs. It is the type used for access in trade shows or for IDs that is made to last for a few days or at worst a few months. Dye sublimation uses heat to transfer dye onto the substrate material and in this case plastic. Printing onto plastic with liquid is not feasible, but the dye sublimation enables the transition between the solid and gas states without passing through the liquid state. As such the printing is superficial, on the surface and does not soak into the substrate like we see in printing on paper, therefore will fade over a period of time. To make the printing on plastic last longer, a protection overlay is usually applied. But even at that, it will fade over a period of time. INEC is using a wrong technology to print the voter card. The National ID Card and the Driver’s License has similar problems. How did this come about? INEC created this problem themselves. They got Nigerians to register and gave a temporary voter card and then say that unless you have the Permanent Voter Card, you cannot vote. That makes no sense whatsoever. On the one hand, INEC registers a voter, collect all the necessary data and gives a Temporary Voter Card, then turn around to invalidate the same genuine temporary ID card they gave because they say only when you have the permanent voter ID card can you vote. That makes no sense because INEC disqualifies the temporary voter ID card they gave. Why did they even bother to give the temporary ID card when it is a useless document? What then is the way out? There is only one solution to have a potential 84 million registered voters who can vote, and that is to allow any Nigerian who does not have the permanent voter ID to use the temporary voter ID to vote. The strength of the system is the database and not the voter ID card. INEC can deliver a free and fair election without the permanent voter ID, assuming INEC knows how to. As such there is no need to hang the voting on the presentation of a permanent voter ID, the temporary ID issued by the same INEC should suffice. INEC, National Identity Management Commission and FRSC should engage experts in this industry to advise them accordingly. The ID cards used in these national systems should be stronger and more durable and ought to last for at least 10 years but the PVC cannot.