The Plateau State Police command has Friday place the restriction of movement of persons and vehicles in all the 17 Local government areas of the state The Saturday rerun will be conducted in 9 out of the 17 local government areas of the state. The Police in Press State signed and issued by Public Relations officer DSP Tyopev Mathias Terna and made available to Journalists on Friday in Jos said there will be a total restriction of movement of persons and vehicles in all parts of the State from 6:00am to 6:00pm on Saturday 23rd March, 2019. in view of the gubernatorial and house of assembly supplementary election coming up in the state. “The Command is committed to ensuring that the good people on the Plateau willing to exercise their franchise do so without fear of molestation. It is also to prevent people moving from local governments where elections will not be held to election areas to ferment trouble. “Consequently, security personnel will be deployed to enforce the restriction order. The Command, however, calls on the people of the State to be law abiding and cooperate with security personnel posted to ensure the success of the electoral process. The Rivers Police Command is deploying 15,544 police personnel for the Governorship and State House of Assembly Elections billed for Saturday. Mr. Usman Belel, the State Commissioner of Police, said this yesterday in Port Harcourt at a news conference. He said the deployment would be complemented by other security agencies… In “News” Within one week, from September 27, to 4th October 4, over 50 persons including women and children were attacked and killed in three communities in Plateau State by suspected Fulani herdsmen. The week actually witnessed incessant attacks by suspected Fulani herdsmen in a community in Jos North in the villages… In “Features” The Nigerian Army said on Thursday that they have arrested 17 people in connection with the killing of at least 100 people in the central state of Plateau. Army Spokesman, Major Adam Umar said three of the arrests were linked to killings in the Barikin Ladi area, while the other… In “News Around Nigeria”