The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has continued to demonstrate that welfare of officers and personnel of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) remains one of the focal points of his administration. EMMANUEL ONANI reports  On assumption of office as the 20th Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, made a commitment to accord priority to the welfare of officers and personnel of the Service – serving, retired (on accounts of age, injury) or dead. The inspiration then may have been informed by the belief that adequate welfare is an elixir and motivation for higher productivity. It is common knowledge that the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) is largely responsible for the mileage the counterterrorism and counter-insurgency operations have assumed in the North East, with the consistent bombardment of targeted locations of suspected terrorist elements, by fighter jets and helicopter gunships. Alongside the above-mentioned interventions by the Air Task Force (ATF) component of Operation Lafiya Dole, is the deployment of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) platforms, which provide round-the-clock intelligence to surface troops. Inside Abuja’s findings revealed that officers and personnel involved in operations now prosecute their mandate with renewed vigour, with the assurance of adequate welfare for them and their families. Apart from providing incentives for improved airpower, personnel are also guaranteed welfare in retirement, in the event of “wounded in battle”, as well as provision for deceased families and next-of-kins, when death occurred. In recent weeks, the CAS had embarked on more projects dedicated to the welfare of the personnel.  Provision of specialised wheelchair to retired officer Flight Lieutenant Dauda Philip has a “testimony to share”, as he was recently “blessed” with a specialised wheelchair, to soothe the paralysis he suffered after the September 13, 2008 road traffic accident, which led to a spinal cord injury. The presentation of the £16,577.10 motorised wheelchair, which was made by the CAS in Abuja, was witnessed by wife of the retired officer, Mrs Naomi Philip; the Chief of Administration, Air Vice Marshal Kingsley Lar; Chief of Medical Services, Air Commodore Mohammed Shaibu, as well as other senior Headquarters NAF staff officers.  It came five years after he was retired from the NAF, with a recommendation that a motorized wheelchair should be provided to facilitate his movement. Abubakar had while making the presentation, thanked the retired officer for his service to the NAF in particular, and the nation in general. The Air Chief, who used the occasion to restate the Service’s continued support for any member of the NAF family with medical challenges, whether serving are or retired, noted: “Be assured that we will support you in any way we can to make life more comfortable for you”. Providing insight to the donation, the Director of Public Relations and Information (DOPRI), Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, had said that the CAS was unaware of the 2014 recommendation, which preceded his appointment. “The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has fulfilled a promise made in 2014 for the provision of a wheelchair to retired Flight Lieutenant Dauda Philip. The specialised wheelchair, which was bought at a cost of 16,577.10 Pounds Sterling, was formally handed over to the retired officer, today, 13 March 2019. “The retired officer was involved in a road traffic accident on September 13, 2008, in which he sustained a spinal cord injury that left him paralyzed. Despite being treated within the country and evacuated for advanced care in Egypt and India by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), he eventually lost total use of his upper and lower limbs. He was subsequently retired from the NAF on December 4, 2014 with a recommendation that a motorized wheelchair should be provided to aid his movement in retirement. However, this was not done, which prompted the retired officer to appeal to the present CAS for the provision of a wheelchair. “The CAS, who was hitherto unaware of his predicament, swiftly approved the recommendation and the specialised wheelchair was ordered”, the DOPRI said.  The retired officer, who could not hide his joy, said: “God has used you (CAS) to acquire this wheelchair for me, which was promised before you took over the affairs of the NAF. I am really grateful for the provision of the wheelchair as it would improve my quality of life”.  NAF commissions newly renovated buildings for personnel In continuation of his drive towards improved welfare for personnel for effective and efficient service delivery, the CAS has commissioned five newly- renovated buildings for Senior Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) at the NAF Base, Bill Clinton Drive, Abuja.
The blocks of flats, which had been in a state of disrepair prior to the assumption of office by the current NAF leadership, were renovated for use. Speaking during the commissioning, the CAS, who was represented by the Director of Administration, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Nelson Calmday, stated that prior to July 2015, records in the Administration Branch had indicated that the NAF had 45 per cent sufficiency of accommodation for personnel. But, by December 2018, “accommodation sufficiency in the NAF had increased to 65 per cent with an additional 3 per cent of personnel receiving lodging allowances”. The CAS noted that, the 68 per cent accommodation sufficiency rate recorded within three and half years was achieved despite the fact that an unprecedented number of personnel, over 7,500 airmen/airwomen and 400 officers, had been recruited into the NAF within the period. This was as Air Marshal Abubakar further disclosed that “the momentum of infrastructural development would be sustained to ensure that personnel are adequately accommodated in order to be more effective in the performance of their duties”. He, therefore, enjoined the beneficiaries to ensure proper maintenance of the buildings. Earlier in his remarks, the Commander, 053 Headquarters NAF Camp, Air Commodore Abubakar Yusuf, thanked the CAS “for always placing premium on the welfare of personnel”. Yusuf had identified welfare-related projects that had been executed in Abuja, to include: the establishment of a new NAF Base at Asokoro, Abuja in March 2017, as well as the construction of new accommodation blocks at the Bill Drive NAF Base. On March 13, the Air Chief, Abubakar,, commissioned a new Guest House at the NAF Officers’ Mess (NAFOM), NAF Base, Bill Clinton Drive, Abuja. The 10-room Guest House, which was furnished with modern facilities, is expected to cater for the transit lodging needs of both officers and allied guests visiting Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). According to the NAF, the facility was also intended to “project the good image” of the Service. Also, conscious of the positive impact honour on fallen heroes has on the moral of officers and personnel, the NAF has named another building after the late Squadron Leader Muhammed Baba-Ari. The NAF fighter pilot died in an air mishap, while participating in the aerial display rehearsals for the country’s 58th Independence Day Celebration. As a mark of honour for the supreme price the late Sqn Ldr paid, the NAF had, on December 18, 2018, named a newly- commissioned Pilots’ Crew Room at the Headquarters Air Task Force (HQ ATF) Operation Lafiya Dole in Maiduguri, Borno State, after the late senior officer.