Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, yesterday launched the “Rise for Bayelsa Campaign,” an initiative to attract global attention to the ravaging effects of oil spills, pollution and environmental degradation in the state. The governor, at the event held at the Dr. Gabriel Okara Cultural Centre in Yenagoa, the state capital, however, did not spare the international oil companies (IOCs) operating in the state from the crises bedeviling the region. Meanwhile, the governor said he would set up an International Commission of Inquiry comprising selected world opinion leaders who will visit Bayelsa communities and tour the Niger Delta to have first-hand information about the level of degradation and pollution of the region due to the activities of Multi-national Oil Companies, IOCs. This was as he accused the oil companies of constituting the biggest threat to the security architecture and stability of the state and the entire Niger Delta region under the guise of awarding crude oil pipeline surveillance contracts. The Special Adviser on Public Affairs to the Governor, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as accusing the oil multinationals of funding terrorism, criminality and breakdown of law and order in the state. He said: “They are not only polluting our land, creeks, waterways and communities, the international oil companies are also taking their terrorist and criminal activities to yet another frightening level. “All the cases of killings during elections, the people terrorising Southern Ijaw and killing the people, as well as affecting our democratic practices are funded by Agip Oil in the guise of crude oil pipeline surveillance contractors and forming a parallel government in this state and compromising all the layers of security in our country. “They have been killing, maiming and terrorising people in Nembe Bassambiri. There is a certain persons that are working as an Agip contractor funded by the company. In Southern Ijaw, there is a certain person and his people whose activities are being funded by Agip. “Agip is not interested in the stability and safety of our communities. This is how far they have escalated their terrorist activities. So, when we talk of environmental terrorism perpetrated, funded and encouraged by IOCs, you come to Bayelsa State and you see a classic case.” “The launch of the Rise for Bayelsa Campaign would herald the beginning of a long crusade by my administration as a fulfillment of the commitment made during the last World Environmental Day to shift attention from education and infrastructure deficit to the scourge of environmental terrorism.” Dickson said the short documentary aired during the launch was a true reflection of the hardship the people of Bayelsa State and the entire Niger Delta region have been experiencing for over 60 years.