Burgeoning actor and media personality, Tomide Alayande, shares her career story, romance and drive to become world’s richest girl in this interview with LANRE ODUKOYA.  Of all the vocations you could choose from, why did you settle for entertainment? Is acting your calling?
To be honest, it was not a calling. Acting just came. It’s not like I had always dreamed it. In short, I never thought I would go into acting. I started off with Microbiology. In my Year Two, I went into presenting. And then in Year Three, there was this roommate of mine that had always wanted to be on Jenifa’s Diary, and I felt she would fit into one character or the other, so when I heard about the auditions, I wanted her to go. I am the kind of person who likes to push people around me to do greater things. But she said she wasn’t going to go except I agreed to go with her, so I agreed just to ensure she went for it. That day, I got there before her and she was unable to make it. Then I thought, why would I come all the way here and not give it a try? So I went in and auditioned. Eventually, they called me and I got a role and that was how acting started for me. From your experience and journey so far, do you believe in the concept of destiny?
I believe everything I am today was destined to be. Nothing happens by chance, even the fact that I didn’t study Mass Communication and the fact that I did not do any course or get any certification in media, and I am in it; I know that it is God’s plan. If not, I won’t be here, I’ll still be in the village. What was it like combining school with a demanding media job?
I couldn’t wait to be done with school by the time I was done because it was stressful. I remember one day I had a shoot with Aunty Funke Akindele and I had an exam, Third Year exam. The scene was a party scene where everyone was involved. It was not a scene I could cancel and I was supposed to be the MC of that party, so everyone was there and I had exams. So, I got up early and went to do my make-up around 7am. I knew that if I got on set, they would still spend time trying to do my make-up, so I decided to do the make-up so that I would get on set and simply start shooting. I took that make-up to the exam hall, and you can imagine how everyone was looking at me, especially my lecturers. You know exam period, girls don’t really wear make-up. The lecturers then insisted that we had to wait till the end before we could leave the hall, so I just kept praying to God. I literally rushed the exam because obviously, my mind was elsewhere. The funny thing is that I actually passed the course. Luckily, my now fiancé was waiting for me because we were thinking of how I would get to the Island once I was done. So, he was waiting for me in front of my hostel since I couldn’t take my phone into the exam hall. Did your parents approve all you were doing?
Yes. As I said, everything is destined because none of my friends’ parents were as strict as my mother. She was so strict, and everyone didn’t believe when I got into University and I was in media. Most people thought it would not be possible, but my mum is a very supportive person. The week that I got the job at UNILAG FM, she actually prayed a particular prayer for me. I used to sing back then in church, and she asked me if I knew that my glory is actually in my voice and that God would help me use it efficiently. So literally, my mum has been my number one supporter. I knew it was not easy for her, especially when the late nights started; at times, she would stay up till about 11. But she has been there every step of the way. My dad too was just nodding along and saying “well done”. Someone once sent my picture to my father from a blog, and my father sent it to me asking, “Is this my own Alayande?” So, I’m sure things like that make them happy. How profitable is it, does it pay the bills well?
From my Year Two, I actually stopped collecting pocket money. Yes, it does pay the bills. Although it is not easy, I am living on it. The truth is that you should try not to live above your means. If I start buying Gucci now, then you should know it is not real Gucci. I am not all about the designers until I start making the billions. For now, I just don’t let anyone put pressure on me. I was using an iPhone 7 up until a few weeks ago, and the screen of my phone was messed up. My friends kept telling me to change my phone, but I told them a phone was not yet in my budget. A new phone ended up coming without stressing myself to get a new one. So I just do me and I don’t let people determine who I am. I try not to be put under pressure; especially in this kind of industry where people put themselves under unnecessary pressure and it pushes them to do stuff they are not supposed to do just to keep up with appearances. Once I wear my jeans and shirt I’m okay. And TMT by Layinka does my make-up; I’ll just package and reach the event. Who would you say is your mentor in the industry?
My boss actually, Dr. Mo Abudu. The woman keeps breaking boundaries. There are some people that would achieve and sleep for two years before coming back to do something new, but every week, every month, we see something new. She is really an inspiration. What would you consider the best advice anyone ever gave you?
My mum and she told me to be myself and to not try to please anybody. She tells me all the time that it is better to be hated for who you are than to be loved for who you are not. For example, in terms of my dressing, I am very conservative, so I try as much as possible to not step out of line, be myself and till be stylish. The pressure can be a lot. But now they know me. At first, it wasn’t easy, especially when you are young in the industry and you literally are submitting to people up there and you keep being picky about clothes. Over time, people have gotten used to what I want. I have stayed true to myself. Where do you think celebrities should draw the line in their use of social media?
As a human being, I understand how when you’re going through some things, you are literally not thinking straight. It takes a lot of people around you that have the sense to draw you back to your normal self. So, it is also about the people you surround yourself with. You have to have real friends, asides from media. Literally, 70 percent of my friends are from school, so that originality is still there and I have people that know me from back then that can’t let fame or anything go to my head. So, it is about whom you surround yourself with. Don’t act before you think. Sometimes, anger makes you just want to scatter everything. When I see some things on social media, I try to give people the benefit of the doubt. Social media is a blessing and a curse. We just need to understand and know where to draw the line. It is not easy because you have people online and thirsty for content, and you are tempted to just pour it all in. But the people around you can keep you in check without adding fire to it. You are engaged to be married soon, so when exactly is the grand wedding?
It is the day that the Lord has made. It is in a few weeks actually. In your line of work many believe it is not easy to settle down…
Asides from being a public figure, it has to do with your personality. Different people handle fame differently. For example, I don’t even believe I am famous, and I have people around me who keep me grounded. Going into marriage will not change anything because it all boils down to the person’s personality. Maybe I am also lucky to have met my husband-to-be since I was in Year Two, so I can’t do so much ‘shakara’ for him. He knew me when I was ‘legging’ it all about University of Lagos. I am lucky that we were able to grow together. It is about the woman at the end of the day and realising that it is your home and life, not media. It is not a publicity stunt. What are you looking forward to in marriage?
Let me start with what everybody is looking forward to. Everyone is looking forward to twins and triplets. I am looking forward to being a woman, managing a home. I am looking forward to being more responsible. I always wanted to get married early and I am happy that God did it. Even when I went into media, nothing changed. Aunty Funke Akindele’s pressure is enough to make you marry early: “she would say, what are you waiting for Tomike, oya marry!” It is good to have people around you like that. It is also about marrying someone that understands. My husband-to-be has been supportive from the first day. He would wait for me for hours on set. It lets me have no doubts. Is he also into media practice too?
Never. He doesn’t even like being in the public eye, he is a very private person. What else would you have done asides media and entertainment?
The richest girl on earth. I am still going to be the richest girl on earth, just watch me.