Outgoing Governor of Ogun State and Senator-elect, Ibikunle Amosun, may not have succeeded in his bid to have an indigene of Ogun West Senatorial District of the state as his successor, but it was a course that he gave his all, given his conviction that it was borne out of the need for equity. Felix Nwaneri reports  The 2019 general elections have come and gone, but the dust it raised across the country is yet to settle given the upsets that proved most bookmaker wrong. Among the states that recorded such upset was Ogun State, where the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dapo Abiodun was declared winner of the governorship election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Abiodun polled 241,670 votes to defeat the candidate of Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Adekunle Akinlade, who scored 222,153 votes. The election may have been won and lost, but there is no doubt that it was characterised by interplay of forces, scheming and deft maneuverings. One of the factors that was played up before the election was the quest of the people of Ogun West Senatorial District to produce a governor, to which the outgoing governor and senator-elect, Ibikunle Amosun, was committed to, as he had expressed in many fora. While Amosun secured his senatorial seat, his dream of seeing Ogun West producing his successor was not to be as his protégé, Akinlade lost to Abiodun. Some have interpreted Akinlade’s loss as as Amosun’s personal loss given that the outgoing governor, who contested and won the Ogun Central senatorial seat on the platform of the APC, backed APM’s Akinlade. Those who hold this view, particularly Amosun’s detractors within the APC of which he still remains a member despite his suspension by the national leadership of the party, insist that the governor was not only humiliated, but humbled politically. The question is: Was Amosun really humiliated or humbled? Most discerning political minds in the state believe not. To them, Amosun may have failed in his bid to see Ogun West produce a governor after 42 years of the creation of Ogun State, but such a loss, they argued, cannot be classified as personal. These analysts maintained that considering the many political gladiators that rallied against him and the Armanda of political arsenal and forces massed up to ensure that his dream did not come through, Amosun could not have been truly humbled. Although the forces Amosun stood against were a legion, they were not as formidable as many would have expected. They include, but not limited to the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; two former governors of the state, Chief Olusegun Osoba and Otunba Gbenga Daniel, who are both tested grassroots politicians in the state; APC National Chairman,Adams Oshiomhole; Governor-elect, Dapo Abiodun; the senator representing Lagos West Senatorial District, Solomon Adeola; senator representing Ogun East zone, Buruji Kashamu (who also contested the governorship election), but aligned with the APC candidate; business mgul, Chief Kensington Adebutu and his son, Ladi. Others were the senator-elect for Ogun East and Amosun’s ex-Chief of Staff, Tolu Odebiyi; candidate of the ADC in Ogun State, Gboyega Nasiru Isiaka, who was said to have had an understanding to remain in the race and divide the votes of Amosun’s candidate from the West also played along. There was Abiodun Akinlade, a former House of Representatives candidate from Ogun East, who had always wanted to be governor, but aligned with anti-Amosun forces. There was also the Senator-elect, Lagos East Senatorial District, Bayo Osinowo, who was said to have been deployed to the state by some interested elements on Lagos State. Also on the list were Amosun’s commissioners for Commerce as well as Culture and Tourism, Bimbo Ashiru and Muyiwa Oladipo; former members of the state House of Assembly, local council chairmen and former commissioners, among other political offices. Despite this intimidating collection, Amosun was far from being humiliated in the views of many. To those who hold this view, Amosun indeed gave a good account of himself as a formidable political force in the state and the greatest grassroots politician of all time. They cited results of the election to justify their position. A look at the governorship election results showed that while Akinlade (APM candidate and Amosun’s choice) polled 222,153 votes, Abiodun (the APC candidate and governor-elect) polled 241,670 votes. This means that the margin of lead was only 19,517 votes, with cancelled votes put at 20,969. An analysis of the results showed that the forces against Amosun heavily mined votes from Ogun East, where several of the political gladiators hailed from. This is beside the fact that Abiodun is from there. A further breakdown of the results from the axis also revealed that Abiodun won in all the local governments in the area, except in Ijebu North Local Government Area, which was won by Kashamu. On the whole, Abiodun won in Ijebu-Ode, Odogbolu, Odeda, Ijebu North-East, Sagamu, and Ijebu-East. He also won in Remo- North, Ogun Waterside, Obafemi-Owode and Ikenne Local Government Areas; all in the Ogun East Senatorial District. On his part, Akinlade, with Amosun’s influence and his nerve-racking campaign, won in six council areas spread between Ogun West and Central senatorial districts, including Abeokuta-North, Egbado-South, Ewekoro, Ipokia, Ifo and Ado-Odo/ Ota council areas. Armed with the breakdown of the results and a defeat with 19,517 vote differential simply exposed the lie in the narrative that Amosun was humiliated, especially as the cancelled votes were in excess of the margin of lead. This is besides the argument among some pundits, who insisted that going by the “Principle of Margin of Lead” cited by INEC, which declared elections in states like Benue, Kano, Plateau, Bauchi, Adamawa and Sokoto inconclusive, same ought to have been applied to the case of Ogun State. While the electoral umpire owes the people of Ogun State explanations over its decision, what baffled most stakeholders in the state was how some notable politicians of Ogun West stock and by extension some of their associates outside the zone, but within the state, aligned to defeat their own, after 43 years of seeking to rule the state. Historically, the zone has never produced an elected governor of the state. The pendulum of governance in the state has always swung between Ogun Central, where Osoba and Amosun are from, and Ogun East, where the late Olabisi Onabanjo, Daniel and now Abiodun are from. But, the inability of the zone to produce a governor for the state is not due to lack of push for it. Rather, it has always been a case of inability of major politicians from the area to forge a united front to push for it. This was the case when former President Olusegun Obasanjo attempted to push for Major General Tunji Olurin (rtd) during the 2011 general elections. At the same time, Daniel pushed for Isiaka, while Amosun ran on the ticket of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and eventually won. Political watchers in the state contend that had the zone agreed on a consensus candidate in 2011, the zone, irrespective of unsubstantiated claim of its numerical weakness, would have produced a state governor. But, it was not to be, and Amosun rode to victory on the back of that disunity and a political agreement between his political movement and that of Osoba. Similar scenario has again played out in the 2019 election. Isiaka threw his heart to the ring even when he was certain his chances were slim, especially after the presidential and National Assembly elections, where his party performed dismally. No doubt, it is within his constitutional rights to aspire to govern the state. However, he would for a long time battle to dispel allegations that some parties goaded him on to play the spoiler role in Yewa zone for whatever reason. Interestingly, others posited that the inability to come up with a consensus candidate betrayed the lack of unity of purpose among the proponents of a Yewa governor for the state. Those who hold this view argued that the quest was more of personal as against regional interest. As one observer, who is familiar with the Ogun State politics posited, the quest for a Yewa governor for the state might continue to suffer until two things happen: politicians from the zone must come together, jettison personal interests and forge a united front. They must also fend off destabilising interests from the two other zones, who often play politicians from the zone against themselves. No doubt, Amosun may not have handled well his push to have Akinlade to succeed him; that is however not enough to justify the narrative that he was humbled. Again, the question is: What should the governor had done given the way Abiodun emerged as APC candidate ideal? Amosun was simply outplayed by a formidable political force that he was up against, which is not a new occurrence in politics. In the final analysis, it goes without saying that the outgoing governor gave a good and impressive fight and the fact that he secured a Senate seat further confirms same. He didn’t actually lose in this contest, rather, the joke in on those, who forged a front against him and still could not secure a clean win to prove their worth or standing in the political calculus of the state.