…say it could scare portfolio investors Debt servicing ratio unreasonable, unsustainable –ICAN, Ezekwesili, others  The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), at the end of its meeting in Abuja on Tuesday had cautioned the Federal Government against Nigeria’s rising debts profile which is increasing the ratio of debt servicing to unsustainable levels. The Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele said the Committee noted the increase in debt level advising for caution, saying it could fast be approaching the pre-2005 Paris Club level.  This came as the Director Fiscal Affairs, International Monetary Fund (IMF), Mr. Vitor Gaspar, said at the IMF Fiscal Monitor briefing in Washington on Wednesday that 66 per cent of Nigeria’s tax revenues is spent on servicing debts, calling on the country to raise taxes. Between July 2015 and September 2018 the country spent N5.468trillion to service the debt, an analysis of the data obtained from the Debt Management Office has shown.  While domestic debt servicing gulped a total of N4.77trillion within the period, the country spent a total of $2.28billion to service foreign debt. Economic experts, who spoke on the rising debt profile and the over 66 per cent of revenue, said it could actually scare foreign portfolio investors away from the nation’s economy because it can crash the value of the local currency, a situation that portfolio investors will not like to be part of.  It is against this backdrop that the World Bank Group and the IMF have warned the Federal Government over its excessive borrowing. World Bank’s Vice President for Africa, Mr. Hafez Ghanem, recently urged the Federal Government to reduce its borrowing and tap private investments that will yield multiplier effects on many sectors of the economy. Recognising the country’s diminished income capacity and rising debt profile, what the World Bank is saying is that Nigeria ought to increase its income base or take more loans that come with less servicing commitments.  IMF on its part warned that Nigeria’s current sovereign debt servicing obligation was becoming unsustainable compared to its revenue generating capacity. According to the organisation, the situation may impair infrastructure and social project financing over a short to medium term.  At a press briefing on the release of October 2018 Fiscal Monitor at the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank Group in Bali, Indonesia, the IMF Director of Fiscal Affairs, Vitor Gasper, said there was indeed an issue over how Nigeria can increase its revenue base to match a growing infrastructure financing need, stressing that the Fund sees increasing non-oil revenue as a crucial priority for the country. “The interest rate has gone up to where they used to be around the year 2000 before debt relief. Adjustment has relied on spending compression rather than revenues mobilisation.  Meeting the Sustainable Development Goals will require stronger growth and more financing,” Gaspar said. Also speaking on the imminent danger facing the economy over the rising debt service profile, former Vice President (Africa) of World Bank, Mrs. Oby Ezekwesili had raised the alarm that the Federal Government is already spending 69 per cent of its revenue on servicing both foreign and domestic debts. She said: “The Federal Government is digging in instead of digging out. Already, the debt service to revenue is so high. Today it is 69 per cent.   “That is not a sustainable situation. I see the government quote all the time `Debt to GDP ratio’, but that is like a blunt instrument in an environment where your GDP is not reflective of your productivity. “We measure your productivity by the revenue the GDP generates in the form of revenue of government that comes as a result of the GDP. Your debt to GDP is three per cent and you think that gives you the legroom to borrow and borrow. No, that is not your instrument. Your instrument is your debt service tool, which is the revenue.”  The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) concurred that the debt servicing situation has reached a very ‘unreasonable’ level, though it thinks it stood at 63 per cent in December 2018. ICAN President, Razak Jaiyeola, who made this declaration, also told the media that the servicing ratio was unsustainable and would not help the growth of the economy.  “The debt servicing ratio of about 63 per cent of revenue is unreasonable and has not helped the economy to grow. It is unsustainable and should bother every right thinking Nigerian,” Jaiyeola stated. The Institute’s chief believed what “misled the country is the wrong position of relating debt servicing to GDP.” He added that “the relationship should be between debt-servicing and revenue generated”. According to him, this would give a better idea of what the situation is and help chart a new path.  Also, the FSDH Research analysis of the ratio of the interest payment on domestic debt relative to the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) allocation from the Federal Account Allocation Committee (FAAC), shows that the FGN is spending too much of its revenue to pay interest on loans. “This leaves the government with little resources to spend on critical sectors of the economy that could support strong growth and maintain a healthy economy to generate revenue. “The current high interest payment relative to revenue may increase the credit risk of the country.  Although the government has been able to meet its debt obligations (interest and principal payments) so far, if the current situation is not addressed, the interest rate on government loans may increase because of the perceived elevated risk. This would also lead to higher interest rates for private sector operators.   It is important to note that the external environment is becoming tighter than before because of the rising interest rate in the US,” it said. West Africa and Nigeria’s first Professor of Capital Market, who doubles as the Head of Banking & Finance Department at the Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Prof Uche Uwaleke, also raised the alarm on the dangerous signals coming from the nation’s debt service to revenue ratio.  According to him, currently, Nigeria uses almost over 63 per cent of the national budget to service jumping debt profile even as the government is working on a template to still drive the coming 2019 budget partly with fresh borrowing spree.  Economic experts at the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) further expressed concern over the ability of the 2019 budget to finance infrastructure investment. In a business and economic review for 2018 and outlook for 2019, the experts led by the LCCI Director General, Muda Yusuf, raised doubt over the N8.8 trillion budget, insisting that debt service to revenue ratio and debt service to capital expenditure ratio in the budget proposal are on the high side with implication on the country’s ability to deliver infrastructure investments.  Speaking in an interview, Uwaleke said: “The public debt burden has manifested more in the debt service to revenue ratio, which is becoming unsustainable.” He, however, said that it appears that the Federal Government is beginning to be concerned about mounting public debts with its plan to reduce borrowing next year. Meanwhile, despite the fears being expressed, the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, was on Wednesday quoted as saying that Nigeria would tap concessionary long-term loans to finance the 2019 budget in addition to borrowing at home.  “We intend to fund the 2019 budget through borrowing locally and internationally with a spread of 50:50. Our focus is on concessionary long-term loans,” said a National Assembly tweet quoting the finance minister.  For Debt Management Office (DMO), however, rising debt and rising cost of debt payment were necessities occasioned by precarious economic situation as typified by the recent recession that the country went through. The Director-General of DMO, Patience Oniha, said that it was important for the government to borrow especially given the nation’s low revenue generating capacity. Mrs. Oniha said: “We are borrowing to be able to increase Forex availability. Government needed to borrow in order to spend the country out of recession.”  Justifying this viewpoint, Mrs. Oniha said that in 2016, the Federal Government borrowed N2.5trillion which was approved by the National Assembly while it is borrowing N1.64trillion in the 2018 financial year.  In 2019, she added that the proposed debt of N1.5trillion had gone further down. She disclosed that that the government had taken steps to diversify the economy and increase tax collection which she said, was lower than in most countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). According to her, the government has also taken steps to reduce the incidence of high cost of debt servicing. One of such steps is the attempt to rebalance the nation’s sources of loans.  By this, the government has been making moves to borrow more from foreign sources as it plans to raise foreign debt component to 40 per cent of the public debt while reducing the domestic debt component to 60 per cent. The rationale is that domestic debts come with higher interest rates. The second strategy is similar to the first one – borrow more money from foreign sources and use it to liquidate some domestic debt.  This strategy will also grow the foreign debt component and reduce the local component, she said. Nigeria’s debt stock increased by 3 per cent from N21.68 trillion recorded in December 2017 to N22.4 trillion ($73.21 billion) at the end of June 2018, to which government is spending over 66 per cent of its revenue on debt servicing. Latest data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Nigeria’s rising debt profile has reignited concerns that the country could be headed for a debt meltdown. TONY CHUKWUNYEM writes President Muhammadu Buhari’s letter to the National Assembly on October 25 last year, seeking approval to borrow $29.9billion to… In “Business” Nigeria’s recently launched Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP2017-2020) appears to have been generally well received by industry experts. However, the country’s already high debt service ratio in proportion to income, is raising concerns in some quarters about government’s ability to fund the scheme. TONY CHUKWUNYEM writes   Nearly two… In “Business” ...says borrowed funds should yield high returns lFund supports nation’s debt strategy As Nigeria’s debt profile continues to rise, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has raised the alarm that the debt level was “creating some form of vulnerabilities.”   The Fund’s Assistant Director, Fiscal Affairs Department, Catherine Pattillo, said this… In “News”