As Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) and National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) bicker over the use of methyl bromide as a fumigant for pest control in crops, the Federal Government has finally taken a position, as it plans to gradually phase out use of the pesticide. Taiwo Hassan reports  In Nigerian agriculture, the importance of applying pesticides and herbicides on agricultural produce has been there for ages because of diseases that feast on crops before or at harvests.
Particularly, many farmers have acquainted themselves to chemical usage in the cultivation of crops in a bid not to suffer post-harvests loss, which has culminated in heavy loss on agricultural produce in the country.
However, since the sudden emergence of an online video of some farmers applying sniper to treat pests-infested beans in Nigeria last year, agencies of government have been on alert to regulate chemical use in the country’s agricultural sector because of its severe health hazard on human beings. Pest market
However, statistics have shown that the country’s pest control and fumigation industry has a huge market of over 400 million euros, but only about 20 million euros has been tapped.
Speaking at a two-day training and certification programme for intending managing directors of pest control and fumigation companies in Lagos recently, the Managing Director, Rotimax Integrated Services Limited, Tolu Caled, explained that the country’s pest control and fumigation industry was very lucrative, especially in hub places such as Abuja, Port Harcourt and Lagos.
According to him, professionals in other parts of the country can also do very well in this area if the business environment is conducive.
He said that they are encouraging professionals to delve into corporate sector because there is a law that mandates every public facility to conduct pest control on quarterly basis, adding that there are bodies that are meant to shut down your facilities if you don’t do that.
“We are just trying to make sure that the laws are enforced; so it is very lucrative, but not well tapped into.” Disquiet
However, in a bid to review and regulate the use of chemicals in the country’s agriculture, NAFDAC recently announced that it was phasing out agro-chemical known as Methly bromide for phytosanitary treatment of agro-produce in the country because of its side effects on crops at harvests.
Its director general, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, had in a statement warned the public, farmers, exporters of agricultural produce and agro-input dealers to desist from using methyl bromide as a pesticide with immediate effect.
According to her, the chemical is colourless, odourless, noncorrosive and non-flammable, highly toxic to a broad spectrum of insects from egg to the adult stage. She said that it was primarily used as a fumigant in stored product pest management.
Ironically, the NAFDAC’s pronouncement didn’t go down well with NAQS, with the agency querying the power of the former in regulating the country’s agriculture, where it is the substantive regulator.
Particularly, NAQS’ protest was based on the fact that it has the sole mandate to make a public pronouncement on the use of Methyl bromide for phytosanitary treatment of agro-produce in Nigeria.
Director general of the quarantine agency, Dr. Vincent Isegbe, in a statement, said that the use of Methyl bromide was allowed for controlled quarantine use due to lack of suitable alternatives, especially where specific request for its use is made.
He said: “For example, Mexico as a nation specifically requests the use of Methyl bromide in the treatment of Hibiscus shipments to their country – a trade that yielded over $35 million for Nigeria within nine months in 2017 alone.
“Furthermore, under the International Standard for Phytosanitary Measures (ISPM) 15, the use of Methyl bromide for the treatment of solid wood packaging materials in international trade is allowed.
“All agro-chemicals are potentially harmful if not used safely. The major concern regarding the use of Methyl bromide is its effect on climate change, specifically on the depletion of Ozone layer. Nonetheless, the Montreal Protocol provides exemption for individual countries on its usage based on special quota system.”
Asegbe, however, assured farmers of agricultural commodities, exporters, designated warehouse managers, the EU and the public that NAQS will not permit the use of Methyl bromide indiscriminately.
He added: “The public may wish to note that NAFDAC regulates chemicals generally but their specific use in phytosanitary treatment is the statutory responsibility of NAQS as the National Plant Protection Organization (NPPO) for Nigeria under the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC) guidelines.” Chemical fertilizers
As the brawl in the regulation of chemical usage in the country’s agric sector rages on, the Federal Government announced this week that it was planning to gradually phase out the use of chemical fertilizers in agriculture outright.
Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, stated this while inspecting the first organic banana plantation by an Indian company, Contec Global Agro Limited in Kwali in Abuja.
Ogbeh, who expressed worry over the increasing numbers of liver and kidney diseases among young people, explained that the objective was to eliminate dangerous elements from foods.
He noted that the move would also help to reduce the damages in the soil through the application of fertilizers.
‘‘We are slowly going to begin to eliminate chemical fertilizers. Organic nature means that this is what nature is all about without polluting it with salt, the chemical fertilizers are salt,” he said
‘‘They damage the soil of all kinds and over a while, you find out that the soil is no longer good for you because they destroy the microbes, which make the soil more productive. We need to make the food healthier because a lot of self-poisoning is going on in the country.
“Even the machines we use to grind tomatoes in the market, metal rubbing against metal; particles of heavy metals getting into the food.
‘Suddenly, you see a young person in the hospital, like 20 years of age suffering from liver and kidney problem and you ask, do you drink alcohol, he says no, then what is happening?
‘‘We are not probing enough but we want to start in agriculture, eliminating dangerous elements from our food.
‘‘The place to begin is the farm, right from where you are planting, from the soil, from the bio-chemicals, the water, all of that has to be controlled and then you have healthy foods.” Last line
Amid intensive campaigns against agricultural chemical usage in the country, agriculturists and agro-researchers are wary of the fate and future of Nigeria’s agriculture relating to pest control in agricultural produce and crop preservation.