Diego Maradona and George Best were some of the world’s best footballers who famously fought alcohol addiction. Stiff drinks have so often ruined some of the world’s best players and it’s because of this that other professionals decide to not to touch it all together. Here are some of the world’s top teetotalers.   Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo is known for his incredible work ethic and healthy lifestyle, and one of the biggest contributors to his success is the fact that he doesn’t drink alcohol. Ronaldo’s reason is more of a personal one. His father passed away after years of alcohol abuse, and that is the main factor he decided to avoid the bottle.  Javier Hernandez Javier’s grandfather, Tomas Balcazar once said: “Javier has his diet, he doesn’t eat just anything. He never drinks even a drop of alcohol. He doesn’t stay up late for any reason.” What a virtuous grandson, I must confess.   James Milner Milner once revealed that he never drinks alcohol to ensure he makes the most of his career. The Liverpool midfielder recalled how he was told by veteran goalkeeper Nigel Martyn when he was a teenager at Leeds to embrace every moment as footballers’ careers are over in a flash. Reflecting on his life-time of being teetotaler, he told the Daily Mail: “I tried my old man’s Strongbow when I was young. But when I came through at Leeds, I made that decision that if it helped me not drinking then I wouldn’t  Harry kane “If I need to relax, I take my dogs out for a walk or I play of golf. I can’t remember the last time I went to a club. Obviously, everyone is different but I love just settling down and having a good time with friends at my house,” said Kane. No wonder he has scored over 30 goals for Tottenham Hotspur in each of the last three seasons.   Yaya Toure The Manchester City midfielder and former Ivory Coast captain is a devout Muslim and once said: “Sorry, I don’t drink because I’m Muslim.” He also famously turned down a bottle of champagne which was a Man of The Match Award because of his strict religious background.  Kolo Toure Like his y o u n g e r b r o t h e r Yaya, the former Arsenal, Manchester City, Liverpool and Celtic defender does not also drink due to his religious background. The Ivorian is a devout Muslim and alcohol is one of the prohibited things Franck Ribery Franck Ribery reverted to Islam in 2006 after marrying a Muslim woman of Moroccan origin. He once told his Bayern Munch team-mates to keep the alcohol, which is forbidden by his religion, away from him when they were celebrating Bundesliga title. In addition, the French winger opened an alcoholfree bar that would serve fruit juices in his home town of Boulogne-sur-Mer, with the aims of encouraging the French people to abandon alcohol drinking by offering alternative alcohol-free atmosphere.  Darren Fletcher The Scottish legend, who won numerous titles with Machester United before switching to Bromwich Albion does not also touch the bottle. The central midfielder and captain of Scotland national team is now playing for Stoke City, having made the switch this summer and is expected to be among the “sober” minds in Mark Hughes’ dressing room  The former French star, who played for Liverpool among others, is well known for his two-leg breaks, breaking his left leg in 2004 and his right leg in 2006. He scored 24 goals in his 79 appearances for Liverpool between 2004 and 2007. But it is hard to believe that the retired striker does not drink alcohol too. The footballer-turned-DJ likes to party hard but alcohol is not on the menu. That’s incredible right?