Paucity of local funding has pushed many young technology companies in the country to seek investors from outside the shores of the land. While they have succeeded in raking in millions of dollars in the last few years, industry experts fear that the country may be losing its technology proprietaries to foreigners through offshore funding. SAMSON AKINTARO reports  The technology space in Nigeria is taking a new shape with an array of young and innovative technology start-ups springing up across the country. With the hindsight that most of the top global tech giants today also started as small ventures, there is hope that the country in the nearest future would become home to top-notch technology companies such as Facebook, Google of this world. However, industry stakeholders are worried that the country’s hope on the tech start-ups may be dashed if nothing is done to address their funding challenge locally. While lack of funding had been a major obstacle to the growth of tech start-ups, the young innovators have found succour in foreign venture capitals that are now investing in their innovative ideas. Only last year, 58 start-ups in the country were said to have raised a total of $95 million from foreign investors and the largest in the continent. According to Disrupt Africa in its Tech Start-up Funding report, with that $95 million, Nigeria displaced South Africa as the leading tech start-up funding destination last year.  Some beneficiaries As one of the leading start-ups in the country attracting foreign interests, Fintech company, Paga, recorded another massive funding round in 2018. The company raised $10 million from Global Innovation Fund (GIF), which brought its total raised fund to $34.7 million in four rounds since 2010. The new investment was in line with Paga’s plans to expand to other African and international markets. Digest Africa reports that places such as Ethiopia and Mexico are on the cards. Also, last October, Flutterwave secured another $10 million funding from international investors. The deal was an extension of the $10 million Series A funding it received in 2017 and brought its total foreign funding to $20.1 million. Revolutionary Nigerian payments company, PayStack, also impressed in 2018 with its round of funding. The start-up announced a new $10.2 million round of funding from investors including Stripe, Visa and China’s Tencent. These investors are huge players in the financial world, with Tencent’s WeChat being the biggest multi-purpose platform in China. Paystack’s new investment allows it to enter new markets across Africa. Another start-up, Wakanow, also pulled off one of the biggest funding round last year. The flight booking company raised $40 million from American private equity company, The Carlyle Group. Interestingly, The Carlyle Group is one of the world’s largest private equity companies. Prior to the funding though, Wakanow had been in financial disarray as the company had been battered by the recent recession in Nigeria. The fund was expected to put the company back on track.  The concerns In the absence of adequate local funding, foreign investors are helping the start-ups get out of doldrums and keeping their innovative brains alive with the needed funding. This is, however, raising concerns over what becomes of the companies post maturity. Chief Executive Officer, Precise Financial Systems Ltd and current President, Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria (ISPON), Dr Yele Okeremi, noted that while tech start-ups now have solution to funding challenge with increasing foreign interests, the country may be the loser at the end of the day. “There is a lot of money coming from overseas for tech start-ups in Nigeria,” he said. “Andela raised $100 million, where did that money come from? It’s from foreign investors. Wakanow raised $40 million a few weeks ago, tens of billions of dollars are still coming. But you know what the problem is and, which is the bad news for Nigeria? When Andela raised $100 million from foreign company, who owns Andela now? They are not Nigerian concerns, so, once again, Nigeria finds itself importing finished goods and exporting talent. Even though they are sitting in Nigeria and developing solutions, when they sell to Nigerians, the money goes abroad. So, the tech start-ups are getting funding and will still continue to get, but at the end of the day, the money goes back to the source.”  Also expressing concerns over foreign investments in start-ups, Principal Consultant, Technology Law Development Services (TLDS) and a former Director at National Information Technology Development Agency of Nigeria (NITDA), Mr Inye Kemabonta, said start-ups in Nigeria’s ICT industry have been inadvertently left in the hands of foreign investors through lack of appropriate funding locally. “The first thing is to understand the role of capital in catalysing the growth of the industry. I am concerned that with current situation where we have our start-ups and technological companies in the hands of foreign investors, we are beginning another round of colonization,” he said. Kemabonta noted that while foreign direct investments is not a bad idea in ICT, there must be a policy ensuring that such FDIs are targeted at building local capacity. He challenged local investors to take over investments in the ICT industry, adding: “Even if there is foreign capital, shouldn’t we be conscious that those kind of funds help ignite learning, human capital development? Such money should be able to develop us. We have been having foreign funds for a long period and it has only left us with growth without development.”  Local investors’ apathy Explaining why some local investors are not looking at the way of tech start-ups, Chief Executive Officer of Intelligent Campaign Hub, Mr Kunle Erinle, said many do not understand the potential in the tech industry and the lack of understanding has always been the real issue. According to him, the funds needed by these start-ups to become a big player are not really big money. “Some start-ups don’t need a lot of money, we are talking five million or less, but banks would be requesting for collateral, which they cannot afford,” he said.  “There are quite a number of ideas that I have been part of and these are billion dollar ideas. Someone asked me a question why can’t a Nigerian create a whatsapp or Facebook, we already are creating that, but the problem is we don’t have the platform to showcase what we are doing. The environment needs to encourage those innovations,” Erinle said. Corroborating this, the CEO of CcHub, Bosun Tijani, said although, there is so much money in Nigeria, the local investors are still not used to investing in technology because there are other places they can put their money to generate guaranteed returns quickly. “So, I think that’s why, but the more we get successful technology start-ups that are producing returns for stakeholders, the more local investors will start to see that maybe they should put their money in it,” he said. However, according to the Co-founder, Lagos Angel Network and President of the African Business Angel Network (ABAN), Mr Tomi Davies, local investors are still trying their best in investing in tech start-ups in Nigeria. But he would rather want government to revamp the sub-sector and make it thrive better; noting that the first thing government could do is to create a matching fund that can accelerate development. “The first thing is creating matching funds. Here, let’s say the Federal Ministry of Education has a budget of N100 million; some millions from it can be taken out and put aside for innovations,” he said. “By so doing, anybody that is creating a company that aligns with the ministry’s budget, the angel investors can support by putting money and it will be matched with the funds on ground for creativity. It is an innovative way. Other countries do tax incentives. It’s also a way to get people not to stop investing. I’m not talking of public private partnership, in the classical sense, but I’m saying, set aside the money you’re supposed to spend, and then match it to do what is it you want to do before,” he explained.  Last line In the final analysis, government still has a huge role to play in providing supports for innovations. While many innovation hubs are being created across the country by private bodies and government, the end product of the ideas being incubated through the hubs is to have fully-owned Nigerian companies providing solutions to meet technological needs of Nigerians and the expanding to other parts of the world. This, however, may not be realised if the start-ups continue to depend heavily on offshore funding to rise.