The need to promote the potential of cross-disciplinary scholarships for national development by institutions of higher learning has been stressed in order to overcome the limitations of over-specialisation and to maximize the advantages for the growth of the country.  This was the main thrust of the fourth matriculation lecture of Augustine University, Ilara-Epe, Lagos, delivered by a Visiting Professor of English Language from the University of Ibadan (UI) and the Dean, Faculty of Humanities, Management and Social Sciences at the university, Prof. Aderemi Raji-Oyelade.  The don, whose lecture was entitled: “STEM to STEAM: Advancing the Potential of Cross- Disciplinary Literacies,” said: “A university is expected to be a centre of varying disciplines fused into a unilateral hub of knowledge, harnessing the resources of each field in the interest of humanity.” According to him, the essence of such collaboration and integration is to be able to integrate more, and make the university more resourceful and instrumental in solving the problems of the common man.  Some of issues raised in the lecture include: “What does it mean to be literate in the age of (the new media) of multiple scholarships and multiple literacies? Without doubt, the new understanding of literacy in the new age is such that it invites multiple definitions, for literacy itself is a plural activity.  “How do we popularize the potential of cross-disciplinary scholarships for national development? How can we overcome the limitations of over-specialisation and maximize the advantages of it for national development?  How do we maximize the dialogue of the disciplines as a necessary means of attaining intellectual fullness?”  No fewer than 71 fresh students, who took their matriculation oath during the ceremony held at the university Convocation Hall, pledged their readiness to shun all forms of anti-social behaviour on campus and adhere to the university’s rules and regulations. In his lecture, Raji-Oyelade further noted that though specialisations are necessary, in this century it is those who are capable of crossing the boundaries of the disciplines that would make the difference.  “It is those, who possess the ability of disciplinary transgressions who can interact beyond the borders of their own specialisations; those who privilege horizontal collaborations (across the planks or branches of the disciplines); those who embrace the advancement and deployment of technology in SSH, Education and those who are not afraid to embrace the qualitative power of the imagination even when they are engaged in the empirical world of scientific,” he added.  He, however, noted that the character of cross-disciplinary practice is that one discipline illuminates the other in a concentric, mutually functional way that intellectual literacy is achieved across and within the disciplines.  Meanwhile, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Steve Afolami lauded the proprietors of the institution for giving the management the freedom to operate, a development, he said was not common with owners of private universities. Afolami, therefore, thanked them immense support given to the management since inception to foster high academic standard and encourage healthy competition by students through excellence reward instituted for all the programmes.