A birthday boy, who was forced by his dad to go to school to mark his birthday, was said to be among the trapped victims. The information came just as a frantic male teacher, repeatedly called from the under the rubble that he was alive, but praying to be rescued soonest. It was learnt that the birthday boy had refused to go to school, but his father insisted that he must be in school for his birthday. Also, mother of one of the trapped pupils, who identified herself simply as Fatima, cried out to the rescue team to save her child from the rubble. Fatima said her child did not want to go to school in the morning but she forced him to go. She said: “Please help me look for my child. I have been to the two hospitals they took those rescued to. I can’t find him.” Another parent, Mr. Adebayo, said his child, Ahmed, was still trapped in the ruin.
He said: “I will not leave here until I find my child.” Many hysterical mothers ran in utter panic and confusion frantically searching for their children, following the collapse of the three-storey building at the Ita-Faji area of Lagos Island, which left many pupils dead. The building crumbled like a pack of cards about 10a.m., moments after the pupils had said their prayers and commenced the day’s routine. According to the residents, two buildings were involved. The three-storey building fell on a bungalow. For parents, residents, relatives and neighbours, it was a confusing scene as they rushed to nearby hospitals in search of their children.
They didn’t know if their children had been taken to hospital, dead, injured or still trapped under the rubble. The General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Mr. Tiamiyu Adesina, said 40 pupils were taken out of the rubble. He said: “As you can see, the rescue operation is very challenging because of nature of buildings here, but we are trying to get heavy duty equipment to clear the rubble to save trapped victims.” Meanwhile, the Vice President, Nigerian Institute of Building, Mr. Kunle Awobodu, said the lives of school children had been snuffed out. He said: “It was a great loss. There is no political will to rid Lagos of building collapse and bring perpetrators to book.
“There are many distressed buildings on the Island. More buildings are still going to collapse. Most of the local developers there are very influential.” Many houses around the buildings were also affected as some of their houses partly collapsed and their property destroyed. The occupants of the buildings around were also injured and rushed to the hospital.
There had been conflicting reports on the number of those killed, trapped and injured. One version of the story insisted that about 27 pupils and five adults were killed. Among the dead adults were the owner of the school and a member of Pashi Willoughby CDA on Lagos Island, Kazeem Lawal.
It added that about 33 pupils of the school, three adults and a pregnant woman were rescued from the rubble. The tragic incident occurred at 36 Massey Street, near Itafaji Market just as the pupils of Ohen Nursery and Primary School, which was at the last of the building, had commenced the day’s learning.