A 25-year-old software engineer, Mumuni Rilwan, has revealed how he used to ensure that stolen smart phones are untraceable by the police.
For years now, thanks to the introduction of tracking into Nigerian police investigation, thousands of stolen smart phones had been tracked and recovered.
But just as police are fine-tuning their investigative skills, criminals are also doing everything possible to outsmart them.
Rilwan’s story is a classic case of attempt to outwit the police and make mockery of investigations.
Rilwan specialised in making stolen smart phones and those used for ransom negotiations by kidnappers untraceable. He was hunted down and arrested by operatives of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT), led by a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari.
Rilwan was arrested at the popular Computer Village, Ikeja, Lagos.
Recounting how he used to make stolen phones untraceable, the suspect said: “I’m a software engineer. I learnt how to make stolen smart phones untraceable through Google search engine and GSM Forum. I normally charge N2,500 to change the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number for my customer’s phones. I knew that the phones given to me to change their IMEI numbers were stolen. I can only change the IMEI of Tecno and Infinix phones. I can’t change those of Samsung, iPhone and Blackberry.”
Rilwan, a graduate of Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo State, was arrested along with an alleged stolen phone dealer, Gbolahan Osho (31). Osho operates at the Computer Village, Ikeja. It was learnt that he had been arrested several times over cases of stolen phones.
A police source said: “Rilwan’s arrest came after difficulties experienced by operatives of the IRT and other units of the police, while conducting investigations into heinous crimes such as murder, armed robbery and kidnappings. It was discovered that most of the stolen phones or those used for ransom negotiations had been deactivated from the database of network providers across the country.
“A crack team of IRT operatives, from Lagos State, were deployed to investigate the development. It was discovered that some software engineers, operating at the Computer Village, Ikeja, had been configuring stolen smart phones for receivers, armed robbers and kidnappers. These engineers made use of software, which made the phones untraceable.”
The police source also explained that the methodology used in making stolen phones untraceable was discovered after Osho’s arrest.
Speaking during interrogations, Osho said that Rilwan used to assist him to configure most of the stolen mobile phones, which he (Osho) received from suspected criminals, using the special software.
“I can corrupt the IMEI of Tecno and Infinix phones using upgraded version of software known as Octopus. This Octopus is used mainly in unlocking phones, but it also automatically makes phones untraceable for a period of three months. At least by that time, the owner of the phones would have stopped looking for it. This will ensure protection of the seller from danger of being found out.
“I want you to know that the new IMEI is not permanent. It reverses back to its original IMEI number after three months. And if the user wants, we can still change it for him or her again. Osho is not the only person I used to change the IMEI numbers of stolen phones for. There are other people, who also used to come to me to change their IMEI numbers for them. I don’t know where most of them get the phones from. I don’t usually change the IMEI numbers for people I don’t know,” Rilwan explained.
Osho said he used to buy and sell stolen Tecno and Infinix phones.
He said: “I sell used and new phones at the Computer Village, Ikeja. I source my phones from people who buy from the United Kingdom (UK). I also buy stolen or robbed phones from Mustapha, Baba Iyabo, Lucky and Ope. I buy mainly Tecno and Infinix phones from these people. The reason is because they couldn’t be sourced from people importing phones from the UK. I knew these people were selling robbed or stolen phones to me. I used to buy them for N15,000 or N17,000 depending on the grade of the phone.
“I was arrested by policemen from Ipakodu, Ikorodu. I was arrested after a customer, who bought a stolen phone from me, was arrested. The customer led the police to me. After I was released, I went back to the market. I told people how the police arrested my customer who led them to arrest me. They told me that I was foolish not to have changed the IMEI number of the stolen phone before selling it. They linked me with Rilwan, who is a software engineer. He changed the IMEI number for me for N1,500.
“After that, I took four phones to him. Since then, I can now change the IMEI number. I thought it wouldn’t be easy for the police to arrest me again. But with this arrest, I will not get myself involved again in dealing on stolen items.”
It was after Osho’s arrest that he told police about Rilwan’s operation. He added: “Rilwan simply changes the original IMEI number into a new one. This makes the stolen phone untraceable for police investigators. I pay N2,500 for each configured phones.”
After his arrest, Osho led IRT operatives to Rilwan’s office inside the Computer Village. Police recovered two laptops from Rilwan.