 …orders INEC to issue Adeleke Certificate of Return  By a split decision of two to one, the Osun State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Abuja, yesterday nullified the election of the Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, and ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to immediately withdraw the Certificate of Return earlier issued to him as winner of the September 2018 Governorship Election. The tribunal also declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ademola Adeleke, as the duly elected governor and ordered INEC to immediately issue him with a Certificate of Return. In the majority Judgment delivered by Justice Peter Obiora, the tribunal set aside the rerun election conducted in seven polling units on September 27, 2018, for being unlawful, and held that the poll conducted in the 7 units is unknown to law because the Returning Officer has no power to cancel and order a rerun of an election. The tribunal noted that PDP and Adeleke established beyond reasonable doubt that INEC did not comply substantially with the Electoral Act in 17 polling units. Consequently, over 2,000 votes credited to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor Oyetola were deducted from the total votes credited to them by INEC, while over 1,000 votes said to have been scored by the PDP and its candidate were also removed from the total votes. The majority Judgment held that the Returning Officer who cancelled the result in the affected units after the announcement had no power to do so. Tribunal chair gives minority ruling However, the minority judgment, delivered by the Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Ibrahim Sirajo, held that the petitioners, PDP and Adeleke, failed to prove how the non-compliance of non-recording in the columns of accredited votes and account of ballots in the result sheets substantially affected the final results. Justice Sirajo further stated that even when nonsubstantial compliance affects the outcome of the election, the tribunal, by virtue of Section 140(2) of the Electoral Act, did not have the power to subtract the votes affected by the non-compliance from the scores of the candidates and announce a winner. According to him, the tribunal only has the power to nullify the results of the polling units affected by the non-compliance and order a supplementary poll. He concluded that even if the non-compliance was substantial, it was not proved by the petitioners and consequently dismissed the petition. Earlier, in a ruling on an objection filed against the petition by APC, Oyetola and INEC, the tribunal held that the objection was misconceived and that the tribunal had jurisdiction to entertain the suit. The objection was consequently dismissed by the tribunal. Atiku: Judiciary, last hope of common man The presidential candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has reacted to the ruling, describing the judiciary as the last hope of the common man and the defender of our democracy. The PDP presidential candidate, on his Twitter handle immediately after the judgement, congratulated the Osun PDP candidate and commended the judiciary. He said: “Truly, the judiciary is the last hope of the common man and the defender of our democracy. Congratulations Sen. Ademola Adeleke,” he tweeted. Osun govt urges calm, appeals judgment Osun State Government on its part urged the people to remain calm and go about their lawful activities and also reassured them of their safety and security of their properties. “The government of the state is still the only legitimate government having the authority to govern the state”, a statement by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Wole Oyebamiji, said, noting that an appeal on the judgment had been filed. “The Government of the State of Osun wishes to appreciate the teeming support of the majority of the people in all things essential for mutual progress. As it is, the administration of Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, Governor, State of Osun, wishes to assure the people that the judgment of the election tribunal has been put on appeal. “This is to further assure all the residents of the state of adequate security of lives and properties, as the government of the state is still the only legitimate government having the authority to govern the state. “We assure all our people that justice will prevail at last, and the law enforcement agencies have been instructed to maintain law and order across the state. “We therefore urge all the residents of the state to go about their lawful duties without any hindrance.” Victory, boost to Atiku’s petition – PDP, CUPP The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) in their reactions, said the victory of Adeleke at the tribunal was a boost to the petitions filed by the PDP and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said truth would always prevail, and expressed confidence that it would recover all its alleged stolen mandates in the 2019 general elections, particularly, the presidential election. “All our candidates who have already won their elections, but whose victories are being manipulated by anti-democratic forces, must take solace in the words of the Osun panel, that once valid votes had been declared and a winner emerges by the majority of votes, a rerun is illegal,” the party stated. It added that the judgment was a clear indication that those who set out to destroy the nation’s democracy could not triumph. The party noted that the spontaneous jubilation that greeted Adeleke’s judgment was an indication that it was in consonant with the wishes and aspiration of Nigerians. “For those who have been desperate to destroy our democracy, this judgment has proven to them that their shenanigans will always come to no avail,” it said. The party commended the judiciary for standing in the defence of democracy “and for ensuring that those involved in the rapacious desecration of our democratic norms will never succeed.” The CUPP on its part said the judgement of the tribunal was affirmation of the supremacy of the sanctity of the ballot. “The tribunal has given hope to Nigerians with this courageous decision to sack the impostor governor who was foisted on the people of Osun State through the barrel of gun instead of the ballot. “The rampaging electoral robbery of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s All Progressives Congress is beginning to crumble in their face with the determination of the judiciary to stand firm, despite monetary inducements and threats,” CUPP said. It added that judgement had reinforced the hope of the opposition that there are still men and women on the bench who, even in the face of the rampage to destroy the judiciary, could still stand firm and do the right thing. The coalition expressed the hope that the Appeal Court and Supreme Court judges would stand firm on the 2019 elections petitions. Makinde, Oyo PDP, George hail judgment The Oyo State Governor- elect, Seyi Makinde, has said that the Nigerian judiciary may end up being the beacon of democracy in Nigeria in the foreseeable future. In a release signed on his behalf by Mr. Dotun Oyelade, the governor-elect said that the pronouncement “will reverberate through history because the judgment was not only a validation of an obvious plebiscite, but it was a resistance to jack-knee democracy which President Muhammadu Buhari is desperately spreading across the land”. Makinde said Nigerians should brace up for more shocking judicial judgments that would redirect our traumatised nation along the path of free and fair elections which appear to be alien to contemporary Nigerian leaders. This is coming as the state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party hailed Adeleke’s victory, saying its governor-elect, had always prayed that the tribunal returned the stolen mandate of the party, and returned Adeleke as the elected governor. The state PDP Secretary, Alhaji Wasiu Adeleke, said: “This is an icing on the cake of our recent victory in Oyo. Remember, Osun was carved out of the old Oyo State in 1991 and we have always shared a chequered history. Our dream of quick win of LAUTECH will become a success with our brother and lover of development, Senator Adeleke, as governor.” Adeleke also tasked the tribunal handling the fallout of the 2019 presidential election, instituted by Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, “to remain steadfast and take judicial notice of the bold steps taken by their brother judges in Osun election petitions, to serve as a deterrent to future election riggers and anti-democratic tendencies in our nation’s quest for free, fair, transparent and credible elections”. Also, a former Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, Chief Olabode George, hailed the victory of the party, saying the will of the people has prevailed. George while reacting to the ruling said the tribunal Justices by their decision had written their names in gold. “Nigeria that we thought people were despondent, people were angry but were quiet and I said this is like a graveyard silence. Don’t relent. This has confirmed that prayer is much stronger than physical power. It is going to be well with this nation. “This result has opened the journey now to promised land. You cannot do anything that is hidden. I thank God Almighty that truth has prevailed and those justices have shown that no matter how long truth will prevail and they have allowed the will of the people to prevail. “It’s a lesson to this country. I remember the day they were messing up the election there, I kept talking to the people of Osun. Justice has prevailed.” Jubilations in Osun There were wild jubilawith tions yesterday in Ede, the country home of Senator Adeleke, and some other parts of the state over the declaration of PDP as the winner of the state governorship election. In some parts of Ile-Ife and Osogbo, the state capital, many residents were seen jubilating to welcome the victory of the PDP at the tribunal and commended the judicial circle for upholding the truth on its judgement. Speaking with newsmen on the victory, elder sister of Senator Adeleke, Dupe, described the victory as resurrection of late Isiaka Adeleke. She however dedicated the victory to God Almighty, saying, “He is the great I am that I am and the hope for the hopeless”. Dupe further commended the judiciary for upholding the truth and maintained that the country is progressing and advancing. Also, one of the jubilants in Ede, Alhaji Adesola Muftau, described the victory as long expected and charged the victor to be more committed to the sustenance of democracy in the country. OSUN PDP hails, APC rejects ruling Osun State chapters of the PDP and the APC have disagreed on the ruling with both parties suing for peace and reiterating their beliefs in the judiciary. While the PDP expectedly accepted the ruling, the APC rejected it and vowed to appeal. In a statement by the state PDP chairman, Adesoji Adagunodo, the umbrella- symbol party described the ruling as democratic and in order, saying, “truth is truth” anywhere it finds itself and could never be compromised. Adagunodo maintained that, truth would always prevail in a cloudy situation and would illuminate all the darkest corners that were full of lies. The chairman, who appreciated God for allowing truth to prevail on the outcome of the election, gave bravos to the judiciary for the good job done to ensure that justice prevail at the end of the day. He also congratulated the party members and people of the state for their patience while the stolen mandate of the PDP was being fought for by the leadership of the party. Adagunodo further described the victory as an act of God, saying,that he knew from the outset of the party’s struggle for the mandate that God Almighty would do justice and had done it. He dedicated the victory to God Almighty and the people of the state. “I thank God Almighty for the victory and we dedicate it to Him. It is a victory for the people of the state. It is a victory for all. I commend the good people of Osun for their faith in the PDP and Senator Adeleke.” He also commended the Nigerian judiciary, saying that they did a good job by standing on the truth. “The judgement shows that the people in the judiciary are people of impeccable character. They are the last hope of the common man and have proved themselves as such. I give kudos to the judiciary”. Adagunodo, however, said that the party was ready for appeal if the APC decides to appeal the case. “It’s normal. If they decide to appeal the case, we are ready. We are testing the Nigerian judiciary and we are testing the Nigerian democracy. But on the contrary, the state chapter of the APC rejected the verdict and said it would appeal the case. The party’s Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Kunle Oyatomi, said in a statement: “The Election Petitions Tribunal verdict has declared Adeleke the winner of the 2018 governorship election in the state but the verdict cannot stand a superior legal scrutiny”. It’s dawn of light, says Davido, B-Red Adeleke’s son and nephew, B-Red and Davido respectively, also expressed joy as their dad and uncle was declared winner by the tribunal. Reacting to the ruling on Twitter, Davido congratulated people of the state for the victory, posting a picture of himself beside his uncle while dancing on the campaign train with the caption: “Imole ti de! Congratulations to the great people of Osun state!” along with emojis of prayer, laughter and uncontained joy. Also on his verified Instagram page, he also shared the news, writing: “God no dey sleep!!! Mandate returned!!! Imole ti de!! Osun I’m on my way!!” In another tweet shortly after the tribunal ruling, the self-styled Omo Baba Olowo posted another photo of himself seemingly pointing out something to his uncle during the heady campaign period along with the caption: “His Excellency: David, which way to the Government House? David: DAT WAY!” In the same vein, the son of the victorious senator, who is also a musician and popularly called B-Red, reacted to his father’s victory thus: “Thank you Lord! Congrats Daddy, May you make Osun Great Again.” Council of Bishops, lawyers react In its own reaction, the World Bishops Council (WBC) Africa has praised the judiciary in Nigeria for its courage in adjudicating with the fear of God the Osun State governorship case handled by an election petitions tribunal. In a statement issued today by the council’s spokesman, Bishop Seun Adeoye, on behalf of WBC’s Africa Nuncio, Bishop Godspower Akandu, it described the judgment as victory for the judiciary in Nigeria under the present dispensation. The WBC stated that with the judgment there was now hope for the common man in the country, adding that democracy will now feel a sign of relief. “Nigeria democracy is almost on the verge of suffocation with what transpired during the last general elections in the country and till now the world is yet to come to term with the heavily monetised and militarised polls. “It is now clear that judiciary can save the most populous black nation from imminent trouble. It is the council’s prayers that Nigeria will overcome this moment and enjoy political stability and economic buoyancy. WBC congratulates Adeleke and urged Oyetola to take steps necessary as allowed by the law of the country to seek redress”. The council also called on Osun people to allow peace to reign and not take the laws into their hands. Besides, WBC urged all Nigerians to be peaceful particularly in the areas where supplementary elections would be held today. In the same vein, some lawyers have said that the verdict has rekindled citizens’ hope in the judiciary. The lawyers said this while reacting to the tribunal’s declaration, saying the panel had delivered its judgement in line with the facts presented before it by both the petitioners and respondents. In his submissions, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Ifedayo Adedipe, said the judgement had shown the independence of the judiciary irrespective of any contrary view by anyone. He said: “My immediate reaction is that the court’s declaration has rekindled hope in the judiciary. Irrespective of what anybody says, the judiciary is independent. “I will make informed comment when I see the entire judgement. However, it is gratifying that a tribunal is bold enough to make declarations based on the available evidence before it, particularly in this era where the courts seem to be under the highhandedness of the current government. I wish all the parties, both the winner and loser, goodluck”. In his own comment, a former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar association tion (NBA), Mr. Adekunle Ojo, said the verdict had shown that the country was advancing in its political affairs. “My reaction is that the judgement goes a long way to show the beauty of democracy and the judicial arm is proving to be independent of the executive. “I am not privy to the whole judgement, but it shows that there is advancement in what we are doing in Nigeria. The judgement also showed that whatever anyone did in the course of election, it can still be upturned or upheld by the arbiter”, he said. Also, the National President of the Campaign for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, noted that the judgement had further confirmed the intriguing level of Osun State politics. He said: “Osun politics has become largely intriguing. This is because it was in the same Osun State that someone became a senator while in prison. Of course, the position of the law cannot be changed. The facts are the facts and can also not be changed. They are usually sacred and as such the court would have no option other than to apply the law to the facts as they are. So, to that extent as lawyers, we can relate with what may have happened. “However, the sitting governor has a right of appeal and that means he may remain in the position until all the rights of appeal is exhausted. Besides, in the public eye, Osun state has become a theatre of possibility where anything could happen. “I am not aware that Adeleke has survived his certificate scandal case. In any event, let him continue to pray and work hard because this kind of victory may be shortlived. This is because if he failed to win his certificate scandal case, that is sufficient to pull off the foundation. The foundation would be that he was not qualified in the first place to contest for the position of governor without the requisite certificate. So, I think Osun is a state we have to watch closely and see how things unfold. To the President of Voters Awareness Initiative, Mr. Wale Ogunade, the judgement will positively shape the electoral process. “With this judgement, the electoral process will be better off and people will know that the process can no longer be manipulated. “This is also an indication that when there are strong institutions, they will work by themselves. So, the verdict is a good omen for those who are involved in development activities and it is a bad omen for those who are involved in manipulations. Every Nigerians must ensure that the process work and we should not get involved in any manipulation to the detriment of the system”, he said. Don’t compromise your integrity, PCA warns tribunal staff The President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, yesterday warned staff of the Election Petitions Tribunal across the country not to compromise their integrity in the discharge of their duties. Bulkachuwa, who was speaking in Abuja at a training organised for the staff of the tribunal, also charged staff of the tribunals to follow the code of conduct of the Court of Appeal. She charged them to avoid offending, participating in serious disputes and disrupting the work place, adding that she would not hesitate to take disciplinary action against any of them who repeatedly or intentionally fails to follow the code of conduct of the court. According to the Court of Appeal President, “The court will focus its searchlight on corrupt secretariat staff and any staff found wanting would have himself or herself to blame. “The court will definitely not spare the rod in ensuring that the honour and respect of the court and the judiciary is protected”, she added. Bulkachuwa said the immediate impact of the training was to expose staff of the election petitions tribunals to practical knowledge, experiences and give them practical guidance on how to carry out their duties in the best interest of the country. In his speech, the presiding justice of the Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal, Justice Abdul Aboki, warned staff of the election petitions tribunals to be professional in carrying out their duties as there were penalties for any misconduct from any staff. The Chief Registrar of the Court of Appeal, Alhaji Aliyu Ibrahim, advised staff of the election petitions tribunals not to give copy of petitions to anybody before service of the said petition. He also advised them to keep an eye on the bailiff to avoid connivance with respondents to evade service, saying that, even where it was impossible to serve, the secretary should inform the petitioners in good time in order for them to bring exparte application for substituted service. The Chief Registrar also told them to ensure that they take photograph at the point of pasting of copies of processes of the tribunals whenever an order to that effect is given for pasting of copies at specific places.