A Federal High Court sitting in Ibadan, Oyo State yesterday sentenced an Ibadan-based internet fraudster, Oyesanmi Ayomikun Oluwaseun, to four months imprisonment for sharing pornographic and indecent images through his email address – mikeclark861@gmail.com. Justice Joyce Abdulmalik handed down the verdict after Oyesanmi pleaded guilty to a one-count amended charge brought against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibadan Zonal Office. Sequel to his lawyer’s request for a plea bargain and the suspect’s display of remorse during investigation, the commission dropped the initial six-count charge of documents forgery and obtaining through false pretence which were preferred against him, and replaced same with the one-count charge of sending pornographic and indecent pictures. Investigations by the EFCC operatives established that Oyesanmi was fond of sending pornographic pictures through his email address to pose to his victims as a woman, with the intention to extort money from them. Four young men, Adegbola Kazeem Aina aka Marry Linson, Babarinde Jacob aka Rhonda Luna, Sokoya Oluwaseyi and Mufutau Yusuf Akorede, have been convicted for posing as ladies to defraud unsuspecting foreigners. They were also convicted for sending out pornographic and indecent pictures.The convicts were arraigned by the Economic and Financial… In “Metro and Crime” Two serial internet fraudsters, Paul Damilola Olowoparija and Olaleye David Tobi, were yesterday jailed by a Federal High Court sitting in Ibadan having been found guilty of offences brought against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Justice P.I Ajoku sentenced the duo to six months and four… In “News” The Enugu Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC), yesterday arraigned a serving member of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), Ogbonna Victor Chibuzor, before Justice A.M. Liman of the Federal High Court, Enugu for alleged internet fraud. The corps member was arraigned on a five-count charge… In “Metro and Crime”