Mr. Derek Omoleh is the founder of SME Secretariat and CEO of Cutting Edge Consortium, which operates in Africa and America. In this interview with Sunday Ojeme, he suggest ways to accelerate Nigeria’s economic growth and sundry issues  What is your view on growing joblessness among Nigerian youths? There are tens of millions of Nigerian youths who are strong, ready, capable and eager to work, but do not have job opportunities. The statistics of jobless people in Nigeria is alarming. Over five million lost their jobs between 2015 and 2018; over 10 million graduates are somewhat unemployed. Also, over 20million are underemployed, while over seven million still depend on their parents and relatives for survival. That means over 45 million are currently hopeless. This is indeed pathetic and needs an urgent solution and attention.  How best can government urgently tackle the situation? In 2019 and beyond, the way to run the economy is to focus on industrialisation. We need to create the foundations of regional industrialisation, every region needs to grow industrially, and so everyone can participate in economic governance at macro, SMEs and micro levels. Everyone must take part. Science, technology and new industry must be the main stay. Everyone will get a job to do. Industrial development should no longer be a dream. All resources for development must be accounted for. The passion that drives economic growth and development must be seen in the enthusiasm of the stakeholders, we must see the plan and the action. It is very important that leaders keep in touch with our immediate environment to understand the scale of national lack as a people and how much we have failed. Like the Financial Times of London advised, Buhari should use the next four years to improve the economy. Now that the elections are over, the president needs to select brave and articulate leaders.  What should be government’s immediate priority in the next four years? All the citizens are asking for is an atmosphere to realise the basic things of life-food, shelter and clothing. Are they really getting that well? The answer is no. Government in the next four years should do something about the prices of food items as a deliberate poverty reduction strategy. Do you know what it means coming out from a restaurant, your fellow Nigerian, perhaps a couple, comes to beg you that they have no food to eat and they cry that you should either buy food for them or give them anything you can. You will certainly shed tears if you have a human heart. This is what many families are going through in Nigeria. Hope is far away from the common man. When running the machinery of government, you need to have a legacy, for the current people running government today, do you see any legacy? I really don’t see any. I have worked with economists from all over the world and like I said earlier, a robust macro-economic development can only be achieved when we set up a wide scale industrial base that will in turn generate its own jobs. By my accounting training, budgeting, planning and execution are key to development and from my economics training, if economic growth indices have not improved the living standards of the population, then it has not been efficient enough.  From current development, do you suggest shot-term measures to fill gaps? Have you ever seen a bank where the executive tells the tellers to pay customers even if the customer’s signature does not align with that in the system? Absolutely not. The banks will not bring down their standards, otherwise they will go bankrupt. So anytime we use short-term social intervention to replace massive industrial development, we are simply going bankrupt as a nation. I would rather suggest as an alternative, the promotion of volunteer community investment. This is a situation whereby residents living in communities and corporate organisations around the communities can invest in socio-economic development, such as construction of roads, drainage, street lights, etc. But we have seen places even within Lagos where large corporates want to develop or construct roads and some people in the community would rather demand that the money be given to them to build the roads, but these persons are not engineers and have no construction idea, so if you give them such huge funds, it goes away as a wasted resource. No sensible institution will do that. Therefore, going forward, government should set up structures that enforce institutions to build their communities without negative community force.  How would you rate the level of foreign direct investment (FDI) into Nigeria? Foreign direct investment is essential to guarantee economic growth. In order to see where we are and plan for future progress. For instance, records by government agencies revealed that the total value of capital importation into Nigeria stood at $2.8billion in the third quarter of 2018. This was a decrease of 48.21 per cent compared to the second quarter of 2018 and a 31.12 per cent decrease compared to the third quarter of 2017.The largest amount of capital importation by type was received through portfolio investment, which accounted for 60.5 per cent ($1.7billion) of total capital importation, followed by other investment, which gulped for 21.07 per cent ($601.53m) of total capital, and then FDI, which accounted for 18.58 per cent ($530.63m) of total capital imported in the third quarter. By sector, Capital importation as shares, which is closely related to Equity investment (FDI and Portfolio Investment) dominated the third quarter of 2018, reaching $1.6billion of the total capital importation in the quar ter. In Q3 of 2018, Abuja had $2.5billion capital inflow with a ranking of 42 per cent performance; Lagos state had $1.6billion capital inflow with a ranking of 30 per cent performance, Abia State had $1.2billion with a ranking of 23 per cent. The other states ranked between zero percent to 0.2 per cent. Isn’t this report alarming enough? This is the fear of Nigeria. This gives an alarm that other states have not been working independently to increase foreign direct investment for development. Perhaps, the state governors do not have a proactive strategic industrial plan to develop their states. Possibly, the organised private sectors (OPS) in those environments are not friendly enough. Institutional builders must crack their brains on developing the economy strategically. This is why there are no jobs, because there is no capital funding. We have to make serious amendments as a nation. If we increase FDI in construction to $5billion, we would certainly increase job creation and develop our tourism sector. This is the obvious fact.  What then should government do to make things better? It should create the right atmosphere that will attract foreign direct investment to all the regions. The areas have to be properly empowered to attract industrial funding. The big question for Nigeria is, can we ever have a country built on values? Unfortunately, this is our biggest handicap in Nigeria. Our leaders think only of themselves. Selfish and greedy, and some of our young people think only of what they can scoop out of this greed. Vision 2020 was planned; this is 2019, nothing to write home about. Even the government is busy politicking and killing themselves with no regard to attain the goals of Vision 2020. Open a discussion with a federal minister on how his ministry plans to meet the Vision 2020 goals, he has no idea what you are talking about. Our hospitals are still consulting clinics; women still give birth at home without medical support, our roads are in disrepair, our schools abandoned and our politicians clueless.  So what are the other options to boost growth? Like has been suggested in the past by experts, the only reasonable option is to find new growth poles that can increase the non-oil tax take, but there must be effective wealth creation through productivity before it is taxable. The Nigerian government going forward must be realistic to itself and quickly accept that its expenditure is currently too high for its budget. It must cut waste such as fuel subsidies that consumed 800 billion in the first half of 2018 and accept that Value Added Tax (VAT) of five per cent is too low (and corporation tax of 30 per cent may be too high). Nigeria must face the reality that its spending plans have outstripped what oil revenues can support, given our domestic production capacity and the international oil market outlook. The only way to reform is to look away from oil and explore ways to raise productivity, improve ease of doing business and build a business case to attract foreign capital. The complaints terrorising the private sector and businesses in Nigeria make Nigeria almost helpless. Decay in infrastructure is an evil degradation. How can we improve our policies to help ourselves as a nation? We need to boost infrastructure, endorsing appropriate local content policies, bake human skills and strengthen technological capacities all collectively; to improve our lives as a nation. A lot needs to be done in Nigeria to get things to be done. From my personal experience, I was working with a team of members of the organized private sector and I came up with the World Economic Forum Agreements in 2014 and tried to push the implementation of these agreements, which relate to power, telecoms, banking, agriculture, technology, etc. But I met a road block, even when people know that a certain solution is good, they somehow block it. So my conclusion is that there is something missing about our development process. Apart from the psychological and positive mentality that all Nigerians must embrace, the time has come for our development process and structural performance to be monitored minute-by-minute. It is not about newspaper or media branding; it is a dogged and continuous check.  Nigeria was once adjudged as having the biggest economy in Africa. Has this been translated positively since then? I think most Nigerians fail to realise the difference between economic growth and economic development. You will agree with me that electricity, motion picture, financial institutions, arts, entertainment and recreation, plastic and rubber as well as coal mining are the fastest growing sectors in Nigeria. Crop production (agriculture), trade, crude petroleum and natural gas, telecoms and information services, real estate, food, beverage, tobacco are the largest contributors to Nigeria ross Domestic Product (GDP). Having understood our problems as a nation, let us now understand what we need. As a people, we urgently need economic development, which is synonymous with national development that involves the provision of tangible service and social amenities that enhance the value of life and ultimately encourage enhanced long term productivity of the people, thereby increasing the financial capacity of a state and her citizens through their active involvement in international trade. In this case, economic development differs from economic growth. Economic development is a policy intervention endeavour, which is aimed at the economic and social well-being of the people; economic growth is a phenomenon of market productivity and rise in gross domestic product (GDP). Economic growth is one aspect of the process of economic development. This confirms why poor countries sometimes experience economic growth with little or no economic development.
At this time, Nigerians and the global community are watching to see how the economy will be revamped. From available survey, even if our economy is growing, interviews across the states show that Nigerians are not yet feeling the physical impact of economic growth. The Federal Government cannot afford to concentrate only on fiscal and monetary policy stability. Additional measures are required towards identifying real productive sectors of the economy, putting in place the right monitoring and performance measures in order to ensure that the goals of increased employment and poverty reduction are attained.  What is your view on the power situation in the country, which appears to have defied solution even after privatisation? Power has been a challenge with output consistently wobbling between 3,000 and 4,000 megawatts. However, we expect that with time the investors will enable government realise its target of 40,000 mega watts by the end of 2020. But the question now is do we have enough efficient operators to manage the systems of generation, transmission and distribution? Do they have operational capacity to generate sufficient electricity for transmission/distribution? If we are sure of this then we can reliably say that we are on the roadmap to achieving power for all in the year 2020.