 The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, has said that the popular Yoruba slogan, ‘o to ge’, meaning ‘enough is enough’, cannot work in Lagos State because the state is making progress in all facet of life. The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State adopted the slogan before the election and it yielded fruits at the February 23 election. Speaking with newsmen after casting his ballot, Tinubu said in Lagos, the people should consider “o to pe”, translated as “it’s worthy of praise”. While warning that there is a limit to copying concepts from other states, the APC National Leader expressed confidence that his party would emerge victorious in the exercise. He said: “The O to ge slogan is for Ilorin; Lagos is not Kwara state, and there is a limit to copying. Lagos should be O to pe, not O to ge,” he said. “We are going to win because we are the only party in Lagos state, others are pretenders; they come and they will go away. Leopard cannot change his skin. “Lagos belongs to the progressives; we are progressives and we will remain progressives. For Lagos, it has seen tremendous development since I was the governor; before then, the highest internally generated revenue (IGR) was N600 million, per month, now it is over N30 billion. “No other state has achieved what we have achieved, financial independence, as Lagos state; no other nation, they all depend on allocation from the federal government. Lagos State today will not depend on any allocation before we take care of capital needs; we build roads and bridges everywhere from Oregun to many parts of the state.  “The real estate value of Lagos state has exponentially increased than any other state in the federation. We are the fifth largest economy in Africa; let me see that governor who will do better than that.” The 2019 elections will settle the superiority battle between Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) and the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed of the All Progressives Congress (APC), over who controls Kwara State, writes BIODUN OYELEYE   Last Tuesday, the Court of appeal, Ilorin Division settled… In “Politics” “As long as a people is compelled to obey and obeys, it does well, as soon as it can shake off the yoke, and shakes it off, it does still better; for, regaining its liberty by the same right as took it away, either it is justified in regaining it,… In “Back Page Column” Following the recent violent attack on the Agbaji community in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital, a group, Kwara Progressive Front, KPF, has accused the All Progressives Congress, APC, of resorting to violence after its failed “O to ge” campaign. Over 55 cars were destroyed in the attack leaving two people… In “Politics”