 Agreed that the just concluded 2019 general elections in Nigeria are much different from the last cycle in 2015 which saw many politicians not just getting involved but actually contesting at various levels, it is still necessary to cast a glance at how entertainers fared. In 2015, notable entertainers including 9ice, Tony Tetuila, Bukky Wright, Funke Adesiyan, Kenny Saint Brown, Desmond Elliot, Bob Manuel Udokwu, Dan D Humourous, Tony One Week, Yul Edochie, Kenneth Okonkwo, Kate Henshaw, Rilwan Onilegbale, Kanayo O. Kannayo, and others crowded the Nigerian political scene but it was very different this time.
Notwithstanding, the likes of Kanayo O. Kanayo, Kenneth Okonkwo, Yul Edochie and actress, Funke Adesiyan, announced to their fans at different times that they would run but none of them made any headway in terms of securing their parties’nominations.
The case of Adesiyan was particularly painful as far as her fans are concerned, with her new party, the All Progressives Congress, reportedly denying her the ticket through some manoeuvring after she had celebrated winning across social media platforms.
Below is the list of entertainers who eventually contested in the election Banky W
Known to have been an outspoken entertainer and one who always performs his civic duties, popular musician and actor, Banky W, finally joined politics in the 2019 elections as a participant. He announced his intention to run for a House of Representatives slot in the 2019 general election via his Instagram account. Being an indigene of Lagos, he pursued the office for Eti-Osa Federal House of Representatives via the Modern Democratic Party (MDP).
“They said we don’t have the money to run, we say our strength lies in our numbers. They said we don’t have the structure, we say we will attempt to build it. They said “what if you lose”? I say, what if we win?
“You see, my entire life has been a story of just dreaming dreams, praying about those dreams, setting goals, and working until they come true. I can live with trying and failing. I cannot live with not trying.
“So while we may not have a godfather, we do have God. And we have vision. And intellectual capacity. And integrity. And the right intentions. And last but not least, a whole lot of hope.
“At the end of the day, hope may be all we have, but I believe that it is all we need. Thank you and God bless Nigeria,” he wrote during the announcement, further unveiling his plans on Nov. 10, 2018. Following the announcement, celebrities including his friends and wife, Adesua Etomi-Wellington, pledged their support.
When elections eventually held on February 23, Banky W placed second behind Babajide Obanikoro, son of former Minister of State for Defence, Musiliu Obanikoro of the APC despite PDP’s Omotesho Bakare also being in the race.
In another Instagram post following the announcement of results, he wrote: “Soooo grateful for everyone who has believed in our movement to give us a chance.
“We have worked. We are top 3, and we earned every single vote we got. We will sustain the momentum and continue building this movement. We are not finished, we’re just getting started.” Desmond Elliot
Nollywood actor and filmmaker, Desmond Elliot, who was elected into the Lagos State House of Assembly, representing the Surulere Constituency 1 on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2015, announced that he was seeking re-election on Dec. 10, 2018, easily securing the party’s ticket for the 2019 elections.
When the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared results, Elliot was returned elected by the Returning Officer, Dr. Bolajoko Dixon-Ogbechi, from the University of Lagos. Making the announcement on Sunday, March 10 at the Surulere Local Government Collation Centre in Lagos, she said Elliot emerged winner with 15,357 votes while Mr. Benjamin Olasunkanmi of the Peoples Democratic Party was second with 3,628 votes while Mr. Shitta-Bey Oluwarotimi of Alliance for Democracy (AD) came third with 116 votes. Shina Peller
A new comer to politics no doubt, entertainment businessman, Shina Peller, coasted to victory at the first time of asking nonetheless. The Quilox Club boss who announced back in July 6, 2018 that he would seek to represent the Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, chose the All Progressives Congress (APC) as his platform and won election despite the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) winning both the Presidential election and governorship election in the state.
“Hey people, I would like to formally invite everyone to the declaration of my political ambition,” he had written on Instagram via his @shinapeller account.
Peller, the son of the famous magician, Professor Shina Peller, owns Aquila Group of Companies and Quilox and was adjudged winner when INEC’s Returning Officer, Adeniyi Olatunbosun, declared the results on March 10. According to INEC, he polled a total of 44,088 votes to beat Najeemdeen Oyedeji of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled 31,336 votes while Olasupo Abiodun of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), who previously occupied the seat, came third with 12,309 votes.
Prior to the election, Peller had promised to target policies that encourage local vigilante groups to be more diligent, saying: “I intend to influence policies that identify and protect trustworthy, hardworking and honest Oke-Ogun indigenes.
“Policies that will encourage the local vigilante groups to be more diligent and bring out better understanding of the region, provide training and bring about synergy with the police for a safer, law-abiding and prosperous Oke-Ogun community.” Mr Jollof
Another social celeb and influencer, Freedom Atsepoyi, better known as Mr Jollof, announced his decision to seek election bid on Sept. 24, 2018, with posters of his campaign and the logo of his party, the African Action Congress (AAC).
Sharing the materials and announcing his interest to represent Warri Federal Constituency on his Instagram, he wrote in Pidgin: “I don pay for nomination form o. As day break, make everywhere burst. Let’s take it back.”
However, even before INEC announced the final result, Mr Jollof conceded defeat, accusing his political party of not hiring any party agent to represent candidates at polling units despite the fact that money had been provided for that. Due to what he sees as alleged irregularities, Mr Jollof reached the conclusion that there were fraudulent activities within his chosen party, even calling out the party’s presidential candidate, Omoyele Sowore, and saying he will no longer partake in politics. Emeka Ike
Controversial Nollwyood actor, Emeka Ike, made his intentions to represent the Okigwe South Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives public not long ago, pitching his tent with the Young Progressive Party (YPP). While sharing the campaign poster on his Instagram account, @emekaikeofficial, he wrote: “If the young has a voice, it’s now. Let’s urbanise Okigwe South Federal Constituency. Let’s engage her youths now.”
However, election for the constituency that Emeka Ike seeks to represent was declared inconclusive and his fans are waiting to see if he can pull through with the seemingly impossible.