lAPC wins 22 assembly seats, PDP 9  Against all odds, Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna has been re-elected for a second term in office. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, declared the governor, who is also the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), as winner of Saturday’s governorship election conducted in the state. The Returning Officer for the state governorship poll, Prof. Mohammed Yahuza Bello of the Bayero University Kano, disclosed that el-Rufai polled a total of 1,045,427 to emerge winner. El-Rufai defeated his closest rival and the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Isa Mohammed Ashiru, who polled a total of 814,168 votes. Bello declared: “Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai of the APC, having scored the highest number of votes and met the requirements of the law, is hereby declared winner and returned elected.”  According to the results from the 23 local government areas of the state, el-Rufai won in 14 local government areas of Makarfi, Soba, Kudan, Ikara, Kauru, Kubau, Kaduna North, Giwa, Birnin Gwari, Sabongari, Lere, Kaduna South, Zaria and Igabi local government areas. Ashiru of the PDP won in nine local government areas of Jaba, Kachia, Kaura, Kajuru, Zango Kataf, Sanga, Chikun, Kagarko and Jema’a local government areas.  Prof. Bello said the number of registered voters were – 3,946,309; accredited voters – 1,936,800; valid votes cast – 1,889,714 and rejected votes – 31,515, leaving total votes cast at 1,921,229 votes. However, the opposition PDP has threatened to reject the result of the election alleging that the process was fraught with irregularities. PDP state chairman and former Minister of Aviation, Hassan Hyet, at a press conference, said: “I want to commend the voters for conducting themselves in a civil manner despite the unnecessary interference by security agencies.  There was public vote buying in Zaria local government, by government officials and snatching of ballot boxes in Chikun local government area. “The worst case was in Birnin Gwari where there was no voting, ballot boxes were snatched and returned the next day stuffed with results. Kagarko and Sanga local government areas were under siege by security agencies in an effort to change the results in favour of the ruling party.” Hyet also accused el- Rufai of complicity, saying: “Results were forcibly changed in Rigasa, Igabi local government area. The EO (Electoral Officers) were summoned to Government House to present the results to the governor for him to see and approve before authorising it. We have our results with our agents. “Based on all these irregularities, we would not accept any doctored results that is announced by INEC because we have the original results from our agents on ground. INEC should be the umpire that everybody expects them to be. The will of the people have been pushed to the background by the activities of security agencies.” Meanwhile, the ruling APC has also won 22 State Assembly seats in the state. The PDP won nine seats in the election.  APC won in Kudan, Soba, Maigana, Giwa West, Giwa East, Makarfi, Kubau, Ikara, Kauru, Magajin Gari, Kagarko, Doka Gabasawa and Kawo. The ruling party also won Makera, Tudun Wada, Ungwar Sanusi, Igabi East, Igabi West, Zaria City, Zaria, Basawa and Sabon Gari wards. PDP, however, won in  Kaura, Jaba, Kachia, Kajuru, Chikun, Zonkwa, Zango Kataf, Jema’a and Sanga wards. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Kaduna State has declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate and incumbent Governor Nasir El-Rufai as winner of Saturday’s election in Kaduna state. The Returning Officer for the state governorship poll, Prof. Mohammed Yahuza Bello of the Bayero University Kano disclosed that El-Rufai… In “National news” ...Atiku, OBJ, Dankwambo, Sanwo-Olu, Agbaje, Bode George, Shehu Sani, Dapo Abiodun fail to deliver units   Upsets were recorded in yesterday’s presidential and National Assembly elections as some chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) failed to win in their respective polling… In “News” Governor Nasiru El- Rufai of Kaduna State and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) maintains lead in 10 Local Government Areas in the results so far released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the governorship election held on Saturday. Prof. Mohammed Yahuza Bello, the Collation Officer for… In “News”