Enugu State Commissioner of Police, Sulaiman Balarabe, has ordered investigation into the murder of a nurse, Mrs. Maria Amadi, at the Federal Housing axis of Trans Ekulu Enugu by gunmen. Until her murder last Thursday, Amadi was the head of Nursing Services (HNS) at the Federal Psychiatric Hospital, Enugu. She was reportedly shot dead about 4p.m. in front of her house at the Federal Housing Estate near NOWAS Filling Station, Enugu. Amadi had reportedly closed from work and got to her house. She was about to open the gate when she was shot by her assailants who later sped off. She was rushed to Parklane Hospital, were doctors battled unsuccessfully to save her life. The deceased worked at Parklane Teaching Hospital, Enugu later moved to the state Ministry of Health before she got appointed as head of Nursing Services at the Federal Psychiatric Hospital, Enugu. The mother of two was said to be studying for her doctoral degree before her death. Reacting to the murder in a statement signed by the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Ebere Amaraizu, the state Police Commissioner, Balarabe, expressed displeasure over the dastard incident. The PPRO said that the gunmen operating in a navy blue vehicle shot the victim several times as she was gaining access into her compound. He said: “Following the development, she was rushed to ESUT Parklane for medical attention and was later confirmed dead. “On receipt of the report, the Commissioner of Police, Sulaiman Balarabe, directed the SCIID, Enugu State, to commence a full-scale investigation which has given birth to the arrest of two vital suspects in connection with the dastard act.” “Suspects are now helping the operatives in their investigations. The commissioner of police has further assured that any further person linked in the said crime will be arrested, investigated and be brought to book just as manhunt on the remaining fleeing suspects have been intensified.” She graduated from the university some 14 years ago and was posted to Ebonyi State for national youth service. Then, the story began for Emily Oguns. She wandered off many years ago and has lived on the streets of Enugu until a Good Samaritan came her way. Oguns now wants… In “News” The Police in Enugu State have commenced a fullscale investigation into an alleged incident in which a husband hacked his wife to death in Enugu city. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ebere Amaraizu, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said in a statement yesterday in Enugu that the incident… In “Metro and Crime” Ogbozinne Community in Nkanu West Local Government Area of Enugu State is in turmoil. Peace has vanished from the community since the traditional ruler of the community was mobbed and murdered. KENNETH OFOMA in Enugu, reports on the flight of peace from the area   Despite a judicial panel of… In “News”