…seeks review of power sector privatisation
…asks FIRS to halt increment of VAT   National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday, said that Nigeria required some home-grown economic reforms built on a progressive ideology and vision that will diversify the economy more aggressively, and take the people out of penury. Tinubu said that given the general outlook of the global economy, particularly the downturn in many western economies, Nigeria must deemphasise on parameters such as the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and other economic indices used in gauging the economy and design models that could be more realistic to the local economy and the living standards of the people. The comments came at the 11th Bola Tinubu Colloquium held at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. The event, which was to commemorate his 67th birthday anniversary, attracted several eminent personalities, including the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo and other stalwarts of the ruling party. Tinubu said for Nigeria to be the great nation it was meant to be, she must reform and retool her economy according to its own definition of what is best for its own people rather than “blindly” following the economic path of other nations. According to him, one of the triggers to economic boom in Nigeria remains an improved power sector. He, however, said that Nigeria must review the privatisation of the power sector to correct the anomalies in the system and ensure more efficient generation, transmission and distribution of electricity across the country. Tinubu, a former Governor of Lagos State, also asked the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) to halt the current move to increase the Value Added Tax (VAT) which currently stands at five per cent, saying the proposed increase by 50 per cent will increase the tax burden on the people and worsen their state of poverty. His words: “Our pursuit of the Next Level cannot be achieved by blindly following the economic path of other nations. That would be tantamount to racing to live in a building just as its long-term occupants were frantically rushing out, screaming that the edifice was mean and crumbling. If we are smart, we dare not enter. “Instead, we must construct our Next Level on a progressive ideology and vision that will take our people out of penury, diversify our economy more aggressively, and empower and retrain our youth. “To be the great nation we purport to be, we must reform and retool our economy according to our definition of what is best for our own people. We cannot assign that duty to anyone else. “We must amend our basic ideas about the economy. We must divorce ourselves from our fixation with GDP rates and similar statistics. These things were initially intended to be indicators, suggestive measurements. However, we have misinterpreted these road maps by treating them as if they were the destination itself. This has caused us to distort the organic relationship between the people and the economy. “This dominant train of thought has made the people servants to the dictates of abstract economic theories. In a more effective system, the economy would be fashioned to serve the concrete needs and legitimate aspirations of the people. Our economy must be redefined to be an efficient, yet moral social construct with the primary goal of optimizing the long-term welfare of the people through the sustained, productive and full employment of labour, land, capital and natural resources,” he said. Tinubu urged President Muhammadu Buhari to use his second tenure to increase electricity generation, transmission and distribution by more than 50 per cent within the next 4 years. He said there was need for serious and bold reforms in the power sector to achieve the desired goals. “The PDP administration shared out generation, distribution and transmission to their friends and cronies without very deep and thoughtful research and evaluation. It has now become pork chops. This privatisation must be revisited. Put experts together for a more constructive reform to improve generation, transmission and distribution by any means necessary. “We cannot afford to be too legalistic about this. Also, we should push to end the practice of billing people for electricity they never received. This practice is a vestige of the past that should not accompany us into the future. A person should be charged accurately and only for the power that they use,” he said. He advised the Federal Government against increasing VAT, adding that it would have negative impact on the citizens. “Consumer spending is sleepy and this is where I will stop and appeal to Osinbajo and his team to put a huge question mark on any increase of VAT please. “If we reduce the purchasing power of the people, we can further slow down the economy. Let’s widen the tax net. “Those who are not paying now, even if it is inclusive of Bola Tinubu; let the net get bigger and take more taxes and that is what we must do in the country instead of additional layer in taxes,” he said. Tinubu, while addressing the gathering, joked that the Vice President is “Talented but evasive”. Vice President Osinbajo, who represented President Buhari at the event, said infrastructural development was critical to the present administration. Dignitaries at the event include APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, Chief Bisi Akande, Governors Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Oyetola Gboyega (Osun), Rochas Okorocha (Imo), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), AbdulAziz Yari (Zamfara), Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Akinwumi Ambode (Lagos). Also in attendance were Ministers of Health, Isaac Adewole, Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige and Trade and Investment, Okechukwu Enelalmah. Ministers, traditional rulers, diplomats, lawmakers and some service chiefs were also in attendance.