…also Dogara, Gbajabiamila, 338 members-elect  The Independent National Electoral Com-mission (INEC), yesterday, issued certificates of return to 100 senators and 338 House of Representative members-elect. Among the senatorselect who were issued certificates, were former Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu and outgoing governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikule Amosu. Also, Speaker, House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara and House Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila, were among the House of Representatives memberselect who received their certificates of return. Outgoing governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, who was declared winner of Imo West senatorial zone, was not listed among the senatorselect. No reason was given by the commission. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had warned that that the commission would not “tolerate the act of holding our officials hostage and forcing them to declare winners under duress. “Where such occurs, the commission will not reward bad behaviour by issuing them certificates of return.” Innocent Ibeawuchi, returning officer for Imo West, alleged he was forced to declare Okorocha winner of the election. “I was compelled to announce the result which was inconclusive. I am a man of integrity and it is not true that the governor slapped me, but I was held hostage by agents working for him. I was manhandled and I thank God I came back alive,” Ibeawuchi stated. At the presentation of certificates of return yesterday, Yakubu called on National Assembly members-elect to review and strengthen the nation’s electoral law. He said that as a matter of urgency, the commission would begin work on post 2019 elections review and roadmap to 2023. His words: “There is a lot of work, but very little time available. As a process governed by law, the success of election in Nigeria depends to a large extent on the electoral legal framework and most importantly, in ensuring adherence to the law. “I want to assure you that we will continue to work with the National Assembly to review and strengthen our Electoral Law. “But, I want to appeal to the senators-elect to please start work early and conclude work on electoral framework in a good time well ahead of the 2023 general elections. “The tendency to delay electoral reform, particularly the review of electoral framework until it is too close to the elections, leave the commission with little time to develop processes, including regulations and guidelines, make required consultative with stakeholders, embark on effective voter education including sensitisation, train staff and organised deployment for the elections,” he appealed. “I am glad that among the senators-elect are senators that we have worked very closely with and some of them have taken initiative or even sponsoring private member bills to advance the cause of electoral reform.”