 It was a beautiful afternoon last week Thursday, at the Yaba College of Technology Sports Centre where the Federal Nigeria Society for the Blind had her 24th annual inter-house sports event. It was an event held with so much fanfare for the blind. It started with a match past which featured their two official houses, Red and Blue. The students chronologically matched round the different corners of the field with little aid from their trainers.  Speaking to some of the trainers, not a single one out of all the 50 blind students that are under training in the school was born blind but was just only victims of circumstances beyond their control which later left them blind. The sad circumstances these blind individuals have found themselves in, have now left them at the mercy of philanthropists, corporate organizations and some religious bodies. Mr. Lanre Adebayo, one of the trainers and teacher urged the Nigerian populaces about accepting blind people instead of stigmatising against them as 60 per cent of them are victims of circumstances that need much patience, accommodation and love.  The opening song was performed by some of the blind people alongside Mr. John Yekini, a blind lead vocalist, keyboardist and a well known music teacher.  The competition also featured some guest schools, Kings College, Corolla Group of Schools, Estate Grammar School Ilupeju, Ransom Kuti Grammar school, CBSS Oshodi among many others. The interesting moment of the Inter House Sport was when the guests became empathetic towards the blind students. They stood up to bowl-blind-folded just to show support that they feel what the students were actually feeling. Speaking on the challenges of the school, one of the trustees of the school, Mrs Abimbola Fashola, wife of the former Lagos state governor, said it was difficult in finding people to support the foundation, as such, there is great need for members of the society who have blind people, friends or family to be enrolled into the foundation so that they can learn a skill and be useful to themselves and the society instead of just camping them at home. She pleaded that, “please if we have challenged children, let’s find the right school to put them, let them get educated, learn a skill so that they can be useful and can earn a living.”  Speaking with some of the blind students, Felix Ajamube, said the school is actually giving him life, hope because of the training they are undergoing. According to him, trainings of brain, type writing, computer, tie and dye, also bead making, and how to design cloth with different color, how to operate computer without sight, e.t.c.  “I find computer very interesting because when I started this journey, I thought I wouldn’t be able to use computer again but when I came down to the centre in 2018, I realise I can still cope with the computer. Since I started, I can do little things on the computer, I can type, print, copy and paste and do some stuff in the computer system.” Ajamube told New Telegraph that he wasn’t born blind but his dilemma started sometime in 2009 when he woke up and discovered that he had itches in his eyes and started applying some medical stuff on it but it got worse by the day. “It continue growing and from one hospital to the other, doctor to another and state to state, I lost the left eyes first. The right eye also began with a gradual process and I lost it 2015, I couldn’t read with it again. Because I didn’t want my friends and colleagues in the office to know that I have a sight problem, so I changed my environment,” he narrated  Married Ajamube said he is coping well and enjoying the support of his family and that of Lagos state government, who sent him to the school of the blind. “I think we need support especially financial support, paying the staff, giving students what they need in terms of feeding, health, equipment, security. Not only government should show support, even individuals and private sector should show support,” he said. Victoria Emezie, also a blind student told New Telegraph that she is still very hopeful about life. She believed that she would still see and be able to go back to school. She narrated that, “what happened to me is glaucoma; I got blind officially in 2014, though I battled with it for few years, I discovered it in 2010 when I was in secondary school. We went to different hospitals but it was too late, I ended up with glaucoma and found myself here. We are doing very well here, caring and ready to give out their best. “The only challenge here is getting equipment and paying school fees. Equipment like typewriter, laptops and brain machine, the school is ready to teach, we are also ready to learn,” she said.  Mr. Nicholas Obolt, principal of the vocational training center for the blind said “what so ever you sighted people can do, we visually impaired people can do it even better than you people can think of and we are so intelligent, brilliant, so sensitive, loving, that’s what we are and who we are. We train them to be independent of themselves and not depending on sighted people, which is what the center is meant for. They are very brilliant set of people, they learn faster than sighted people,” he said. He added that, “when one lose the sight, they become sensitive, more focused and pay attention to things around us more- more of focus.”  On the challenges facing the school of the blind, the principal pointed that government does not show interest or have attention for special people in need. “They should support, help us with finances or equipment while we train them,” he requested.  Adeola Obagun lamented that sponsorship is not constant for the school of the blind. She explained that sometimes that they actually struggle, since they started the school in 1955, “and we keep on going to the same sponsors and they are getting tired, it is really not easy,” she said.  She explained further that, “to fund our place, we spend close to about N3million every month, the place is a boarding institution, based in Oshodi, we have facilities to cater for 100 students but right now we have fifty so we actually need more students, which means we need more money.”