Following the persistent killings in Kaduna State, mainly in Kajuru local government area, the Umbrella body of the Adaras, the dominant tribe in the area, Adara Development Association, (ADA) yesterday accused the state Governor Nasir El-Rufai of taking side with the Fulanis. This is as they also called for the release of their leaders who were arrested in the tick of the crisis, adding that the arrest shows that the government is bias. The statement signed by Barrister Waziri Luka, National Assistant Secretary of ADA and made available to newsmen on Monday, said, “Today makes it almost 31 days that our leaders, elders and chiefs of the Adara nation were indiscriminately arrested in a blatant, injurious and a one-sided reckless abuse of state power never envisaged under a democratic government in Kaduna State.  The blindfold on Lady Justice depicting impartiality and objectivity in the application of justice has been removed – on the Adara people.” The statement noted that the” state Governor who was quick to roll out statistics” during an attack on Fulani settlements have not said anything on their plight. “The unfortunate crisis that erupted in Kajuru Local Government provided an opportunity for statesmanlike conduct to flourish from the consciousness of those with the responsibility of dispensing not just justice but good governance. But what we got instead was an aberration. Our leaders were arrested, locked up in police cells and later transferred to the Kaduna Prison under bogus and ludicrous charges. “And despite six attacks on different Adara villages happening after their arrests, despite hundreds killed and thousands displaced, none of the killers has been arrested. None. This is despite all the attacks happening for hours in daylight. But Adara chiefs from different villages in Kajuru were invited and arrested. But none from those attacking our communities have even been questioned or detained. None. “Our governor who was quick to reel out statistic himself to the media has probably not seen that Karamai, Ungwan Barde, Dogon noma, Kymara and Ungwan Gora villages have all been attacked and burnt down to the ground. When will he also speak for us? Aren’t we humans too, aren’t we also part of those he swore to protect? Why this unfair and partial treatment to us as a people ? Why.” the statement asked? The Adaras also named some of their 9 leaders presently in detention as ” Engr, Bawa Magaji, Wazirin Adara who is also the acting Agom Adara, following the kidnapping and murder of the late traditional ruler, arrested on 16th February.  Retired Commissioner of Police, Mr Sani Magaji, the Baradan Adara, arrested on 19th February and   Awemi Dio Maisamari, National President of the Adara Development Association, arrested on 16th February” among 6 others. Part of the statement also said “Apart from coping with our leaders in prison, we are also digging mass graves to bury our dead, running up and down to provide for the thousands of our displaced ones and tending to those in hospitals. In all these, the state government is not bothered but bent on appeasing the killers while they kill us. “We insist that our leaders are innocent and should be released. We reiterate the fact that the Kaduna state government is engaged in a punitive exercise to simply humiliate, punish and ensure the destruction of the Adara nation. It should be noted that peace cannot thrive where there is injustice . It is even worse when those in authority openly display a corrosive bias in favour of those they consider as theirs.”