As Lagos residents and Nigerians in general struggle to come to terms with the untold tragic event of Wednesday which led to the death of many, including little school children while leaving even many more scarred for life, residents of Ita Faaji area of Lagos Island yesterday agonised over the death of Kazeem, a young man described as monstrously built and who worked as a bouncer in clubs and other social events. According to a man who gave his name as Tunde Rahmon, Kazeem was his friend on the street and always made time out to relate with his friends whenever he was around for the weekend. Without any inkling that a monumental tragedy which would claim his life was lurking around, Kazeem woke up on Wednesday with set goals for the day. Before the end of the day, however, he had been badly bruised and dismembered by a mixture of the fallen building and the tools employed in the process of evacuation of the dead, the injured among the debris. “It was really so bad that I was left in tears seeing the dismembered remains of Kazeem as the pieces of the body that could be found were packed in a small polythene bag. It was all too much for me to take and while many used their phones to snap it, I was just in tears about how unstable life could be,” Rahmon told Saturday Telegraph. Another friend, Sunday Ikumenisan, who couldn’t do without delicately helping himself to his small wrap of Indian hemp while talking to our correspondent, said Kazeem would be sorely missed as one of the young men seen to be doing well in the neighbourhood. “This case doesn’t look like he knew any evil was coming. It was Kazeem that sent his wife on an errand and before the wife returned, the incident had happened. If he had any inkling, he would have gone with his wife but the reality is that life goes on. Those of us here will keep pushing as we continue to remember him. Other residents who spoke about the young man attested to his easygoing disposition, saying some of the anger led to the reaction of pelting Lagos State governor, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode with sachets water because he spent over five minutes in the car before finally stepping down. According to residents, the house, like many others in the area, hardly looked terrible although everyone knew the structure had been weak for many years. Meanwhile, officials of the Lagos State Task Force and the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) started demolishing some of the distressed buildings around the vicinity on Friday, taking down houses on streets such as Freeman, Palm Church, Smith as well as Apatira. By the time they were done around almost 4pm, six houses had been partially demolished, beginning with a building on 60 A, Freeman Street before moving to 47, Smith Street.