Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will be the special guest of honour as ex Super Eagles players celebrate the 67th birthday of APC national leader and former Lagos State Governor Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu with a novelty match at Campus Square, Lagos Island on Sunday. The birthday celebrations which started with a colloquium held in Abuja on Thursday, and was attended by numerous ministers, lawmakers-elect, current lawmakers, governors, and other top government functionaries, will climax with a football match which will feature music performances by A-list artists like Olamide, Wasiu Ayinde and a host of others. Also expected at the event are the host, Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode, Governor-elect of Lagos Babajide Sanwo-Olu, his counterparts from Ogun and Kwara States, Dapo Abiodun and Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, former governor of Osun State Rauf Aregbesola, Minister for Power, Babatunde Raji Fashola and House Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila. Speaking of the match, The Senior Special Assistant to the Lagos State Governor on Sports, Adeboye Adeyinka said the aim of the match was to honour the celebrant, Asiwaju Tinubu for his contribution to the development of Lagos State and Nigeria. He said: “We’re organising this novelty match to honour and celebrate our leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu who just clocked 67-years-old, he has done immensely well for the development of not just Lagos but Nigeria as a whole. “This match is just a token of our appreciation and we’re glad that so many former Nigeria internationals want to associate with him. We’re expecting former Super Eagles players like Kanu Nwankwo, Jay Jay Okocha, Julius Aghahowa, Henry Nwosu, Mutiu Adepoju and so many others.” Osinbajo, Tinubu, Ambode, Amosun, Dangote pay last respect   It was a solemn moment on Tuesday at the Vault and Garden Cemetery, Ikoyi and City of David, Victoria Island, Lagos when the remains of former Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, on Commerce and Industry, Deji Tinubu, was… In “Sports” National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and other party leaders, yesterday, charged the people of Ekiti State to get ready to give the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state a red card in the July 14 governorship election. Tinubu,… In “Politics” President Muhammadu Buhari has described a former Lagos State Governor, and National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as one of Nigeria’s strong pillars of democracy. The President also said the former Lagos State governor was a rare breed whose personal sacrifices has helped fight injustices… In “News”