One of the most important positions in a football team is the goalkeeping role. Much can be told of a team’s character and consistency from the assurance provided by the man saddled with the task of guarding the team’s goalmouth since no team can lose a game without conceding a goal.
No team in the NPFL has featured more goalkeepers in this 2018/19 season than Katsina United who have paraded four goalkeepers in just eight matches. Yinka David, Danjuma Paul, Daouda Kassaly and Super Eagles star Ikechukwu Ezenwa have featured for the Katsina-based side this term.
United have 10 points from those eight games which are enough to place them outside of the relegation zone but Abdullahi Biffo’s side would wonder what it could have been without their goalkeeping uncertainties.
Thirty-year old goalkeeper Ezenwa who joined the club from Enyimba at the start of the season has played four of those eight matches but has most notably produced excellent performances in the team’s last two matches; away to Lobi Stars and Rivers United respectively, earning the Man of the Match awards in both games.
Ezenwa’s heroics at the Aper Aku Stadium on March 3, ensured that Lobi Stars dropped points at home for the first time this season. Lobi’s only goal in the 1-1 draw came from the penalty spot midway through the second half after Martins Usule had given Katsina United a first half lead.
“He (Ezenwa) denied Samad Kadiri from close range on two occasions. Dare Ojo almost scored from about 25yards but for Ezenwa.
“He was also on hand to deny Sikiru Alimi’s handwriting towards the end of the game while he was unlucky as Yaya Kone’s penalty narrowly went past him,” Lafia based sports journalist, Adams Jesse, who was in Makurdi for the game told npfl.ng.
What played out in Makurdi virtually repeated itself in Port Harcourt three days later when Katsina United engaged hosts Rivers United in another rescheduled game. Ezenwa who grew up in the Garden City made countless saves to deny the hosts but that was after he had conceded from the penalty spot in the 10th minute.
Ezenwa’s saves include but not limited to the point blank denial of his teammate, at Enyimba Ugochukwu Leonard and Nafiu Kabuga on separate occasions. Many of his critics in national team colours went home amazed at the “elite goalkeeping performance” from the former Sharks of Port Harcourt
goalkeeper. “First of all, I have to thank God for giving me the strength for these performances,” said Ezenwa to npfl.ng “I came to this club to play so it is good to be playing and doing what I know how to do best. It has not been quite easy but there is a lot at stake for my career so I have to be at my professional best.” Ezenwa has constantly been invited to Nigeria’s senior national team for the past four years and was Nigeria’s first choice goalkeeper at the last two African Nations Championship (CHAN) tournaments, Rwanda 2016 and Morocco 2018. He believes his form is borne out of a desire to show the merit of his national team invitations. “I will attribute my good form to hardwork and of course God has been helping. Also, you cannot remove the motivation of doing well to show that my invitation to the national team is not a fluke. You know that very soon, I will be going to the camp now so it is important I keep doing well,” added Ezenwa. With the Super Eagles camp for next international window engagements opening on Monday in Asaba, Ezenwa has set his sights on further assuaging his side’s uncertainties and help them to get maximum points when they host Kwara United in a Matchday 11 game at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium on Sunday.