 The Federal Government has raised the ceiling for oil and gas projects’ investments currently available in Nigeria to $48 billion. Government, which stated this through the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), noted that country’s energy outlook was looking positive amid difficult operating and economic headwinds. Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, a document of the corporation stated, called on investors to utilize the investment opportunities available in the upcoming capital projects within Nigeria’s Oil and Gas Industry. Confirming that over $48 billion worth of projects’ investments opportunities are available in the country, Dr. Baru, according to the document entitled; “Insights on Future Exploration Hotspots: Opportunities for Africa’s Oil & Gas Industry,” explained that over 41 billion barrels of oil and 319 trillion cubic feet of gas were yet to be discovered in sub-Saharan Africa alone, while between 2008 and 2017, exploratory success in the sub-region was at least 45 per cent. There has been a surge in the capital expenditure (CAPEX) across Africa’s Oil and Gas Sector, with close to $194 billion earmarked to be spent between 2018 and 2025 on 93 upcoming oil and gas fields in Africa.
Reeling out the numerous potential of Africa’s Oil and Gas Industry, the NNPC said the continent’s energy outlook was looking positive amid difficult operating and economic headwinds. “Out of this $194billion, Nigeria accounts for $48.04 billion (over 24.8%) of the total CAPEX coming into upcoming projects in Africa over 2018 to 2025, with over 20 planned projects,” the document quoted Baru to have stated. He observed that 23.8 per cent of the CAPEX in Africa would be spent in Mozambique, 11.3 per cent in Angola while about 29.2 per cent would be spent in Tanzania, Senegal, Mauritania, Uganda, Egypt, Algeria and Kenya combined. Baru said that with over 14 oil producing countries, Africa currently accounts for 7.5 per cent (126.5billion barrels of crude oil) and 7.1 per cent (488 Tcf of gas) of global proven oil and gas reserves respectively. He maintained that in terms of production, the continent accounted for 8.7 per ccent (8.1million barrels per day) of global oil production and 6.1 per cent (21.8bscfd) of global gas production, even as it consumed 4million barrels of oil per day and 13.7bscfd of gas (equivalent to 4.1 per cent and 3.9 per cent of global oil and consumption respectively). Shedding more light on investment opportunities in Nigeria, Dr. Baru observed that the NNPC’s Frontier Exploration Service was currently drilling the Kolmani River-2 Well where desktop estimates revealed that about 400Bcf of gas is expected to be encountered. He said that several new frontiers for exploration opportunities abound in Nigeria, even as offshore discoveries in the country have mostly been limited to between 1,000 – 1,500m of water depth. “Beyond these water depths, the new frontiers of ultra-deep waters need to be tested. And that is where we need the investors,” Baru told the audience. He stated that unless issues related to legal and regulatory uncertainties, lack of infrastructure, skilled manpower shortage, transparency and accountability are addressed amongst key stakeholders, the continent’s oil and gas Industry may not achieve its full potentials.