The Edo State Government has unveiled plans to incorporate local government council workers into the contributory pension scheme by second quarter of year to ensure a seamless and hitch-free management of their pension. The Head of Service of the state (HoS), Mr. Isaac Ehiozuwa, disclosed this during a meeting with Chairmen of Local Government Council on the commencement of the contributory scheme. This was as he hinted that the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration embraced the contributory pension scheme over a year ago, which already had been running smoothly and ensured that workers get their deserved benefit. Ehiozuwa noted: “It has been implemented at the state level. We need it at the local government council level too. In the local government councils, while an employee contributes eight per cent, the local government chairmen are to contribute 10 per cent. The only persons to be exempted are those that are less than five years in service.” He said that the state government had worked assiduously to settle all backlog of local government arrears and the adoption of the contributory pension scheme would ensure that the local government councils are on the same page with the state. While noting that the scheme will go a long way in helping to address pension matters across board, the Head of Service said “the contributory pension scheme has helped in no little way to reduce the suffering of the pensioners and curb subsequent protest by aged pensioners.” The Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council, Ogun State Council yesterday expressed concern over non-remittance of contributory pension deducted from workers by the state government.   The council alleged that the unremitted pension by the Governor Ibikunle Amosun-led administration had accumulated to 87 months. In a letter addressed to the… In “News” Sunday Ojeme While some state governors are busy arranging all sorts of outrageous pension plans for themselves, civil servants in at least 25 states across the country are likely to experience a bleak retirement following the failure by chief executive officers of their states to finalise, consolidate and fund their… In “News” Since the commencement of the Retirement Benefit Bond Certificate Presentations in 2010, Lagos State has paid accrued pension rights of over N66.5 billion to more than 15,709 retirees/withdrawn staff. Honourable Commissioner, Lagos State Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions, Dr. Akintola, Benson Oke, disclosed this in Lagos at the 46th… In “Business”