The Presidential Campaign Council of the All Progressives Council (APC) has petitioned the Inspector-General of Police and the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS) over an alleged hacking into the server of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), culminating in the release of “fake results” of the 2019 presidential election. In a letter dated March 25, 2019 and addressed to the heads of the two security agencies, the campaign council accused the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of illegally tampering with the INEC server and demanded that officials of the main opposition party must be invited, interrogated, investigated and those identified as perpetrators, prosecuted. But the PDP has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop blackmailing the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal by engaging in acts of subjudice. Director of Strategic Communications, APC Presidential Campaign Council, Mr. Festus Keyamo (SAN), who authored the petition, said that whereas the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill containing the provision for electronic transmission of results to INEC’s central computer system (otherwise called “server”) was not signed by President Muhammadu Buhari, it was curious that the PDP had shown an uncommon interest in the proposed law. Keyamo said that after the postponement of the February 16, 2019 Presidential/National Assembly elections, it was shocking to find already prepared presidential election results floating around in the cyber space.
According to him, the fake results had details of the scores of the candidates of the major political parties, with the candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, coming tops. Keyamo said that just last week, the PDP, which filed a petition at the Presidential Elections Tribunal challenging the victory of President Buhari and the APC, have repeated the same “outlandish claim of having access to INEC’s server” which shows that they have some purported results at their disposal giving “victory” to Atiku. The petition read in parts: “Despite the shortness of time before the Presidential/National Assembly elections, and the lack of time to first simulate the process to ensure its effectiveness in a country like ours with problems of effective networks in many rural areas and constant failure of technological devices, together with its violation of the time frame of such laws as provided for in regional and continental protocols in terms of the length of time required for the passage of such laws before any major election, the leadership of the PDP was hell-bent that the President should sign the Bill into law. That was the first indication that the main opposition was up to something sinister regarding the electronic transmission of the results. “Upon the last-minute postponement of the February 16, 2019 Presidential/National Assembly elections, the nation was shocked to see already prepared presidential elections results floating around in the cyber space just less than 24 hours after the postponed election was originally billed to hold! The fake results had details of the scores of the candidates of the major parties. Of course, the fake results gave victory to the candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, even when elections did not hold. “The only conclusion one can draw from the above is that the PDP had prepared those results which were to be smuggled into the INEC server. However, the sudden postponement of the election scuttled that evil plan, but it was too late to restrain the release of the fake results. “The proper elections were held on February 23, 2019 and President Buhari declared the winner. Despite the approval of the elections as credible by nearly all local and international observers (except some few known PDP acolytes masquerading as local observers), the PDP cried foul and made a shocking claim: it claimed that from purported results it obtained from INEC’s server, it has so-called proof that its candidate won the election by about 1.6 million votes! “Shockingly and coincidentally, this margin was about the same margin by which it also purportedly “won” by the fake results released just hours after the postponement of the February 16, 2019 Presidential/National Assembly elections. As if this expensive joke was not enough, the PDP and its Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, have gone ahead to file an election petition against the clear victory of President Buhari and have repeated the same outlandish claim of having access to INEC’s server which shows that they have some purported results at their disposal giving “victory” to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. “We wish you to note that INEC server is the back end of electronic records of INEC. This is not INEC’s website, but its server! Although, the purported results have been conclusively shown by public engagements to be false and even ridiculous, especially as the total number of accredited voters is exactly equivalent to the purported votes of the APC and PDP candidates, this criminal claim of the PDP has revealed a few things: “It is now clear that some criminally-minded PDP operatives have access to the INEC server to be able to smuggle in fake results into that server. The only means by which they could have access to the INEC server is by the criminal hacking of the server or through the criminal conspiracy of some INEC officials.” Keyamo argued that while opposition might be healthy in a democracy, it cannot be a licence for illegality and criminality in a country governed by laws. Meanwhile, the PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, accused Buhari and the APC of smear campaign and advised that they should prepare to face the PDP legal team at the tribunal. It noted that the president was overweighed by the burden of illegitimacy, following overwhelming evidence before the tribunal that he allegedly stole the presidential mandate. According to the party, the facts and issues touch  ing on the INEC server were already within the public domain.
“By resorting to shadow-boxing outside the tribunal, President Buhari and the APC have shown that they have no defence to present to the court against PDP’s submission that they stole our mandate. “It is even more appalling that Festus Keyamo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and a member of Buhari’s legal team, who should know better, would engage in this act of subjudice designed to distort facts already known to Nigerians, that our presidential candidate and former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, clearly won the February 23 presidential election. “Since it has become clear that President Buhari has no defence to present to the court, we counsel him to save the nation further stress by surrendering our mandate, which was freely given by majority of Nigerians to Atiku Abubakar,” PDP further advised.