The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) recently commenced clampdown on vessels that do not comply with the provisions of the Cabotage Compliance Strategy introduced last year to ease the implementation of the Cabotage Act 2003. PAUL OGBUOKIRI, X-rays the new resolve of the agency to bring into fruition, the spirit of the law, 15 years after its enactment    Over 13 years after the Costal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act 2013 came into force, the Federal Government through the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) is finally demonstrating its resolve to ensure adequate enforcement of the law. Coming after a series of engagements with stakeholders, MT Navigator Capricorn, a Liberian-registered Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) vessel, a violator of the law was nabbed recently. The vessel, which is on lease to the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited, and supplies cooking gas to the nation’s domestic market, was detained and later released. But the decisive statement on the enforcement of the revised guidelines on the implementation of the law was not lost on stakeholders.  The Cabotage Act  The law aimed primarily to reserve the commercial transportation of goods and services within the Nigerian coastal and inland waters to vessels flying the Nigerian flag, owned and crewed by Nigerian citizens, and built in Nigeria. It also restricts towage by tugs or vessels to those wholly owned by Nigerian citizens, just as it limits carriage of petroleum products and related oil and gas shipping services to vessels of Nigerian ownership. It, however, made provisions for waivers where the country does not have the capacity to provide for the three main requirements for vessel to qualify to trade on Nigerian’s coastal waters. It is these provisions that have been the bane of the development of coastal shipping in the country is aimed at transferring the entire gamut of shipping activities on Nigeria coastal waters to Nigerians alone. Speaking on the government’s new resolve, Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside said the agency will no longer encourage the application of any form of waivers under the Cabotage Act, particularly from the oil firms operations as such does not help the growth of the Nigerian maritime sector and economy at large. He said: “Our laws forbid foreign vessels operating in our territorial waters but for compliance with the Cabotage Act. There shall be no sacred cow when we commence clampdown on erring vessels. We want to increase the number of Nigerians who participate in the marine aspect of your business and we are working closely with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) to have a joint categorisation of vessels operating under the Cabotage Act in order to ensure the full implementation of the Act.” To facilitate compliance with the provisions of the Act, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, in 2004, issued a set of guidelines to relevant stakeholders. The guidelines proved to be a useful tool for the operation and implementation of the Cabotage Act. But it was not without some hiccups, as NIMASA, the apex maritime regulator, had understandable challenges in the application of the law. Following interfaces with stakeholders, the revised Guidelines on Implementation of Cabotage Act 2003, was produced to provide further clarification and streamline the Act’s enforcement and monitoring processes. NIMASA followed up the revised guidelines with the introduction of the Cabotage Compliance Strategy in August last year to facilitate full implementation of the law.  NSDP, MAN Oron as ready manpower pool for Cabotage According to Lucky Amiwero, President, National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), there is no point in the position held in some quarters that the safety standards set by the owners of MT Navigator Capricorn and NLNG are so high that it would be hard to get Nigerians with the requisite expertise to man such vessel. He said that he was of the view because the so called high safety standards fly in the face of NIMASA’s intense effort to build the capacities of Nigerian seafarers through training in the country and abroad and placement of the cadets on ocean-going vessels. This came as Sunday Telegraph learnt that the agency has trained many graduates under the Nigeria Seafarers Development Programme (NSDP), with about 1, 600 cadets at various stages of completion of the programme, and 887 of them ready for sea-time training. It was further learnt that the NIMASA is aggressively dealing with the issue of sea-time training through full sponsorship, in partnership with some international institutions that have access to ocean going training vessels. Also, about 150 cadets were said to have done their on-board sea time training under the first phase of the NIMASA fully-sponsored sea time training programme, facilitated alongside the Arab Academy of Science, Technology and Marine Transportation in Alexandria, Egypt.  The Head, Corporate Communications, NIMASA, Isichie Osamgbi, confirmed that onboard training for another 89 cadets was facilitated by the South Tyneside College, UK, making a total of 239 cadets in the first phase of the programme. This is even as he disclosed that the agency has allocated a number of cadets to local and foreign partners for sea-time training on their ocean going vessels.   Manning segment of Cabotage Our correspondent was told that NIMASA has made significant progress on the manning aspect of the Cabotage law implementation, with MAN producing the needed middle level manpower for the sector and the Nigeria Seafarers Development Programme (NSDP) supplying the high-end manpower requirements. Currently, most of the vessels that trade within the country’s coastal waters have at least 70 per cent Nigerian content in terms of manning. In addition, the agency is collaborating with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board to do a five-year skills demand programme, which would give the agency an idea of the skills needed in the industry. “The bigger picture is that when we identify the gaps, we would begin to train people to take advantage of the gaps, leading to the employment of more Nigerians in the sector,” NIMASA DG, Dakuku Peterside stated recently.  Other legs of Cabotage On the other legs of the Cabotage Law, ship ownership, registration, and flagging, indication was that there has been an increase in the number of wholly Nigerian owned vessels on the Nigerian Cabotage register. The 2018 half year result showed that 125 vessels were registered, representing a 33 per cent increase when compared with the 94 registered in the corresponding period in 2017. Currently, there are more than 200 vessels captured in the Cabotage register. About 68 per cent of vessels trading within the country’s maritime space are Nigerian flagged, Sunday Telegraph further learnt. Meanwhile, NIMASA’s policy of encouraging Nigerians to go into joint ventures and joint ownership of vessels on a 60-40 basis has started yielding fruits, as more than 20 new vessels are flying the Nigerian flag under this arrangement, as against one last year. Bareboat charter of vessels has witnessed an increase, while foreign owned vessels on Nigeria’s Cabotage register has witnessed a decline, from about 68 to 55. In the area of ship building, many of the vessels have not been built in the country because of the challenge of steel and aluminum. But NIMASA is conducting an audit of shipyards in the country, in conjunction with Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, to see how they can be assisted to build capacity. The ultimate aim is to ensure that most of the vessels in the country are built in Nigeria. However the agency seemingly remained undecided on what to do with the multi-million dollars Floating Dock the Akpobolokemi-led management of acquired for the agency which now idles away at the Lagos Marina lagoon.  Change of Terms of Trade Another effort by NIMASA to ensure that indigenous shipping operators get business it is championing of a change of the Terms of Trade for the affreightment of Nigerian crude oil, from Free on Board (FOB) to Cost Insurance and Freight (CIF). Under FOB trade terms, Nigeria practically has no control over the distribution of its crude oil with respect to carriage, insurance and other ancillary services. But under the CIF arrangement, the tide would change in favour of indigenous operators.  CVFF, other funding sources for ship-owners According to Osamgbi, NIMASA has engaged in efforts to provide funding for indigenous operators under the cabotage regime. Besides the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF), which is provided for in the Cabotage Act 2003, the agency has according to him, engaged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to negotiate a special single digit interest facility for indigenous ship owners to enable them acquire needed assets. The special foreign exchange intervention package would help operators acquire vessels and vessel parts. He also disclosed that the agency is negotiating with the Nigeria Customs Service and the Federal Ministry of Finance to create a special tariff regime for the importation of maritime assets. He noted that the agency is in the forefront of advocacy for the creation of a basket of incentives, including tax holidays, to encourage Nigerians to go into the shipping sector. Osamgbi said: “An average Nigerian investor needs to be given some incentives for him to compete favourably with his counterparts elsewhere in the world, who access funds at single digit interest rate, some at one per cent rate, and have incentives and some form of support from their home countries,” he said. “If we want our people to compete favourably, we need to also give them equivalent support and that is receiving attention at the highest level of government.”  Last line  Experts are of the view that a sincerely enforced Cabotage Act 2003, with a view to achieving its sole objective of reserving to Nigerians alone, the entire business of sea trading on the country’s coastal waters; will give the economy a quantum leaf.