On November 16, Kogi State will be on the nation’s political spotlight, a day when the people of the state will decide who governs them for another four years. MUHAMMAD BASHIR in Lokoja, analysed key governorship candidates that will shape the much-awaited day.    It is obvious that the political activities heralding the November 16th gubernatorial election is gathering heavy storm that may turn positive or otherwise, as many observed that it could change the negative narratives of the nation’s democracy. The major gladiators that could weather the storm, includes the incumbent Governor Yahaya Bello who is seeking re-election for another four years under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Engineer Musa Wada will be running under the platform of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Barrister Natasha Akpoti will be contesting under the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Mrs. Justina Dolapo Abanida will fly the African Democratic Congress (ADC), flag and Alhaji Sanni Shaibu Teidi will contest under the Young Democratic Party (YDP). Other candidates cleared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are, Ibrahim Itodo of ZLP, Idris Abegunde of NNPP, Abu Omogani (UPC), Abdulahi Mohammed (Accord Party), Abdulmalik Mohammed of the HDP, Shaibu and Mr. Dele Bello-Williams of the GDPN. Others are: Umar Zekeri (ABP), Chinga David (YPP), Ndako Tanko (ADP), Mr. Kabir Abdulwasiu (AAC), Mr. Abdulhamid Yusuf (AAP), Mrs Anne Oluwaseun (DPC), Mr. Danjuma Mohammed, (MRDD), Mr. Mohammed Dangana (NCP), Mr. Alonge Methusela, (Mega Party of Nigeria), Mr. Niyi Ejibunu (AGAP), Mr. Abdulrazak Emeje (UDP) and Mr. Godwin Atawodi (DA). The list also include: Mr. Ephraim Medupin (AD), Musa Sadiq (APP), Victor Akubo (UPP), Mrs Harirat Yakubu (LP), Alfa Oboy (JMPP), Atiku Isah (ANP), Ayodele Ajibola, (PRP), Sheik Ibrahim Jibril, (APGA), Samuel Abolarin (ASD), Okpanachi Nichol (KOWA), Rev. Moses Dridu, (PPN), Ikwueje Samuel (PDC), and Mr. Jimoh Yusuf (MAJA), Mr. Orugun Emmanuel of the ANRP, Mrs Grace Adepoju, (MMN), Idris Isah (CAP), Sule Daniel (SNG), Mohammed Aliu (NPC), Noah Abiodun (PPA), Obagaye Raphael (BNPP), Yisuf Dantale (APM), Usman Imam (DP), Victor Akubo (GPN), Ukuwonu Joseph (PPN), Elegbe Amos (PDC), Usman Salifu, (ANDP) and Yusuf Nagari of (APA), are also cleared by the electoral umpire to contest. The incumbent governor, Yahaya Bello, who is from Okene in the Central Senatorial District of Kogi State, is seeking reelection for a second term under the ruling APC. His emergence as the governor was due to the sudden demise of the party’s candidate in the 2015 gubernatorial election, the late Prince Abubakar Audu. The late Audu along his running mate Hon. James Abiodun Faleke, were already coasting to victory before the inevitable happened, a situation that led to legal conundrum, but eventually ushered in Bello as governor. The argument was that he was the second runner up during the party’s primary election that produced Audu as candidate. Against every believe that Bello was not going to scale through the party primary election conducted by the Jigawa State Governor, Mohammed Abubakar Badaru, the governor defeated other candidates with a wide margin of votes and was subsequently returned as the APC flagbearer for the November 16 election. Since his emergence as the party’s candidate, things began to favourably fall in line for him. The party at the national level in the efforts to ensure victory, began to reconcile aggrieved members including those who lost at the primaries and those who were disqualified.  Olafemi’s obstacle Some other factors going well for the governor is the current crises engulfing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) occasioned by the outcome of its primary election. Some top leaders of the PDP who felt aggrieved by the outcome of their party’s primary election are already nursing the ambition of working with the ruling APC, to ensure that the PDP lose the polls. The Director General of Abubakar Ibrahim Idris Campaign Organisation, and former acting governor of the state, Chief Clarence Olafemi, was said to be on his way out of the party to join the APC, as he was alleged to have visited the governor to discuss his defection to the ruling APC. Saturday Telegraph however learnt that this would not be the first time Olafemi would be dumping a political party for another. As a member of the state House of Assembly under the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD), he became the minority leader of the House, and eventually dumped the party to join the then ruling PDP in the state and federal level. From being the Speaker of the House of Assembly, he subsequently became acting governor of the state in 2007, when the Appeal Court annulled the gubernatorial election over the unlawful exclusion of the then cancidate of the All Nigerians Peoples Party (ANPP), the late Audu. Olafemi later joined the APC in 2014, during the merger of the defunct ACN, ANPP and CPC. The former acting governor later left the party and returned to the PDP to join one of his political associates whose son was contesting for governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, an ex-governor of the state. His recent decission to return to the APC might not be unconnected with the outcome of the primary, which did not favoured the son of his political friend, Ibrahim Idris. Olafemi however said he visited the governor because of impunity in the PDP, noting that PDP has cheated him several times and he cannot continue to stay in the party. He pointed out that he is one of the strong members of PDP in the state, yet the National Working Committee of the party failed to recognise his input and efforts in the party. “I was the running mate to Jubril Issah Echocho in 2015 governorship primary election of the party but we were later replaced by the party and brought in Captain Idris Wada and Yomi Awoniyi as running mate without any reason. “In 2019 general election, I was one of the senatorial aspirant from Kogi West, I was denied from contesting as the party imposed Senator Dino Melaye who just defected from APC to PDP. “My governorship aspirant in the just concluded primary of the party, Alhaji Abubakar Ibrahim Idris, was denied the ticket of the party by some powers-thatbe in the party and gave victory to Engr. Musa Wada because they hate the former governor. “With all these impunity how do you expect me to continue staying in PDP? I am not the first person to defect from one party to another. President Mohammadu Buhari, and my mentor Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, all decamped from one party to another. I am not going to be the first or the last. “I had a fruitful discussion with Governor Bello and I am very satisfied with the outcome of our meeting”, he said, noting that his defection will follow due process, and that he will do it openly because he has taken a rightful decision. Bello’s headache Governor Bello is currently galvanising many politicians, including PDP topshots, into his fold but one of the challenges that would have steered the governor in the face was the issue of non payment of salary. However, the governor, with the help of the N30 billion bail-out fund by the Federal Government, was able to pay five months salary arrears including payments to former local government appointees. However, the governor has to do more than bringing other members of the party on board, he still needs to reconcile with those who are aggrieved with his emergence as governor. Faleke’s hurdle Hon. James Abiodun Faleke though in Lagos, still control enormous followership in Kogi State especially among the Okun speaking Yorubas in the western senatorial district. Faleke at a recent forum in Abuja, had vowed to work for any candidate produce by the party in the state but not Yahaya Bello and two others. But the governor, who is said to be enjoying the patronage of the party’s national leader and former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will have to explore the gesture to bring Faleke into his fold. Wada Engineer Musa Wada from Dekina Local Government Area in eastern senatorial district of the state, is a younger brother to the former governor Idris Wada. Wada, who is the candidate of the opposition PDP, needs true reconciliation with other aspirants who are aggrieved with the outcome of the PDP primary election, which produced Wada as the candidate. Already, one of the front line aspirant, Abubakar Ibrahim Idris is already in court, challenging Wada’s candidature, arguing that he was supposed to be declared winner of the primary contest. He is also claiming that the missing 247 votes could have given him victory, since the margin between him and the declared winner was not much. Barrister Natasha Akpoti, from Okehi Local Government Area in the Central Senatorial District of the state, was senatorial candidate under the Social Democratic party (SDP). Akpoti lost the seat to Senator Yakubu Hussaini of the APC. The woman legal luminary would have sprang a surprise at the polls by winning the 2019 senatorial election, owing to her doggedness, vocality and tenacity. However, the support and mobilisation put up by the APC became her albatross. She challenged Hussain’s victory at the tribunal and lost. She will be contesting the governorship under the same SDP in the November 16 election. Will her interest for governorship dent the victory of her kinsman, Yahaya Bello? Time shall tell. Alhaji Sanni Shaibu Teidi from Idah Local Government Area in the eastern senatorial district of Kogi State, will be contesting under the Young Democratic Party (YDP). Teidi was a former Accountant General of the state, later became the Federal Director of Account in charge of pension, where he later retired as Federal Director of Pension. Unarguably, the November 16 election will be a keen contest between Governor Bello of the APC and Engineer Musa Wada of the PDP.