The move by local underwriters to take substantial chunk of big ticket risks in the oil and gas sector is yet to see the light of the day due to obvious factors militating against the arrangement. Sunday Ojeme reports  T he odd peculiarities in Nigeria’s business environment have continued to play out on all sectors of the economy. Banking, manufacturing, oil and gas, service industry as well as social institutions to the least of entity, are all experiencing their share of oddities in plans and processes due to misguided implementation of policies and other unpleasant social factors militating against investments.  For the insurance sector, it is natural for it to be the biggest victim in all of the equation in the sense that its ability to remain afloat depends solely and largely on the strength and well-being of other businesses.  The unfortunate development, however, is that despite Nigeria being a big player in the oil and gas sector globally with the Federal Government deriving its largest chunk of revenue from it, the local underwriting sector has never had it good with getting the targeted 70 per cent cut from the sector.   Owing to the strategic nature of the sector to the economy and for the fact that the technical aspects are still controlled predominantly by foreigners, the tendency demands that investors in the sector insure practically every facility in the value chain including the workers.   Uneasy calm   Going by a recent report released by the industry regulator, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), showing that the local underwriters have successfully taken over 70 per cent from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), a critical analysis of the dealings vis-à-vis that of Dangote Refinery only points to the fact that the successful inroad into NNPC has much to do with compromise than the requisite expertise.    Industry observers are of the opinion that if the local underwriters could cover over 70 per cent risks for NNPC, they should, no doubt, have been able to do at least 50 per cent of Dangote Refinery, especially with the Local Content Act in their favour. According to a section of the Local Content Act, “No insurance risk in the Nigerian oil and gas industry shall be placed overseas without the written approval of the commission, which shall ensure that Nigerian local capacity has been fully exhausted.”   Poor showing   A document on the risk value of six oil firms released by NAICOM had shown that NNPC, under its consolidated insurance package, totaling $99.5billion, insured $77.5billion locally and ceded $22 billion risk sum abroad, while Chevron Nigeria Limited, under its energy package insurance, of which its total risk sum was $14.30 billion, retained $10.50 billion locally and about $4 billion abroad.   Mobil Producing Nigeria Limited, in its energy package/physical damage insurance retained about $9.80 billion out of $14.09 billion insurance risks in the local market and took the rest offshore.   Similarly, StarDeep Water Petroleum Limited took 75 per cent of its risks valued at $3 billion offshore, while retaining 25 locally.   However, Dangote Refinery Plc ceded 71.56 per cent of its $6.78 billion risks offshore while retaining only 23.43 per cent locally.   The implication here is that with the private refinery project still being fully under the control of foreigners, the tendency to compromise the risk factors is very remote, if not impossible. Energy pool initiative   Based on this premise, Nigerian underwriters’ plan to retain more of oil and gas risks locally with the creation of the Energy and Allied Insurance Pool of Nigeria (EAIPN) is yet to be fully realised six years after the pool was put in place. The creation of the 14-member insurance pool was to enable local insurers cover over 75 per cent of big ticket risks in oil and gas that are usually ceded offshore.   NAICOM had, six years ago, inaugurated 14 insurance companies to operate the technical management board of EAIPN with the hope that it would help the industry retain capacity in oil and gas risks underwriting, curb capital flight and grow the local market in energy and allied risks underwriting. The 14 subscribers had contributed 40 per cent of their subscribed lines amounting to $4 million.   The companies involved are Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Custodian & Allied Insurance Plc, Aiico Insurance Plc, Lasaco Assurance Plc, Royal Exchange Insurance Co. Ltd, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc, and Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc.   Others are Linkage Assurance Plc, Industrial And General Insurance Plc, Nigerian Agric Insurance Corporation (NAIC), Sterling Assurance Company Limited, Prestige Assurance Plc, NEM Insurance Plc and NSIA Insurance. Status/performance   Speaking on the status of the EAIPN last year, the current President of Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), Mr. Eddie Efekoha, said it had recorded significant progress, adding that the balance sheet of the pool had continued to be impressive. Although he did not give specifics about the growth status, he, however, appealed to companies transacting oil and gas business that are yet to subscribe to the pool to do so without delay.   “Companies, which currently participate in the pool, are also encouraged to increase their patronage in order to improve the local market capacity to underwrite oil and gas risks through the pool,” he added.   Initial projection While inaugurating the EAIPN, the then Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Fola Daniel, congratulated the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) for bringing to fruition a pool that will address some of the challenges faced by insurance companies in oil and gas underwriting in Nigeria.   Daniel said the coming of the pool was long overdue, as the benefits are immense and most international players in oil and gas business were anxiously waiting for the Nigerian market to make the bold move. “I can tell you that I am delighted to have this event today. All my discussions with some players at the Lloyds market in London point to the fact that Nigeria is not ready to retain capacity and grow the market because the players have refused to establish pools.   With the inauguration of the technical management board of the pool today, you have taken the bold and positive step to curb capital flight and grow the local capacity and I am sure the multinationals will be excited about this,” he added. Optimism   Despite the apparent shortcoming, NAICOM’s Director, Policy and Regulation, Pius Agboola, had assured that the ongoing recapitalisation would position the sector to independently handle big-ticket transactions in Nigeria as well as to end capital flight and support economic development of the country. He said the underwriters had continued to lose substantial part of the income that was supposed to grow the industry to foreign counterparts due to low capital base.   He added that among the quantum of businesses currently approved-in -principle by the regulator to be taken abroad were aviation refueling liability insurance from II Plc (former Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc) with the sum insured valued at $1 million, saying that of the amount, the local insurers had the capacity to insure only 10.03 per cent, while 89.97 per cent would be ceded to foreign insurers from mainly European and American markets.   According to him, similarly, the sector is losing another risk valued at $7,010,970, being the sum insured on Third Party Nuclear Liability Insurance from Centre for Energy Research and Training (CERT) in which indigenous insurers have capacity to insure only 0.05 per cent of the entire business, while 99.95 per cent would be taken abroad.   This is in addition to other four major high-ticket businesses in which the sector is losing over 50 per cent of the sum insured to foreign insurers as a result of low capital base and lack of technical underwriting capacity. Agboola said the Combined Property Damage/Machinery Breakdown/Liability Terrorism/Political Violence Risk, belonging to Sahara Power (Egbin Power Plc), with the sum insured valued of $3.1 billion would have 53 per cent insured abroad, while 46.295 per cent would be insured locally.   Last line With the sector’s recapitalisation now fully assured and the operators putting plans in place to meet the various minimum capital to remain in business, there is an assurance that in the next couple of years, the local insurers would have a combination of funds, technical and human capacities to close the local content gap, take as much risks as possible, even though much of that would still depend on individual firm’s espousal of good corporate governance disposition.