National U-23 coach, Imama Amapakabo, has said that he has a strong team that can excel at the next U-23 Africa Cup of Nations scheduled for Egypt later in the year despite the potential absence of some of the team’s foreign-based players. There is likelihood of some of the foreign-based players not coming for the championship as it did not fall within approved FIFA international free day. Taiwo Awoniyi, Kelechi Nwakali, Stephen Odey are some of the strongmen of the team as they were part of the squad that secured qualification after defeating Libya and Sudan in the qualifiers. Awoniyi and Odey immediately after the 5-0 defeat of Sudan at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, said they were not sure of making the AFCON unless their clubs would release them. Speaking with our correspondent on the telephone, the former Rangers coach, currently in Abuja with his team said if he could keep the crop of home-based players currently in the team together, they can achieve the needed result in Egypt. “I am not losing sleep over the fact that some of the foreign-based players might not come for the AFCON due to club engagement,” he said. “If you look at the matches we played so far, we have been using more of the home-based players than the foreign-based, about 70 percent of the players that defeated Sudan all play at home, because we knew things like this might happen. “But with the league in the country not in season, we will have to keep the team together, play enough friendlies to keep them in shape so as to be in good position for the AFCON. “Although this will depend on the owner of the team, the ministry of sports, if we can be together till the championship, then we can put up a good fight in Egypt. “We were aware that the final Olympic qualifying tournament will be played during a non-FIFA window so we have been preparing for it. I am also very confident that the home-based players will deliver.” Meanwhile, Amapakabo will be leading the U-23 team with some established Nigeria Professional Football League players to Lome, Togo, for the final qualifying round of the 2020 Championship for African Nations against Togo. Speaking ahead of the match, the former international turned coach said they would be seeking a good result in Lome to make the second leg a mere formality. He added: “The quality in the domestic league is amazing. During the U-23 AFCON qualifiers we saw that most of the team was made up of home based players. It shows the difference is not much. “I also think we are making much progress in terms of the quality coming out of the league. It’s just a matter of time before they [home based players] start making the big teams in Europe and indeed the national team.”