 National Chairman of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), Samuel  Adekola has alerted community pharmacists to be cautious of the meeting between Konga and Community Pharmacy Owners, warning its members to avoid scammers who may not be representing the interests of ACPN. In a statement, Adekola said the ACPN was not aware of any association of Community Pharmacy Owners, hence, the  ACPN organisation to dissociated itself from the programme   between Konga and the said Community Pharmacy Owners, which was “shrouded in secrecy possibly for pecuniary gains.” According to him, the ACPN was neither involved nor invited to the meeting with Konga. Yet the meeting was said to be with Community Pharmacy Owners.  Based on this, Adekola reasoned that the ACPN did not endorse the acquisition of pharmacies by none pharmacists as this was grossly unethical and against the spirit of the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) laws guiding community pharmacy practice. Consequently, the national chairman of the ACPN urged community pharmacists to call their executives to seek for clarifications so as to avoid scammers who may not be representing the interests of ACPN. He said, “ACPN does not endorse the part ownership of community pharmacies by non-pharmacists. We render professional service and we are not traders.” The chairman of ACPN said this could be a connivance to betray the pharmacy profession and sabotage the robust plan of ACPN, which planned to drive collaboration of pharmacies in order to keep pharmacy practice in the hands of pharmacists from one generation to another. Will the present promoters and enablers of this strange model of Community Pharmacy practice not be synonymous to interlopers working as undertaker to bury the soul of ACPN, Adekola asked. However, Adekola reassured all members of ACPN that our grand project as endorsed by the National Executive Council (NEC) and the Annual general meeting AGM of the ACPN in Kano was being pursued with all  zeal and vigour. “We should not allow saboteurs to derail our collective vision for collaboration through the Trans-Generational Pharmacy Project.”