A recent report emanating from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT ) Command of the Nigerian Police Force, that over 100 persons suspected to be  one chance robbers have been arrested within the territory has heightened anxiety  among residents of Abuja.  CALEB ONWE reports  A few weeks  ago, a  staff of Africa Independent Television (AIT), Abayomi Adigun, was  declared missing. Adigun, according to his employers, was recently transferred from Ilorin  to join the ‘Kakaaki ‘ production crew at the corporate headquarters of the broadcast station in Abuja. Few days after he disappeared and could not be reached by his colleagues, family and friends, his lifeless body, riddled with  wounds was found in a ditch along the Kubwa/AYA Expressway in Abuja. The body was said to have been found by  a team of police  detectives after three days of intense search along Kubwa expressway. Apart from several stab wounds noticed on his body, it was also reported that some of his vital organs had been  removed by the unknown assailants. Adigun was a victim of suspected “one-chance” operators in Abuja. On the day Adigun went missing, Inside Abuja learnt that he took a cab from Kubwa, a satellite town to AYA, where he was to board a keke (tricycle) to his office located on Paduma Hills, Asokoro. Although many commuters had been victims of these robbers operating in taxi cabs around Abuja, the death of Adigun has reawakened the consciousness of residents and compelled the authorities of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA ) and security agencies to seek measure that  could  ensure security of lives and  properties and restore public confidence. Inside Abuja gathered that there have been  many unresolved cases of both ‘One Chance’  robbery  and kidnapping in the city. Several victims, who survived the attacks are still counting their losses. In a bid to arrest the ugly situation,  Minister of the FCT, Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello, recently  convened an emergency security meeting, involving all critical stakeholders, including  the heads of the police, military and paramilitary formations in the FCT as well as Area Council Chairmen and religious leaders. During the security meeting,  Bello  assured residents that the FCTA would continue to partner with  the Nigeria Police, the military  and paramilitary  organisations  in the FCT that are charged with the task of keeping the city secure. While giving a marching order to security agencies to combat the criminals and curb the crimes, he also said that  security matters should not be left to the law enforcement agencies alone. In his words: “It is almost impossible for security agencies to be everywhere one hundred per cent. So, every resident in a way is also a security officer. So, it is very important for residents to be vigilant and to be very conscious of their personal security. “If  for instance, you see a vehicle without number plates, it means that vehicle is not registered and can be used for criminal activities. Please, report to the relevant authorities.” According to Bello, the insecurity challengers were not peculiar to the nation’s capital. He noted that in comparison to several cities around the world, FCT remained quite safe. While acknowledging that there were  indeed two incidences of kidnappings over the past few weeks, the Minister said both victims had  been rescued. He called on residents not to be  swayed by rumours or unverified news trending  online but to confirm their veracity before circulating. Bello noted that fake news or false security information has the capacity to lead to breach of the peace. FCT Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma,  who also confirmed the incidents of kidnapping and other acts of criminality,   said that there will be more deployment of officers and men across the city to combat crime. He revealed that they were also intensifying both vehicular and foot patrols to ensure more visibility of officers and men of the Force around the identified black spots in the city. Ciroma however, reiterated the need for a robust collaboration between the police and the citizenry.  He said this method has succeeded in curbing criminality in the Area Councils, especially Abaji, where information provided by the citizens stopped a kidnapping ring which operated between Kogi State and the FCT. On the menace of “One Chance”  robbers,  the police commissioner said that the criminals perpetrated their acts by using unregistered and unpainted taxis. He said that the police was collaborating with the FCT Directorate of Road Transport Services to apprehend the criminals. He also revealed that a unit within the CID was created specifically to combat the menace   and so far, over 100 suspected one chance perpetrators have been arrested and their vehicles impounded. A victim of one chance robbery, Mrs. Faith Uchebundu, recounted her ordeals  in the hand of the daredevil men of the underworld. The woman, who said she sells clothing materials in Nyanya Market, but lives in Asokoro village , said she entered a commercial unpainted taxi one evening, after she closed for the day without knowing that the car also had  hand bag snatchers. She said that while the car was in motion and approaching the popular Abacha Barracks, two young men, whom she thought were fellow passengers, asked the driver to stop before the bridge, a very lonely place. According to her, while the driver pulled over to the side of the road close to the bridge for the two men to alight, they immediately pulled out knives and demanded that all the passengers surrender their personal belongings. Uchebundu, who confessed to have developed unspeakable fears because of the knives the men brandished, immediately surrendered her handbag, containing the money she realized from the market, her two phones,  ATM card and other valuables. “As soon as the men alighted from the car, one of them was dipping his hand into his pocket pretending that he wanted  to pay the driver, but ended up pulling out knives and ordering all the passengers to surrender their bags and phones. “While one of them was standing close to the driver to ensure that he does not zoom off, the second person was snatching bags and other valuables from passengers. “My handbag that contained about N11,000,  ATM, two phones and other items were lost to the thieves. They also collected things from other passengers. We quickly moved to AYA Police station in Asokoro and reported the incident”, she said. Now some communities are even experiencing uneasy calm and palpable anxiety,   following the activities of  the kidnappers and other criminals that are on the prowl on a daily basis across Abuja. Pegi community in Kuje Area Council, had also cried out over kidnapping and several threats to lives  within their area. While many said they wished to relocate from the place to a safer zone with their family members, others appear to have been stranded and resigned  to fate. The community leaders raised the alarm, after two persons were said to have been kidnapped by unknown gunmen within the area. While the search for the kidnapped citizens was said to be on going, the news that the men of the underworld were demanding for N50million ransom before releasing their captives, has left the people further devastated and confused.