The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has issued Approvals-in-Principle (AIP) to three Payment Service Banks (PSBs). Director, Corporate Communications Department of the CBN, Mr. Isaac Okorafor, in a statement yesterday, disclosed that the three institutions issued approvals in principle to operate as PSBs are Hope PSB, Money Master PSB and 9PSB. He stated that the approval in principle granted the three companies was in line with the apex bank’s objective of enhancing financial inclusion and the development of the payment system by increasing access to deposit products and payments services through a secured technology-driven environment. He also noted that the approval in principle was part of the processes the institutions had to fulfill in order to be granted licence to operate as fully-fledged payment service banks. According to Okorafor, the decision of the CBN to issue the AIP to the applicants followed the institutions’ satisfaction of documentation and other laid down conditions. Sequel to the issuance of the AIP to the three banks, he said they are expected to submit their respective applications for the grant of a final licence, not later than six months after the AIP. Speaking further, he disclosed that the CBN code of corporate governance for banks would also be applicable to the PSBs. PSBs is a payment service initiative introduced by the CBN that is expected to see banking agents, telecommunications companies (Telcos), Mobile Money Operators (MMOs) and retail chains (supermarkets), who are able to present an initial capital of N5 billion, given licence to operate under the structures and guideline specified by the apex bank. In the operational guidelines for PSBs unveiled by the CBN in November last year, the regulator had stated that the PSBs are to operate mostly in the rural areas and unbanked locations, targeting financially excluded persons, with not less than 25 per cent financial service touch points. According to the CBN, the key objective of setting up PSBs is to enhance financial inclusion by increasing access to deposit products and payment/remittance services to small businesses, low-income households and other financially excluded entities through high-volume low-value transactions in a secured technology-driven environment. The PSBs are expected to deploy ATMs in some of these areas; deploy Point of Sale devices and be at liberty to operate through banking agents (in line with the CBN’s Guidelines for the Regulation of Agent Banking and Agent Banking Relationships in Nigeria). Telcos such as MTN Nigeria and Airtel have applied to the CBN for PSB licence. It would be recalled that MTN Nigeria, last month, unveiled its new subsidiary, Y’ello Digital Financial Service Limited and mobile money services, having obtained a super-agent licence from the CBN in July.