  A 35-year-old man, Mr. Idorenyin Essien, has been arrested for allegedly burning his son to death in Eket Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Odiko MacDon, confirmed the incident in an interview with journalists yesterday. He said the incident occurred last Friday at Afia Nsit community, Eket Local Government Area.  MacDon said Essien was arrested at his residence in Afia Nsit, noting that the case would be charged to court immediately.  A community leader of Afia Nsit, Mr. Effiong Okon, alleged that the incident occurred when the victim (Essien’s son), a minor, stole N500 from a neighbour’s house to buy food to eat.  He said: “When the father came back home, the neighbour reported the matter to him. After refunding the money to the neighbour and scolded his son, Essien quickly sent him to buy kerosene for him and the unsuspecting son ran to buy kerosene for his father.   “But the son did not know that the father was going to use the kerosene and burn him. Essien called his son and tied his hands and legs in the front of his house, poured the kerosene on him and set him ablaze.” The community leader lamented how Essien watched his own son burn.   He noted that it was when the boy was rushed to the hospital but did not make it that the community alerted the police and Essien was arrested.  Meanwhile, a Magistrates’ Court sitting in Akure, Ondo State, has ordered that a 37-year-old woman, Elizabeth Akinola, who allegedly beat her daughter to death, be remanded in prison custody. The Chief Magistrate, Victoria Bob-Manuel, who gave the order, also directed that the case file to be transferred to the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for legal advice.   The police prosecutor, Sergeant Suleiman Abdulateef, filed a seven-paragraph motion of notice and for the defendant to be remanded in police custody. Akinola was arranged on a two-count charge bordering on murder and physical assault.   The charge sheet reads: “That you, Elizabeth Akinola, ‘f’ and one Felix Babalola now at huge, on 21/08/2019, about 2.30p.m., at Iro Street, Akure, in the Akure Magisterial District, did conspire with each other to commit felony to wit murder and thereby committed an offence, contrary to and punishable under Section 324 of the Criminal Code, Cap 37, Vol.1, Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria 2006.   “That you, Elizabeth Akinola, ‘f’ and one Felix Babalola, now at large, on same date, time and place, in the aforementioned Magisterial District, did beat one Testimony Awe ‘f,’ aged about six years old, with cane which resulted to her death and thereby committed an offence, contrary to Section 316 and punishable under Section 319 (1) of the Criminal Code, Cap 37, Vol.1, Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria 2006.”   However, the defendant’s counsel, Isreal Balogun, opposed the application made by the prosecutor praying the court to give his team more time to file a counter-affidavit.   Ruling on the application, Bob-Manuel ordered the remand of the defendant in prison custody and subsequently adjourned the case till October 9, 2019.   In August 2019, the couple allegedly beat their four-year-old daughter, Testimony, to death after which she was rushed by her mother to the Ondo State University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital (UNIMED), Akure Annex.   With the confirmation that Testimony died on arrival, the mother of fled the hospital premises with the body of her daughter. She was later arrested at Ikare-Akoko, headquarters of Akoko North-East Local Government Area of Ondo State.