Survey Confidence index stood at 6.7 points in September   T he Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) September 2019 Business Expectations Survey (BES) Report has shown that firms, including small, medium and large corporations, covering both import- and export-oriented businesses, expect borrowing rates to rise this month, in October and also in the next 12 months.   The apex bank stated in the report, which it released at the weekend, that “respondent firms expect borrowing rates to rise in the current month, next month and the next twelve months, as the confidence indices stood at 6.7, 5.1 and 8.3 points, respectively.”   According to the CBN, respondents’ expected average inflation rate in the next six months and the next twelve months stood at 11.7 per cent and 11.8 per cent, respectively.   It said: “Respondent firms expressed satisfaction with the management of inflation by the government, with a positive net satisfaction index of 4.6 in September 2019. The net satisfaction index is the proportion of satisfied less the proportion of dissatisfied respondents.”   Similarly, the regulator said that firms anticipated better economic conditions “as their index of economic growth rate in the short run stood at 35.1, 47.2 and 55.8 points for the current month, next six months and next twelve months, respectively.”  On the exchange rate, the report also indicates that firms expect the naira to appreciate in this month, in October and in the next 12 months “as their confidence indices stood at 21.7, 36.0 and 46.9 index points, respectively.”  Equally, on financial conditions and access to credit, the report stated that “respondents’ outlook on the volume of total order and business activity in September 2019 remained positive, as their indices stood at 12.8 and 12.9 points, respectively. “Similarly, respondents were optimistic in their outlook on financial conditions (working capital) and average capacity utilization, as the indices stood at 10.3 and 17.0 index points, respectively.  “Respondents expressed optimism on access to credit in the review month, with an index of 1.9 points.” Indeed, despite mounting concerns over a looming global economic recession, the firms, according to the CBN, expressed optimism on the macro economy in the current month.  The banking watchdog said: “At 26.7 index points, respondents expressed optimism on the overall Confidence Index (CI) on the macro economy in the month of September 2019. The business outlook for September 2019 showed greater confidence on the macro economy with 59.0 index points.   “The optimism on the macro economy in the current month was driven by the opinion of respondents from services (14.2 points), industrial (9.7 points), wholesale/retail trade (2.1 points) and construction (0.6 points) sectors. For next month, the major drivers of the optimism were services (32.1points), industrial (20.3