 W ith the sluggish economy impacting lending, thereby generally leading to a decline in interest income from loans and advances, Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) in the country, are focusing on non-traditional alternative income sources, especially fees and commission income, to boost their bottom lines. New Telegraph’s analysis of  H1’ 19 results for 11 lenders, for instance, shows that while most of them reported a drop in net interest income, they all posted improved net fee and commission income.   Specifically, the 11 banks’ total fee and commission income increased  by 20.1 per cent to N242.9billion in the first six months of this year, from N202 billion in the corresponding period of 2018.   The 11 lenders’ H1’19 results reviewed by New Telegraph were those of Access Bank, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Zenith Bank     and Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB). Others were mid-sized DMBs – Fidelity Bank, Stanbic IBTC, First City Monument Bank (FCMB), Union Bank, Sterling Bank, Wema Bank and Unity Bank.   Banks generally derive their fees and commission income from account maintenance fees, Automated Teller Machine (ATM) charges, fees from other electronic banking channels, letters of credit commission, remittances fees, card-based fees, fees from brokerage commission and financial advisory fees, among others. In the wake of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) recent introduction of higher deposit and withdrawal charges under its cashless policy, analysts are already predicting that the move would enable lenders to further increase the income they are garnering from fees and commissions.   A breakdown of the eleven lenders’ H1’ 19 results shows that Zenith Bank led others, as its net fees and commission income increased by 33.62 per cent to N55.82 billion in the period under review, from N41.77 billion in the comparative period of last year.   It was followed by Stanbic IBTC with fees and commission income of N37.71 billion in the first half of   this year, a slight increase from the N37.14 billion posted by the Tier 2 lender in the same period of 2018.  Access Bank reported that its fees and commission income rose by 24.82 per cent to N37.53 billion in the first half of this year, from N30.07 billion reported for the comparative period in 2018.  Similarly, UBA recorded a 10.61 per cent increase in net fees and commission income to N36.0514 billion in the first half of 2019 from N32.6 billion it reported in the corresponding period of last year.   GTB’s fees and commission for the period under review rose by 30.62 per cent to N33.84 billion compared with N25.91 billion in first half of 2018. Leading Tier 2 lender, Fidelity Bank, reported a 30.88 per cent rise to N10.67 billion in its net fee and commission income in the first six months of 2019, from the N8.15 billion it posted for the same period of last year.  FCMB’s net fee and commission income slightly increased by 1.68 per cent to N10.10 billion in H1’19 from N9.93 billion in the corresponding period of last year.  Sterling Bank reported a significant 42 per cent increase to N9.8 billion in its fee and commission income in the period under review from N6.9 billion in H1’2018. Union Bank’s fee and commission income in the first half of the year rose to N6.8 billion from N6 billion in the same period of last year.  Wema Bank and Unity Bank also reported improved fee and commission income for the period under review. The former said it raked in N3.8 billion in H1’19 compared with N3 billion in the corresponding period of last year, while the latter’s was N756 million as against N750 million it posted for H1’ 2018. Analysts point out that given the dynamic nature of fee and commission income, banks will continue to explore all means to sustain bottom line growth with this source of income.  In fact, following the CBN’s recent introduction of higher deposit and withdrawal charges under its cashless policy, analysts at CardinalStone Research said that the fresh charges would boost banks’ fee and commission income.   The CBN had, in a circular a fortnight ago, directed that as from September 18, three per cent processing fees would be paid for withdrawals and two per cent for deposits of amounts above N500,000 for individual accounts.   Similarly, corporate accounts will attract five per cent processing fees for withdrawals and  three per cent processing fee for lodgments of amounts above N3 million.   The CBN said the charges would be in addition to already existing charges on withdrawals and will be aimed at encouraging its cashless policy.  The statement said the charge on deposits will, for now, apply in Lagos, Ogun, Kano, Abia, Anambra and Rivers states, as well as the Federal Capital Territory.  According to the Apex Bank, the nationwide implementation of the cashless policy will take effect from March 31, 2020.  Commenting on the development in a note issued last Thursday, the CardinalStone Research analysts stated: “Overall, we see the news as largely positive for banks’ fees and commission income, notably for cash and e-Business related transactions. Although banks already charge fees on withdrawals in excess of the regulatory limits, we believe the introduction of charges on deposits increases scope for additional income.   “First, an induced migration to alternative channels is likely to increase deployment of POS and ATM terminals as well as encourage debit card issuances. This is also likely to lead to increased adoption of banks’ USSD and online platforms by customers. Secondly, customers who fail to migrate will have to pay the required processing fees, which is also likely to be supportive of banks’ fee incomes. BDCs, petrol stations, traders and small businesses who handle a lot of cash are likely to be negatively impacted by the new charges,” they added.   