Abia State has been in the news in recent times for the wrong reasons, ranging from salary and pension arrears to infrastructure decay, among others. In this interview with IGBEAKU ORJI, the state Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi Kalu, offers explanation to these and other issues   Some portions of the 9km Umuaro/Ekwereazu road, linking Abia with Akwa Ibom State, quickly failed after completion. What’s your explanation for that?   First, I want to say that this administration has confidence in our local contractors. Of course this is the only administration in its own economic bracket in Nigeria among the 36 states of the federation that is using four grade A contractors at the same time. We are also engaging local contractors, especially those we know can do very quality jobs. The thing with Umuaro-Ekwereazu road is that it was an intervention we made specifically because Aba-Ikot Ekpene road was abandoned by the federal government; people couldn’t move; they could not link up with Aba from Akwa Ibom and Cross River states.   So, we decided that we need to do a road to open up access to Akwa Ibom, at least, to avoid a very terrible part of Aba-Ikot Ekpene road that the federal government abandoned. But, the challenge is that that road was done bearing in mind that ordinarily it is a Grade C road. Ordinarily, that is a rural road, but we realized that because of the continuous failure of Aba-Ikot Ekpene federal road and Umuahia-Ikot Ekpene federal road, that road started taking very heavy traffic. Because that road was impacted by heavy traffic, it became a problem for its durability.   But the governor has directed the contractor to go back to the road and do palliative work bearing in mind that the contractor is one of the best we have in Abia State and indeed Nigeria. As a government that is responsible, we want them to go back there and look at that road as a possible Trunk B Road based on the traffic it is receiving and take both palliative and long lasting measures to see that our people continue to have access to Akwa Ibom and Cross River states.   The Aba road in Umuahia, has been under construction since the first tenure of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu and has been slated for completion to celebrate the first 100 days in office of his second term, but it doesn’t seem feasible as both personnel and equipment have vacated the site. What happened?   This administration has fully paid the contractor, but for some reasons, Aba and Umuahia, exceptionally have received high rain fall. If you notice for 12 days Aba was bombarded by rains, 12 days nonstop. For Umuahia it was eight days nonstop. No contractor can do any effective work under the rain. So, the contractor came back to say, unless you are going to accept variations in contract, we will not be able to work at this time. And we said go back and work on completing the drainage.   If you go to front of the Ceramics Industry, you will see Arab contractors working on the drains, so that once we have more clement weather they will complete the asphalting of the small portion left. We have even gone ahead to award from where they will stop, that is, the rail line to Ubakala junction of the express to a local contractor to deliver a better road to enter Umuahia from. Let me point out this, in terms of time, this administration prefers to do quality roads. We consider quality over and above time. And people have to also noted that it is not as if we have limitless financial resources. Sometimes some of these road projects are delayed because we don’t have enough funds to continue, but there is one assurance we need to give to our people, the administration of governor Okezie Ikpeazu will not abandon any road project that we started, not even one.    But we will continue to do what we have to do based on the resources available. Time is not important to us as quality because by the time we leave Aba road, the next two administrations in Abia State should not go back to it, that means we would have effectively added to infrastructure capital. What happened in Abia State in the past is that previous administrations did not do quality roads, so we have gone back to those roads. Of course, it is not possible to complete all those road projects at the same time and even if you have the money you don’t have control over the weather and that’s what we are seeing in Aba Road. I still believe that Aba Road will still be commissioned in September based on what I have seen right now, the extent of the work I have observed I believe Aba Road will still be commissioned in September.    Does this also apply to other projects that were supposed to be completed for the first 100 days in office?   Generally, it is the same problem. I need to point this out; we have already delivered about three of the 100 days projects. But I must point this out, first 100 days is a review period for us. After that we do another review in 200 days, after that we do another review in 300 days. That review period says, how far have we gone in 100 days, what is left? We will evaluate, there is no ceremony called 100 days for us. What we have is, at the end of the first 100 days sit back and review all that we wanted to do.   How would you react to the knotty issue of backlog of salaries, pensions and gratuity, which led to the recent demonstration by pensioners?   I think the story of payment of salaries in Abia State is not reported correctly. The ministries, departments and agencies of government in Abia State are up to date with payment of salaries. They received their July salary on August 1. No single ministry, department and agencies of Abia State is owed even one month of salary. Now, these people constitute more than 70 per cent of Abia State workforce. Where there is a challenge is workers of parastatals. By law, even by definition, parastatal management should pay the workers. The government does not pay their salaries. Go and verify this. If you go to a neighbouring state, I don’t want mention the name, pensioners there are owed over 80 months, but you don’t see protests.   If you go to some of the states that we envied during the recession, many of them slashed workers’ salaries by about 70 per cent, some 50 per cent, but this administration continued to pay workers 100 per cent to date. Abia State’s wage bill is around N2.4 billion, but in a neighbouring state, the wage bill is N900 million. Now, if you go to that state that is paying N900 million and compare what they pay their Level 8 workers to what we pay to our Level 8 workers, you will understand that workers are much more better off in Abia State. That’s why we asked the workers if they are ready for us to do exactly what that other state is doing, so that we will have more money and our wage bill will come down to about N1.6 billion which will be more manageable.   What will you have to say about local government workers, who also say they are in arrears even as the allocation is as regular as that of the state?   I don’t believe the arrears were accumulated under the new local government officials. The two months arrears they are talking about were there before they came, before the new transaction rule, the NFI rule. But the governor has directed them to prioritize workers payment. It’s the same thing with primary school teachers. Of course, you know that they now enjoy more reasonable financial autonomy. What we are going to do is to continue to push them to set aside money to pay the backlog that they have, but at the same time ensure that every month they pay workers first.   The instruction of the governor to them is: ‘You must pay workers before you spend on any other thing.” Let me point this out to you, the governor had the opportunity to pay his political appointees, some of them have not received the last month’s salary before they were relieved of their duties and the governor said: ‘Use that money and pay my pensioners first. My pensioners would have to be comfortable before you start telling me about political appointees.’ There’s something nobody is talking about; since 2015 Governor Ikpeazu is on 50 per cent of his salary and 50 per cent of his security vote today compared to what others before him were getting. Go and verify it.   I am a commissioner in Abia State I am on 50 per cent salary. I am also on 50 per cent security vote. I should not hide it that my salary is about N210,000, that is not the standard salary of a commissioner. People are not talking about this; that’s the sacrifice the governor insisted that we all make to support payment of workers, to support development projects, and we are happy to make the sacrifice. Indeed, nobody should think that we are happy parastatals are owing workers or that pensioners are being owed. It worries the governor much more than it even worries the general public and that is why he is actively working hard to see where we can find the resources to clear these outstanding as quickly as possible.   Do you have any explanation for the governor’s delay in constituting the state Executive Council as you happen to be one of the two members of the exco since the government came on board three months ago?   The governor is ready with the list of commissioners, but the House of Assembly is on recess. As soon as they resume from their recess, he will give them and they will announce the new commissioners. What he has done is to assemble the best quality of men and women, a mixture of professionals, technocrats and politicians with conscience. Not every politician would be there. Those with conscience alone, who understand the mission, those who understand the vision of the governor, those who can relate with the 5-point development agenda of the government. The list is tilted in favour of young persons. We will submit it at the appropriate time and the appropriate time in this case is when the House of Assembly resumes.   Indeed, there is actually no vacuum as you can see, there are two commissioners in place, the commissioner for Information and the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice. We have a Secretary to the State Government (SSG) who is a member of the exco and we also have the Deputy Chief of Staff, who is also in the exco, so the wheel of government is running, but we believe that the expanded list will come very soon.