Hon. Benjamin Okezie Kalu represents Bende Federal Constituency of Abia State on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House of Representatives and is the Chairman, Committee on Media and Public Affairs. In this interview with PHILIP NYAM, he speaks on the House activities, Central Bank of Nigeria’s new cashless policy and the agitation for power shift to the South-East in 2023   Before the House reconvened from the annual holiday, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila had expressed optimism that the executive would forward MTEF and the 2020 budget proposal at least at the end of September. This is the last week of the month. What is happening?   Both the executive and the legislature are committed to this joint task for nation building and that’s why yesterday the executive through the president communicated the MTEF to the Speaker and the president of Senate as expected. These arms of government are working towards returning the budget calendar to run from January to December starting from the 2020 budget and with all hands on decks it is achievable.   Many analysts are beginning to wonder if the tempo with which the 9th House started is waning, because the second week into resumption, the leadership of standing committees is yet to be inaugurated. But the Senate that resumed just this week is already inaugurating her committees. What is the problem? And when will the inauguration take place?   The achievements of this 9th Assembly made under 100 days in office are highly commendable and I am certain the list is in the public domain; helping to stop the strike in the health sector, steps to eliminate banditry through positive direct engagement by the Speaker, important attention to the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), the engagement of the security chiefs on better ways to achieving security, the immediate reaction to xenophobic actions on Nigerians in South Africa, the ad hoc committees on abandoned projects, pipeline explosion, Eastern ports underutilisation, public service and their employments, interventions in Bauchi and Delta states political crisis, formation of heads of committees etc. An institution losing steam will not record these achievements among others.   The House of Representatives of the current 9th Assembly is focused, time conscious and powering on towards achieving her legislative agenda. On the issue of inaugurating the committees and the comparison you just drew, consideration should always be had to the vast number of the members of House of Representatives compared to the Senate. We are talking about membership and committees almost four times that of the Senate. This justifies why certain issues should ordinarily take a slightly longer time than it does at the Senate.   That notwithstanding, the leadership of the House of Representatives has been working round the clock to ensure an almost perfect positioning of members is done in all the committees in addition to the work submitted by the selection committee. Mr. Speaker, who is currently attending the Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference in Uganda, will be back by next week to carry out the inauguration on Wednesday, which although relevant but is a mere formality. I say so because of most of the committee leaderships like mine as the Chairman of Media and Public Affairs have hit the ground running. If I was waiting for the inauguration ceremony, I will not be here responding to your interview, or don’t you think so?   The Speaker had announced on resumption that all ad hoc committees should round off their assignments by the end of September, but I have seen most of these panels scheduling their investigations for October. Has the deadline been extended?   There is no confusion anywhere here because the September 30th date still stands. If any activity of the ad hoc committee is scheduled beyond the said date, it means the affected agency will be relating with the standing committee immediately after the September 30. The leadership does not want to leave any vacuum while waiting for the September 30 deadline.   The House had last week urged the CBN to suspend the new cashless policy pending its investigation, but a day after the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, was reported to have said that there is no going back on the policy. What does the House intend to do?   The House is certain the CBN will listen to the public outcry. As it is in the practice of the House, the resolution on the motion referred the matter to the Committee on Banking and Currency. I am sure the affected stakeholders are engaging this relevant committee leadership to find the best way. Like the House has always insisted, we are not fighting CBN we only want them to engage some more and carry Nigerians along for easier public policy adoption which is important because the people at all times in every democracy, must be at the center of all policy formulation and implementation.  The questions from the people have been whether or not the model of implementation which is bank-led is yielding the expected outcome even while Nigeria still has 60 per cent unbanked population as against the Telco-led model adopted by Kenya in 2007, which is more cost-effective and has achieved 73 per cent public adoption as at today. Which approach in the midst of the already huge bank charges will lead to more financial inclusion of the 60 per cent population mostly living in the rural areas? Will this new deposit punitive measures of CBN drive deposit mobilisation or will it reduce the liquidity of the Money Deposit Banks with the resultant effect of low credit extensions which will suffocate the smaller businesses who are the engine room of our economy?   What will this do to our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and our unemployment rate? Should the CBN and other agencies in partnership with National Communication Commission (NCC) not focus on the current infrastructure deficit in the sector meant to drive the online banking to achieve standardisation, where the integrity of the transactions in place of the current transaction failures, will increase the confidence of users? Before going for full implementation of the cashless policy?   Finally, they are asking if deposit charges must be levied, what informed the high charge percentage of three percent and five percent for individuals on above N500,000 and corporate on above N300 million. High Charge in the deposit will affect deposits which will remain outside the banks and invariably increase criminality in the nation many have opined.   You see the house is not currently more interested in the legality and legalisms of the directives we are more interested in the pain and the outcry of the masses. As the people’s parliament, we cannot ignore such and appear insensitive. We are sure the banking and currency committee and the CBN will get it right.   Three months after the inauguration of the House, Nigerians have been waiting to see the legislative agenda promised by Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila. Does the current leadership have any agenda at all? And if yes, when is it going to be unveiled?   Yes the current leadership has got a legislative agenda for the next four years. The leadership of the House under Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, will never accept a “copy and paste “legislative agenda devoid of the current realities in the nation. The draft copy which has gone through intensive scrutiny of the leadership has finally been finalised as about 59-page document with three sections covering the following; General principles, reform of the House of Representatives, Social Justice, sustainable power, Environment, and Climate change, open- Governance, Transparency, and Accountability, internally displaced persons (IDPs), Public Health, Media for National Development, and National Budget reform among others. The legislative agenda will, however, be unveiled between October 3 and 4.   We are barely four months into the new administration but the jostle for 2023 has taken over the political space. As a stakeholder, do you think this should be the case at this time?   Politicians will always strategise to fit into the political equation that favours their political interest. As long as it does not affect the delivery of the expectations of the electorate who voted them into power, I have nothing against it. Proper timing is everything and as you are aware, equity aides vigilant not the indolent and where two equities exist the first in time prevails. The second will always be treated as an afterthought. Nobody takes after thoughts seriously. As a stakeholder my advice is to engage early with the right political configuration that will ultimately secure your interest and that of your people as long as it does not disengage you from working for those who voted for you.   The agitations by the South-East to be allowed to test the Presidency in 2023 is rife, even as there are insinuations that the north wants to retain the exalted position. Does the South East have genuine claims to the Presidency in 2023?   Wondering if your question on whether the South-East has a genuine claim to the presidency was a mere rhetorical question. Because asking me that, is as offensive as asking one of the sons of a great man, if he thinks he is entitled to his father’s throne and inheritance when the others have had a share; unless you are indirectly questioning his paternity.   Are you aware of anything cogent enough to disqualify the people of the South-East from aspiring to lead this nation? If you know please tell me. What else is more genuine than the fact that the South-East has supported other regions to occupy that position and have patiently waited for it to go round in turns? National peace and unity found in cohesion is enhanced when every tribe and tongue is given the sense of belonging they desire and deserves.   Beyond this, it is politics, not traditional birthrights, it is never given, it is taken. The South-East should stop swimming against the tide in the bid to show strength. We are stronger when we partner to build bonds and confidence than when we show the strength of individuality. There is wisdom in aligning properly and timely too. We can’t deliver the dream alone; we need a strong partnership with the rest of the regions.   We must believe in ourselves, celebrate one another and at the right time agree to find leadership just in one who may not be the very best but has the ability to deliver on our expectations. The Igbo enweghi eze (the Igbo nation has no king) ancient philosophy has to give way because my generation is in search of true leadership found in selflessness and patriotism to Nigeria, not just the Igbo nation.  