•BoT, NWC divided over House of Reps minority leader   •Nobody leaving party –Ologbondiyan   C risis is brewing in the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), similar to the post-2015 leadership tussle which nearly led to its extinction. Last Thursday, the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT) meeting witnessed one of its longest sessions, but in the end, it failed to resolve one of the knotty issues facing the party.   The board was convened to discuss the report of five-man investigative committee into the minority leadership crisis in the House of Representatives, which it inaugurated. The committee was headed by former President of the Senate, Iyorchia Ayu.   A source at the meeting disclosed that the members failed to adopt the recommendations of the committee, which included the exoneration of seven members of the party led by Ndudi Elumelu who went against the decision of the PDP on the choice of minority leadership of the House of Representatives.   BoT Chairman, Senator Walid Jubrin and the Secretary, Senator Adolphus Wabara, openly disagreed on the resolution on the board.   While Wabara told journalists that a decision had been taken and the handed over to the National Working Committee (NWC), Jubrin said the board would meet again on the matter.   PDP BoT Chairman later said in a statement he circulated after the press conference: “In view of conflicting reports that the BoT has submitted its report of Senator Ayu committee that investigated the emergence of Hon Elumelu as the Minority Leader in the House of Representatives, I want to state categorically that such report is yet to be sent to the National Chairman because as one family, the PDP is handling the matter internally.   “I assure you that everything will soon be resolved amicably.”  The source said this was an indication that there was crack. He disclosed that the NWC was not comfortable with the report of the Iyorchia Ayu’s Committee and wanted the BoT to reject it.  “It was a confirmation that something went wrong somewhere. We are not saying that the committee was compromised but there is a lot of explanations members of the committee have to make.  Why the outright exoneration of Elumelu and others of any offence?   “Remember the report was submitted in Asaba (Delta State). Why did they choose Asaba of all places?  “The committee was constituted in Abuja but they travelled all the way to Delta State where Elumelu comes from, to submit their report!” the source wondered.   It was learnt that BoT members were divided on the report. While some members wanted it to be submitted to the NWC and allow it to handle the matter, others said the NWC was an interested party and might not be fair.   Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike had earlier accused the committee members of corruption.  PDP is also yet to receive Senator Wabara investigative committee into the voting pattern of its lawmakers during the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly leadership last June. The 10-member committee was inaugurated July 9 and were given three weeks to submit its findings.  The party leadership had directed its lawmakers to vote Senator Ali Ndume and Hon. Umar Bago as President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively.  But at the inauguration of the National Assembly on June 11, some PDP lawmakers went against this directive resulting in the emergence of Senator Ahmed Lawan and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila to the two positions. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, at the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting on June 24, described the action of the lawmakers as “embarrassing.”  A source at the party’s secretariat told Sunday Telegraph that there was pressure on the party leadership to drop the matter.  But the party’s Spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, however, said the party is still waiting for the probe committee’s report.  When reminded that the three-week period given the committee has expired, he responded, “They might have asked for extension of time.”  According to him: “The committee is not under pressure to submit its report.”  The Wabara committee was mandated to probe “whether there is any involvement of the ruling party in the decision taken by the members involved;    “Where there are established reasons for taking the action by members, the committee should identify such so that the party can create mutual and political atmosphere for reasonable interaction with senators and House members.” In the meantime, PDP has debunked reports making the rounds that some of its members were planning to leave the party.  There were reports that some aggrieved members of the party, during the last primaries in Kogi and Bayelsa states, have defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).  Those reported to have defected were former speaker, Kogi State House of Assembly, Clarence Olufemi and the Senator who represented Bayelsa East in the Senate between 2007 – 2011, Senator Mimi Barigha-Amange.  Olufemi, who was Director General of Abubakar Ibrahim Campaign Organisation, was at the press conference addressed by Abubakar who came second in the Kogi State primary, last week. He denied that he had left the PDP.  There were, however, still conflicting reports concerning the status of Senator Amange as the PDP chapter in Bayelsa State denied that he had also defected.  Ologbondiyan, in an interview yesterday, said the party has not received any report that any of her members had joined another party.  “There was no truth in the rumour. What you have to understand that once there is an election, there will be contestation.   “We know where the rumour is coming from and we are not surprised.  “Our party is intact. Nobody has left, nobody is planning to leave,” Ologbondiyan defended.   He also denied that some PDP governors were no longer comfortable with Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s candidacy, recalling that the governors had already issued a statement in support of the appeal.  “They issued a statement signed by their Chairman given their support to the appeal. Mind you, it is the party that went to court, not Atiku Abubakar,” Ologbondiyan added.  PDP governors had in a statement by the Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum, Governor Sierake Dickson of Bayelsa State, pledged their “undiluted loyalty, deserving support and maximum commitment to our great party and the Atiku-Obi Presidential Ticket. “This is our stand, now and in the future. Posterity would judge us harshly if we did otherwise.”  Ologbondiyan also said that the congratulatory message sent to President Muhammadu Buhari by the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike should not be interpreted to mean his support to the president.   “That does not mean that the governor does not support our candidate and the appealing. The same Wike also said the president has refused to pay Rivers State the money it used to execute federal projects,” he further postulated.