For the umpteenth time, the Federal Government has signaled its intention to accomplish the January to December budget calendar using 2020 budget whose Medium Term Expenditure Framework ( MTEF) is primed for submission to the National Assembly this September. Abdwahab Isa looks at breaking the jinx as four previous attempts had failed   For Zainab Ahmed, the reappointed Minister of Finance,  Budget and Planning and her colleague, Minister of State, Clement Ikanade Agba, time is of essence. The 2020 budget alarm rang  last week, signalling its preparation, as it is long due considering that the  constitution of  ministerial cabinet came behind schedule. The administration that  appointed Ahmed, the arrow head of its  economic policy, repeatedly failed  on  all its four attempts to programme the budget calendar on January to December. The duo current minister inherited the sacred mandate of delivering on January to December template, a task that eluded past ministers. However, can Ahmed and Ikanade deliver on January to December budget calendar using budget 2020 as pilot? What are the obstacles to January to December budget calendar; what’s to be done between now and October? Getting Nigeria’s economy  to work revolves around timely  budget programming. The  preparation, execution and performance monitoring aspect of budget is a planned phenomenon to be dutifully followed in line with calendar timetable. Most economies that experience growth, robustness have their budgets structured in accordance with timetable. Successive governments, including the current one, failed in their bids to operate January to December budget calendar. President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration had always wanted keeping to January to December budget implementation. Hard as the administration tried to break the budget jinx, it suffered setback. Both  executive and legislative arms of  government share in the blame of truncating the process. The immediate past Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, had in his valedictory speech, apportioned   blame on failure to attain  January to  December budget calendar on both arms of the government. Udoma lamented the inability of the administration to achieve the new budget cycle. “There is no legal requirement for the budget year to run from January to December. However, a January to December fiscal year is more predictable and would help the private sector and other economic players in planning because most economic players run a January to December fiscal year,” he said. “Also, it would be much easier to track budget performance if both the recurrent and the capital budgets run from the same dates. It is, therefore, desirable to return to the January to December fiscal year. “However, to return to the January to December fiscal year for a budget when the operation of the current budget only commenced in June or July is a very challenging assignment. In order to achieve a return to a 1st of January commencement date, the budget must ideally be delivered to the National Assembly by September. “But when you are operating a budget, which commenced only in June, or July, by September you would have had no idea how the existing budget is likely to perform. Indeed, given the procurement process, for a budget, which starts running in June or July, there might have been little or no capital releases by September.” EMT’s  leg work Fireworks for 2020 budget have  begun in earnest. The Economic Management Team (EMT) headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo met last week for the 2020 fiscal budget process. The meeting presided over by the VP reportedly  focused on the preparations of the 2020 budget, billed for submission in the last week of September 2019, to the National Assembly. The EMT serves as an advisory body to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and is expected to review government’s Medium-Term Expenditure Framework 2019 to 2021, for the approval of the FEC, ahead of its presentation to the National Assembly. According  spokesman of the vice president, Laolu Akande,  “the meeting is part of the preparation for the 2020 budget presentation. Their plans are subject to review and approval of FEC.” The meeting was attended by Ahmed, ministers of Industry, Trade & Investment; Adeniyi Adebayo, Information; Lai Mohammed, Works & Housing; Babatunde Fashola, Budget & National Planning (State), Clement Agba and Petroleum (State), Timipre Silva. Other top government functionaries included the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Godwin Emefiele, Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari, and Federal Inland Revenue Service Chair, Babatunde Fowler. Also in  attendance were  Director General,  Budget, Ben Akabueze, Director General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Patience Oniha, Director General, National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Yemi Kale. Others were the Special Adviser, Economic Matters, among others. Executive, NASS  synergy key to calendar Unhealthy rivalry, frequent clashes between both arms of government that are central to budget is responsible for hitches. The two organs of government need to seamlessly operate on  same page, put  interest and welfare of Nigerians above every other considerations for the January to December calendar budget to be realised. The current leadership of National Assembly is perceived largely as a level headed leadership; one that is ever willing and ready to work harmoniously with the executive to move the economy to the desired level. The onus, it seems, lies with the executive to get its acts together by sending MTEF on time. To commit his colleagues into according   2020 budget the priority it deserves, the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, had asked President Muhammadu Buhari to lay before the National Assembly the 2020 Appropriation Bill by September ending for its passage by December. Lawal also appealed to the executive arm of government on the need to be on the same page with the legislature to reverse the trend of the current budget cycle in Nigeria and ensure its passage before the lawmakers go on Christmas break. Will Ahmed break the jinx? Ahmed got expanded portfolio with Budget and National Planning added to her supervision schedule. She will be coordinating the expanded ministry with a Minister of state in budget and national planning, Mr. Clement Ikanade Agba. The duo excitedly announced their priority at  a maiden media outing in which  budget 2020 was a focal topic of discourse. Agba declared on day of assumption at the ministry that sending budget to National Assembly by  September, a tentative  deadline was his priority. “Meetings are already scheduled. It is quite understandable reading the mood of Mr President. He had made it very clear to us. “There is a whole lot of work to be done and he needs the budget to be before the National Assembly in September. That means for this ministry, in particular, we do have a lot of work to do. And I can say  that we have a lot of capable hands to do the work. “The only way we can succeed is for us to work together. I believe in the power of team. For me,  the word ‘team’ means together everybody achieves much,” he noted. Last line This is already September; the MTEF, a  document detailing key parameters of 2020, should be with the National Assembly this month. Can Ahmed and her colleague work their talks? Time as usual will tell.