The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has warned users of the Internet to beware of offers of friendship and free gifts made on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and other social media platforms in order not to fall victims to cyber criminals.  The commission said during a consumer outreach programme in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, that these were the easiest means of accessing vital information about consumers, adding that the outreach programme became imperative because of the increase in cybercrime in Nigeria and globally.  Presenting the lead paper at the 110th edition of the programme, Mr. Abdulazeez Jide of consumer advocacy group, outlined the roles consumers should play to get protected from cyber criminals including to “delete or totally ignore SMishing of Phishing messages”, warning that such invitations should not be opened. Jide said many Nigerians have fallen victim to such solicitations and free gifts, losing money, valuables and even life in the process.  He explained that in most cases such invitations and free gifts were fraudulent and only a means of catching unsuspecting users and making them part with their valuable items.  Jide also warned consumers against revealing personal and family details on the Internet so as not to give Internet fraudsters access to their bank accounts, credit cards, information about office or school. He also advised consumers to use trusted anti-viruses, strong passwords as well as effective management of social media settings to ward off Internet poachers.  Jide, who described the theme of the outreach programme, ‘Mitigating Effects of Cybercrime: Roles of Telecoms Consumers’, as apt defined cybercrime as “a crime committed using the internet. It refers to the abuse of the Internet. It is the use of Internet access by some dishonest individuals to carry out criminal, wrongful and illegal activities to harm, defraud or cause psychological discomfort or steal personal information spread fear to legitimate Internet users.”  He listed the forms of Internet crimes to include, “Phishing scams, which is an attempt by scammers to trick consumers into giving out personal information like bank account numbers, password and credit card numbers through email, text message, phone or social media.”