 T he Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) has raised an alarm over the recent order issued by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu,   to all State Police Commands and Zonal Headquarters to clamp down on the Shiite sect  and arrest its leaders and members  across  Nigeria. The group condemned the order issued on Friday  which authorised security personnel to effect   the immediate arrest of members and leaders of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria and the demolition of their structures across the states.   President, Media Forum of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibrahim Musa, accused  President Muhammadu Buhari of plotting to exterminate members of the Shia  sect in Nigeria.   According  to Musa, the fresh clampdown was in line with the trend since the current administration came to power.  “It is on record that the Buhari administration, since its inception in 2015, has always used the commencement of the first month of the Islamic calendar, Muharram to persecute, kill and maim us and deny us any space to conduct all our religious rites expected of all Shi’ites. “This recent order given on the eve of Muharram this year underlines the intention of the government to continue this pattern of attacks against Shia Islam and prevent us from conducting all our Muharram religious mourning obligations.   “Already, a parade of show of force by the Sokoto police command in dozens of vehicles has started in a neighbourhood with a large population of members of the Islamic Movement, despite the existence of a substantive court order from a Sokoto High Court obtained since 31/01/2018 restraining the police force from curtailing the activities of the Islamic Movement in the state. Similarly, in a meeting held in Kaduna, it was decided that the Elrufa’i administration will engage the vigilante groups to clamp down on any Ashura mourning session in Kaduna and environs to augment attacks by the Police command since the police has thus far failed to ‘finish’ the Islamic Movement.   “To this end, we want to draw the attention of well-meaning Nigerians and the international community to the fact that the major problem confronting this country is certainly not the free Zakzaky processions, but rather the security challenges characterized by incessant kidnappings, attacks by bandits and terror attacks in most parts of the North. The Sheikh Zakzaky-led Islamic Movement is not a security threat to Nigeria and Nigerians and has never ever been. Certainly, none of our religious rites, including the Ashura mourning sessions and its associated mourning procession or the moulud procession for which members of the Islamic Movement are well known for, can be of any threat to the nation. Even a child can attest to this fact. “It is therefore strange that a fresh attempt by this regime to use all the paraphernalia of its office to brutally kill, maim and imprison thousands of innocent Nigerians, simply because of their faith at such a difficult time being experienced by Nigerians. The Buhari administration cannot continue to hide its incompetence and inadequacies in remedying the major problems confronting Nigeria by manipulating religious sentiments simply to score some cheap political points,” he said.