•Fasuba blames AFN Technical Dept   It was bad news coming from Doha, Qatar, the venue of the ongoing IAAF World Athletics Championships, as two of the country’s medal hopefuls, Divine Oduduru and Blessing Okagbare, have been thrown out of the competition after their no show in the men and women’s 100m events.  Oduduru failed to start the men’s 100m on Friday, the opening day of the competition while Okagbare also did same on Saturday. The two are now out of the competition as they are not allowed to take part in the remaining events they were registered for with Oduduru’s name already out of the men’s 200m and will also be out of the relay.  The IAAF rule states that any athlete who withdraws from an event after being confirmed in the final entry list, will have to forfeit subsequent events. Only Emmanuel Arowolo will be representing Nigeria in the 200m while there will be nobody in the Women’s 200m as Okagbare was     the only athlete registered for the event. Although there was report that the duo informed Sunday Adeleye, the Technical Director of the federation they would not be participating in the 100m event but their names still managed to get on the start list which indicates a final confirmation of their participation was done.  A similar infraction was committed in Beijjng, China four years ago when Okagbare failed to come out for the 200m after placing last in the final of the 100m. AFN’s explana- tion that she had medical issues was not bought by the IAAF and the sprinter was not allowed to run in the 4x100m relay at the Championships.  Meanwhile, former international, Olusoji Fasuba, has blamed the infraction on the technical department of the AFN led by Adeleye. Fasuba said on Facebook: “What is the job of the technical team/ coach in an athletic event as big as world championship if they cant advise the athlete’s of the technicalities/ rules of that said championship, Or are they there for jambore?” Also on Saturday, African Games gold medallist, Raymond Ekevwo, failed to make it to the final of the 100m after placing fifth in the second semifinal with a time of 10.20secs.