Fiery Islamic Scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, yesterday, disclosed that the last election was the worst he had witnessed in the history of the country. According to Gumi, the process was overshadowed with massive irregularities, which had produced a government that is finding it difficult to tackle the problems of the country. That was as he also lambasted the elite for plunging the country into its present woes characterised by kidnapping, banditry and all manner of crimes. Gumi stated this while playing host to the President and Founder of Evangelical Bible Outreach Ministries International, Prophet Isah El-Buba, who paid him a courtesy visit in Kaduna yesterday. The Islamic Scholar lamented that the 2019 election was the most painful, worst election conducted in the history of Nigeria which has now divided Nigerians across various interests, capitalising on the ignorance of the masses. He said: “We are having the same vision about getting the right purposeful leadership that is focused and all embracing like a hawk which protects all his children. This is the type of leadership we need. “Nigeria is now seriously divided along all interests. Class struggle is now the major factor that keep polarising Nigeria. Now what brought the division is abject poverty. The poor and the downtrodden are now angry. All the crimes we have now came as a result of poverty. “The politicians are necessary evil even though a lot of them are not educated. The crop of political leaders are not educated to handle the problem we have in Nigeria today. The idea is very important and not what we see today. There is no point looking at who is doing what but the idea. “Former President Goodluck Jonathan and President Buhari are not good for Nigeria. When we told Jonathan to do something, he was looking at us from a Muslim perspective. People are dying in the Hospital. Kidnapping is the worst thing. After attaining position, all they think is how to get contract and jet out of country. “I will support you to move round the country because we still have good people all over the country. I’m ready to go with you. But, don’t forget to carry them along. You have to tell them. The last election was the most painful election I have seen in Nigeria. In 2015, we realised we were handicapped because Nigerians are ignorant. I expected 2019 to be clean but, it is the worst election I have seen in Nigeria. “You can imagine a government that is fighting corruption, saw a governor from the North stalking dollars in his pockets and kept quiet. What example is the North showing? Nigeria needs a new page- people, who will unite us. The surest way to move Nigeria forward is through free, fair and credible elections,” he said. Earlier, Prophet Isah said he embarked on national tour to see a new Nigeria where justice shall be the basis upon which the country is governed.