The long-standing feud between Nollywood actresses, Lizzy Anjorin and Toyin Abraham, became public knowledge a few days ago, with the two thespians who are notable in the Yoruba section of the Nigerian movie terrain, making it public. According to sources close to both actresses, who are controversial by nature, in words and deeds, the misunderstanding started a while back but it was ignited on Saturday as Lizzy Anjorin alleged that Toyin opened multiple Instagram accounts to troll her. According to her, Toyin, who recently gave birth to a baby boy, also leaked damaging reports about her to some blogs. Angered by the claims, lawyers representing Toyin Abraham wrote to Anjorin on Monday, demanding a public apology and retraction for accusing Abraham of cyber-bullying. While many expected Lizzy Anjorin to at least beat a retreat, she said the letter from Toyin’s attorneys made her laugh and she soon returned with a letter from her own lawyers as well. Days after, Lizzy promised that she would continue to attack Toyin Abraham until the actress formerly married to Adeniyi Johnson cautions her followers especially with bloggers she believed are loyal to the Alakada actress having twisted her apology to fans to mean she is appealing to Toyin. Coming up with another salvo, Lizzy, who lashed out at those urging her to support Babatunde Omidina (Baba Suwe) some months back, said Toyin Abraham gave birth to her child in a traditional centre in Nigeria, branding her a liar. Responding, Toyin Abraham countered the claim of having her child in a traditional centre in Nigeria on Wednesday via a video made public by Broadway TV. According to Toyin, she had her baby at Vedic Lifecare Hospital, Lekki, Lagos, after seeing how efficient the clinic was. “Because I trust you people, I decided to have my baby in Nigeria. I actually travelled but I came back. I said I am coming back, let me have my baby in Nigeria because I want to be around everybody,” Toyin, once linked to the incarcerated Seun Egbebe, said. Yet again, Lizzy Anjorin came back, accusing her fellow actress of hastily organising a session that shows her childbirth in a hospital. “Irolabi.com sebi awa wo condom soju , pikin wey don grow reach enter marriage..e pain them, una for come rent camera from my studio,” she wrote. While it has been a tough time for fans of both, who have taken the battle to other social media platforms, it has been a week not short of entertainment for neutral observers who are wondering about the kinds of persons both movie stars are.