Barely a week after Governor Abubakar Sani Bello released 13 bandits, seven members of vigilante group and a policeman have been confirmed killed by gunmen suspected to be cattle rustlers in Kusherki community, Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State. The incident occurred when the police received a distress call that some gunmen had storm Lamba Waya village, at Pandogari village in their large number to rustle cows.  It should be recalled that bandits had last month laid siege on Kusherki and other hinterlands which led to death of one person and kidnap of three others. However, Bello while releasing the bandits, said “We entered into an understanding with bandits to end their activities.” Investigations have it that, distress prompted the deployment of a combine team of the Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and Vigilante group to track down the rustlers. Our correspondent gathered that the gunmen ambushed the security operatives thereby resulting in the exchange of gun fire that lasted for over three hours.  A source, who pleaded anonymity, said by the time the dust settled, seven vigilantes and one policeman were confirmed dead in the crossfire, even as the gunmen escaped with the rustled cows. Confirming the incident, the command’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), DSP Muhammad Daninna Abubakar, said a combined team of the Police, NSCDC and Vigilance group have been drafted to the area with a view to apprehending the culprits.  He alleged that some of the cattle rustlers that were either killed or sustained various degree of injuries had been taken away by their members to avoid giving security agencies trails that may lead to their whereabouts. Accordingly, he said: “Our men are following the blood trails and combing the areas as we speak. We will apprehend these bandits and they cannot make Niger their abode.” On the rumours that two military personnel had been kidnapped by the cattle rustlers, he said he is not aware of such development and that only Army spokesman can comment on it. All efforts to get the TRADOC authority to comment on the development failed.