*Gives out a toll free number Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa Ahead of the Bayelsa State 2019 governorship election scheduled to hold on November 16, a nongovernmental organisation known as KINPACT DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE (KDI) has called on all the relevant stakeholders involved to work towards maintaining a peaceful atmosphere during the election. KDI also gave out a toll free number 08000001000 to the public to report any incidence of violence in their immediate communities during the election. In a press conference at the weekend in Yenagoa, Bukola Idowu, the Executive Director of the organisation, implored the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the political parties, the candidates, youth leaders, security agencies, political gladiators and the civil societies to help in making sure that the process is rancor free. Idowu said: ”As committed citizens of Nigeria, and Bayelsa, we will like you all to bear in mind that no development is possible in an atmosphere void of peace. We strongly appeal to youths to avoid being used as an instrument to ferment violence in any area of the state.” KDI said it has deployed about 16 election observers two in each local government for the pre and post- election activities a gesture which he said was made possible by its partners, the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES). KDI said in its commitment to deepening democratic processes, it has assessed the electoral risk factors in the eight local governments adding that it has identified early warning signs which could help the relevant stakeholders to deploy appropriate responses to those areas. The NGO said: “From the survey, it was discovered that 74.3% agreed that elections in Bayelsa State have been marred by violence, 38.50% said they were expecting a peaceful governorship election while 33.78% anticipate a very violent election.” KDI also revealed that from the survey the possibility of violence is low in Kolokuma/Opokuma, while Sagbama, Yenagoa and Ogbia are somewhat likely to experience violence. However, the remaining four local governments Ekeremor, Southern Ijaw, Nembe, Brass the survey, according to KDI, have high level of experiencing violence. 