The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the victory of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the Elections Petitions Tribunal as a re-affirmation that he got the mandate of the people in the March 2 governorship election.
Lagos APC, in statement issued on Monday by its Assistant Publicity Secretary, Mr. Abiodun Salami, said the victory was a judicial vindication of the belief Lagosians has in the governor to move the state forward.
The Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Lagos had on Monday dismissed the petitions filed by the Labour Party and reaffirmed the victory of Sanwo-Olu as the duly elected governor of Lagos State during the last election.
Reacting to the judgement, Salami said the victory was a validation of the support the people have for Sanwo-Olu and proof that the petition was all along ‘a wild goose chase.’
The Lagos APC therefore congratulated Lagosians on the victory, noting that it was not only victory for the governor but also for the people and good governance.
“We congratulate the governor and the good people of Lagos on the judicial vindication of this electoral victory.This verdict is not only a victory for democracy ,it is a victory for good governance and a more prosperous Lagos,” the party stated.
The Lagos APC spokesman also assured residents that the verdict would further inspire the Sanwo-Olu administration to render impactful governance in the state. Lagos State Governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has filed his defence at the State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal in Ikeja, saying he was confident of defending and retaining the mandate given to him by Lagosians, who exercised their confidence in his ability to lead the state in an executive capacity… In "News" The Alliance for Democracy (AD) and Chief Owolabi Salis, the party's gubernatorial candidate has yesterday filed a Petition at the Gubernatorial Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Ikeja to stop the swearing-in of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, as the Executive Governor of Lagos State on May 29. The Petition, numbered EPT/LAG/GOV/2/2019, alleges… In "News Around Nigeria" TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on how last Saturday’s governorship election was won and lost in Lagos State   Lagos State was one of the states that generated a lot of attraction, not only in the state but entire Nigeria in last Saturday governorship election where the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship… In "Politics"