H appy new month. It gladdens my heart that out of 12 months, we’ve had the grace of scaling through eight solid months. Living through January to August has really been by God’s grace for many. So many huddles have been crossed. Lot of mountains have been climbed and lot of battles won. It is not as though our lives have become challenges-free. However, when we look back, we see grace and progress. The fact that you could even read this calls for a gratitude heart. And if you could make it this far, I’m certain you will make it to the end. Also, if despite all that you’ve encountered this year alone, you are still standing, rest assured that you are already victorious. This month, I have come with 3Rs you should expect. Anything short of these is unacceptable. No matter how high or low your situation is, be ready for these 3Rs. There is a man in the Bible named Joseph. I’m sure many of us are very familiar with that name and his story. Joseph had a dream that he was going to be very great. In fact he saw the stars of his brothers bowing down to his, and so many other great stuff he was seeing. But what he was experiencing in reality was a contrast of his dream and aspiration. Someone, who saw himself as being great, got sold off as a slave by his brothers. One who was seeing himself in the seat of honour became a servant in Potiphar’s house. To compound the whole matter, he was lied upon, allegation came against him of trying to sleep with his master’s wife, and this landed him in prison. Sometimes, the dreams, aspirations and pictures of the great things we see on our inside are like opposites of what we are experiencing in real life. Sometimes, you see yourself feeding people but reality is; you are in debts. You see yourself clothing the naked but you presently have two pairs of shoes, one and half trousers and two shirts. Recognition: One thing you will experience this month is – YOU WILL BE RECOGNISED. See, wherever light is, it shines, no matter how one covers it. Likewise, wherever greatness is, it will be exposed; just a matter of time. Joseph was recognised, even in the prison. This month, you will be recognised, even in that dirty situation that looks like prison. Someone somewhere would speak on your behalf. Someone would recommend you. This time, it is not going to be by your qualification, tribe or age; it is just that you will be preferred. Restoration: After Joseph was recognised, he was brought out from prison. Then he interpreted the dream, the rest is history. Friends, Joseph was restored. Meaning, initially, he was disconnected from his normal live or what he used to be. He was kept in the dark, where he had limitations; just like some of us now. But he was restored. Potiphar’s house, where he last worked was like a ‘big man’s house’ before he went to the prison. But after his restoration, he started working with the President. Result: God Almighty will give you great results this month. Guess what? Joseph’s brothers looked down on him. In fact, they sold him and told his father that a wild animal had eaten him, and that he was dead. But when the tide changed, these same brothers came to Joseph for food. Someone whom they thought was long forgotten. That is result. This month, people who had looked down on you, who had thought before now that it is all over for you, God will make them sit at your table, you will feed them. They will change their confession about you. The same mouth they used in spreading lies and false information about you, they will use to spread of God’s good ness in your life. They thought you were dead, they didn’t know you became a great seed. September is a month you will remember for good. September is your mouth of Recognition! Restoration! Result! Do have a great week.