In any serious country, youth development is a key vehicle to drive growth of sports. Administrators of sports look up to the youths to prepare for the future in the country in terms of grassroots development and talent discovery. The situation is not the same in Nigeria as administrators are in a hurry to record instant results and so there is little or no place for the youth. The transition through the age groups that many Nigerians clamour for in football is also not prevalent in other sports in the country. Coaches prefer a quick fix situation to prosecute competitions and to achieve results for the national teams. Rather than project to have some players in the national team fold in four years, the coaches prefer looking for athletes who can immediately make an impact in their respective teams. Only on Monday, Delta State emerged overall champions at the 2019 edition of the National Youth Games which took place in Ilorin after garnering 104 medals to win the games for the record fifth time. Team Delta won 41 gold, 32 silver and 31 bronze medals. And so, Delta has won all five editions of the game since its inception in 2013. Team Lagos placed second in the medals table after garnering 72 medals which comprise 22 gold, 36 silver and 14 bronze medals. Bayelsa came third with 45 medals after 17 gold, six silver and 22 bronze medals. Akwa Ibom placed fourth in the table with 41 medals comprising 16 gold, 12 silver and 13 bronze medals. A total of 3,893 athletes drawn from 33 states and the FCT competed in 34 sporting events. According to the officials of the NYG, a total of 238 up and coming athletes were discovered to be nurtured by the Federal Ministry of Youths and Sports. The youth games have come and gone. Delta State should be commended for its consistency in the past five editions of the games. The exploits of the state did not come as a surprise. Over 12 stadia are scattered all over the state with elite and developing athletes coming up at every national event. It is sad that in the past seven years, the National Sports Festival, which is an upgrade of the National Youth Games, has only taken place once. Many talents could have been lost due to the long period the event was in limbo. It is however important to determine how these athletes are transiting from one age grade to the other. The national coaches in the geo-political zones in the country should make the grassroots competitions count. The over 200 young athletes discovered in Ilorin should be exposed and taken to another level to serve as back-up for the current elite athletes. There is a football competition going on at the higher institution level but the Nigeria Football Federation is not part of it. The HiFL could produce future national team players for the country. It is on record that the Manuwa Adebajo competition gave Nigeria talents like Nosa Osadolor, Victor Ezekwezeli, Adeolu Adekola etc. On September 30, the Zenith Bank/Delta State Principals Cup football competition will start in all the 25 Local Government areas of the state. It is the 4th edition and it would have been a thing of joy if this is a national event. Last year, the Africa Wrestling Championship was hosted by Rivers State and there was a junior event where close to 100 wrestlers represented Nigeria. Where are those wrestlers today? Athletics, table tennis and boxing are traditional sports where talents abound all over the federation and there should be a deliberate effort to fish them out and expose them for future challenges. Swimming, gymnastics and shooting are medal-spinning sports that require attention from the grassroots. It is pleasant to know that the new minister Sunday Dare is passionate about grassroots development. He also spoke about his desire to bring back the University football competition at national level, Principals’ Cup and even the Headmasters’ Cup. Dare will require so much guts to activate his lofty dreams. He will also bank on huge support by corporate Nigeria to make things happen. The drive of the new minister is captivating but implementation of his ideas remains an area that he has to work on. Sports federations should ensure national coaches pay attention to grassroots development of sports rather than relying on athletes who must have gone beyond their prime. There is need to bring in the private sector to boost the development of the youth through sports.