Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) have demanded an explanation from the presidency on what they described as virtual stripping of the office of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo of most constitutional functions and a seeming clampdown on his person and office in recent times.   In a joint statement issued yesterday titled: ‘Rumble in Presidency: Need To Know’, the prominent leaders, including Chief E. K. Clark (South South), Chief Ayo Adebanjo (South West), Chief John Nnia Nwodo (South East) and Dr. Pogu Bitrus (Middle Belt), said the presidency should explain what they called the continued humiliation of VP Osinbajo by some forces in the presidency.  The forum, which said it had followed with keen interest, developments in the presidency on the office of the Vice President in the past few days, expressed worries over what was termed “virtual stripping of the office of the VP of most functions and responsibilities”.   According to the leaders, that Osinbajo has been stripped of his functions, including some that are constitutional, by fiat, does not tally with the declaration of APC governors that all was well at the seat of power.  The statement reads: “The office of the Vice- President today is definitely not what it was two weeks ago.  Something is definitely wrong even when we cannot place our fingers on it yet. “And this is because of the opaque handling of affairs of a supposed constitutional democracy and open society in a manner reminiscent of a kingdom where things are done according to the whims and caprices of the monarch.”   Arguing that in a democracy, people need to know the ways their lives are being run by those they have hired to do the job, the body drew attention to the multiethnic nature of Nigeria and that the geo-political balancing of its presidency will make the kind of actions that have been taken against the office of the Vice-President attract the usual suspicion of the ex- periences of Ebitu Ukiwe and Oladipo Diya, if there are no explanations to the public.  “In this dispensation in particular, references would be made to the treatment of Justice Walter Onnoghen, Mrs. Winifred Oyo- Ita and now Prof. Osinbajo on one hand, and Mr. Abdulrasheed Maina of Pension Reform Task Force, Prof. Usman Yusuf of NHIS and Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano on the other hands. “In order to preserve the unity of the country, therefore, we demand explanation on what is happening to Osinbajo from the Presidency and if no such is forthcoming, his functions should be restored.   “We have equally noticed unusual quietness from the Presidency on damaging allegations against the Vice-President. In any normal clime, it should not have taken more than a day for the presidency to dispel the allegations to maintain the moral standing of the VP and the integrity of the administration. “We, therefore, demand a statement from the government on the weighty allegations or an investigation to be caused.  We hold our breath until the public is properly briefed”, SMBLF said.