λWe are ready to negotiate –P&ID T he Federal Government, yesterday, vowed to do “whatever it takes” to protect its economy from $9.6 billion arbitration claim over a failed gas project with Process and Industrial Developments Ltd (P&ID).  Attorney General of the Federation and Minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami, who, according toReuters, declared this, noted, however, that the government would not rule out a settlement with the firm registered in the British Virgin Islands.   This came as P&ID said in a statement yesterday that it was prepared to negotiate.   In August, a judge in London granted the company, P&ID, the right to seize some $9.6 billion in assets from the Nigerian government over the gas project. The sum would be one of the largest financial penalties imposed on Nigeria, representing 20 per cent of the country’s currency reserves.  “We will do whatever it takes to ensure the protection of the interests of the Nigerian government and the Nigerian people,” Reuters reported Malami to have said in an interview.  Asked if the country would be open to an out-of-court settlement, Malami said he was not ruling out any possibilities, though Nigeria had not been approached formally by P&ID. The company, however, yesterday, signified readiness to go to the negotiation table with the government.  “P&ID has consistently stated that we are willing to enter into negotiations in good faith. That position has not changed.  “Until there is a meaningful and good faith resolution attempted by the Nigerian government, P&ID will continue to identify and seize assets to satisfy the debt,” the statement, issued by the company, read.  Malami, according to Reuters, is part of a sizeable Nigerian delegation that travelled to London to meet investors, financial institutions and energy firms ahead of a hearing on Thursday, after which the court is expected to rule on the state’s efforts to fight the August decision.  “One of the arguments we are putting up is that the court is not supposed to grant the application of P&ID relating to the attachment of Nigerian international assets,” said Malami.  The little-known company, founded by two Irishmen, was awarded $6.6 billion in an arbitration decision over a failed project to build a gas processing plant in the southern Nigerian city of Calabar. It was based on what P&ID could have earned during the two-decade long agreement as part of a deal struck in 2010.