At least seven children have died after a classroom collapsed at a primary school in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, officials say. The wooden structure at Precious Talent Top School collapsed just minutes after the start of the school day on Monday. Dozens of people were injured and have been taken to hospital in the city. Emergency services are at the scene. Rescuers have reportedly had difficulty getting to the school because of large crowds that have gathered nearby. “So far we can confirm that we have seven fatalities and 57 others are in hospital,” a government spokesman told reporters outside the school in Dagoretti. The school’s director, Moses Ndirangu, has blamed the collapse on the construction of a nearby sewer pipe which he says may have weakened the foundations of the building. The incident happened shortly before 07:00 local time (04:00 GMT) and dozens of children were quickly rushed away from the scene. The Kenya Red Cross has transferred some children to the Kenyatta National Hospital. Angry locals have complained about the slow emergency response, the BBC’s Ferdinand Omondi reports from Nairobi. Images on social media show hundreds of residents gathered around the site as rescuers search through the rubble. Books, desks and chairs can be seen amongst the debris. Local television showed pictures red cross workers sifting through the wreckage at Precious Talent school, and carrying white bodybags into an ambulance. The government has opened an investigation into the cause of the accident, reports the BBC. Mexico earthquake: Race to find survivors under collapsed school  Rescuers are racing against the clock to reach survivors trapped under the rubble of a school in Mexico City which collapsed during Tuesday's earthquake. One of them, a 13-year-old girl, is believed to be sheltering under a table, officials told the… In "News" A strong earthquake has struck central Mexico, killing more than 284 people and toppling dozens of buildings in the capital, Mexico City. President Enrique Peña Nieto said more than 20 children died and 30 were missing after a school collapsed. The 7.1 magnitude quake also caused major damage in neighbouring… In "News" •My friend, with seven children ran mad after school collapse   A weeping woman, Mrs. Aishat Onilenla, said her sister’s three children were still trapped under the rubble of the collapsed three-storey building. She said: “My sister’s three children are trapped in the collapsed building. My sister was at the… In "Metro and Crime"