The Governorship Election Petition Tribunal, sitting in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, yesterday affirmed the victory of Governor Udom Emmanuel and the Peoples Democratic Party in the March 9 general elections. The petitioners, Obong Nsima Ekere and the All Progressives Congress (APC) had on the May 29, filed a petition challenging the result of the March 9 election and the victory/re-election of Udom Emmanuel as the governor of the state. The petitioners had approached the tribunal, after several amendments on two grounds, to wit; that the election was invalid by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2015 (sic); and that the 1st Respondent, Mr. Udom Emmanuel was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes cast at the election. In the petition, the petitioners also prayed for the following reliefs: that it may be determined and declared that the 1st Respondent, Mr. Udom Emmanuel did not secure and could not have secured the majority of lawful votes cast at the election; that it may be determined and declared that the election was void and invalid due to non-compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2015 (sic); that it may be determined and declared that the election being invalid by reason of non-compliance was null and void; that it be determined and ordered a fresh election for the office of the Governor in Akwa Ibom State, except in Etim Ekpo and Essien Udim, where elections were held in substantial compliance with the Electoral Act, 2015 (sic). The tribunal also held that the petitioners made several allegations of a criminal nature in their petition. The law is that in such cases, the allegation must be proved beyond reasonable doubt. Unfortunately, the petitioners in this case could not prove anything, the doubts in their allegations still dangling; we resolve those cases in favour of the respondents. In the end, the three-man panel, unanimously upheld the election of Mr. Udom Emmanuel in the March 9 election and dismissed the petition of Obong Nsima Ekere and the All Progressives Congress. Reading the over 590-page judgement, the tribunal first noted that the petitioners failed to call witnesses in eight local government areas out of the 21 local government areas where they claimed to have won. Consequently, the court discountenanced every documentary evidence “dumped on the court” as regards the petitioners’ complaints from those Local Government Areas, which include Abak, Eastern Obolo, Ika, Eket, Mbo Mkpat Enin, among others. Citing the Supreme Court case of Nweke v INEC, the court noted that documentary evidence however daring cannot be thrown on the Tribunal without oral evidence linking the documents to the issues in the case (petition). The court in its ruling adopted the two issues formulated by the petitioners for the determination of the suit. The issues as adopted were whether in the light of issues joined, the March 9 election was not held in non-compliance with the Electoral Act, 2010; whether the non-compliance as established in evidence are not substantial to affect the general outcome of the election and thus justify a cancellation of the entire election. The court, therefore, proceeded to appraise the evidence of all parties at the tribunal and in their considered ruling held, inter alia; that the petitioners having abandoned their prayers where they claimed ab initio that the first petitioner, Obong Nsima Ekere, was the winner of the election, all the evidence given in effort to substantiate the said ground is expunged from the considerations of the court in the judgement; and that the petitioners having abandoned their prayers hinged on the ground that there were corrupt practices in the conduct of the election, all the evidence given in effort to substantiate the said ground was also expunged from the considerations of the court in the judgement. It also held that the petitioners failed to follow the laid down rules in front-loading and listing all documents they sought to rely on in proof of their petition. “Consequently, the efforts and attempt by the petitioners to sandwich-in documents not pleaded nor listed by the petitioners is condemnable.”