…as delegation departs Nigeria for UK   Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, has disclosed that the Federal Government was prepared to do everything legally possible to upturn $9.6 billion judgement awarded to Process and Investment Development (P&ID) by a Commercial Court in London, United Kingdom. Malami stated this just as a Nigerian delegation departed for the United Kingdom ahead of the case coming up soon.  The delegation left Nigeria at the weekend to discuss with the legal team in the United Kingdom on strategies for dealing with the recent developments regarding the P&ID contract judgment.  According to Malami, “all cards are on table but it all depends on the beneficial one that has potency for setting aside the award having regards to the applicable law in the circumstances.”  The Minister was responding to enquiries as to whether the Nigerian delegation leaving for UK was to file a new case based on the new realities about the contract or would build on the previous judgment.   Malami said no possibility would be ruled out including “possibility of filling new case and or using existing proceedings to seek relief of setting aside the award (of the contract) nothing can be ruled out.”  The conviction of P&ID Limited and their Nigerian affiliates by a Federal High Court in Abuja has been interpreted in government circles as an indication that the $9.6 billion award granted to the company will not stand judicial scrutiny. The conviction followed the arraignment of the two firms on an 11-count charge of fraud and tax evasion.  Malami had last week, hinted that the Federal Government’s delegation would be meeting with its legal consortium in the United Kingdom (UK) in preparation for the case against the Irish firm. According to him, the judgement against the firms was a prelude to quashing the entire case which has been discovered to have been built on fraud and falsehood.  A Commercial Court in London had on August 16, awarded judgment of $9.6bn against Nigeria over a purported failed contract between P &ID and the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources in 2010.  The contract was for the piping of wet gas to a plant for the purpose of generating electricity in the country.