Sade Adu’s transgender son has shared a heartfelt message of thanks to the soul singer as he completes his transition from female to male. Izaak Theo Adu, born Mickailia “Ila” Adu, has spent the past six months in recovery after undergoing phalloplasty surgery, the reconstructive procedure typically undergone by transgender and non-binary people.  After returning home to his family, Izaak shared a sweet photo of himself hugging Sade, 60, along with a message praising the iconic singer for her unwavering support. In the Instagram post, Izaak wrote: ‘It’s been a long hard road but we did it!  We are coming home. Thank you for staying by my side these past 6 months Mumma. Thank you for fighting with me to complete the man I am.  Thank you for your encouragement when things are hard, for the love you give me. The purest heart. I love you so much. Queen of queens #mumma #lioness #queen#iloveyou.’ Izaak is Sade’s only child from her former relationship with reggae music producer Bob Morgan. In 2016, Izaak came out as transgender to coincide with National Coming Out Day. Back in July, Izaak shared photos from his hospital bed in the midst of his gender re-assignment surgery and described the process as ‘painful and emotionally exhausting’.  ‘This process is trying, tiring, painful, emotionally exhausting, physically exhausting, uncomfortable (like I can’t sleep like a normal human being rn lol)’ he told his Instagram followers. ‘I often ask myself “why the f**k do I have to endure this to be who I am” but at the end of the day this is the path that was laid out for me and I’ll walk it to the end.’ Sharing some inspirational words from his father Bob, he continued: “My dad always says ‘keep your eyes on the horizon’ and that’s what I do, because through all this pain is the comfort that it’s not forever and I have the rest of my life ahead of me. I am so, SO DAMN EXCITED, I just have to remind myself to be patient sometimes as I’m sure we all do. Big up to my Mumma, Pappa, family and friends for all the support you give me on the daily, it’ll never be forgotten.’