The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri, has again called for unity among members of the party in order to achieve victory at the poll. He particularly urged those who contested the PDP primaries with him and still feeling aggrieved to sheath their swords and support him in the collective interest of the party. The PDP candidate, who was spoke yesterday in Yenagoa, the state capital, during an interactive session with journalists at the Press Centre, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Bayelsa State Council, recalled that he had been reaching out to aggrieved members of the party and that many of them had already started working with him. Diri said: “Out of the 21 of us that took part in the party primaries, I emerged through the indirect primaries. But, some people felt aggrieved and we have been talking with them. Most of the aspirants are now working with us except for one or two of them, whom we are already engaging. We need to build consensus; we need to build unity within the PDP fold. I am well prepared for this office and I have come with a lot of experience. This is a PDP state and we are confident we will win.” On his plans for the state, the PDP flag-bearer said if elected, his administration’s first challenge would be how to build new independent power plants to tackle the power problem in the state. He added: “It is on record that the electricity problem in Bayelsa State was not caused by the state government. It is simply the failure of the Federal Government and the private operators. But, I can assure you that we will look inwards and follow the footsteps of late Melford Okilo to build new IPP. I know the Restoration Government has also made a lot of investment in the existing power plants. We have gas in the state and hence we will seize that opportunity.” The candidate further assured civil servants in the state good welfare package, pledging that his administration would not compromise the training and retraining of the state workers to build their capacities. Diri, who is the former Commissioner for Youths and Sports, however, promised that he would give priority to the development of sports and sporting activities in the state by building new sports facilities across the eight local government areas. While assuring sports men and women in the state of better days ahead, he said: “As a Commissioner under the administration of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, as governor of the state, the profile of the state rose significantly in sporting activities. We did it then and with even focus on our areas of comparative advantage like wrestling and swimming, we will excel. I have a blueprint for sports development because we must engage our youths through sports,” Diri said.