The Executive Secretary of Benue State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Hon. Emmanuel Verrumun in this interview with CEPHAS IORHEMEN, says despite relative peace in the state insurgents and herdsmen occupy the homes of internally displaced persons (IDPs) even as he wants the Federal Government to redeem its N10billion pledge to the state  What is the statutory function of Benue State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) which you head?   The SEMA has the mandate by law of responding and managing to disasters and emergencies that happen in Benue State. So here as the headquarters as the center of the agency you have the governor as the chairman and he alternates with the Deputy Governor as the Deputy chairman and then you have the Executive Secretary for the day-to-day running of the agency. So the mandate of the agency is too manage disasters that are happening in the society. There is also a structure at the local government levels where we have what is called LEMA. Here, we have desk officers and we work together with other stakeholders as well as chairmen of those local government areas, traditional rulers too function effectively.   Again, one of the chief mandates of SEMA is connect the humanitarian actors and partners that coordinate other activities with respect to humanitarian response in the. It also works as to lobby spirited individuals NGOs, Civil Society Organisations and others who are interested in coming to the state to help the government to address humanitarian issues and disasters that occur in the state.   You talked about LEMA but it looks as if not much is been heard of that aspect across the state?   Yes, it’s one of the things I want to do here even though much of LEMA activities are not heard but during my time as the Executive Secretary of SEMA I want to bring them to limelight because they have an important role to play and they are representing us at that level. You will agree with me that the humanitarian response that we give is not limited to the state capital, our people live in communities and these communities fall in local governments so we need to expand our hands to connect with other people to ensure that the response that we provide is more effective.   How has it been managing SEMA since you assume duty as the Executive Secretary of the agency?   Yes, managing an agency of this nature is indeed a herculean task. When you are managing people who are not in trouble, you will agree with me that it is difficult talk more of managing people who are in trouble. But even as it is difficult, two things have happened to ease my work. First, is the Almighty God Himself is with me. Secondly, is the opportunity to work with a governor that is very simple. I work directly under him and report to him directly and that has also helped me to humble myself that I am here to serve people of the state to accept that I am here to change the narrative of this place.   The charge he gave me was to go and sanitise the agency, and whatever I am doing I should invite the media to ensure transparency and accountability and promised to be with me in whatever I am doing. That is why you have not heard of any scandal bordering on diversion of relief materials meant for the displaced persons. This has helped other humanitarians and partners who are working with us.   What are the challenges SEMA under your watch is facing in the state in the cause of carrying out your duties?   Literature has taught me that life has two sides, the good and the bad. The bad side is essentially in two areas, namely in the area of capacity and funding. For SEMA to be more effective in responding to humanitarian issues in the state, there is need for more funding. At the moment, our funding comes from local governments who sent in monthly contributions to help us in the daily running of the agency.  Again, when we have projects we write to the governor to approve resources for us to execute them. At the moment that is not enough and usually affects the speed with which we respond to humanitarian issues.   In the area of capacity, there is need for capacity building here. There is need for training beginning with myself. Remember, I was not trained as a humanitarian worker or disaster manager. The only thing that has kept me is my vast knowledge of literature and also my university training. All of that have thought me to be flexible to survive and to be adaptable to whatever situation I find myself and to manage the agency. So it is hoped that when I receive that training and I also receive the relevant equipment to work with here, that will further reposition the agency and we will be able to respond more rapidly and more responsively to humanitarian issues in the state.   In 2012, the state witnessed a lot of humanitarian challenges due to flooding caused by the release of water from the Lagdo Dam from Cameroon. We learnt, this year too that Lagdo Dam waters would be released. How prepared is SEMA to tackle the challenge when it comes?  Even before the rain started in earnest, the Governor of Benue State summoned me and the agency including other line MDAs, Ministries of Water Resources and Information, Benue Rural Water and Sanitation Agency (BERWASSA), Urban Development Board and others to come together and brainstorm and get prepared since flooding has come to be a perennial thing in Benue. And so as a government that is responsive, we don’t have to wait for flood or any other challenge to come before we start to prepare and to respond.   Since then, we formed a committee to activate our contingency plan and swung into action immediately beginning with sensitisation. The aim of the sensitisation is to enlighten people of the state about the flooding that is being expected to remind them that it may occur this raining season also. We have worked with the public on sanitation days to free the gutters by removing the refuse that block the gutters and water channels. We have tried to talk to people to leave their houses that are on water channels. Some people have built these houses without obtaining permission from the Ministry of Lands and Survey. The Urban Development Board on its own plans to demolish some of these structures and free the water channels so that the running water will be able to move freely.   What is the situation with the Internally Displaced Persons, (IDPs) in the state of now?  The situation with the IDPs now in the state is that some of them are in government official camps then there are others who even out-number the strength of the host communities. As much as government is relentless in providing the succor and alleviate their suffering, they have always cried out to the government that there is no place like home. We have done enough to take care of them but they want to return to their homes.   So what is stopping that for now?   What is stopping that for now is simply the fact that some of those places are not safe even up till now. Fulani herdsmen have occupied those places and are grazing with their cattle freely. Like my village in Tse-Orjime in Torkula in Mbadwem council ward, in Guma Local Government, if you go there you will still see Fulani herdsmen. They are there. None of our people have returned back to that place. Some of them are in the IDP Camps; some are with friends or relations in the host communities. So it’s a big problem but recently, the governor directed me to put a plan in place to disengage them.   And you know that as a humanitarian agency, we cannot just disengage the IDPs or close the camp and ask them to go without putting a livelihood plan for them. We need to recapitalise them, we need as a responsive and responsible government to rebuild their homes because if you close the camps now and asked them to go back, where are you asking them to go back to? That’s why it’s difficult for government to ask the IDPs to leave the camps.   In the area of security, I want to use this opportunity to cry out to the President (Muhammadu Buhari) to redeem the N10 billion pledge he promised people of the state when he visited through the Vice President to facilitate the rebuilding of ravaged communities and subsequent return of the displaced persons back home.  We are hoping that if part of that money comes and reconstruction of houses for the settlement of IDPs is put in place then Benue State government can now carry out the remaining part of the plan to disengage them, but at the moment, the state government cannot shoulder all of that.   At the peak of the crisis when the camps were opened, government through your office was feeding the IDPs on a daily basis. As we speak now, who takes care of their daily sustenance?   Government has continued to do that through my agency. Food and non-food items are been supplied to them at the various camps. We have distributed such items to Logo Local Government where we have Ugba and Anyiin IDP camps. We have continued with that in Naka in Gwer West Local Government Area; as well as in Gbajimba at Daudu in Guma Local Government Area and many others. We have not limited the interventions only to official camps. Occasionally, we extend that support to the IDPs outside official camps. You have the same situation in Naka, Abagena, Daudu, Gbajimba and other places. We have also been providing clothing and medicare to them.  We have received support from the World Health Organisation (WHO), Doctors Without Borders, and the Red Cross, Society. With these support, it has been possible for us to sustain the support we are providing for the IDPs.   How have you gone with the IDP school matter for their children?   Yeah, the IDP school is there. In these official camps mentioned, IDP schools are there and the teachers are drawn from government ministries and agencies. There are teachers from the Ministry of Education from primary school, from SUBEB and then we have quite a number of volunteers who are also providing assistance.