 More than 500 trucks laden with perishable goods are currently stranded at Seme since last one month. The trucks were denied entry following the joint-border security exercise, code-named ‘Ex-Swift Response’, which led to the partial closure of the country’s borders. The security exercise, which commenced on August 19, 2019 is being jointly conducted by the customs, immigration, police and military personnel and coordinated by the Office of the National Security Adviser to checkmate banditry, smuggling of illegal arms and ammunition, unwholesome drugs, foodstuffs and the cross-border movement of undocumented, illegal persons into the country. The   Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANCLA) said yesterday that some of the importers of the goods who had paid their duties to the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) had incurred losses. According to Seme Border Chapter Chairman of association, Mr. Bisiriyu Fanu, the stranded goods belonged to genuine importers. He said in Seme that the trucks were parked at the border with the perishable goods. Fanu lamented that the importers were expected to take delivery of the goods through the border when the trucks got stuck by the government policy. The chairman explained that the partial border closure had impacted negatively on the country’s economy. Fanu said: “The impact of the closure is enormous. If you go to some markets in Lagos like Balogun, Idumagbo, Idumota and Oyingbo, people from neighbouring countries, who always patronize them, are no more coming. Everything as at now is at stand still even in Lagos markets.” He called on the Federal Government to take physical examination of the trucks at the border post and allow them into the country. Fanu said that genuine traders that had their goods at the border post for 34 days were suffering. He appealed to the government to free the trucks to enable importers take delivery of their goods. Fanu said: “We are begging the government to release the trailers so that the people that borrowed money from banks will be able to pay back the loan and still remain in business.” Meanwhile, Comptroller General of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Col Hameed Ali, has warned area commands over undervaluation of cargoes at port and borders. He noted that some officers were engaging in undervaluation of high duty cargoes in order to evade duty payment. As at the time of filing this report, the Public Relations Officer of the service failed to respond to a message sent to find out why the goods were not released at the border. In a circular issued by the Customs headquarters on 4th September, signed by the Deputy Comptroller General, Tariff and Trade, Isa Talatu, the service said it had uncovered misapplication and undervaluation of high duty cargoes for the purpose of duty evasion in most of the area commands. Apparently disturbed by the trend, Alli, through the DCG Tariff and Trade, in the circular titled “T&T/2019 circular No 10. Re: Misapplication and Undervaluation of Cargoes” warned that any officer caught in the act would be severely dealt with. It reads:  “I am directed to refer to the above subject matter. Intelligence had confirmed the misapplication of classification and under valuation of high duty cargoes for the purpose of duty and levy evasion in most Area Commands. “This act has the potential of impeding negatively on revenue generating efforts of the Service. “In consequence, all CACs are requested to intensify and ensure 100 per cent inspection of imports. Any officer found complicit or working at cross purpose would be sanctioned in accordance with the appropriate sections of the Public Service Regulations (PSR).”