CHUKWU DAVID reports on major issues that are likely to be in the front burner as members of the upper legislative chamber resume plenary today after their annual recess   As the Senate resumes plenary from its annual recess, there are many pending issues that will definitely engage the attention of the senators in a bid to contribute their quota towards tackling various teething problems confronting the country and delivering good governance to the masses. One of such issues, which will be placed in the front burner by the apex legislative Assembly is the xenophobic attacks against Nigerians and other African citizens resident in South Africa. In the last one month, the unprecedented and unprovoked attacks meted particularly on Nigerians by the citizens of the former apartheid nation had attracted outrage and protests among Nigerians within and outside the country. Sequel to this ugly development, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege; Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu; Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe and some other senators had in their separate reactions to the development, condemned it. Also, Senate committees on Diaspora and Foreign Affaiars had met with the management teams of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Diaspora Commission and other relevant stakeholders, with a view to finding lasting solutions to the worrisome problem. Therefore, the Senate, which has critical roles to play in the running of the affairs of the country, is expected to come up with a motion on how to tackle the problem of xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa, with a view to bringing it to an end. The Senate is also expected to expand whatever resolutions it might take on the problem of xenophobic attacks in South Africa to capture the interest and wellbeing of other African nationals living in the now hostile sister country. Some aggrieved Nigerians had earlier suggested that Nigeria should severe diplomatic relations with South Africa, while others even went to the extreme by suggesting revenge. Expectedly, some aggrieved and temperamental Nigerians had resorted to paying South Africa in her own coin, thereby resulting in the partial attacks made on some South African companies in Nigeria. Some of the establishments affected by the moves of the enraged Nigerians include Shoprite, MTN, DSTV, and Stanbic IBTC Bank among others. However, intervention by the Nigerian government saved the day for the respective firms. So, the Senate has onerous legislative responsibility to do an elaborate consideration on the matter as well as come up with far-reaching recommendations on how to stop the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians living in South Africa. The Red Chamber is likely going to commend the proprietor and management of Air Peace Airline for the prompt intervention to rescue Nigerian citizens who were in precarious situation as a result of the xenophobic attacks. Following the sudden resurgence of attacks against Nigerians in South Africa, some patriotic Nigerians have demonstrated concerns by proffering solutions and providing platform on how to rescue Nigerians who were stranded and frustrated in the former apartheid enclave. For instance, the Managing Director of Air Peace Airline, Mr. Allen Ifechukwu Onyema, volunteered and actually released one of his aircraft to bring back Nigerians who are willing to return home. The business mogul has since then been receiving encomiums from Nigerians for his patriotism and uncommon spirit of brotherhood. It is therefore, expected that the Senate will likely commend Onyeama for his kind gesture. Chairman, Senate Committee on Cooperation and Integration in Africa/NEPAD, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, had earlier saluted what he described as the patriotic and nationalistic legacy of the business man. In another development, the Senate is expected to give priority attention to the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), which the executive has already forwarded to it for approval, preparatory for processing the 2020 budget, when presented by President Muhammadu Buhari. The President of the Senate had disclosed to journalists in Abuja on Friday that the executive had forwarded the (MTEF) to the Senate for consideration on resumption. MTEF is a fiscal instrument, which provides the framework or indices upon which the country’s annual budget is based. It usually provides information on the projected oil production per day, exchange rate, income and revenue among others. Lawan expressed optimism that the Senate would start consideration on the MTEF within the first legislative week of its resumption. His words: “We are hopeful and optimistic, as well as hungry and thirsty, to receive the 2020 appropriations bill,” Lawan told reporters shortly on his arrival from a private visit abroad. He added: “I am aware that the executive arm of government is working assiduously to ensure that the appropriation bill for the year 2020 is presented to the National Assembly by the end of this month. The National Assembly will work so hard to ensure that the 2020 budget is passed before we go on Christmas break.” The Senate President said the budget is one issue that the National Assembly will take head-on to ensure that the undesirable trend of the budget is reversed. He said: “Our committee on Finance will be saddled with its first major responsibility that it works expeditiously on the Fiscal Strategy Paper/Medium Term Expenditure Framework request of the executive arm of government and thereafter, the budget will come after that. “We believe this can be achieved, as doing so will make the economy better and predictable. We also think an early passage of the 2020 appropriation bill will have a desirable impact on Nigerians,” he said. Lawan also said the Ninth National Assembly will work assiduously with the executive arm of government to improve the security situation of the country. The Senate, he added, will also evaluate the crisis that affected Nigerians living in South Africa. “In the Eighth Senate, we had an ad hoc committee that I was privileged to chair, which reviewed the security architecture of the country. We are going to look into that report, and in addition, other contemporary issues that affect security in the country. “We are also going to look into the crisis that affected Nigerians living in South Africa. You recall that this issue was reviewed before we went on recess. The Senate felt as an institution that our citizens’ diplomacy must be protected where ever they go in the world. Another important issue that the Senate will not gloss over is the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), which has been in the National Assembly since the Sixth Assembly. While conflicting geo-ethnic politics has caused serious setback to the passage of the bill, President Buhari withheld assent to some part of the bill that were passed by the last Assembly. It is believed that vested parochial interest between the North and the South is the major reason the bill has not passed. It is expected that members of the National Assembly will pass the bill this time around. However, it obviously requires serious lobbying to get the senators to suppress their parochial interest and work in the overall interest of Nigerians. Similarly, the Electoral Act (Amendment Bill), which was passed four times by the Eighth National Assembly but did not get the assent of President Buhari, is likely to be revisited by the Senate, with a view to addressing all the grey areas and pass it for presidential assent. Analysts and public affairs commentators have stressed that the bill, if passed into law, has the potential to address most of the problems usually faced in Nigeria during elections.