 P olice yesterday said they had arrested 25 suspected kidnappers across Kaduna State.   Those arrested include the alleged kidnappers of the lawmaker representing Zaria Constituency in the state House of Assembly, Suleiman Dabo, and the three final-year law students of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria.   The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Yakubu Sabo, said in a statement that the police had commenced “carefully planned and well-coordinated raids on all identified bandits’ camps”.   Sabo said the coordinated raid was aimed at finding a lasting solution to the insecurity in the state, especially on the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway.   He said: “On September 6, 2019 about 11p.m., the combined teams of police operational units from the command led by the IGP’s Special Tactical Squad attached to Operation Puff Adder acted on intelligence and raided criminal hideouts at Kingimi and other surrounding villages in Igabi Local Government Area and in the process, arrested Buhari Bello (34), a suspected notorious kidnapper and seven others.   “Upon interrogation, it was revealed that they belong to the gang of notorious kidnappers/armed robbers that have been terrorising Kaduna-Abuja and Kaduna-Zaria expressways.   “Investigation further revealed that the suspects are responsible for the kidnap of Hon. Suleiman Dabo, a member of the Kaduna State House of Assembly recently and N450,000 has been recovered from one of the suspects which he confessed to be his share of the ransom paid by the victim. “Efforts are on to apprehend other gang members and recover their operational weapons.   Sabo added that in its resolve to find a lasting solution to the rising security challenges in the state, especially along the major highways, the command has intensified carefully planned and well-coordinated raids on all identified bandits’ camps.   He said: “Combined teams of policemen from the command’s operational units, the IGP’s IRT, Special Forces and some hunters/vigilantes were mobilised for the operation. “The operation has successfully raided and dislodged bandits from camps located in the following areas; Maigiginya and Gurguzu of Igabi Local Government Area In one of the fierce encounters, the operatives succeeded in neutralising bandits’ ambush, killed about three suspected bandits, recovered two AK47 rifles and three operational motorcycles.   “Efforts are on to dislodge them from all the criminal camps within the command.   “On September 7, 2019, the current operation also raided Barebri and other bandits’ camps within Buruku axis and arrested 18 kidnap suspects who on interrogation revealed that they were responsible for the kidnapping incident of 26th August 2019 along Kaduna-Abuja Road where six persons were kidnapped including the three ABU students, killing of a police inspector and carting away with his AK47 rifle.   “The suspects are currently helping police investigation and will be prosecuted accordingly. “The Commissioner of Police, Ali Janga, enjoins the good people of Kaduna State to continue to support the police with relevant information that will help the command to overcome the recent security problems.”