The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday said it was investigating 58 suspects, vessels and others over alleged illegal oil bunkering. The commission said the investigation followed the arrest and handover of the suspects by the Nigerian Navy. Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the arresting authority had alleged that the suspected oil thieves were on board the vessels at different locations in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, when they were intercepted by them. “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Port Harcourt’s Zonal Office, has commenced investigation of 58 suspected oil thieves; four vessels, one Barge and two wooden boats allegedly involved in illegal oil bunkering. “The suspects and vessels were handed over to the EFCC by the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Pathfinder for further investigation and possible prosecution,” Uwujaren said. He listed the following as names of the suspects: Daniel Faviel Flores, a Mexican; Khrstoliubov Victor, an Ukranian and 56 Nigerian suspects: Umoh Emmanuel Etim; Aliu Dominic; Okwong Effiong Ukpong; Talick Uche Epuk; Okon Emmanuel Sunday; Ebenezer Marshal; Awuletey Okon; George Obomate; Johnbull Uroro; Alphonomsus Augustine Ufot. Others are Jerome Adele-ekun; Mathew Jacob; Okoye Kachi Fred; Johnwill Austin Omubo; Utibe Peter George; Dickson Amadi; Uzi Chibueze Benard; Israel Essien; Job Wilfred; Emmanuel Joseph Ohwimu; Chinedu Nwachukwu Opara; Pascal Chinedu Nnaji; Okechukwu Chukwueke; Peter Ogar; Olatunji Julius Adedokun; Alabede Maruf Olakunle and Origbo Tekevwe Godwill. Evakpo David; Mbachu Kelvin Okechukwu; Nebeire Onyekachi Philip; Akanbi Oluwaseun Moses; Wonodi Chisom Wisdom; Prince Austine Anyor; Anjorin Rasheed Babatunde and Iffi Francis Chuka, The rest are: Tom Wisdom Udo; Fasina Isaac Kehinde; Edo Nsongurua; Cookey Fubara; Ayoka Joseph; Benson Nwaya; Akinfenwa Mike; Ahmed A Shehu; Okojie Favour Osahon: John Flash; Edward Modunwa; Eyione Alex; Onyeneke Wisdom Udoka; Nwokeke Wisdom Udoka; Nwokeke Michael S.U; Anyasi Joshua Ikechukwu; Edward Atorkemo Harrison; Ekpeno Benjamin; Rafi Nura Sani, Thompson Deezua and Edwin Ekpoto Omaretshogunwa. According to Uwujaren: “It was alleged that the suspects were on board the vessels when they were intercepted at different dates and locations in Port Harcourt for alleged illegal oil bunkering activities. “The Vessels: MV Western Orient; MV Temile, AHT Ajemisan and AHT Jascon 23 together with two wooden Boats were intercepted around Onne Anchorage while Barge Hannamarine was intercepted at Okorochiri Creek in Okrika, all in Rivers State. “Taking over the suspects and the accompanying Vessels, Barge and wooden Boats, Samuel Umezuirike of the EFCC assured the Nigerian Navy of further investigation and possible prosecution.”