The 4th NCDC/NFELTP annual scientific conference was held recently to engage  critical thinking and discussions on how to drive the future of applied epidemiology in the face of old and emerging disease outbreaks. REGINA OTOKPA reports  Infectious diseases threats have been proven not to be constant; they keep changing and viruses keep spreading.  As such, the need for a continuous research to better understand the changing dynamics of diseases cannot be over emphasized. This is one of the major reasons why the Nigeria Centre  for Disease Control (NCDC), organised  the annual conference as a platform to engage public health officials and epidemiologist from across the globe to share new acquired knowledge. The conference also provided an opportunity to share new scientific methods, experiences, failures, success stories and lessons learnt, with a view to learning something new and  driving precise public health decisions. Alongside the Nigeria Field Epidemiology and Laboratory Training Programme (NFELTP), this year’s Conference, with the theme, ‘Applied Epidemiology: Providing Evidence for Public Health Action’,  was centred on 11 main themes including outbreak investigation, emergency preparedness and response, vaccine-preventable diseases and immunization strategies, surveillance and information management systems, neglected tropical diseases, malaria and other vector-borne diseases, risk communication, and public health systems strengthening. The various speakers harped on the importance of field epidemiologists in confronting the daunting challenge of disease outbreaks and other public health threats at the local, state and federal levels Field epidemiologists as health professionals, work at the forefront of disease surveillance, response, and control. They are often the backbone of disease control during outbreaks of infectious diseases in any country. Nigeria has been suffering what the Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, (NPHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaib, described as “large annual outbreaks of Lassa fever, cholera, measles as well as clusters of cases of yellow fever, meningitis and monkeypox,” in various places, due to the changing environment and population dynamics. But with the work of the NCDC, there is an  improved capability to detect infectious cases. Highlighting some of the Centre’s success stories, the Minister of State for Health, Dr. Olurunnimbe Mamora, noted that “during the 2014-2016 Ebola pandemic, apart from curtailing the spread locally, NCDC’s technical staff and NFELTP-trained field epidemiologists also supported other affected West African countries to successfully control the pandemic. Also, the program has been critical to Nigeria’s successful control of various disease outbreaks, such as cerebrospinal meningitis, Lassa fever, measles, yellow fever, cholera, and monkeypox over the years.” He said that one way to further ride on the NCDC’s successes,  was to urgently build and consistently work on improving resilient health systems to prevent, prepare, detect, respond to and control these infectious disease outbreaks. Stressing on the need to embrace applied epidemiology, which has become a critical function for public health action, Mamora told INSIDE ABUJA that “field epidemiologists, laboratory scientists, managing physicians and nurses, programme managers and all health workers  form a critical part of a resilient health system.” But these are not the only diseases receiving attention at the moment. Director-General of NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, who revealed that the agency had commenced the developing of surveillance guidelines for anthrax and brucellosis with support from Global Implementation Solutions, described both conditions as “two important zoonotic diseases.” INSIDE ABUJA checks revealed that majority of work presented during the conference,  would end up as major review publications which will regrow and create something new. In order to live up to its vision as a science driven agency, Ihekweazu disclosed that about 20 graduates of the advanced learning programme were already working within the NCDC. The Nigerian field epidemiology programme, now in its 11th year, has over 300 graduates. However, surveillance at entry points remains a very crucial issue in controlling disease outbreaks in Africa. Even though the Africa Field Epidemiology Network (AFENET), through its Regional Technical Coordinator and Senior Resident Advisor, Dr. Patrick Nguku, has pledged continued assistance to the Ministries of Health in Africa to build stronger, more effective and sustainable programmes, the body has urged African governments to pay more attention to disease surveillance at airports and all other entry points in and out of  their countries. Another important call for action this time from the United States Center for Disease Control, is the establishment of a standard health institution where field epidemiologists can be trained in order to strengthen  health security. An official of the centre, Bolu Omotayo, who made the call, advised the Federal Government to make available, both material and human resources for disease control, added to always being prepared to tackle disease outbreaks within the country and at the borders.