C ontrary to the earlier claim that the Presidency had forwarded the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to the National Assembly, the President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, said that the legislature was still waiting for the document.  Lawan, while briefing journalists last weekend shortly after his arrival from a private visit abroad, said that the National Assembly had received MTEF alongside Fiscal Strategy Paper, FSP and was eager to receive the 2020 budget proposals from President Muhammadu Buhari.  However, upon resumption of the Senate from its two months annual recess, the President of the Senate, after over two hours closed-door session, said that the parliament was yet to receive the two documents.  He said: “The Senate at the closed-doors session deliberated on issues bordering on workings of the Senate in particular and National Assembly in general.  “The Senate also resolved to await the transmission of the MTEF and 2020 budget proposals from the Presidency for expeditious consideration and required approval.  “We hope to take on the MTEF within the first legislative week. Our Committee on Finance will be saddled with its first major responsibility that it works expeditiously on the Fiscal Strategy Paper/Medium Term Expenditure Framework’s request of the executive arm of government and thereafter the budget will come after that.  “We are hopeful and optimistic, as well as hungry and thirsty, to receive the 2020 appropriation bill.  “I am aware that the executive arm of government is working assiduously to ensure that the appropriation bill for the year 2020 is presented to the National Assembly by the end of this month.  “The National Assembly will work so hard to ensure that the 2020 budget is passed before we go on Christmas break.”  Also, Lawan disclosed that the 69 standing committees of the Senate would be inaugurated during plenary today.  The President of the Senate had on the 30th of July, 2019, before the Senate embarked on annual recess, announced composition of the committees by naming their Chairmen and Vice Chairmen.  A breakdown of the committees according to geopolitical zonal arrangement shows that the entire Northern region got a total of 37 chairmen of committees while the South got 32 Committee chairmen.  Further statistical distribution of the chairmen of the committees indicate that the North West geo political zone has 16 slots, South West 13,  North East 11, North Central 10, South – South 10 and South East 9.  Also, 16 of the 23 of the standing committees considered to be juicy or grade “A” committees were given to All Progressives Congress (APC) Senators while their PDP counterparts got the remaining 7.  On the whole, the APC got 49 chairmanship slots while the opposition PDP got 20, a development that later allegedly triggered grumbling among some APC lawmakers, who reportedly felt that PDP was given too much as party in opposition.