A n assertion by President Muhammadu Buhari that education was a way to end poverty in the country has been described by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) as a political statement, noting that the President lacked the commitment to achieve such for the country. This was disclosed yesterday by the Chairman, University of Ibadan ASUU, Professor Deji Omole in the statement he made available to New Telegraph in Ibadan.   According to Omole, who said Nigerians did not need the President to tell them what had been proven by serious countries as a way to banish poverty maintained that beyond uttering such statement, President Buhari and his team through their education policies had shown hatred to fund and offer Nigerians qualitative education.  The ASUU boss, who expressed pessimism about the ability of Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu to transform education stated that Adamu was not different from his employer because “Adamu made several political statements in his first term which he never acted upon.” Omole said: “Adamu and the President is back to familiar terrain. We are also in that same terrain. Adamu spent more than three years in his first term and made so many political statements which were never implemented.   “One of such statements were the fact that they were going to declare a state of emergency in the education sector and till he left office in his first term, that was not done. In fact, there was no attempt towards that direction.   “Rather than moving towards declaring a state of emergency, what we saw was a further reduction in the budgetary allocation to education. I don’t think anyone should expect any radical change from what happened to education in his first term and from what is going to happen. “The administration has demonstrated its hatred for education by constantly reducing the budgetary allocation to education. Most of their policies are anti-university. For example, in UI today, it is almost impossible to recruit new staff, meanwhile, people are dying as a result of excess work and people are retiring and you are not employing new people. So, I don’t expect a sharp departure from what it used to be. “President Buhari does not need to tell us. We all know. All developed world have been able to solve their problems through education and that is why we have always been engaging different governments that the only antidote to poverty is putting adequate attention to educating the masses.