Abass Akande Obesere, also known as Omo Rapala, is a popular Fuji musician. Following the paths of other successful musicians such as Sikiru Ayinde Barrister, Obesere has also taken his own brand of Fuji music all over the world. As Obesere, he created a public persona that playfully stood out in stark contrast to the more socially acceptable versions out there. He shares with ABIOLA ALABA PETERS his sojourn on stage, style and sundry issues  What does music mean to you? It’s in me. I’m music, music is me. It’s in my blood. I don’t copy anybody. To start with, what is the secret of your energetic performance on stage? Energetic performance is in my blood. I didn’t learn music; I have always had it in me. It’s in my lineage. God really loves me that He has given me so much strength such that I can perform for over eight hours on stage. When I go to shows, I just love to entertain the people. For them to have come out to support me, the best I could give them is a great performance. I always want people to talk gleefully about my shows six years after.   Is it true that Obesere is humble? Being humble that most people say about me is not pretentious. That’s just the way I am. For those who are not humble, that’s how God created them. But I thank God for how He created me. That’s why if you say you want to behave like Abass Akande Obesere; it won’t be easy to be who I am. That’s why people often say who God has created can’t be copied. We are different in nature. You can’t be me and I can’t be you. Yes, people often come to my house every Friday to worship in the mosque. That’s just me. So, people shouldn’t judge a book by its cover. People judge me because of the kind of job I do and what I sing to entertain. People should just understand that when Obesere is on stage, I just do my work because that’s where I get my daily bread from. The real man is inner, not outer. It’s very deep until you see someone portray it. Only God can judge man.   What would you attribute your three decades of relevancy in the music industry to?   As I always tell those who care to listen that there is no secret about what I have become, except for the power of God. His power has brought me to this point in my life. When I look back at how the journey started, I can only give thanks to my creator for the gift of life and blessings. One thing that is certain is that nothing happens without God’s knowledge. A man can’t become anything without the hand of God in it. When He is involved, everything will always work out fine. Though, it may look rough at some point, if you believe in God and what you do, and you pursue your dreams with a pure heart, you will triumph. It is as simple as that.  Do you mind sharing your experiences as an A-list artiste; do you find it difficult to travel outside Nigeria for shows?   Twelve years my brother, twelve solid years; It is true petitions were written against me at various foreign embassies in US and Europe for reasons I am yet to understand. I think some people are surprised that I am living fine, despite my inability to travel out of the country for shows that would have fetched me more money. You can imagine a situation whereby a popular musician could not travel for 12 years but still manages to live fine without asking anyone for help. I guess that’s why petitions were written against me, but that has never stopped me from doing what I know best.   What exactly happened and how were you able to break through?   You know in this kind of profession, going international adds value to your trade. So, that is what some people tried to block my way. But when God said it was time, doors opened. 2009 was the last time I was in England. Even when the door opened, I left the category of those who would seek for visa as I was given a UK citizenship. I was able to gain entry into the US after 12 years. My brother, you needed to have seen the petitions written against me. I wondered how people had the time to come up with such lies just to discredit me. Some people alleged that I had a lot of money that could not be traced to music alone. They said that I was into fraud, drugs and money laundering. They tried to implicate me with a lot of things that were not true.   You seem to have made a lot of money from music but unlike some of your colleagues, one would hardly believe you have money?   Yes! Maybe it is because I am not a flamboyant person. The late Ayinde Barrister once said, work hard and get money that will make the lazy man feel bad. I am constantly reminding myself how my journey in music started and where I am going, so I don’t spend my money on frivolities because I know money is not easy to come by. So, the little I have, I use it well. I invest in my family and assist the needy. I manage my income very well, and this made some people feel bad. You will hear them say, “Is he the only one singing?”   What lesson did this ugly experience teach you?   I have learnt that God allow certain things to happen to us for reasons best known to him. What informs your style?   My brother, I am inspired by anything good with some level of modesty. I wear stuffs I am comfortable in. I don’t mount unnecessary pressure on myself.     How do you unwind? I unwind by spending quality time with my family on vacations; I also relax by studying privately. I like to have some quiet time too.   What do you have to say to young musicians who want to go into Fuji music?   My advice is that you don’t need to be a musician before you are successful. Just try to be yourself in whatever you have chosen to do and always work smarter. Don’t be discouraged. Be focused.   