September 17 has been adopted as the World Patient Safety Day by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and ministers of health in the United Nations member states. REGINA OTOKPA explores its significance  The year 2030 is almost here, meeting up with the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) target where everyone can access the care they need without financial hardship, has been on the top burner of the issues being addressed by governments, the World Health Organisation (WHO), other development partners, as well as civil society organisations operating in Nigeria. However, poor access to health care services, especially at the primary health care (PHC) level where most facilities are moribund, the high rate of out-of-pocket spending and poor health infrastructure are some of the issues limiting a good number of persons from accessing quality care without much stress. In Nigeria, there have been many cases of preventable deaths arising from misdiagnosis, self medications, quackery, hospital infections, insufficient medical equipment and inability to meet up with required medical bills but this shouldn’t be as every patient has a right to a safe healthcare. In its efforts to change the narrative, the federal government through the former minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole, announced earlier in the year that plans were underway to develop a patient safety guide, as part of measures to ensure patients were protected from unnecessary harm by ensuring the use of safe and suitable medical infrastructure. According to Wikipedia, “Patient safety is a discipline and responsibility that emphasises safety in health care through the prevention, reduction, reporting, and analysis of medical error that often leads to adverse effects.” Given the importance of patient safety, at the 58th session of the WHO regional meeting, member states took time to deliberate on the issues and solutions to patient safety in African health services. In a message to mark the first World Patient Safety Day with the theme ‘Patient Safety: a Global Health Priority,’ WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, pointed out that one of the ways to achieving the UHC is by paying paramount attention to placing the patient at the centre of health services, by creating access and driving demand through a conducive environment free from further infectious agents to promote better survival, better outcomes not only for the patient, but health providers as well. To make this happen, she harped on the need for African governments to build strong health systems to ensure patients’ access to adequate, quality and efficient treatment when seeking health care through the provision of a range of actions such as the needed infrastructure, qualified and duly trained health personnel,  supply of right medicine and equipment, right diagnosis and dissemination of the right information. According to her, the patient is not only a beneficiary but equally a decision maker on the services he or she has access to, unfortunately, majority of patients do not know they have a right to ask questions and have access to every information about their health, as well as appreciating or condemning the services received. Reading the Regional Directors message in Abuja, the WHO’s Officer in Charge Clement Peters, maintained that the discussions around patient safety is meaningless if the health system is bad and hospitals remain a death trap powered by the absence of national guidelines, poor implementation, inadequate funding and human resources, weak health care delivery system and partnerships. While expressing  the WHO’s resolve to assist  countries in determining the status of patient safety, development and implementation of national policies, guidelines and protocols for enhancing safety, as well as facilitating patient safety networks and partnerships, she gladly noted that about 80 per cent of the global disease burden from patients harm originating at primary and ambulatory levels were preventable if found in the settings of an improved diagnosis, prescription and the use of medicines, among others. “The WHO Regional Office for Africa recognises and places high importance on patient safety to ensure that it has the rightful prominence within health care in the region. “There are many challenges in strengthening health systems to ensure patient safety in the region: there is a lack of national policies, strategies, standards, guidelines and tools on safe health-care practices, and ineffective implementation where they exist; inadequate funding; inadequate human resources for health, weak health-care delivery systems with suboptimal infrastructure, poor management capacity and under-equipped health facilities; and ineffective mechanisms for forging strong partnerships to adequately involve patients and civil society in the improvement of patient safety. “Half of the global disease burden from patient harm originates at primary and ambulatory care levels. The good news is that up to 80 per cent of harm in these settings is preventable. For example, improving diagnosis, prescription and the use of medicines, responsible for most detrimental errors, would significantly reduce the risk of harm. “Available evidence suggests that 134 million adverse events occur annually in hospitals similar to our setting here in the African Region. In low and middle income countries, one out of every ten patients in health facilities acquires health care-associated infection. More importantly, in developing countries, more than half of all infants housed in units for newborns suffer health-care associated infections with a fatality rate of between four per cent and 56 per cent. In turn, while caring for the sick, health-care workers are also exposed to risks such as tuberculosis (TB), hepatitis, HIV and other infections. “Efforts to improve the health facility environment, enhance practice of infection prevention and control, and adherence to standard operating procedures would go a long way in addressing this problem.” To make patients safety feasible in Nigeria and Africa at large, WHO has stressed on the importance of engaging all key stakeholders to allow providers, seekers and managers of health care services express solidarity and commitment to making health care safer and commit to promoting an open communication to enhance understanding and give patients a voice. This means carrying the government, the community, religious leaders, health workers, the media and even the patients along, according to the WHO, is the bigger picture of human development. “We cannot win UHC without putting the patient at the centre and we cannot get UHC if the services are not there, if people are not getting the services. We cannot achieve UHC if financial protection is not there for the patient, the various health services including the outcome of services of  patient in hospitals is very important. “The fundamental principle is to do no harm. There is an urgent need to raise awareness and understanding of patient safety. We must galvanise action towards safer systems, services, procedures, and practices in health care to eliminate harm to patients and to mitigate any risk of harm to patients. “Patient safety is an essential component of health care that should be given immediate attention. The campaign also calls for promotion of open communication for learning from errors and to emphasise the importance of patient safety, as well as increasing the voice of the patient, hence the slogan speak up for patient safety! “WHO is committed to support countries in determining the status of patient safety, development and implementation of national policies, guidelines and protocols for enhancing patient safety, as well as facilitating patient safety networks and partnerships. “I call upon all stakeholders to make strong commitments, prioritise and take early action, and support the implementation of strategies for ensuring patient safety, managing risks and fostering supportive, learning cultures. I encourage all to widely share information regarding observance of this first World Patient Safety Day. Your involvement, support, and enthusiasm will help to ensure the impact of this campaign.” Ensuring patient safety in Nigeria is a welcome development however,  the poor doctor to patient ratio currently standing at one doctor to 5,000 patients as against one doctor to 600 patients as recommended by the WHO, and the grave issue of losing 12 doctors to other countries on a weekly basis could pose a serious challenge to achieving this. The onus is therefore on the Federal Government  to address this daunting public health challenge that has continued to weaken the health system and limit patients’ access to adequate heath care if indeed Nigeria must meet the 2030 UHC target.