●Experts blame FG’s policy summersault   GROUNDS FG gives reasons for its investments hunt in the United States  O il projects and investments worth over $100 billion are trapped in Nigeria, New Telegraph has learnt.   A Canada-based Petroleum economist, Tosan Omotshola, and members of the highest body of geologists in Nigeria, Nigeria Association of Petroleum Explorationists (NAPE), made this known on the sideline of a training for media professionals in Lagos.   Specifically, the experts blamed policy summersault for this huge economic loss.   “Projects with production value of 875,000 barrels of crude barrels per day (about 1m bopd) and investments of over $100 billion are untapped, and are wasting away,” Omotshola who doubles as the Principal and Executive Director, Kaptepua Capital, Canada, said.   The projects, he noted, “include Bonga South West Aparo with 225 000 barrels of oil per day production capacity (bopd); the Bonga North with 100,000 bopd; Bosi with 140,000 bopd; and the Bosi Satellite with 80,000 bopd”.   Others, according to Omatshola, include the Uge field with production capacity of 110,000 bopd; the Zabazaba with 120, 000 bopd ; and the Nsiko field with 100,000 bopd.   With the delay suffered on these projects, huge investment value of over $100 billion is being trapped, he added.   Corroborating Omatshola’s view, President, NAPE, Ajibola Oyebamiji, noted that it does not make any economic sense to know that these volumes of investments are delayed and wasting away in a country that is broke.   “We need to work on a lot of economic variables,” he said.   “What we need to work on is what I call Exploration and Production (E&P) Portfolio Ranking Drivers. These include over-arching corporate strategy and competitive advantage; global economics comprises of country risk analysis and fiscal regulatory framework.   “Others are asset (basin and reservoir) character; infrastructure; financial metrics; intangible value analysis; and brand perceptions.”   Meanwhile, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has taken the hunt for investors for the $10 billion Train 7 gas project to Houston, Texas, in United States (U.S.).   The corporation, which also reiterated its commitment towards harnessing Nigeria’s abundant resources for the benefit of Nigerians, said that the Final Investment Decision (FID) for the project would be taken in the next couple of months.   Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, disclosed this, while speaking at a Gas and Power Breakfast Briefing on the sidelines of the Gas Technology Exhibition and Conference (GASTECH) held in Houston, United States last     Thursday.   “Nigeria is more of a gas nation than oil and for us, gas is the future. We have therefore committed to providing the necessary support required to ensure Nigeria takes its rightful place in the international gas market,” Kyari, who was represented at the conference by the Managing Director of the Nigerian Gas Company (NGC), Dr. Salihu Jamari, stated in a statement.   While describing the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) as a very critical company for Nigeria, Kyari appealed to prospective investors to consider investing in the organization for the benefit of shareholders and the entire Nigerians.   “There are a lot of opportunities within Nigeria’s LNG value-chain,” he said. “I would like to assure you that the NLNG is the best destination for investment”.  He said NNPC was working tirelessly to ensure that Nigeria’s abundant gas resources are utilized to fulfill government’s power aspirations by developing the gas infrastructure across the entire gas value chain and opening up the domestic gas market.  According to him, Nigeria’s approach in terms of implementing the energy mix is participatory, which in the long run, will make energy available to the citizenry by utilizing the opportunities provided by the renewable energy solutions.  Besides, Kyari observed that the NNPC was working very hard to provide adequate capacity that will meet consumers’ demands even as it was upgrading its facilities to be able to meet up with demand both locally and abroad.   He said granting the imperative for more transparency and accountability, the corporation has a deliberate policy to improve and automate its systems and processes.  “We also have a lot of other things to consider, but we are prioritizing our systems upgrade and we shall not be left   