Folarin Ebiti, a lawyer of many parts, obtained an LL.B from the Lagos State University and was called to Bar in 2017. Ebiti shares his law story with JOHN CHIKEZIE  Background I am Folarin Ebiti, from Lagos Island in Lagos state. I am a lawyer with a particular niche for business, real estates, Information Technology and Intellectual Property. I also like sport, reading, and traveling. My elementary school started at the Police Children School in Obalende and later at Ola Quranic Private School.  Thereafter, I attended Wahab Folawiyo, and Government College Victory Island for my junior secondary school education and later completed my senior secondary school education at Was-Lat Private College.   I attended Lagos State University where I bagged my LL.B degree and subsequently to the Nigeria Law School, Lagos campus. I was called to the Nigeria Bar in the year 2017.   Choice of career  There was a time when I had to define what I wanted in life. My resolve was the pursuit of a noble, personal fulfilling and financially rewarding career. I was very good at Art subjects but mathematic wasn’t really my forte. Therefore, as a result of my limited capacity in the subject, like all my peers, studying law provided a perfect escape from future mathematical problems.  Honestly, it was until my first year at the university, while studying law, did I realize the immense opportunities inherent in the legal profession.  I realized I could do much and become whatsoever I had dreamt of with the law degree. As a lawyer, I could be in politics, a writer, a teacher, a magnate, an advocate and even become a hero to the people.  The legal profession is vast and intellectually challenging and I think studying law is the best way to understand what our society is about, how it operates, applicable rules, how politics and policies are involved, and how the individuals are being affected by all these.   The police and the prison system   The police are now erroneously seen as debt recovery agents. It’s even more outrageous when pure contractual misunderstanding is criminally defined for obvious reasons. The Nigeria judiciary system needs to be more proficient, effective and take positions that will make a well-designed administration of criminal justice system. Imagine a society where bail is free and the police is truly your friend; but unfortunately, that society is not Nigeria.  Consequently, another issue worthy of attention is the prison systems in Nigeria; now The Nigerian Correctional Service formerly known as Nigerian Prison service.  It is not enough to change the name when the problem still remains the same. Nigeria prisons are heavily congested over and above its current structure. The percentage of awaiting trial-inmates is outrageous and some have spent several years behind bars without getting a day in court.   Personally, these are more pronounced issue that should get all stakeholders attention. I look forward to using my status as a lawyer to advocate much better criminal administration system.  New crime trend– armed robbery, rape, fraud and cybercrime  The causes of most social ills and menace are not farfetched. Factors such as unemployment, poverty, peer group pressure, poor security mechanism, also negative behavioral pattern such as greed, anger, jealousy, revenge, or pride. Other factors such as the upbringing of a child and its relative impact could also be a cause.  The theory of cause and effect is almost an impeccable theory; the lacuna created by unscrupulous, visionless and corrupt leadership is a great social imbalance which results into poor and angry followers. What may drive people to take up arms or result to cybercrime may differ. But the major cause is still the quest to amass wealth regardless of the moral or legal consequences. However, on the issue of rape, apart from the underlying cause earlier mentioned, proper deterrent to rape perpetrators is evidently yet to be established by the judiciary. We live in a society that stigmatizes rape victims.   And as a result of failure to provide adequate proof such as semen, bruises or other material evidence to convict a suspect in court, the rape victim becomes totally intimidated.   Who are then the champions or stakeholders to end this cruel menace? Everybody! The government, being a major stakeholder, should rise up and develop working policies to reduce the outrageous level of poverty and unemployment.   The family, as a micro government, should start teaching values and responsibility to their kids. The society at large should understand that yahoo yahoo (cybercrime) is not different from armed robbery and that it has a matching tendency of killing its victims.   What I would have done differently as Attorney-General of the Federation   My first line of action would be to hold a stakeholders’ meeting with the aim of having a working policies and base on a general expression of intents from relevant stakeholders, then every other action will flow.   We can come up with a national policy on justice, ultimately, to promote quick dispensation of justice without fear of favour, promote alternative dispute resolution, champion a robust capacity building structure for judges and all other judiciary workers. Others would be on decongestion of the court; relieving the heavy workloads on our judges, sponsors bills that will help achieve these aims, promote consolidations of bills or laws that in a way will eradicate proliferation of laws which is hindering economic growth.   Similarly, come up with a national policy on prosecution which ultimately helps reinstate the public confidence in the administration of criminal justice system. Reforms that will aid in decongesting the prisons, capacity building for all prosecutors, strong collaboration with the police to ensure no innocent person suffers unjustly, act as check on the police excesses, also ensure that lawful prosecution of offenders or accused persons are timely and diligently. Where there is a working administration of criminal justice naturally the people’s confidence would be restored.   Independence of judiciary  Personally, the constitutional arrangement is to be blamed whether or not the judiciary is truly independent.   Section 231 (1) of the Constitution provides that the appointment of a person to the office of Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) shall be made by the President on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council (NJC), subject to confirmation of such appointment by the Senate. Similarly, Section 292 of the Constitution provides for the removal of judicial officers and in the case of the Federal Justices, it is by the president, who takes action on an address supported by two thirds majority of the Senate. The NJC is empowered not only with the recommendation of Federal Justices, but also with State Judges Section 271 (1) of the Constitution. The State Judicial Council, in my opinion, is best suited to handle the affairs of recommending State Judges for obvious reasons and not the NJC.   Looking at the Constitution, the judiciary, as the third arm of government, cannot be said to be truly independent, most especially when the other arms are strongly interfering in its affairs, thereby hindering the possibility of a strong institutional independence. Ambition   I am a very ambitious person and, like most young persons that desire to be rich, respected and famous, I like to be all that too and more. I am privileged to be a member of the noble profession and I understand the weight and possibility inherent in the profession. I would like to be known as an expert in Business Law practices, Intellectual property practices and a True Advocate for law and order. I am passionate about humanity and I hope to volunteer my skills and expertise for the betterment of humanity in whatever capacity I might find myself in the future.