President Muhammadu Buhari has called on the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) to partner with the Federal Government towards reversing the infrastructural deficit in the country. He said there was need for more concerted effort, creative and innovative ideas from all stakeholders. Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina, quoted the President as saying during the meeting with the leadership of NSE that, “Nigerian problems require uniquely Nigerian solutions’’. President Buhari, who received a delegation of the NSE led by the President, Council of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Adekunle Mokuolu, said reversing the deficit would require indigenous capacity, noting that the government has deliberately structured policies to favour more local content and capacity development. “The   foundations   of   any   developed,   competitive   and prosperous society are based on good education and quality infrastructure. Many nations we look up to are those with adequate and accessible infrastructure, power and water resources. “They achieved these by embracing engineering and of course, engineers. Over the years, Nigerian engineers have been recognized globally for carrying out amazing and impactful projects. Unfortunately, this is not the case here at home as for decades, the enabling environment was simply not provided for these innovative and creative professionals to flourish and showcase our country as an engineering hub,’’ he said. The President urged the professionals to look inward in showcasing their knowledge and skill in a way that will directly impact the nation. “In the past four years, we focused on reversing this trend by introducing policies  that  will create  the  enabling environment for engineers to succeed and thrive. “We   introduced   Executive   Orders   and embarked   on   several   infrastructural   development   and rehabilitation projects. As a government, we also prioritized local content in our procurement processes,’’ the President added. Buhari asked the engineers to continue to support government at all levels to build a more prosperous society.