T he Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has debunked claim that its Instrument Landing Systems (ILS) were not serviceable and one that could have caused the emergency landing of Max Air’s B747-400 with registration 5N-DBK in Minna, Niger State on Saturday.   An ILS is a highly accurate radio signal navigation aid consisting of two antennas which transmit signals to receivers in the aircraft cockpit – a glide path tower located next to the runway at the northern end and a localiser antenna at the southern end.   The aircraft, with 560 passengers, departed Jeddah International Airport for Minna International Airport with no injuries to the returning pilgrims.  The Director of Flight Operations of Max Air, Captain Ibrahim Dili, had disclosed in a statement that at the time of arrival of the aircraft at the Minna Airport, there was torrential rainfall with unstable wind.   He added that the ILS at the airport was epileptic with unreliable signals and the pilot evacuated on approach, “using their wealth of experience and knowledge of the terrain and environment to a safe landing and stopped on the runway, during which one of the engines slightly brushed the runway due to the manoeuvres occasioned by strong downdraft, aircraft did not crash or skid off the runway.”  But NAMA has denied such insinuation, saying it was constrained to react to the misinformation peddled by the airline, saying its equipment were working perfectly as at the time the incident occurred.   Spokesman for NAMA, Khalid Emeni, in a statement made available to New Telegraph, said: “While we acknowledge that we have absolute confidence in the ability of the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) to conduct a thorough investigation (which is ongoing), we are constrained to, however, put things in proper perspective for the benefit of our airspace users and the flying public.”   He explained that the reported weather on the day in question was 10km visibility in nil weather.   “Second, the said ILS was successfully calibrated early this year and there has been no report of non-alignment by the equipment from pilots since then. Other operators that have used the facility after the incident have not complained about the ILS malfunctioning.   “Third, NAMA has made available other alternative approaches like the Performance Based Navigation (PBN) approach procedures and Very High Omni-directional Radio Range/Distance Measuring Equipment (VOR/DME) approach procedures which are alternatives to the ILS.”    He reassured airspace users and the general public that the Nigerian airspace remains safe for air travel, stressing that in furtherance to this, the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, on August 29th, 2019 took delivery of a brand new Beechcraft 350 flight calibration aircraft to aid NAMA in the timely, regular and efficient conduct of flight calibration of its navigational facilities nationwide, in line with global best practices.