Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) have arrested 25 students of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomosho, Oyo State, for alleged fraud. The students were apprehended by the Advance Fee Fraud Unit of the EFCC, Abuja Headquarters, for alleged involvement in various forms of cybercrime. Their alleged offences include romance scam, love scam, possession of forged documents, and obtaining money by false pretence. Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, who made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, said the suspects were apprehended upon intelligence report of their alleged suspicious activities. According to Uwujaren, the arrests followed a three-day raid operation at the students’ off-campus hostels. He said: “The students, who are aged between 18 and 29 years old, were arrested at their off-campus hostels, following a three-day raid carried out between September 16 and 19, 2019. Operatives acted on intelligence report, which was investigated using sophisticated equipment.” Uwujaren gave the names of the suspects as Pelumi Adigun (18), Umaru Frederick (21), Damilola Emmanuel (22), Tomiwa Oyewole (29), Adeleke Owolabi (24), Oladosu Abdullahi (23), Abdulmusaq Ismail (25), Isajimi Joshua (23), Olaniyan Tunde (22) and Ebosele Francis (28). Others include Oladejo Ibrahim (26), Oluwadamilare Abimbola (25), Orimoloye Joshua (23), Alfred Samuel (22), Bayewu Ishola (23), Abiola Gbenga (25), Alfred Daniel (20), Agboola Solomon (21), Arolewola Damilola (25) and Amoo Tunmise (23). The remaining are Akeem Taiwo (25), Segun Ajibola (25), Hassan Segun (24), Onicha Joel (23) and Tafa Bassit (25). Uwujaren said in the course of executing the search, Ismail, who confessed to being involved in internet fraud, took operatives round hostels, leading to the arrest of many of the culprits. He added: “Some of the suspects, who jumped over the fence to escape arrest, were nabbed in the process. “Some of the items recovered from them, which are believed to be the proceeds of their illegal activities online, include a 4matic  Benz, a Toyota Camry, a Toyota Corolla, two Macbook computers, two iPads, two iPhones and many other documents, which will be subjected to forensic analysis.” The EFCC spokesman said the suspects would soon be charged to court.