 Beautiful actress, Abimbola Oni is famous for her role in popular television series, ‘Eldorado’, which was produced by veteran film maker, Fidelis Duker and ever since, she has continued to rise. Today, Oni as she is fondly called by fans and colleagues has added producing of movies to her feather. She shares with ABIOLA ALABA PETERS, her journey into Nollywood and other personal affairs   How has it been for you as an actor and producer?   Well, being an actor and a producer is challenging because as an actor, you don’t have to worry about pre or post productions. Anyway, every production comes with different challenges but with proper planning, the problem had been minimized. When I decided to crossover to the Yoruba genre, I found out that you have to belong to a caucus. The caucus I joined was owned by Mr. Murphy Afolabi which makes him my boss but I bless God I am my own boss now.   What has been your biggest challenge as a producer?   I would say my biggest challenge in this part of the industry is getting an investor to invest in your ideas, and when you finally find one, you are still left to contend with marketers. A lot of challenges my dear brother, we just pray to God to see us through. Are you saying there’s some level of bias in the Yoruba movie industry?    No, not at all; although it is everywhere, and please don’t get me wrong.   Did you ever believe you would get this far?   Though I always believe in myself; I never thought it’d happen this fast, even though I’m still learning and growing, I still appreciate God for bringing me to this point in my career.   Which do you find more lucrative, acting or producing?   I find producing lucrative but it is time consuming. Producing comes with this high and low but anyway it comes, I will still keep to production.   Would you quit acting for relationship or marriage?   No, No! For heaven’s sake, I am not prostituting or even into a shady or illegal business, so why should I quit my job or business because of a man, well I’m sorry, I can’t.     What is your take on early marriage, do you support it?   Early marriage is cool, so long as parties involved are matured enough to handle whatever challenges they have, financially independent and loves each other. It is better to be married than messing around.    What’s the relationship between you and Murphy Afolabi?   This question again! I won’t deny the fact that I know him but dating him, No! The farthest we had gone is taking pictures.  You seem to be closer to ace Fuji music star, Pasuma, what’s the chemistry between you two?   Alhaji Wasiu Alabi Pasuma is just a friend; we are not dating, he is one great guy I respect and hold in high esteem. What we have is just a business relationship; so please don’t go write what I didn’t say o! I am not dating Pasuma.   So which of the entertainers, did you date?   None.   Growing up as a teenager, did you ever imagine yourself ending up as an actress?   Not really! Although when I was growing up, I was in a drama group but I never knew I would be an actress.  2019 is fast running out, how would you say it has been?   It had been awesome… A bit of hitch but I bless God, where I am today.   Tell us about your last movie, which you personally produced?   The last movie I produced is ‘Vengeance (Esan)’ which talked about deceit in relationships. Starring, Kunle Adegbite, Madam Saje, Niyi Johnson, Bisola Badmus, Ebun Okafor, Bimbo Akisanya and a lot of fantastic actors with best crew.   What have you been up to recently?   Nothing much; just taking life one at a time. I’m still on my last production marketing.   As an actress and a mother of one, how do you manage your activities?   Wow, I have the best mum in the whole wide world until death took her away from me. She had been my support system. I bless God for my kind of son, he is very understanding and he knows mum got to work to make money.   You have featured in quite a number of movies, and television series, which would you say is your best?   Both! Any project I participate on either movies or television series, I always put in my best.   What’s your take on godfather factor in Nollywood, especially the Yoruba speaking industry?   Well I guess it worked for them but as for me, the godfather I have is only God.   If you are giving one on one opportunity with President Muhammadu Buhari, what would you tell him?   I will talk about the poor economy and lack of security in the country.   What can you never be caught doing?   I have a lot but physical fighting is a No.   Have you ever experienced any form of sexual assault?  For sexual assault, the answer is No.   Which time of the day would you prefer to have sex and why, I mean morning, afternoon or night?   I’m indifferent when it comes to time. I don’t think there should be a particular time. Let it flow.   What do you consider before dressing up for an event?   Being comfortable in what I wear.   Your hips seems to be taking a new turn, is it natural or you had a surgery?   Shake what your mama gave you; although I don’t flaunt it, it is natural.   Is Bimbola Oni still single?   Yes, single but not ready to mingle.   How do you relax?   I read a lot that way I feel relaxed, I also relax by going to the cinemas to see some good movies.   To your admirers, what do you have to say to them?   To my admirers, please keep supporting me and I promise not to disappoint you. I love you all.