There is growing tension at the Idiroko border town in Ipokia Local Government Area of Ogun State as traditionalists and some religious groups battle over Oro festival, reports KUNLE OLAYENI     An uneasy calm is pervading Idiroko town in Ipokia Local Government Area of Ogun State in the wake of the fight among traditionalists, Muslims and Christians over the celebration of Oro festival. Still grappling with the socio-economic effects of ongoing border closure, the community in the Nigeria-Benin Republic border is now tottering on religious conflict which, many feared may snowball to a major crisis if not well managed.   Already, no fewer than 13 persons have been arraigned by the police following reported clashes between proponents and opponents of the Oro festival in the town. Those charged to court have been subsequently remanded in prison custody.   In many towns and settlements of Yoruba origin, Oro festival is held annually. This antiquated festival is patriarchal in nature as it is only celebrated by male descendants who are paternal natives to the specific locations where the particular event is taking place. It is the age-long tradition that during this festival, females and non-natives are confined indoors as they must not see the Oro cult. The uninitiated, who are caught violating the ritual often die mysteriously, according to the Yoruba beliefs.   Although the ceremonies surrounding Oro festival vary from town to town, the conduct in Idiroko has sparked crisis and pitted traditional worshippers against Muslim and Christian faithful in the border area. The indigenous people of the town are mostly Yoruba, Anago and Egun, while languages spoken by the residents include Yoruba, English and French.   Sometime in August, this year, irate traditional worshippers allegedly stormed a mosque in the town and dispersed Muslim faithful observing their prayers. The Umar bin Khatab Mosque, Odan-Aje, which was attacked, is behind the General Hospital, Idiroko.  The traditionalists allegedly pelted worshippers in the mosque, shattered its window louvers and vandalized the worship centre. They reportedly accused the Muslims of calling people to prayer in flagrant breach of the warning not to do so when Orisa Oba ritual was being carried out.  Our correspondent learnt that Orisa Oba is a ritual which has been held in the town from time immemorial. Its spirit is usually invoked to cleanse the town in the wake of calamities. The Orisa Oba forbids noise, music and light whether during the day or at night.  During the rites, everybody is expected to stay indoors for two to three days. Residents are warned to abide by this restriction anytime the ritual is observed. The penultimate edition was said to have been held over ten years ago. Apart from the mosque attacked, some vehicles were also reportedly vandalized by the traditional worshippers at the Holy Trinity Catholic Church located at Old Baggage Road, Idiroko.  But barely a month after the incident, another attack took place in the town last a fortnight ago. Apparently to forestall a breakdown of law and order, the police swiftly arrested nine Oro adherents. The arrested suspects included Idowu Desu, Monday Akinlolu, Dele Dada, Raimi Jacob, Dondo Sunday, Abiola Azeez, Olarewaju Akerele, Nurudeen Lawal and Tetede Jamiu.  Sunday Telegraph learnt that Oro adherents had allegedly imposed a curfew on the town on Saturday during their traditional festival but this was defied by Muslims in the area who went out to observe their prayers.  It was learnt that some Muslims and Christians who are residents, were assaulted and beaten severely for violating the curfew imposed by the Oro adherents. Some property was also allegedly vandalized during the attack.  One of the affected residents, Tolahat Yahya, while narrating his ordeal, claimed that the traditionalists destroyed his car during their festival.  Yahya said: “We were coming back from a programme held at our mosque when the Oro adherents attacked us. They beat us and said we did not obey the curfew order.  “We stood our ground and we ensured we grabbed three of them who we later handed over to the police. The intimidation is too much; they refused to allow us practice our religion. Despite the agreement that the Oro ritual will not be performed in daybreak, they did not obey that.”   Our correspondent learnt that prior to the renewed violence, a peace meeting was held on Thursday, last week, between Muslims who were led by the Wakeel Musulumi of Yorubaland, Edo and Delta States, Sheikh Iskeel Lawal Sugar, and the traditionalists, represented by the Oniko of Ikoland, Idiroko, Oba John Olakunle. However, the meeting ended in a deadlock.   The monarch allegedly refused to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) proposed by the Muslims, insisting that the community had been performing daybreak rituals for long and would not stop.   He was said to have asked the Muslim community to be ready to either accept the traditions or leave the community.  Sunday Telegraph gathered that a High Court in Ipokia had about two years ago delivered a judgement which restrained Oro adherents from observing their ritual in daytime in any part of the area. The traditional worshippers, on the other hand, have gone to the appellate court to appeal the judgement.   The Muslim community wants the court judgement obeyed while the traditionalists insist that even though appeal was pending, traditions are still sacred and sacrosanct.   Speaking with Sunday Telegraph, Imam Abdulazeez Omoakin of Umar bin Khatab Mosque, which was invaded in August, said unlike the previous attack, the traditional worshippers laid ambush for their latest victims and beat them to a pulp. Omoakin appealed to the authorities to ensure strict compliance of the ban against Oro adherents whom he accused of being hell bent on carrying out their festival in the day time at the expense of other residents.   On Tuesday, September 10, no fewer than 13 persons were arrested for allegedly perpetrating the attack on Muslim and Christian faithful in Idiroko. They were arraigned before a Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting in Ilaro, Yewa South Local Government Area of the state. The accused persons were arraigned on charges bordering on conspiracy, contempt, and conduct likely to cause breach of public peace, malicious damage and assault occasioning harm in two separate suits filed before the court.   The prosecutor, Dada Olushola, said the 13 accused persons were arrested by the police while committing the offence during the last Oro festival. He added that the accused persons observed the Oro festival during day time contrary to an order of the High Court in Ipokia. According to the prosecutor, the offences were contrary to and punishable under Sections 516 (a), 133 (9) and 249 (d) of the Criminal Code Vol. 1 Laws of Ogun State 2006.   The presiding Magistrate, S O Banwo, while ruling on the bail application of the accused, granted them bail of N2.5million each and two sureties in like sum.   One of the sureties must be a traditional ruler who must deposit his original Certificate of Title until the final determination of the matter while the other surety must possess a landed property that is registered at the Lands Registry and has a Certificate of Occupancy. However, the accused persons could not perfect the bail conditions and were ordered to be remanded in prison custody in Ilaro.   The case was adjourned till October 8, 2019 for the hearing of the two suits.   When our correspondent visited Idiroko on Wednesday, the town was relatively calm as residents went about their businesses. Efforts to get the reaction of monarch of the town were not successful as he was said to be out of the palace. But sources at the palace, who preferred anonymity, confirmed to our correspondent that the peace meeting convened over the Oro festival was deadlocked.   The Muslim community was said to have raised some demands before the traditional ruler and requested him to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). The demands included apology to the Muslim community; respect of the court judgement restraining the performance of rituals during the day except in the midnight between 12am and 4am and stoppage of threat to lives.   However, the alleged refusal of the monarch to sign the MoU annoyed the Muslim delegation and they reportedly left the palace.   Speaking on the conflict, a traditional chief in the town, who craved anonymity, said what led to the attack was the insistence of the Muslims not to give to Caesar what is Caesar’s. He described the Muslims agitating against Oro festival as extremists who are bent on changing the age-long tradition of the town.   The chief explained that the Orisa Oba ritual is not done periodically but based on necessity to appease the gods of the land in the wake of calamities. According to him, the Orisa Oba was last observed in 2004.   While claiming that the gods that often struck opponents of the Oro rites, the chief argued that most of those arrested in connection with the attack on worship centres in the town were innocent.   When contacted, the state police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the matter was already before the court.