Ilile community in Ohaji/Egbema Local Government of Imo State is currently deserted by natives. That is no thanks to an attack by cult gangs, who have promised to return. Their motive is to kill more people in the community, after six have already been sent to their early graves. STEVE UZOECHI reports from Owerri   Following the vicious attack on Ilile community in Ohaji Egbema council area of Imo State by a cult gang numbering over 30 men, members of the Ilile community have since deserted their villages. That was following the threat by the cult gang to be back. The bad guys were armed with automatic rifles, machetes, axes and cudgels. When the dust of the attack settled on the August 22, one man was beheaded while five other villagers were riddled with bullets. Yet, the cult gang left a notice to the villagers that they were not done yet. Today, shops are closed, markets are deserted and going to the farm has become a risky venture in Ilile community. To say the least, Ilile will not forget in a hurry the horrifying attack and murder of six of their indigenes by a gang of bloodthirsty cultists. Around 3am in the small hours of a Thursday morning, August 22, the quiet Ilile community was roused from sleep by sporadic automatic gun fire and rampant shouts for help that never came, from different corners of the community as the marauding cult gang went from home to home slaughtering and maiming hapless locals. The invasion resulted in the coldblooded murder of the immediate past President General of the community, Mr. Napoleon Amadi; his younger brother, Osonwune Amadi; a retired Police officer, Mr. Ike Ukpabi; a member of the community vigilante group, Mr. Martins Eze; and a mother of five children. Findings indicate that the cult gang had penetrated the community by foot through a bush path along the farm road linking the community with their neighbouring communities of Obitti and Awarra. They had forced their way into the bedroom of the former President General who was sleeping with his wife and children and murdered him in cold blood right in front of his wife and children; they also butchered his younger brother Osonwune Amadi with a machete. He later died in the hospital. Then, the cultists moved to the house of one of the vigilante members and murdered him in his bedroom also before his family and shot his wife. In their continued search of other members of the vigilante group marked for termination, they proceeded to the neighbouring Oburugo village in Mgbuisii community, where they equally beheaded an innocent man identified as Onyemuche Eke, who they mistook to be the vigilante member they were looking for. Returning from Oburugo village on their way out of Ilile, the gunmen sighted villagers gathered in clusters discussing the dastardly killing of their kinsmen, and sprayed the area with bullets and villagers scampered to safety. But thereafter, the lifeless body of the retired Police officer, Mr. Ike Ukpabi, who had come out to sympathize with those earlier attacked by the hoodlums and that of a mother of five children were later found inside a bush after the cultists had gone leaving a message for other vigilante members that survived the attack that they would come back for them. Several other indigenes of the community sustained different degrees of injuries as a result several hours of sporadic shootings. In spite of the several calls put through to different security formations around the area, there was no security intervention to save the community from the attack. Not even the Divisional Police State in nearby Umuokanne could send help in spite of the fact that the community make financial contributions to the division for police patrol of their community. As at the time of filing this report, no police team, military team or government team has visited the community to investigate the attack or commiserate with the community on the loss of their kinsmen. Given the prevailing scenario, the feeling of insecurity pervades the community, thus, compelling men, women and youths of the community to desert their homes for neighbouring communities for refuge and safety pending when visible security measures would have been taken and the situation brought under control. The killing came just few weeks after the deceased former President General had handed over power to the new President General, Mr. Athanasius Nwagbara. The former President General, Napoleon Amadi, now deceased, had been firm and courageous in confronting criminality and battling to a standstill, the cultists whose major source of funding has been kidnapping. With the exit of Amadi, the Ilile community was besieged by criminal elements, who are mainly cultists, whose pastime include kidnapping, armed robbery, rape and other criminal activities. The cultists virtually took over the community and turned some areas of Ilile community to their hideout for keeping kidnap victims while waiting for ransom payment. The community became a safe haven for kidnappers and their victims. Many locals were aware of the thriving criminal enterprise; some compromised few were even cooking for the kidnappers and feeding their victims while others were afraid to even voice their fear because of the inevitable consequence that would befall anyone who opened up on the criminal syndicate. It is organized crime. There was debilitating fear in the land to the extent that members of the community would not dare go to their farms. And anyone who due to constraints, insists on going to the farm for the purpose of harvesting farm produce for food or for sales, may either not come back alive or come back brutally battered by the cultists that have taken over the farmlands for their kidnapping activities. At the time, if the cultists sighted two or three farmers in the farm at the same time; they grab them, then release one to go and raise money to buy the freedom of the other. Sometimes, N5,000, N10,000 or N20,000 could be the ransom. It was tormenting reality for the community until the security agencies decided to take action which resulted in the recent killing of three kidnap kingpins and arrest of others in a thick forest located in the community. The Police, through a tip-off from the community and members of the vigilante had raided the bush and as a result, killed three of the kidnappers and rescued about 15 victims, who were abducted along Owerri-Port Harcourt highway and were taken into the bush. After the police raid of the kidnappers’ hideout and the dislodging of the kidnap kingpins, the community enjoyed some respite as peace gradually started returning to the community with the men, women and the youth returning and coming to rebuild their community. The situation gave rise to the coming together of the women folks, who had just concluded their annual August Meeting; the men conducted their election and a new President General emerged while the youth are already on the process of conducting their own election to elect a the youth leader for the community, all targeted at getting the community to work again. The new President General of the community, Mr. Athan Nwagbara, who confirmed the murder of the six persons, described the action of the suspected cultists as inhuman. He said that the community would do everything in collaboration with the security agencies to bring the suspected cultists to book. The Imo State Police Command Public Relation Officer, Mr. Orlando Ikeokwu, when contacted, confirmed the attack on the community and added that no arrest has been made so far. He said that the command was aware and would do everything within its power to unravel the perpetrators behind the dastardly act. Reacting to the situation also, the Deputy Governor of Imo State, Engr. Gerald Irona, described it as unfortunate and attributed the killing to failures of leaders across Ohaji Egbema council area, who according to him, have allowed miscreants and hooligans to overrun the oil producing communities in the area. He regretted that the leaders of these areas had largely kept quiet in the face of large scale criminality and said it was most unfortunate that lives were lost in Ilile and called on stakeholders to courageously expose the perpetrators and sponsors of these cult gangs.