Ndukwe Maduabuchi is an indigene of Item in Bende Local Government Area of Abia State. Maduabuchi obtained his L.L.B at the Abia State University, Uturu and was called to Bar in 2018. He disusses his foray into the legal profession with John Chikezie   Background My name is Ndukwe Maduabuchi and I am an indigene of Item in Bende Local Government Area, Abia State.   I am the last son of the Ndukwe’s family; a family of three boys. My father is a medical doctor while my mother studied Business Administration.  I attended Golden Child Montessori Primary School Aba, Abia State. I also attended Evangel Seminary School Ovom 1 Aba, Abia State and Federal Government College Ikot-Ekpene, Akwa Ibom State for my junior and Senior Secondary School education respectively. Thereafter, I proceeded to the Abia State University, Uturu where I obtained my L.L.B degree and further obtained my B.L at the Nigerian Law School, Lagos Campus.  I was called to the Nigerian Bar in 2018. I am currently undergoing the compulsory National Youth Service programme (NYSC) in Kano State.  Law  Growing up, my immediate elder brother, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ndukwe (MBBS), was more inclined into joining the medical profession and I had no interest, whatsoever, in anything pertaining to the human anatomy, so I chose law. Also, the learning structure of the Federal Government College, Ikot-Ekpene, which separated its students according to their desired profession, sharpened my desire.  I had no interest or business with chemistry and physics. I never learnt them. In the Art class, we were taught to focus more on literature, history etc., so as to channel our mental energy to those particular areas of knowledge we needed, and that routine was very effective.  However, in Nigeria, we certainly didn’t have opportunity to think outside the box and venture into software development, while growing up.  So, the legal profession caught my fancy because I believe in justice and what is right. And since law is the last avenue for the masses to seek redress, I wanted to be a part of that system.  First court appearance My very first appearance in court was a good experience. It was a garnishee proceedings and I appeared alone. Law practice is an entirely different realm. The feeling was just unique and a bit overwhelming, but my law school education got me through that day, and just like fine wine, we get better with age while in the profession.   On that day, I appeared before Justice R.A Sadik of a Kano State High Court. When the case was called up, the judgement creditors and debtors announced their appearances respectively. But when it was my turn to announce appearance, I almost froze. Seconds after, the words came right out and I felt a huge rush of relief of my body. And since after that experience, things have been a lot better.   Challenges as a young lawyer   As a young legal practitioner, coming into the profession, there’s a lot to learn. But the evil part is that this “learning” phase is so demanding and wrecking. And despite the tedious workload and hard work we put in, we get paid next to nothing. A lot of young lawyers have dependants and I assure you that almost no one would believe the mediocre pay lawyers get.   Most of the young lawyers are ashamed to disclose it and the last Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, conference just declared the incubation phase to be ten years. It’s not great as the profession has standards which one ought to live up to and the remuneration which young lawyers get discourages people from actually being part of the legal profession which they spent about 6 years acquiring.   Law school experience and undergraduate studies   Law school is firstly a post-graduate programme, and as such it’s one that is mentally challenging. Secondly it’s the last phase of education required of a legal practitioner before you can appear as an advocate in court. And such strictly deals with the procedural aspect of law. The undergraduate study, which on the other hand, deals with the substantive part of law, requires a space of five (5) years.   The Nigerian law school curriculum is humongous whilst the timeframe for proper assimilation is too short. There is certainly a huge difference between both.   Reforms in both undergraduate and law school   However, I would suggest that a learning period of four years, instead of five, should be stipulated for the undergraduate studies.  Also procedural law shouldn’t pop up first in the law school for law students. Rather, they should have a prior knowledge of the experience before coming to law school.  The law School recently changed its system of grading, which I’m not really in support of as the former grading system kept students on their toes. Those who wanted excellence had to strive to achieve it by scoring an A in all 5 courses. That way, academic class would be distinguished. But other than that, the law School is great for me.   Code of judicial conduct   Well, the judiciary in Nigeria, I would say is fair in its adherence to the judicial code of conduct. Most judges are diligent in their work, and as such you could tell about their integrity. They act strictly within the confines of their powers and don’t necessarily descend into the arena of conflict.   Talking about the judiciary and its independence, I will only say that judges should not meddle into partisan politics, but that’s not necessarily the case because the executives have their ways of strong arming judicial officers, sadly but true. We have hope in our democracy and as such all arms have room for growth.  The judiciary as an independent body has its practices and procedures. It has procedures for appointment, suspension and removal of judicial officers, and it is meant to work in tandem with other arms of government so as to perform checks in each other. The case of the Chief Justice of Abia State is a typical example of this “strong arming” as the State Legislature completely acted ultra vires their powers in suspending the Chief Justice, Hon. Justice Theresa Uzokwe without any prior recommendation by the National Judicial council (NJC) as it ought to be.   Same was seen in the case of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, as he was suspended without prior recommendation from the appropriate body. Thus keeping judicial officers on their toes, when it comes to dealing with the executive arm of government.  Future ambition   Life has endless possibilities and we always have to keep our fingers crossed. Right now, my ambition is to get to the apex of education, bag a professorship, then maybe become a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, SAN.