T he Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, yesterday, alleged that most religious crises usually recorded in some parts of the country can be blamed on politicians, who use such to realize their political ambitions.   The Sultan stated this, while meeting with religious leaders under Nigerian Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) as part of his two-day visit to Ondo State at the Saint David’s Cathedral Hall in Akure, the Ondo State capital.   The Sultan, who is the Head of Muslims in Nigeria, cautioned on the need for politicians to stop politicising religious issues, noting that the Bible and Quran do not belong to any political party. “Those who promote religious disunity are the politicians, who do it for their selfish interest. Does Bible or Quran belong to any political party? No.”   “Muslims and Christians must not be tired of communicating. Communication and dialogue are very important. We have the same agenda. We are one big family. We  must stop negative thinking about ourselves.”   Speaking on the alleged demolition of a mosque in Port-Harcourt by the Rivers State Government, Abubakar said NIREC at the national level was already handling the issue for amicable resolution.   “The essence of NIREC can’t be overemphasized. That is the best platform to foster understanding between Muslims and Christians in this country. We created it. It is not a government’s body. NIREC helps the government to douse tension in this country.   “Like the issue of mosque demolished in Rivers, NIREC at the national level has called the CAN Chairman in Rivers and the Muslims leader there to get information and we handling silently, so that it will not degenerate.”   The Sultan, who is being hosted by the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, said nobody could claim to love God without loving their neighbours who are Muslims and Christians. In a remark, the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo said the historic gathering was to foster religious harmony in Ondo State.   The meeting was attended by both Christians and Muslims leaders- led by CAN Chairman, Reverend John Ayo Oladapo and the chairman, league of Imams and Alfas, Alhaji Ahmed Aladesawe. The Sultan had earlier inaugurated the newly built the Deji’s Palace mosque.