…as Naira exchanges at N0.60 to CFA1  •Trapped trucks of ETLS goods attract just 1% duty   A s the ongoing Federal Government’s border security operation, code-named ‘Exercise Swift Response’, enters it’s 41st day today, Sunday Telegraph reports that the security exercise which is commonly regarded as ‘border closure,’ has taken its toll on the economy of Benin Republic and other West African countries, forcing the exchange of the CFA (the currency of the Francophone West Africa) to crash in favour of the naira. N1000, which was exchanged for CFA 1500 before the border closure, now exchanges at CFA1650 to N1000 according to traders.   This came as Sunday Telegraph learnt that Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), otherwise known as petrol, which has over the years powered Benin Republic’s economy, sourced through smuggling across Nigerian  borders with the small Francophone West African nation, now sells at CFA500 (N302) per litre.   Just a little over a month ago, before the ‘border closure’, it was selling at CFA300 (N181) per litre in the country while it is selling at N145 in Nigeria.   According to Mr. Sam Afejuman, a lecturer at Ecole Professionnelle Specialisee-La Cite Universite, Cotonou, Benin Republic, life is getting tough by the day in the country as all business houses related to doing business with Nigeria closed while most warehouses in Cotonu is filled with goods (especially rice and frozen food) meant for Nigeria.   He disclosed that close to the borders are hundreds of Nigeria-bound trucks loaded with goods which have not been able to cross the border to Nigeria.   Afejuman said most of the trucks trapped at the borders are ECOWAS Trade Liberalisation (ETLS) goods coming from other West African countries. A development he said has put the economies of the West African countries in serious jeopardy.   “Generally, business is very dull-the closure has affected all ECOWAS countries. Most Benin warehouses are filled up with rice and frozen chicken. Generally, business is very dull in Benin Republic because most businesses in Benin Republic are patronised by Nigerians (across the border and inside the country),” he said.   According to him, if the government of Nigeria continues with the operation for up to six months, the economies of most West African countries will collapse completely as most of them depend on re-exportation (smuggling) of foreign goods into Nigeria. He said that the deadliest blow on the economy of Benin Republic was Niger’s recent ban of importation of Parboiled Rice from Benin Republic to pacify Nigeria to reopen the borders.  Meanwhile, President of National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), Mr. Lucky Amiwero, has said that though the border closure is against international treaties and protocols Nigeria entered into willingly, “the action has so far proved to be the most potent approach to tackling the several years of massive smuggling of goods from Nigeria’s neighbouring countries into Nigeria and smuggling of Nigerian fuel to those countries. Smuggling has been a major challenge to the Nigerian economy.   “If this operation is sustained till at least the end of the year, the Nigerian economy will feel the impact in a very positive ways. The West African countries which over the years depended on allowing countries to be smuggling routes in and out Nigeria, will be forced to re-strategise on ways to ensure the survival of their economies,” he said.   He further said that Nigeria stands to lose nothing on the reported several hundreds of trucks of ETLS goods trapped at the borders and could not enter Nigeria. According to him, those goods attract just 1 per cent duty payment to the Federal Government, and therefore do not constitute any major economic loss to the country. “Most of those goods are ETLS goods, but in reality are not produced in those West Africa countries purportedly exporting them to Nigeria. They just get the goods from different parts of the world, repackage and re-export to Nigeria as ETLS goods. That in itself is smuggling,” he said.   Amiwero also said if the operation is sustained, most of the people importing goods they want to sell in Nigeria, but they had been patronising Benin and Togo ports, will have no other option than to start routing their import to the Nigerian seaports. “They don’t have option; their market is here.”   Meanwhile, Sunday Telegraph learnt that inspite of the commendable achievement already recorded by the border security patrol being carried out by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS)in conjunction with the security agencies including the Nigerian Army, the operation  may not be completely foolproof as sources at the Seme and Idiroko borders have revealed.   The sources who would not want their names published, disclosed that the small smugglers still manage to bring small quantities of rice and other items by tipping the security operatives.   He said though the security agencies do not allow anybody to cross the borders without their passport, those who want to enter through illegal routes (by bike), used to tip the security agencies N500 but now, they pay N3000 to cross into the country illegally.   Recall that while the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Mohammed Babagana Monguno (rtd) had vowed not to bring the ‘Exercise Swift Response’ to an end until the neighbouring countries commit to ensuring that they will no longer serve as transit routes for smuggling of goods into and or destination of smuggled Nigerian fuel, the ECOWAS Secretary General, President of Niger Republic and his Beninour counterpart have been pleading with President Buhari to end the border security operation.