T he protracted dispute between the Tiv and Jukun ethnic groups of Taraba State in recent times have claimed untold but alarming number of innocent lives and property worth millions of naira. It is a conflict that has a long history of occurrence and reoccurrence over a period of time, with strong negative impact on the relationship between the two ethnic groups who have cordially lived together for centuries.   Documented evidence indicate a worrisome statistics that indeed, there has been periodic fighting between these two groups since the late 1950s, with sporadic outbreaks in 1959, 1964, 1976, 1990-1992, and again, in 2000-2001. While there are varied arguments about the crux of the long dispute, it is believed generally that the major contention is on citizenship between the Tiv and the Jukun people.   Analysts argue that while the Jukun claim to be the original inhabitants or indigenes of Wukari and consider the Tiv as settlers, the Tiv have refused to accept this view on the basis that they too have been living there for decades and therefore have equal rights; and continue to complain of being marginalized and rejected in Taraba State.   One major demand of the Tiv on the Taraba government is traditional leadership, a cultural identity to enable them also have first class, second class and third class chiefs where some of their immediate grievances could be channeled through to appropriate authorities, as against the present system where all Tiv in Wukari and the entire Taraba pay allegiance to the Aku Uka and Taraba State. On the other hand, the Jukun minority in Benue also complain of marginalization, lack of employment opportunities, and insecurity. For instance, National Leader of Jukun Youth Council, Zando Hoku recently in a media interview accused the Tiv are playing out a 10-point agenda which was allegedly earlier projected by the late Tor Tiv to acquire more land In Taraba as their population continuous to expand.   But, the Tiv who are seen as “settlers” in Taraba State, believe strongly that they are deprived of many rights given to indigenous groups such as discrimination in education, economic opportunities, employment, political representation and many more. Part of the current crisis is also traced to the decision by Governor Darius Ishaku in 2016 of renaming Tiv villagers in Jukun and Hausa.   These issues among several others have severed the relationship of the two tribes who ordinarily, depended on each other. In fact, those conversant with the issue say that the colonialists have their share of blame in the confusion which they created, paving way for the present suspicion, confrontation, and later, open hostility between the Tiv and the Jukun, who constituted, and still constitute, a major factor in the entire Benue Valley.   Only last week, President Muhammadu Buhari directed the governors of Benue and Taraba states, Darius Ishaku and Samuel Ortom, traditional rulers, specifically the Tor Tiv and the Aku Uka of Wukari, religious and community leaders in the two states to meet urgently, to bring an end to the persistent violent clashes between the Jukun and Tiv people.   The directive by Buhari was obviously prompted by renewed attacks in Taraba, leading to the gruesome killing of Rev. Fr. David Tanko at Kpankufu village on Wukari road by unknown persons in the early hours of August 29, 2019. According to the President, “the murder of the Catholic Priest highlights the urgency of addressing this embarrassing and persistent conflict.”   Apparently infuriated by the heightened frenzy of human destruction, violent attacks on people and property in the communities by the warring parties, Buhari who described the situation as unacceptable, vowed that the Federal Government under his leadership will not sit idly and watch the deep-seated antagonistic relationship between the Tiv and Jukun people fester.   What is touchy in the President’s reaction is the fact that the long term and lasting solution to this deep-seated antagonistic relationship between the warring factions depend on the willingness of those involved to listen to reason and give peace a chance.   The marching order by President Buhari that the Tiv/Jukun crisis must end, led to the convening of a stakeholders’ meeting on Wednesday in Abuja by the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). The event which held at the Yar’Adua center, brought together prominent sons and daughters from Benue and Taraba who spoke frankly about the root causes of the crisis and what steps needs to done in order to end it. The SGF, Boss Mustapha represented President Buhari at the event.   Most speakers during the meeting, condemned in strong terms, the wanton destruction of lives and property, identifying criminality such as banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery, as some of the causes of the crisis and the lack of clear boundary demarcation between the two States. Unequivocally, participants also agreed that the crisis was purely the internal affairs of Taraba State and not between Benue and Taraba, since the need for Governor Ishaku to assume total control in implementing actions plans geared towards resolving it. After extensive deliberations, the leaders resolved that there should be immediate cessation of hostilities to pave way for peace building efforts, with the two Governors making strong public pronouncement, condemning the crisis as they visit the affected communities as a confidence building measure.   Another decision taken by the stakeholders was the call on the government of President Buhari to massively deploy security forces for intensive patrol and surveillance of the affected communities, in order to checkmate the excesses of criminals and enforce law and order on the border corridors of Taraba and Benue States. There is no doubt that, some criminals now contribute to the heightened tension among the warring ethnic groups.   There is the need to also empower the restive youths as a way of reducing unemployment and making them useful members of the society. It was clear and also agreed by everyone that non implementation of agreements reached out at past meetings from the Kashimbila to the last one held in Makurdi, had remained an impediment to the smooth resolution of the crisis.   Prominent speakers at the event included the deputy governors of Taraba and Benue, Engineer Haruna Manu and Engineer Benson Abounu, minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental affairs Senator George Akume, former Senate President Iyorchia Ayu, and the former Nigerian Ambassador to Canada, Professor Iorwuese Hagher. It is expected that the mediatory conciliation step taken now by the federal government, with the SGF at the center, as against previously failed attempts will ones and for all, lead to an end in these reckless killings in Taraba State.   I strongly agree with President Buhari therefore, that, to a large extent however, it would yet depend on the firm cooperation of both parties, the Tiv and Jukun. Leaders on both sides must take Buhari’s words at that one-day Abuja meeting seriously. He said: “we will ensure we facilitate peace. We will not trivialise issues that have to do with emotion because we can’t allow this conflict to continue. We will facilitate whatever you desire…..no peace can be foisted on people that are unwilling to pursue peace. We will fast track the process of peace.” It is necessary that these strong tribes in central Nigeria seize the opportunity to give peace a chance.