Manchester United are expected to announce a new contract for David De Gea in the next 24 hours, according to reports. The Spain international’s current deal expires at the end of the current Premier League season and, for months, speculation of a move away has been rife. Juventus and PSG have been trying to lure De Gea away from Old Trafford amid uncertainty over the goalkeeper’s future. Yet ‘The Mirror’ claim United are expected to announce a new deal for the 28-year-old in the next 24 hours. De Gea has suffered for form in recent times, leading to criticism from all corners. But Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said on Friday that the goalkeeper was still committed to the cause. “I think you need to ask David and the club (why the deal had not been sorted yet),” he said. “I’ve obviously not been involved in all the discussions, but I’m very – or pretty – confident that we’ll get this sorted. “David’s never, ever said anything else to me than he loves this club, he wants to stay here and he’s had a fantastic time, so let’s hope we just get it over the line.” The report claims De Gea will earn a wage of £250,000-a-week, rising to £350,000-a-week with performance-related clauses. And it’s claimed the shot-stopper has put pen to paper on a new four-year deal, with the option of an extra year, reports express.co.uk. Any new deal for De Gea will likely see United change their transfer plans. They’ve been courting Jan Oblak and Jordan Pickford as potential replacements but, now, are likely to use the cash on alternative targets. Meanwhile, former United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar was recently asked about De Gea’s situation. And he said he believed the Spain international was replaceable. He said: “The decision needs to come at a certain point. “It takes a long time now, so it’s a case of ‘yes’ or ‘no’, but I’m not a director of United. “Other goalkeepers can also fill the gap. There are a few Premier League goalkeepers playing at the club who can also take the step up. “I was 34 when I went to United. So there are lots of opportunities there.” Van der Sar also said that a blip in form was understandable for the United star. He added: “That happened to me, it happened to Ryan Giggs also, to everyone. “Your form differs. He has been for so long at such a high level, so at a certain point it gets noticed, maybe not the first two times, but then people start to write about it. “But he’ll be fine. He’s a great goalkeeper.” 