The documentary film genre in Nigeria received a boost with the emergence of iREPRESENT International Documentary Film Festival into the scene. The festival was conceptualised to create a platform of awareness and expression for aspiring and practising filmmakers who are creating socially relevant documentary films to positively impact our world, the festival Since its maiden edition in March 2011 and, over the years, the festival has registered itself in the frontline of promotion of production and showcasing of documentary films in the country and, by extension, the continent. Essentially, the parent body of the Festival, iREPRESENT Documentary Film Forum, a bona-fide member of the West African Documentary Film Forum (AWDFF), has proven to be a resourceful organisation in the discovering and nurturing of fresh talents, and training of young enthusiasts. It has also helped to hone the skill of practising filmmakers (established and mid-career) through its regular manpower development programmes. Ahead of its 10th anniversary in March 2020, the organiser of the festival recently unveiled activities for anniversary edition scheduled to hold from March 19 to 22, in Lagos. “It will be a celebration of the achievements of the last 10 years and an appraisal of the direction the project and the organisation should head in the future. “The decade-long journey has indeed been challenging, but also very rewarding for the parent body of the festival, and; essentially for the vocation of documentary film making,” said renowned Nigerian documentary filmmaker, screenwriter, cinematographer, director, and photographer, and co-founder of the Festival, Mr. Femi Odugbemi. According to him, it has been a rough but fulfilling journey. He added that when the Festival started in 2011, the iREP Forum was clear about its vision to provoke change by engaging Africans in conversations that could help to shape the future of the continent and its people. “Since then, the iREP Board of governance, directorate and the secretariat team have consistently curated conversations around identity, culture, governance and democracy, new media, and the power of documentary films to bring about change. “The festival has over the last 10 years attracted some of the most brilliant minds in the global space of documentary filmmaking, and the plan for the year 2020 festival is to take this a nudge higher.” A major highlight of the 10th year anniversary is the publication of a 200-page photobook documenting each year of the festival since 2011. The photobook would be a collector delight and would be on sale at the festival. Other highlights of the festival, Odugbemi further stated, include an impressive list of international award-winning filmmakers from different parts of the world. “The theme for the anniversary edition is ‘Africa In Self-Conversation’. It is drawn from the founding conceptual framework of the Forum and; and its festival project. The theme is designed to promote awareness about the power of documentary format to serve as a means of deepening and sharing social and cultural education as well as encouraging participatory democracy in our societies. “The anniversary edition will, thus, look back at the last 10 years and appraise the impacts of the festival in terms of the key value areas that are important to the conversation of change in Africa. The festival will bring back films and conversations from 2011 that touch on Democracy and Governance, Development, and the Politics of Identity. Keynote speeches from the likes of Prof. Manthia Diawara, Jane Mote, Prof. Jean Paul Collyn, Jihan El-Tahri, Prof. Awam Amkpa, Paul Ugor, Emeka Mba, Afolabi Adesanya, Prof Femi Shaka and lately Prof. Jonathan Haynes, and other eminent media and culture scholars who have featured in editions these past years would also be revisited. The festival would also be expanding its activities to more venues in Lagos State. Odugbemi also said that the iREP directorate is already in talks with cinema houses and other art spaces in Lagos with a bid to spread the iREP experience across different locations of the state. “The traditional venue of the iREP Film Festival, Freedom Park, however, remains the main festival base, and would host some of the key events of the festival, including the cocktail party and the open-air night screenings. The iREP Festival Training for beginners and intermediate filmmakers will also get a boost. The festival directorate is liaising with a major camera company in the United States of America on terms of facilitating the iREP training for the 10th anniversary. This would be a major certification course for participants.” Entries for submission is already open on the festival website:www.irepfilmfestival.com while filmmakers are invited to submit their best works for screening consideration with film entries closing on November 31, 2019.” With the ongoing plans, the 10th year anniversary of iREPRESENT International Documentary Film Festival promises to be a landmark experience for documentary film lovers. Importantly, it would expand the popularity of the documentary genre and push the frontier of the power of documentary films to cause a change.