  Following the outbreak of yellow fever in Bauchi State that claimed lives of four students at the College of Education, WakaBiu  in Biu, Local Government Area, Bauchi State  Government said it needed six million doses of vaccines to check the disease from spreading. Speaking on the issue, Saturday, September 2019 during a media chat, Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed said that his administration was on top of the situation, to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread to other parts of the state. It would be recalled that victims of the yellow fever contracted the disease during their holiday trip to Yankari Game Reserve in Bauchi State. Mohammed said, the outbreak was as a result of large population of monkeys around the Yankari Game Reserve. According to him, the state needed six million doses of vaccines to stop yellow fever from spreading, adding that government has requested for the vaccines from the World Health Organisation (WHO). Yellow fever is an acute viral haemorrhagic disease transmitted by infected mosquitoes. The “yellow” in the name refers to the jaundice that affects some patients. Symptoms of yellow fever include fever, headache, jaundice, muscle pain, nausea, vomiting and fatigue. Yellow fever virus is mainly transmitted through the bite of the yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti, but other mostly Aedes mosquitoes such as the tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus) can also serve as a vector for this virus. Governor Mohammed explained that, the yellow fever outbreak was also recorded in Tafawa Balewa Local Government area of the state, apart from Yankari in Alkaleri Local Government his home town. Bauchi is not the only state that has recorded  disease outbreak resulting to some deaths, Lagos State also was in the news recently due to four patients  hospitalised in the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idiaraba, Lagos, all diagnosed with menigitis. One Emma Anya whose son was also diagnosed with meningitis in LUTH, recalled that the young lad of 15 years was admitted in the tertiary hospital for 24 days. He posted his story on the facebook. Giving details of what Bauchi State was doing to curb yellow fever, the state governor said, “We have already procured some basic vaccines, but we need about six million more doses of vaccines to prevent it from spreading. “The WHO is ready to give us that very soon and with that we are going to cover everybody in the state in times of immunisation so as to make sure that even with the problem there is a government in place to tackle it. “Some Development partners have graciously granted us the sum of N6 billion support for the state to fight the outbreak. “Governor Mohammed said there was no cause for alarm and  people don’t need  to be scared of visiting Bauchi State. “We are on top of the situation; our health officials are working round the clock to curtail the situation.” As far back as 2005, the WHO had raised the alarm and expressed great concern over serious yellow fever situation in some parts of Africa.  The world body had described as serious, yellow fever outbreaks in Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). This was contained in a release by the Emergency Committee regarding yellow fever convened by WHO Director-General under the International Health Regulations in Geneva in 2005. The Committee said WHO Secretariat had earlier briefed the Committee on the history and impact of the Yellow Fever Initiative, the urban outbreak of yellow fever in Luanda, Angola. It also briefed on its international spread to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), China and Kenya. The committee said following the deliberation on the information provided, it decided that the urban yellow fever outbreaks in Angola and DRC was a serious public health event, which warranted intensified national action and enhanced international support. The committee, however, strongly emphasised the serious national and international risks posed by urban yellow fever outbreaks. The committee called to accelerate surveillance, mass vaccination, risk communications, community mobilisation, vector control and case management measures in Angola and DRC. It also insisted on yellow fever vaccination of all travellers, and especially migrant workers, to and from Angola and DRC. In addition, it called for the intensification of surveillance and preparedness activities, including verification of yellow fever vaccination in travellers and risk communications, in at-risk countries and countries having land borders with the affected countries. These international actions geared to tackle yellow fever is in line with events in Bauchi where actions to secure vaccines ware being intensified. As part of activities to curb yellow fever, the governor Bauchi State called on the people of the state and stakeholders to support his administration to enable him deliver quality health services in line with his campaign promises to meet the yearnings and aspirations of the people. On his own part, the Executive Secretary Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency Dr. Rilwanu Mohammed said that his ministry received a report of the suspected cases, which were linked to Yankari Game Reserve after students of the WakaBiu College of Education visited the Reserve during their holiday. He said, four of them died while twelve were hospitalised. “Following these reports the state’s rapid response team visited the Yankari Game Reserve on Wednesday and discovered a possibility of a yellow fever outbreak, which is being investigated”. He said “So far, six samples have been collected from suspected cases for testing at the National Reference Laboratory in Abuja and at the Regional Laboratory Dakar, Senagal. We are waiting for the outcome of the result. Speaking  to New Telegraph Samuel Itodo a Resident of Birshi Gandu, Bauchi said he was threatened with the news of the outbreak of yellow fever in Bauchi. According to him, “I was threatened because yellow fever is a dangerous disease; it has killed a lot of people. The recent outbreak has claimed lives of students who came for excursion in Yankari. Although, the people of Borno State who were victims of the yellow fever issued a press statement but the management of Yankari tried to deny the report, saying it was just a mere rumour to smear the image of their organisation, instead of them telling the truth. We thank God the truth has come out.” Samuel said, “Though, help is on the way, people should complement government efforts by keeping their environments clean, with clean environment most sicknesses would not be there. The state government has taken a drastic step to address the outbreak by the ongoing spraying of the whole of Alkaleri Local Area”. According to him, he was not scared living in Bauchi because of the proactive measures of the state and people should not be afraid to visit the state. In a similar vein, a resident of Wunti Bauchi Huruna Mohammed said that he was shocked receiving the news of the yellow fever outbreak something people have forgotten about it long ago. It is shocking because this is not what we anticipated before , you know Yankari area has a lot of monkeys. I am glad that government has taken proactive measure to address the abnormality. On his part, a Professor of Virology and Former Vice Chancellor of Redeemer’s University, Ogun State, Oyewale Tomori while corroborating the importance of vaccines in curbing yellow fever among at-risk population, said, “We know that your vaccine during infection protects you for the rest of your life.” Also, Tomori highlighted that the limitation of diagnostic facilities was a challenge. However, he said it was important making diagnostic facilities available so as to reduce the time spent in getting diagnosis done. If diagnostic facilities were available, there would be no need taking samples all the way to distant locations for before diagnosis would be made.