President Muhammadu Buhari has constituted an Economic Advisory Council (EAC) made up of the following:
1. Prof. Doyin Salami – Chairman
2. Dr. Mohammed Sagagi – Vice-Chairman
3. Prof. Ode Ojowu – Member
4. Dr. Shehu Yahaya – Member
5. Dr. Iyabo Masha – Member
6. Prof. Chukwuma Soludo – Member
7. Mr. Bismark Rewane – Member
8. Dr. Mohammed Adaya Salisu – Secretary (Senior Special Assistant to the President, Development Policy).
This advisory council will replace the current Economic Management Team (EMT) and will be reporting directly to the President.
The Economic Advisory Council (EAC) will advise the President on economic policy matters, including fiscal analysis, economic growth and a range of internal and global economic issues working with the relevant cabinet members and heads of monetary and fiscal agencies.
The EAC will have monthly technical sessions as well as scheduled quarterly meetings with the President. The Chairman may, however, request for unscheduled meetings if the need arises, said the statement which was signed by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity) and released on Monday. Rewane heads technical c’ttee on new minimum wage   The Federal Government is set to review the salaries of workers currently earning above the national minimum wage. President Muhammadu Buhari made the revelation yesterday while inaugurating an advisory technical committee for the implementation of the proposed N30,000 new minimum wage… In "News" …Otedola, Dangote also on the list   Africa‘s richest man, Aliko Dangote and oil magnate, Femi Otedola, have been appointed to serve as members of an advisory committee for the 2019 presidential campaigns to re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari for another term of four years. The Special Adviser on Media and… In "News" Wife of Ekiti State Governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, has won the 2018 Zik Leadership Prize for humanitarian Leadership. This was disclosed by the organisers of the annual prize in Lagos at the week. Other winners of the 2018 Zik prize in leadership include former Ghanaian President, John Mahama, immediate… In "News"