W ife of Ekiti State governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, yesterday escaped being attacked during a protest by students of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE). Though the protest, considered as peaceful by the Police Commissioner, Mr. Asuquo Amba, was said to have been hijacked by hoodlums.   The hoodlums allegedly attacked the convoy of the governor’s wife, who was returning from a tour of some local government areas of the state.   It was learnt that the hoodlums went on the rampage in the afternoon, a few hours after the students, who had protested the incessant power outage and called on the Federal Government to come to their aid, had dispersed. The hoodlums were said to have engaged the security operatives in a violent clash and vandalised vehicles in the convoy of Fayemi.   Students of FUOYE had gathered as early as 6.39a.m., in front of the gates of the twin campuses of the institution at Oye and Ikole. The students had called on the Federal Government to ensure that the body saddled with   providing power to the campuses did its job and phase out incessant power outage on the campuses. The students dispersed after a few hours and normalcy returned on the campuses and their environs.   But some miscreants later allegedly regrouped to take advantage of the occasion to unleash violence on innocent people. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, confirmed the attack on the governor’s wife.   Ikechukwu explained that the students protested in the morning and blocked the Ifaki-Ikole-Omuo highway and prevented free flow of vehicles. He said: “The students did not allow vehicles to move freely and they vandalised the property of Benin Electricity Distribution Company. “When police went there to dialogue with them, they resisted them. And the wife of the governor who went on local government tour ran into the barricade mounted on the road. “The students were reported to have been violent destroying cars and smashing windscreens of vehicles.   “We want to warn that the command won’t tolerate hooliganism under any guise. We want to assure the public that the police are on top of the situation and our people must go about their normal businesses.” Some students were reportedly shot and rushed to the hospital. It was also learnt that the students also injured a policeman during that protest.