Soldiers attached to the joint Operation Thunder Strike deployed on the Kaduna-Abuja highway have rescued seven persons, among them a seven-year-old girl. The victims were kidnapped at Rijana on Kaduna-Abuja highway on Saturday. They were travelling from Ofa, Kwara State to Kaduna when their abductors dressed in full military uniform, stopped them in Rijana about 9.30p.m., and abducted seven of them. They victims are Aishat Bisola (26), Ahmad Abdulrafiu (26), Maryam Abubakar (7), Suleiman Khadija (25), Lawal Temitope (23), Bala Abdullahi (52) and Abdulrazak Okunola (35). However, the joint Operation Thunder Strike, a Defence Headquarters operation comprising the Army, Navy, Air Force, Police, Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), deployed to tackle the security crisis on Kaduna-Abuja, Kaduna-Birni Gwari and Kaduna-Zaria highways immediately swung into action to rescue the victims. Force Commander, Operation Thunder Strike, Colonel Ibrahim Gambari, disclosed that since the inception of the operation, the troops had been trying their best to put an end to the ugly incidents which had been taking place along the axis. He said: “Before the operation was launched, several cases of kidnapping on a daily basis were being recorded especially during the day. But since the inception of operation, we have been able to nip in the bud, such incidents and most of the cases that were recorded usually happen at night and that is why the Kaduna State government stopped the mounting of road blocks along the road. “Based on the report on the incident by the police on Sunday, we have been working tirelessly to ensure that the innocent civilians are reunited with their families.” The commander also disclosed that two AK47 rifles, 130 rounds of ammunition, five magazine, two mobile phones, N100,000 and three camouflage were recovered from the kidnappers. One of the rescued victims, Bisola, said they were kept on a rock for the five days without food. She said: “We trekked for over three hours before we reached the kidnappers’ den on mountain top. “They collected all our phones and money while they were negotiating ransom between N10 million to N2 million. “The kidnappers used to beat us every day. They even covered the face of another male victim and threatened to kill him if he does not bring money. “They did not give us any food or water and we sat on the rock under rain and sun without any shelter from that Saturday till Wednesday when we were rescued.” Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who received the rescued victims on behalf of the state government, commended the Army for the successful operation that led to the rescue. Handing over the victims to the leadership of Offa Descendants Union (ODU), Aruwan said the victims would be taken to hospital for medical check-up. The commissioner reiterated that no ransom was paid to the bandits before rescuing the kidnapped victims as he commended the military for a successful operation. He said: “They were rescued due to doggedness of our troops and so, no ransom was paid to rescue the victims. We are thankful to the military for rescuing the victims.” Aruwan also urged travellers to be cautious of travelling in the night and early in the morning. Receiving the victims, the National Vice President, ODU, Prof, Tijjani Olanisimi, thanked the state government and the Nigerian military for rescuing their members.