 S tudents of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) in their numbers thronged the Princess Alexandria auditorium located at the centre of its Nsukka campus for the recent screening of a movie, titled Unbreakable.   Written by Sola Osofisan, an award-winning Nigerian writer and directed by Ben Chiadika, an M-NET multi award-winning soap Tinsel, the movie is a timely piece as it addresses the complexities, helplessness, pain, anguish and ignorance surrounding mental health issues, which in recent times has become prevalent in various parts of the country, despite it being a taboo in most Nigerian cultures. The movie explores in multiple layers, how the society perceive mental illness in Nigeria. The choice of University of Nigeria, Nsukka as one of the places the movie has been screened in recent times is due to the vulnerabilities of the population demographics of educational institutions such as UNN-one of the many communities that has witnessed incidents of suicide among students and young people in recent months. The successful screening of the movie happened through the efforts of the institution’s authority and partnering non-governmental organisations.   Chukwuemeka Akachi, a first-class final year student of English Language and Literary Studies of the University, took his life, after dropping a suicide note on Facebook. It was an incident that threw the academic community into mourning. In hindsight, there were arguments over how the deceased could have received some help and the tragedy prevented from occurring. It is against this background and similar cases of suicide in UNN and other tertiary institutions, that Unbreakable, was screened. The movie is an endearing love story of a new couple Ikepo and Chidi, who shortly after their marriage, went through a problem that left the young family distressed. Irekpo had a mental problem. It started hearing of strange sounds and voices in her head like she was hearing things from a different wavelength. Soon she started shifting dramatically between moods. First Chidi and later Irekpo’s relatives would have been more comfortable living in denial but the evidence of mental   illness kept getting dangerously real to the point of self-harm and impossible to ignore. Hallucination and depression crept in from the dark labyrinths of what was later discovered, towards the end of the movie as a hereditary condition. What stands out in the movie is how irrespective of Ikekpo (played by A’rese Emokpae, the 2016 winner of the Voice Nigeria) and her condition, her husband and family provided her with a much-needed emotional and physical support throughout the movie, as she battled with her unique health challenges. Chidi, Irekpo’s husband (acted by the Nigerian award-winning actor, O.C. Ukeje), proved to be a responsible husband whose show of understanding and commitment in the support of his wife, to whom he had sworn a life of love, notwithstanding her mental health challenges. Apart from the lead roles, the movie also featured a cast of some of the most popular actors and actresses who broadly and resoundingly resonate with audiences of all shades in Nigeria. Some of the casts in the movie include: Richard Mofe-Damijo, Bimbo Manuel, Ebele Okaro, Uche Mac-Auley, John Dumelo and Wendy Lawal.   The production team of the movie is also made up of veterans in the Nigeria’s movie industry. The producer of the movie, Buky Campbell, is an actress of repute who has also worked in the broadcast industry for many years, was present at the screening. She led an interactive session which was a part of the movie screening. The students were led to make affirmative statements that uphold the importance of self-control and timely help-seeking. The students were provided with helplines which they can call to get counselling and help. Campbell led the students through the rite of renouncing the negative outcomes of struggling to deal with depression as a result of stresses of life due to relationship break-up, excessive social pressure, chronic pain and illness, family conflicts, abuses, acute sense of isolation and economic pressure. Although the economic undertone of mental health was not emphasised, it is one of the conditions that could people to the vulnerabilities that have become rampant, which predisposes people to resorting to all kinds of criminal behaviour in reaction to the pressure exerted on their socio-economic well-being.   The quality of the cast and crew as well as the message made the movie “Unbreakable,” a hit in the few venues where it has been screened. It is this factor, for example that inspired the collaborations that made its screening a reality for the UNN audience. The collaboration was between the University of Nigeria, Nsukka and several non-governmental organizations. Chief among the partnering organisations is Knowledge Exchange Centre, a corporate social Responsibility vehicle of the Excel Africa Group. According to its executive chairman, Charles Nwodo Jr., “as you may know, the problem of youth restiveness has assumed a dangerous dimension resulting in the rising cases of suicide among students.” Nwodo acknowledged that the UNN authority is understandably doing its best in stemming the tide of the pressures that result in mental issues among students. He further stated that some of the problems of the youth, are what they do not appear capable of dealing with on their own, hence his NGO’s partnership to assist them weather the storm facing them.”   The highlight of the occasion was a short talk about mental health by veteran Nollywood actress, Ebere Okaro, after which she had interactions with a cross section of students.