 Those who think 2023, the next general election year, is still far away for political maneuvering may need to have a rethink. As it is at the federal level so it is many states, including Abia. The intrigue, political alignments and realignments for 2023 has begun in earnest. Though in some places it is almost hushed, in other places it is loud. In Ohafia, a clan in Abia State and arguably the headquarters of Ohafia local government area and Abia North senatorial zone, the call is strident, loud and reverberating.  The community has commissioned a group to spearhead the campaign, to interface and dialogue with individuals, groups and sections to realise the goal. The Ohafia people of Abia North senatorial zone believe it is the right time to begin the move that will culminate in the actualisation of the ambition of grabbing the governorship of Abia State come 2023. It is envisaged that by 2023, in strict compliance with the Abia chatter of equity, by which the office has seamlessly made its round, the pendulum will swing back to the North where it took off in 1999. The present administration of Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, will end in 2023 and if the tradition is strictly followed Abia North will produce the next governor.  Pundits have posited that political offices are not given, they are fought for. Every one or section is entitled to their ambition. Like other sections of the state, Ohafia has the right to reach out to other sections and interests to support its ambition.  The Ohafia Udumeze clan is the headquarters of Ohafia Local Government area made up Abiriba Nkporo and Ohafia. Among the major reasons for demanding the office is the fact that the clan has been sidelined in many elective and appointive offices both at the state and federal levels. Addressing newsmen on the development, a socio-political group, Mben Political Assembly, MPA, noted that, from statistics available, “Ohafia Udumeze has not fared well politically as far as elective offices and appointments are concerned, when compared with other clans in Abia North senatorial zone.”  The group, a political think tank of Ohafia Udumeze, led by its president, Eme Uche Onuh, said the clan arrived at the decision after careful consideration of the political development in the state. It added that the elders of Ohafia met at Achichi Elu Ohafia, the spiritual and administrative headquarters of Ohafia clan and delegated the MPA to carry the torch of its collective aspiration to other parts of the state. They began by situating their demand on the spirit and letter of the Abia chatter of equity which stipulates that the governorship seat of Abia State will equitably rotate among the three senatorial districts of the state- Abia North, Abia Central and Abia Southand revolve among its component units. Before now a group, the Isuikwuato Welfare Association, had argued that as the ‘I’ in Abia coined from the initial letters of the geographical sections that make up the state, it will be the turn of Isuikwuato in 2023.  They contended that, of the sections that make up the state only Isuikwuato has not taken its place in the office. The group wants other sections to support its bid to clinch the coveted office. But the Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL) an umbrella body of all youth organisations in the South East, provided reasons Ohafia should be supported by other sections to produce the next Abia State governor. COSEYL through its President General, Chief Goodluck Ibem, noted that in the spirit of equity, justice and fairness, Ohafia, one of the five local government areas of Abia North, was the only local government that had not produced a governor, senator or House of Representatives member.  “That Abia North comprises five local government areas namely: Ohafia, Bende, Isuikwuato, Arochukwu and Umunneochi LGAs. Among this 5 LGAs in Abia North senatorial zone, Bende produced the Governor in 1999 and Senator 2019. Isuikwuato has produced a senator in 1999 to 2003 , a military administrator in old Imo State , and presently a federal minister in the person of Dr. Uche Ogah. Arochukwu produced a senator in 2015. Umunneochi, a senator from 2003 to 2015, which is 12 years in the Senate and presently a principal officer in the House of Representatives.”  The group observed that “The only local government area that has not produced a senator or a governor from 1999 till date is Ohafia”, insisting that over the years, “Ohafia has been marginalised in political positions and 2023 is the ample time to right the wrongs.” It is not in doubt that Ohafia people have contributed greatly to the development of Abia State since it’s creation and it is right to cede the governorship position to them, the group argued, saying that “it was Ohafia’s 70,000 votes that gave Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) victory over APP in 1999 gubernatorial elections.  Ohafia people voted massively for the PDP and it is time to say thank you to them.” COSEYL reminded Isuikwuato District Welfare Association that Isuikwuato Local Government Area presently has Abia slot for federal minister. “They should forget their claim for Abia governorship seat and support the Ohafia people for Abia governorship come 2023 for fairness and inclusiveness. “Besides, Isuikwuato is now part of Abia North. When Abia was created, Afikpo now in Ebonyi State, was the North of the state. Now Abia North comprises of Bende, Isuikwuato, Arochukwu, Umunneochi and Ohafia. Ohafia people have worked hard to ensure the state moves forward and it is time to compensate them for their hard work. “We therefore call on Umunneochi , Arochukwu , Bende , and Isuikwuato LGAs to support their brothers from Ohafia to produce the next Governor of Abia State come 2023.”  However, COSEYL and MPA differ significantly on where the candidate will come from. While COSEYL looks at the potential of Ohafia Local Government Area to give Abia people quality individual as governor, MPA limited the search to Ohafia clan. Its reason being that the incumbent deputy governor of the state, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu, is from Nkporo, the other clan after Abiriba that make up Ohafia Local Government Area. MPA also offered to give Abia people the best hand at the end of its search among its people and called on other sections of the state to support its ambition. “MPA assures the people that Ohafia Udumeze will provide Abians best-in-class technocrat-politicians to drive Abia to realise her dreams and return it to its position as the most promising sub-region in Africa.  In line with our character, we will present to Abians only hardworking, selfless, passionate, fit-for-the-times leaders. We will eventually present to Abians as governor an Ohafian who will in the words of JF Kennedy, seek the right answers, who will not fix the blame for the past, but who accepts his/her responsibility to learn from our past and create the future Abians seek.” The group fully aware that it cannot prosecute the project all alone therefore appealed to “all stakeholders from Abia South and Abia Central to support a candidate of Ohafia Udumeze extraction to be elected the governor of Abia State in 2023.  We call on Governor Okezie Victor Ikpeazu and all, Abia political leaders to do the needful. Ohafia has come out to serve Abi in that exalted position (Mben apusale) ready to present capable hands when called upon. “Indeed, Ohafia clan has made significant contribution to the development of the state and nation. Ohafia gave Nigeria the likes of late Chief Ojo Maduekwe, former minister of transportation, late Professor Eme Awa of INEC and Dr Kalu Idika-Kalu, former minister of Finance, just to mention a few”, the group noted. As events unfold the people are watching to see how far Ohafia can go in its quest to govern Abia State.