With the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Common External Tariff (CET) experimentation for Nigeria set to expire this year and a full-fledged implementation beginning in 2020, manufacturers have charged President Muhammadu Buhari to re-negotiate the scheme for development. Taiwo Hassan reports   Nigeria’s volume of trade in terms of total imports coming from African countries in the last 10 years was only 5.6 per cent, according to a survey conducted by the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN). This shows that trade within the continent is at low ebb and the reason is not far-fetched, as African countries do not benefit economically among themselves in terms of bilateral trade compared to other foreign countries. Surprisingly, the question about this has been begging for an answer. However, the ECOWAS CET experimentation for Nigeria, which kick-started in 2015 and is set to expire this year end, is another issue that is unsettling the regional trade at the moment. Regrettably, Nigeria did not learn any lesson from the five years experimental stage; prompting a clarion call that President Buhari should review the challenges of CET as it relates to Nigeria’s economic development before the 2020 take-off date comes on stream. ECOWAS CET in perspective However, private sector operators have called for the hosting of an ECOWAS CET meeting of trade and industry stakeholders by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment to collaborate and strategise on the way forward for Nigeria before the 2020 take-off date. Indeed, the present ECOWAS CET is a trade agreement involving countries in ECOWAS region. It allows for duty free movement of goods produced within the community under the ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme on one hand and a set of common duties against external trading third parties on the other hand. In the case of the common duties against the third party trading partners, it is known as Common External Tariff. Nigeria started the implementation of the 2015-2019 ECOWAS CET in May, 2015 after series of discussions at the ECOWAS level. The country, in addition to the basic ECOWAS 5-Band Tariff Structure, came up with the following supplementary measures to protect the local industries and the economy from the possible negative impact of implementing the ECOWAS CET, including import adjustment tax, which involves additional taxes on 177 tariff lines (3 per cent of the total tariff lines), national list of 91 tariff lines consisting of items whose CET rates have been revised to encourage more development in strategic sectors of the economy. This list covers mostly raw materials and intermediate products, import prohibition list of 23 items of 347 tariff lines. The total of the above three temporary supplementary measures is made up of 615 tariff lines. In fact, these temporary supplementary protection measures were hurriedly put in place to assuage the feelings of Nigeria as the negotiated CET was adverse to the country’s industrial aspirations and interest. It is pertinent to note that Nigeria has more than 70 per cent of industrial outfits in the whole of West Africa. Impacts of un-renegotiated ECOWAS CET in 2019/2020 The impact of the import adjustment tax, national list and import prohibition list is obvious. Economic effects In a nut shell, the private sector believes the present ECOWAS CET is not industrial friendly. To the operators, it was designed not to grow the industrial capacity of the region but to encourage agricultural exports – commodity export at this 21st century time. In fact, the CET was designed to be a forerunner of ECOWAS – EU Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) that was expected to sufficiently decimate industrial capacity of West Africa upon the implementation of EPA. Nigeria, being the most industrialised in West Africa, and with a new approach to industrialisation under the resource-based national R&D and innovation focus, must insist on a renegotiated CET that will take care of the emerging manufacturing sector. “We cannot afford to continue to be a dumping ground and exporter of jobs and wealth to other industrialised and emerging countries of the World,” President, National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS), Ken Ukaoha said. MAN’s president’s stance President of MAN, Mansur Ahmed, explained that the association was at the vanguard of ECOWAS CET re-negotiation in the country, saying that President Buhari and other relevant government agencies in the MDAs know that the foundation of the regional tariff designed for experimentation for Nigeria is faulty and need to be readdressed holistically. He admitted that Nigeria’s economy would be the loser and that many manufacturers will not find it easy if Nigeria failed to renegotiate the present experimental stage meant for Nigeria. Ahmed said: “You will note that our President, Muhammadu Buhari, who is the Chairman of ECOWAS Heads of State Council, actually drew his attention to some of the issues on CET and asked that some of these issues must be looked at seriously. “As you know, we are in the process of renegotiating CET and I think it is important that we renegotiate the issues surrounding CET, especially now that we are going into the AfCFTA arrangements.” Last line Currently, local manufacturers are still expressing fears over the ECOWAS CET renegotiation as to whether the government would do the needful because of its diversionary policies hurting businesses and investments in the country.