Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, yesterday, revealed that communities along the 2nd Niger Bridge are demanding N10 billion in compensation. Fashola said the demand for compensation is frustrating the Federal Government’s efforts to complete the project. The minister stated this yesterday while briefing State House Correspondents after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. He said: “People who want infrastructure must also reasonably be willing to sacrifice. The amount we are facing now in claims in compensation for Second Niger Bridge is already in excess of N10 billion, just for compensation for land and all of that. “As we speak, some people are asking us to pay N10 billion now as compensation for the 2nd Niger bridge.” Fashola, who was responding to questions about the rate of abandoned road projects across the country against the series of approvals given by FEC during the first tenure, said poor releases has been frustrating efforts to deliver on infrastructure. He said poor releases of funds remain a major obstacle to the execution of roads projects across the country. The minister blamed host communities for “frustrating government efforts” by demanding payment for compensation leading to some uncompleted projects across the country. He explained that some of the road works going on are based on goodwill. Joined by the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed and the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, Fashola admitted that budget funding gaps also worked against completion of roads projects in the country in the last four years. He said not all the over N300 billion budgeted was released to his ministry as the office was yet to get funds since his reappointment as minister. Fashola disclosed that paper works for releases of funds were still ongoing. According to him, “Getting FEC approvals is one half of the story, but we don’t get all of the cash. Even the local communities are not helping issues. “There is a gap between infrastructure needs and income. People are also complaining that government is borrowing too much. “We have heard that funds have been released, but we are yet to get anything. I have not received any money since I came to office, this time around.” Speaking further on abandoned projects, Fashola blamed “obsolete rates, under-budgeting and underfunding” as major factors. The works minister, who noted that there have been criticisms against borrowing during the first tenure, said community support is also needed to facilitate construction of roads projects in the country. “There is yet another problem, the local communities; we are having problems there too. We have problem, I think in Sapele/Ewu Road, youths, community, compensation issues. Immediately we mobilize to cite, people build all sorts of things within the right of way and file all sorts of claims for compensation. “And when you look at how much you have to pay for compensation and how much you have to spend on the roads, you begin to do your math very carefully. So we need community support as well,” Fashola noted. The Works Minister also disclosed that the FEC approved a total of N8.2 billion for roads projects. Fashola said two of the approvals were to revise the estimates of cost to enable the contractor continue work. He said Council approved N519 million revision of contract sum of Oba Nnewi Okigwe Road to cater for change in cost of materials since the project was awarded in 2009. The contract sum was revised from N3.7 billion to N4.3 billion. The Council also revised cost of N2.052 billion for 67 kilometres Alasi-Ugep Road in Cross River State. The council approved a revision from N9.16 billion to N11.22 billion.” According to him, FEC approved the change of contractor for the Chachangi Bridge linking Takum and Wukari in Taraba State and re-awarded at the cost of N2.132 billion. Council also approved the rehabilitation of Katsina Ala Bridge in Benue State at the cost of N3.576 billion, which include total bridge repairs, changing of expansion joints, changing of bearings and rehabilitation of the 3.2 kilometers access road at Ugbema junction in Benue State.