The National Economic Council (NEC) yesterday confirmed that the country in the last six months has lost a total of 22.6 million barrels of crude oil valued at approximately $1.35 billion. The losses are as a result of high levels of pipeline vandalism, oil theft and bunkering activities in the Niger Delta region. Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, who chaired NEC’s adhoc Committee on Oil Theft, confirmed this when he submitted a report to the council. Speaking to State House Correspondents after the NEC meeting presided over by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, he warned that the development portends danger for the economy if the situation was not contained in two years. He said: “We would have lost in excess of $2.7 billion.” Obaseki, who gave the breakdown of the losses recorded within the period said: “The Nembe creek trunk-line lost 9.2 million barrel; the Trans-Niger pipeline lost 8.6 million barrel; the Trans-Focadoes Pipeline lost 3.9 million barrel; Trans-Escravos pipe  lost 877,000 barrel.” The Edo State governor attributed the untoward development to what he said was the slow and inadequate prosecution of thieves, despite numerous arrests and seizures to encourage this menace. He lamented that “no one is held accountable whenever there are breaches and when these losses occur.” He said that “the absence of filling stations in most of the oil producing communities around the Niger Delta make them resort to illegal bunkering and illegal refineries.” According to him, the huge internal and external market of stolen products exist across the west coast of Africa and also the sub-region. He said that the “panel discovered that there were huge losses. In fact, the NNPC reported to the the committee that the 22.6 million barrels of crude oil valued at approximately $1.35 billion was lost during the first half of this year. “And if this situation is not contained in two years, we would have lost in excess of $2.7 billion. Consequently, he said the committee therefore made several recommendations, including the need to restructure the maintenance and ownership of oil pipelines as a way of tackling the perpetrators of crude and other products, a legal framework that will ensure that criminals are duly prosecuted, imprisoned and their assets confiscated. The governor said the panel also recommended special courts to try offenders and a special legal task force to coordinate the prosecution of arrested offenders as well as train special judges to handle cases of oil theft. Other recommendations are that, “NNPC should be encouraged to engage with the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) to identify the markets for stolen petroleum products across the continent. “That, the governors of the oil producing states should set up actions to develop the communities that are most prone and through which these pipelines run with their 13 per cent derivation allocation as well as implement programmes that will be impactful and make life easy for the people. “It noted that the NDDC, which  has the mandate to undertake development in the Niger Delta  region should be restructured to perform its role better.” Also speaking, the Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya, said Secretary to the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), Dr Jumoke Oduwole, gave update on the enabling business to environment. Yahaya said Council was briefed on the current reforms in African countries as contained in the African Development Bank Economic Outlook report released in January 2019 and in the World Bank Ease of Doing Business 2019.