The Nigeria Implementation Science Alliance (NISA), has called for the identification and placement of the 1.9 million Nigerians estimated to be living with HIV on treatment, in order to put an end to the disease in the country. New Telegraph recalled that results released in March this year after the Nigerian HIV/AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey (NAIS), indicated that about 1.9 million Nigerians were currently living with HIV, with a  prevalence of 1.4 per cent among adults aged 15 to 49 years. Previous estimates had indicated a national prevalence of 2.8 per cent. NISA board chair, Prof. Echezona Ezeanolue, who made the call on Tuesday during a 2-day NISA conference with the theme ‘Achieving Impact through Implementation Research,’ said the huge amount spent in conducting the NAIS would be said to have made meaningful impact  if the persons said to be living with HIV are not identified and placed on prompt treatment. In his words, “The NAIS study cost $100 million to look at how many people actually have HIV in Nigeria when you get that information what do you do with it that is called implementation science so one of the things we did now is that once we have gotten that information and we know exactly where people who live with HIV are living, we want to go there and identify them so that we can put them on treatment. “Once you put some one who has HIV on treatment, you can actually stop that transmission from that person to another person and that is one of the ways we can use the Information we get from research into making an impact. “It is not about research if you don’t use it to do something. Use the research to get the data, the information that helps us to actually  make the impact.” If we know this is the area that has the highest number of HIV, we need to identify the people, we need to place them on treatment so that we can stop transmission.” Also speaking, Chef Executive Officer and Co-chair of the conference, Dr. Patrick Dakum, stressed on the need for government to implement a comprehensive health intervention that would address all cases of communicable and non-communicable disease in the country, rather than focus on selected few. Dakum who stressed that every disease entity was crucial,  noted that a key objective of the conference was to ensure an increase in low  uptake of health service outcomes in the country, in collaboration with the public and private sector. “You go to a particular place they are doing very well in medicine and immunisation, if you go to a particular place they are doing very well in HIV so the prevention and the treatment is known but the uptake of the service is low the question is why? “So implementing partners with public and private sector and communities are looking at how to increase the uptake of health services. The essence of this is how do we ensure that the uptake of services is optimal. “Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) are a concern and in this implementation science we are looking at NCDs too and how to ensure that implementation is very apt. This disease entities are very crucial; there are several programmes that address them, but definitely a comprehensive health intervention is what we need in this country.”