The governments of Brazil and Cuba as well as many international  museum operators in  Canada,  the United States and the United Kingdom have agreed to partner the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, on the multi-million naira Oduduwa Heritage Museum project. Oba Ogunwusi, who disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos, added that  the more than N500 million museum would have their permanent  locations  in  in Ile – Ife and Rio de Janeiro in Brazil. He said  in addition to its permanent bases in Ile Ife and Brazil, it would also have mobile features for it to  be moved all over the world from both ends for the rest of the world to appreciate the  Yoruba Culture as  revered in Nigeria, Brazil, Cuba, UK and  in Brampton in  Canada. He also said that the museum project which  would be unveiled at the Brazilian Embassy  on Saturday would be  a priceless investment that would boost the image of the country before the international community. “UNESCO and the Government of Brazil are already in partnership with us. We are in talks with British museum, Canada’s city of Brampton, which has the largest population of blacks. “Also, we are partnering with  the Government  of Cuba that has had  a long term  bilateral relations with  the Kingdom of Ife,  and over 20 other countries. “We  are partnering with  the Government of Brazil through the State  of Rio de Janeiro, the government of  Cuba and others to achieve our aim” he said. The Oba said that the Obafemi Awolowo University ( OAU) and the University of Ibadan (UI)’s Departments of History, Archaeology and Anthropology, had been and would  continue to be fully involved in the project. “This project will give birth to a lot opportunities: socially, culturally, traditionally and economically for all Nigerians,” he added. The Oba said that the project being pioneered  by the House of Oduduwa, would serve as the centre for collection, preservation, exhibition, and promotion of antiquities, treasures and traditional art forms of Africa. “The Oduduwa Heritage Museum project  which is priceless, has to do with  the promotion of the ancestral lineage of Oduduwa people in the country and those in the Diaspora. “A lot of work has gone into this; professionals and experts have put their  ideas  together to come out with a very detailed collection that has taken us over the years to put together.” Ooni said that the priceless investment also would involve  the collection of  artefacts and antiquities for posterity and to promote and preserve the Yoruba culture. He added that the House of Oduduwa  had been working on the project  more than 20 years before he ascended  the throne.