 A fter an impressive showings in Lagos and Bonny Island, Rivers State respectively, ADIO the Musical, the newest edition of “Story Theatre with Grandma Wura” –  a total theatre piece specially created for children and their families – returns on stage for Nigeria’s Independence day celebration.   A Back2myRoots project initiative of Proud African Root, ADIO the Musical, written and produced by Mrs. Bola Edwards with songs composed by Mr. Patrick Edwards, was unveiled in celebration of Children’s Day 2019. The Independence edition will take place at The Palms Shopping Mall from 28th -30th December 2019.   Adio the musical is the story of a young boy whose mother dies during the war and is rescued by a woman known as ‘Iya Alakara’ (seller of beans cakes). He grows up in her home and is sent to school. Adio is a happy-child, jovial, inquisitive, and easily makes friends with almost everyone including an old man called “The Strange One”.   His best friend, Korede, is a visually challenged boy whose mother abandoned as a little child. Adio spends time with Korede after school. One day, he tells Korede of his plans to sneak after the strange one in order to know where he lives and find out if he has people who care for him.   “As always, it is created to educate and train children and teenagers on the topic of leadership and nation building as it affects maximum use of their talents in the world as well as in society.   “Featuring acclaimed singer Olufunmi Ajoyegbe, the proprietress and Head of School, Toddler Tree GRA, Ikeja, Mrs. Fadekemi Olumide Aluko, this edition for Nigeria’s Independence Day celebration is in collaboration with The Palms Shopping Mall and proud partners are Rite Foods, Wuwi Event, More, Karotize Couture and Genesis.   “We continue to seek partnership with schools, brands, organisations, groups, individuals and others in carrying out this initiative of raising new leaders through alternative forms of education such as entertainment and impeccable storytelling that impact the minds of children for their whole lifetime,” said Mrs. Edwards who plays the character of ‘Grandma Wura’.   She added, “Our grandmother character ‘Grandma Wura’, is fast becoming a favourite amongst families and schools as she reinforces the educational system and families by restoring values back to society.”   According to her, they have done over 100 school visits with Grandma Wura, due to the huge demand and invitations they consistently receive. Our school tour seasons and activities will continue every school term for the next four to five years.   “We have held a total of 34 theatre musical shows, between December 2015 and 2018, inclusive of the 2018 NLNG edition which took place on Bonny Island, Corona School 2018 Christmas edition, Children’s Day May 2019 as well as the recently concluded NLNG edition this month of September 14th 2019 at Bonny Island.   “We look forward to welcoming over 2500 children and teenagers. We shall be reaching over 1million Nigerians via social media, radio advertising and Newspaper articles.”  