Great Britain’s Dina Asher-Smith posted a season’s best time over 100m to beat Jamaica’s Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce at the Diamond League Final in Brussels. Asher-Smith, 23, clocked 10.88 seconds to edge out double Olympic and seven-time world champion Fraser-Pryce, as Ivorian Marie-Josee Ta Lou took third. The Briton will attempt a 100m and 200m sprint double at the 2019 World Championships in Doha later this month. She finished second in the 200m at last week’s Diamond League Final in Zurich. Asher-Smith lost out to Olympic 400m champion Shaunae Miller-Uibo despite another season’s best on that occasion – and the Briton strengthened her world medal claims with a first Diamond League title on Friday. “I came in to the race wanting to win and my coach gave me some very specific things to think about,” said Asher-Smith. “I was doing that in the race and I managed to pull it off and when I crossed the line I thought ‘yes, fabulous, won the race, tick, happy me’, but then I remembered it was the Diamond League so technically I’ve won the whole Diamond League, so what a great day!” In the men’s 200m, 22-year-old Noah Lyles of the United States backed up his 100m triumph in Zurich with a comfortable win in 19.74 seconds. World champion Ramil Guliyev and Canadian Andre De Grasse both registered season’s best times to finish second and third respectively. British heptathlete Katerina Johnson-Thompsonfinished third in the long jump competition with a best effort of 6.73m, with compatriot Lorraine Ugenfifth. Johnson-Thompson’s rival for the world heptathlon title in Doha – reigning champion Nafissatou Thiam – came third in the high jump. Elsewhere, Holly Bradshaw recorded a fifth-place finish in the women’s pole vault and Andrew Pozzicame sixth in the men’s 110m hurdles. In the 800m, Lynsey Sharp was sixth – on the day the event’s two-time Olympic champion Caster Semenya, unable to compete without taking testosterone-reducing drugs following a rule change, joined aSouth African women’s football team, reports the BBC. The Diamond League Finals had been split into two meetings at Zurich and Brussels, with 16 trophies handed out at each. The World Championships take place in Doha from Friday, September 27 to Sunday, October 6. 