●Reads riot act to IOCs over assets sale PLAN Minister of state for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, vows to end huge losses on production cost  U neasy calm has continued to pervade government circles, as over $10.439 billion suffered annually by Nigeria on extra production cost for oil lingers, New Telegraph has learnt.   The production cost for oil in Nigeria excluding cost for freight and others, a document of the ministry of petroleum resources –  sighted by New Telegraph – showed, is $28 per barrel as against $15 per barrel, which is “a profitable margin.”   The Minister of state for Petroleum resources, Timipre Sylva, who, according to the document,  picked holes in the current production cost margin, maintained that the current way of doing business is turning Nigeria into a laughing stock. Sylva, the oil ministry’s document read, promised to reduce oil production cost in the country as a major part of what he aspired to achieve in the industry.    “We have to bring down our cost of production of crude, as we are presently a laughing stock in the way we do our business. I don’t see how we can sustain the losses,” he said.   “He was speaking when the Country Chair and Managing Director of Total E & P (Nigeria), Mr. Mike Sangster led a delegation of the oil major on a courtesy call to his office in Abuja,” the document stated.   Sylva also frowned at the practice of some International Oil Companies (IOCs) who “sell our assets”, declaring “those assets are amortised assets; you can’t sell what you don’t have!”   He said he expected the country to be producing no less than four million barrels of crude per day (bpd) but decried the situation where the country is hovering between 2 million and 2.2 million.  On each of the 2.2 million barrels daily production, $13 pb ($18 pb current cost minus $15 pb normal cost using a data provided by former minister of state for Petroleum resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu) extra cost is recorded and this translates to $28.6 million daily extra spending on production cost. This, further checks showed,  amounts to a whooping $10.439 billion in 365 days that make up a year.   Chairman/Managing Director, ExxonMobil Affiliate Companies in Nigeria Paul McGrath, who threw his weight behind Sylva on need to reduce high production cost, maintained Nigeria is among 10 producing countries with highest cost of crude oil production per barrel.   The Federal Government, he said, needed to address some  issues in the petroleum industry to achieve major milestones in the industry.   McGrath, also the Chairman, Oil Producer Trade Section (OPTS),  Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), said targets such as increased investment inflow, increased oil reserves and daily production as well as sufficient in-country refining and domestic gas utilisation, may remain wishful thinking if issues drwaing back the industy are not addressed.   He  described Nigeria as the largest oil producer in Africa with hydrocarbon prospects among the brightest in the world.   “However, there are fixes to be put in place if it aspires to maintain and expand the investment profile in the hydrocarbon industry,” he added.   “Nigeria ranks among the top 10 countries with highest cost of producing oil per barrel and its equivalent in gas. High cost is a major disincentive to investment, especially at this time of considerable global competitiveness. “Operating costs are increasing due to attendant increase in re  quired maintenance and well work-overs. Security costs are escalating as peculiarities of the business environment require additional resources to be deployed to secure our people and assets”. Meanwhile, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has insisted that it would grow the country’s crude oil reserves to 40 billion barrels by 2025 from 37 billion barrels.   A document from the corporation, which showed this, quoted the NNPC’s Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, to have said that the Corporation will grow oil production to three million barrels per day (bpd)  from the current 2.2 million bpd by the same period.   The attainment of these targets by 2025 were part of efforts to optimise the potential of the petroleum industry for  rapid economic development, he said.   “From the NNPC’s point of view, we are working with our partners to grow the national reserves to 40 billion barrels by 2025 and further improve crude oil production to three million barrels per day during the period,”?he said. “To achieve these targets, we are not oblivious of the fact that huge investment is required across the value chain.”