 Officials of the Lagos State Task Force on Environment and Special Offence Unit have arrested a former convict and his accomplice trying to sell a stolen tricycle for N40,000.
The tricycle with registration No JJJ-706-QF was stolen at Ifo area of Ogun State from where the owner parked it.
The suspects refused to stop when intercepted by the task force men at Oshodi before they were chased caught at Cappa. They abandoned the tricycle on the road and fled. But they were apprehended.
The Chairman, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, disclosed that preliminary investigation revealed the suspects – Sodiq Sulaiman (the former convict) and Saidi Ibrahim – stole the tricycle on the road lay-by at Ifo area of Ogun State. He urged residents to be careful and to take proper care of their belongings.
Egbeyemi, however, said that during these ‘Ember Months,’ officers of the task force had been drafted to strategic locations across the state to protect lives and property of the citizens.
Sulaiman confessed that the tricycle was stolen at Ifo.
The suspect said it was being taken to a man identified as ‘Mallo’ at Idi-Oro for sale at N40,000 before they were arrested at Oshodi.
He said: “I was just released from Kirikiri Prison last month where I spent seven months for not being able to produce a commercial tricycle given to me on hire purchase by the owner.
“I was trained as a tricycle mechanic for four years at ‘Abekoko’ area of Oyo State before I came to Lagos in the year 2017 and started stealing phones, bags and tricycles with Saheed Ibrahim who I met at ‘Akala’ area of Mushin.”
On his part, Ibrahim, a bricklayer, said that before both of them started stealing tricycles, they specialised in using motorcycles to rob innocent members of the public of their valuables at night.
He said: “We had stolen and sold more than 55 phones, jewellery, laptops and seven tricycles to ‘Mallo’ at Idi-Oro area of Mushin. We sold all our stolen items to ‘Mallo’ and others at Ido-Oro and Akala area of Mushin.”
In a related development, the Lagos State government has warned members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) to conduct their activities in a peaceful manner and not to disrupt the peace of innocent members of the public.
In a statement, Egbeyemi warned all NURTW members across the state to always conduct their activities in a peaceful manner as anyone caught fomenting trouble would be severely dealt with in accordance with the law.
He said 11 members of the union were arrested over the weekend by the Enforcement |Team of the task force for causing mayhem around Yaya-Abatan at Ogba.
Egbeyemi said dangerous weapons such as axes, diggers, broken bottles and cutlasses were recovered from those arrested in connection with the mayhem.
He said that all arrested suspects had been charged to court to serve as deterrent to other union members who might want to disturb the peace of the state.