Gunmen have attacked Dantasakko community in Sabon Birni Local Government Area of Sokoto State and killed the Deputy Imam of the town’s Central Mosque, Malam Isa Labaran. The sole administrator of the local government, Alhaji Jelani Danbuga, confirmed the incident. He said the gunmen, who rode on motorcycles, stormed the village in the late hours of Wednesday with dangerous weapons and forced the villagers to flee to nearby river for safety. Danbuga also said a Nigerian soldier, who was reported missing during an encounter with bandits last Monday in Sabon Birni Local Government Area, had been found. The sole administrator said the soldier was found to be psychologically traumatised but physically healthy. Danbuga said he could not give the actual number of those killed. He, however, said that following the recent attack, a team of armed soldiers had been drafted to the area to provide security. The sole administrator added that the bandits, who were said to be part of the earlier negotiations, stormed the village in hundreds and went straight to the deputy Imam’s house, said to be the commandant of the vigilantes in the community, and shot him dead. He said the state government had secured from the 8 Division of the Nigerian Army, Sokoto, the deployment of 100 armed soldiers with motorcycles and personnel carriers to the area. Danbuga said since the signing of peace agreement in Zamfara and Katsina states with the bandits, villages in the eastern part of Sabon Birni Local Government Area had not known peace owing to incessant attacks. The sole administrator said the only solution to remedy the situation was the construction of a road from Gurbin Baure in Zamfara State to Sabon Birni with an established permanent Army base in the area. According to him, the bandits are not ready for peace with the Sokoto State government, considering their constant attacks. He said the bandits used the area to lunch attacks and escape through the thick forest in Zamfara and Katsina states. Danbuga said, the bandits have been operating without hindrance in all villages in eastern Sabon Birni Local Government for a long time. He, however, said that with the recent deployment of armed soldiers, farmers were able to harvest their crops. He called on the Federal Government to immediately   construct a road that will link the area with Zamfara State to provide access for military and police vehicles in the event of attack. He said the area was densely forested and could only be assessed by motorcycles which gave the bandits room to operate as such the soldiers should also be supplied with motorcycles.