 Vulnerable individuals from Abia North Senatorial District are to benefit from the Abia State Social Insurance Scheme free of charge, the Orji Uzor Kalu (OUK) Foundation has said. The Abia North Senator and Senate Chief Whip, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, disclosed this yesterday at the launch of the Abia State Health Insurance scheme. The former governor, who spoke through the Executive Secretary of the Foundation, Mrs. Jemima Ola Kalu, commended Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for fulfilling the requirements for the successful take off of the scheme. He also commended the Abia State House of Assembly for giving legislative teeth to the scheme. Kalu said he was excited with the scheme which he said would reduce deaths and sicknesses that would affect the economic wellbeing of the state and families. He said: “I will through the OUK Foundation enrol vulnerable indigenes of my constituents. Health issue is one of the sustainable development goals 2030. “The policy of inclusiveness of the United Nations is shared by the OUK Foundation.” The senator commended the development partners and prayed that the scheme be sustained. Also, Ikpeazu, represented by his deputy, Sir Ude Oko Chikwu, said the scheme was a fulfilment of the dream of making health care services available and accessible to the average citizen. The governor added that health care delivery was one of the enablers of his administration’s policies. Ikpeazu explained that the basic health care fund, a pool from where fund would be remitted directly to the health care centres, would provide ready fund for the scheme. He promised that government would provide the necessary political will for its sustenance. According to him, approval for the take-off has been granted. The governor also disclosed that the deductions for the scheme from public servants would commence next month. In his address, the Executive Secretary, Abia State Health Insurance Agency (ABSHIA), Dr. Chidi Ubani-Ukoma, said the scheme, which would cover public servants and private individuals, would be accessible through the 292 ward health centres with provisional accreditation for the scheme. Ubani-Ukoma, said students of state tertiary institutions would benefit while the informal sector enrolees would pay a yearly premium of N15,808 per head. Public servants premium would be deducted from their salaries and would take care of spouse and four children below 18 years, he added.