Mr. Adeyinka Olumide-Fusika, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), in this interview with AKEEM NAFIU speaks on delay in criminal trial, cases congestion at Supreme Court and sundry issues   Do you agree with suggestions that criminal trial will be hastily concluded when the burden of proof is shifted from the prosecution to the defence?   If I am not mistaking, the purport of your question is that when delay is suffered in criminal trial, it is the fault of the defence. There are no statistical data or fact to prove that assertion. What we know is that in Nigeria, what goes for investigation is simply laughable. An instance is the case of Sowore who is being detained for organizing a protest he tagged, ‘RevolutionNow’. He was arrested by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) and accused of treason. The DSS then went to court and sought for 90 days to detain Sowore while they carry out investigations on his activities. In the course of all these, DSS went to town with news about how Sowore is being funded by his foreign partners to topple Buhari’s government. Nowhere else is that done except in Nigeria and is some other banana republic. To start with, if DSS are engage in any serious investigation, it will not be announcing it on the pages of newspapers. This is because as a serious investigator, while you are yet to conclude your work, you will not want to divulge it so as to prevent your targets from knowing your plans or what you have found out about them. It is only when investigations have been concluded that charges are filed with the proof of evidence. That’s the way it is supposed to be done. But the reverse is the case in Nigeria. So, when there are no proper investigations, how do you expect prosecution of such cases to look like? Of course, it would not be smooth because the evidences are not there. Therefore, when there are suggestions that it is the defence that is causing delay, it is not always true. Most of the prosecuting agencies have failed in their duties and they are only engaging in propaganda saying thing that are not factual. They are never ready for any prosecution.  I am not saying all these to completely exonerate the defence. Of course, there are defence lawyers who will cling to everything to delay their cases because they know within their heart that clients have no case. So, they will want to do everything to drag the case for as long as possible. However, the Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015 has addressed some of these issues. I also want you to take note that our legal system is based on the principle that everybody is presumed innocent until proven guilty and the burden is on the person who has alleged the commission of an offence to prove that the offence was actually committed.  What is your view on panacea for the problem of congestion of cases  at the Supreme Court?  Yes, the Supreme Court is congested. Even, commercial lawyers will tell you that they are the one suffering. This is because the whole place has been taken over by political cases. For me, there are some cases that should not even get to the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, whatever case you see in the apex court is allowed by the Constitution now in operation. The Supreme Court judges can however look at the rules of the court and determine whatever cases they will hear.  Is the establishment of regional Supreme Court a way out of the congestion problem?  I don’t think so. By the time we are having Supreme Court at the regions, we will be confronted with the issue of conflicting judgements. Even, with just one Supreme Court in existence at the moment, the academics who are studying the judgements talks about inconsistencies and conflicting principles.  All these boils down to the Nigeria factor because I don’t think we should have any reason for conflict in as much as the law is constant. The issue of conflicting judgements is not peculiar to the Supreme Court alone, the lower courts are also involved. However, in a civilized society, the law must be known and must be interpreted in a manner that is clear and consistent at all times. This is because uncertainty in interpretation of laws will breed anarchy.   How do we make the new set of ministers recently sworn into office by President Buhari accountable?  The ministers are accountable to the president. It’s the person that appointed them that has authority over them. It’s a 4-year bondage that we have signed ourselves into. The person that is accountable to us that we can remove by our votes is that individual that we put in power. So, as far as the issue of the ministers is concern, it is only the person that appointed them that can decide their fate. The president has chosen these people to help him achieve his agenda and if they are not doing well, he is the only one that can take an action to remove them.   But for me as a Nigerian, I don’t have any expectation from anyone in government and I hope you equally know that most Nigerians are on their own. Government is on its own while majority of Nigerians are also on their own. They don’t look up to government for anything and they have no expectation from government.  Personally, I don’t have any expectation from any minister and if perhaps they perform, we’ll give thanks to God, but I can assure you that will be accidental.  Some of these people have been in government since the commencement of this democracy in 1999 and if you asked them about their contribution to national development, they can’t point out to anything. So, it will be foolish of me to say I have any expectation from anyone in government and any Nigerian who is hopeful, I wish him or her goodluck.  Do you think the appointment of a Minister for Police Affairs will change the negative narratives about Nigerian police?   After four years, go and check police barracks and the conditions of policemen. Where they work and where they live. Take the pictures of those places now and go back there in the next four years. There would not be any improvement, it would have worsened. So, what’s the point of having a Minister for Police Affairs? What’s the point? There’s no point? I don’t see the minister achieving anything.