Based on a mysterious surge of severe breathing illnesses linked to vaping, India’s cabinet has announced a ban on the production, import and sale of electronic cigarettes, saying they pose a risk to health. That country’s Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman said an executive order had been approved banning vaping products because of their impact on young people. The development from India followed a similar ban on Tuesday of the sale of flavored e-cigarettes, a move that came as federal health officials in the United States (US) investigate the mysterious surge of severe breathing illnesses linked to vaping. According to the U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said, there have been 530 confirmed and probable cases of lung injuries related to e-cigarettes as of September 17.  That’s 150 more than was reported on September 11.” Vaping or an electronic cigarette or e-cigarette is a handheld battery-powered vaporiser that simulates smoking and provides some of the behavioural aspects of smoking, including the hand-to-mouth action of smoking, but without burning tobacco. Using an e-cigarette is known as “vaping” and the user is referred to as a “vaper.” Vaping involves inhaling a mix typically made of nicotine, water, solvents and flavours – is seen as an alternative to smoking, which can help smokers quit, but its impact on health is still not fully known. Some e-cigs like these appear to contain toxic metals, and using them has been tied to an increased risk of a heart attacks, medical experts said. The ban in India will include jail terms of up to three years for offenders, according to a report bbc.co.uk. The ban does not affect traditional tobacco products.”This means the production, manufacturing, import and export, sale, distribution and advertising related to e-cigarettes are banned,” Ms Sitharaman said. In spite of the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention announcement of the rise in the ailment linked to vaping, health officials in America said, they haven’t found a definitive cause or a clear connection between cases, and warned that patients worried about becoming ill from vaping should refrain from using e-cigarettes. There have been vaping-related illnesses in 38 states and one US territory, the CDC said. Among the cases for which patients’ sex and age are available, 72 per cent are in men, 67 per cent are in people ages 18 to 34, 16 per cent are in people younger than 18 and 17 per cent are in people age 35 and older. More than half of the cases are however in people younger than 25. On its part, India is the world’s second-largest consumer of tobacco products after China, and more than 900,000 people die in the country each year from tobacco-related illnesses. Tobacco kills more than eight million people globally each year. More than seven million of those deaths are the result of direct tobacco use while around 1.2 million are the result of non-smokers being exposed to second-hand smoke. Around 80 per cent of the world’s 1.1 billion smokers live in low- and middle-income countries. Proponents of vaping said it helps people stop smoking and that banning it would encourage ex-smokers to pick up the habit again, but India’s health ministry, which proposed the ban, stated that it was in the public interest to ensure vaping did not become an “epidemic” among young people.