A nambra State political landscape got heated last week when the trio of incumbent governor, Dr. Willie Obiano, his immediate predecessor and Vice Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Peter Obi and Minister for Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, took a swipe on their respective performances while in office.   Ngige and Obi took on each other over the number and quality of roads constructed by their respective administrations, each claiming to have performed better than the other.   Gov. Willie Obiano, on his part, accused his predecessor and the PDP of plotting to unsettle the peace in the state by instigating crisis in the communities.  Obiano further contended that the said N4 billion, which Peter Obi claimed to have handed over for road maintenance, is untrue, adding that was part of the claim by his predecessor that he left the sum N75 billion in the coffers of state government while leaving office.   Reacting to the statement made by Ngige on the quality of roads constructed by Obi, the Media Aide to Obi, Mr. Valentine Obienyem, in a statement said: “The most condemnable in Ngige’s attacks are the lies he tells just to bring Obi down. How could he mention roads such as Abatete-Nteje Aguleri-Otuocha Road Igbokwu-Ezifite-Umueze and Iseke Roads and deliberately forgot that Obi did greater portion of those roads.   “It is instructive that over 90 per cent of the roads Ngige mentioned were done in his local government area. Obi used local contractors in line with his policy of supporting his own people. Just like he supported Innoson and other industrialists in the state, majority of the roads Obi did in the state, like Umueze-Anam Nmiata roads were done by RCC, Ayamelum and Onitsha roads done by Nigercat, Head Bridge Upper Iweka Road was done by the CCC.   “We did Awka-Amawbia dual carriage road, Adazi-Obeledu-Akwaeze-Igboukwu Road-Igbariam University Road, Ichi Road, Nweleezenaka by pass-over 30 roads within Onitsha GRA, over ten in the area; the six lane dual carriage road from Head Bridge to Upper Iweka, Upper Iweka-Umunya Road; the Nkpor Flyover built in collaboration with the Federal Government, which can even contain a train line; Obosi bypass-Awka Road, Oguta Road, Old Oba Nnewi Road, Mmili John Road.  “Ngige didn’t develop massive erosion cutting the road at Uke which Obi did; the Nimo-Neni-Awka-Etiti Road was the same and only made passable because Obi was maintaining it.”   Reacting to the statement by ex-governor Peter Obi’s aide, the Director of Communication for Senaror Chris Ngige, Chief Charles Amilo, described it as a calculated attempt to cover up the ruins of Obi’s administration.   “At the stage of Anambra politics and governance, it would be irresponsible of Senator Chris Ngige, an elder statesman, not to speak out when it matters most. Be it known to Nigerians that Obi’s claims of building more roads than Ngige is spurious and a bundle of lies.   “Anambra people are aware of the fact that the network of roads still being enjoyed by our people were constructed by Ngige’s administration which I was the Commissioner for Information. Those Peter Obi claimed to have been constructed were highly sub-standard and they account for the potholes that are everywhere in the state.   “Our people know that the roads constructed by Ngige regime cuts across the three senatorial zones in Anambra State from Otuocha, Anambra East Local Government Area to Awkuzu, Nteje, Ifitedunu all in Oyi and Dunukofia local government areas. Then to Idemili North and South council areas as well as Nnewi North and South local government areas, where we have St. Joseph Awka Etiti to St. Joseph Iseke in Ihiala Local Government Area. We also constructed Okoh, Ibinta, to Ndiowu, Ndikerionwu to Umunze up to Umunoachi Local Government Area in Abia State. We also have Nnewi-Okija through Ozubulu in Ekwusigo Local Government Area. Tell me which of the roads were constructed by Peter Obi?   “He left over N4 billion in the ministry of works for road maintenance before he handed over. We have the account details and other relevant evidence.”   But the Obiano administration has described as untrue the claims by Peter Obi that the sum of N4 billion was handed over to it by the Peter Obi administration for road maintenance.   Reacting to the claim of N75 billion which Obi said he handed over to Obiano, the Deputy Chief Press Secretary to Governor Obiano, Mr. Emeka Ozurumba, explained that most of the funds Obi claimed to have handed over were bonds and investments of the state which he described as near money.   “You are aware that the past administration flagged off roads and awarded contracts two days to his hand over to Obiano and even on the day of hand over, he was still flagging off road and these are part of the money that he claimed to have handed over to this administration.   “We are not aware of the sum of N4 billion that he claimed to have left in the coffers of the state government for road maintenance. Let it be on record that there is no project which the past administration claimed to have been embarked upon that has been abandoned,” he said.   The state Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr. C. Don Adinuba noted that: “The next gubernatorial vote in Anambra State will take place in 2021 and the next round of general elections will not hold until four years’ time. Yet the Anambra State branch of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has started the electioneering campaign for both the governorship and general elections in earnest.   “If the party had confined itself to developmental issues of the day, the people of Anambra State would not have been as alarmed as they are today. But it has rather been igniting the stoking all kinds of fire in a state most Nigerians regard as the most peaceful, the most stable and the most competitive in the whole country.   “In the pursuit of the enterprise of what PDP leaders in the state call operation capture Anambra state by all means possible, nothing is considered sacred.   “The government and people of Anambra state will do all within their powers to maintain their status as Nigeria’s safest and most peaceful state where the level of social harmony is impressive by any standard in the world.”   But the Anambra State Chairman of the PDP, Chief Ndubisi Nnobu, told Sunday Telegraph that the allegations of Adinuba against his party is an indication that the Anambra State government has lost grip of governance in the communities, adding that the party has more important things to do than to condescend to mere town union matters.   