The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has cautioned the Federal Government against engaging in actions that can undermine the rule of law to avoid creating a bad impression of the nation to the outside world.   The plea was made by the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN) while addressing journalists at the weekend on the communique issued by the lawyers’ umbrella body at the end of activities at its 59th Annual General Conference.   Usoro noted that the rule of law is one of the core foundational values in a democracy, predicated on an independent judiciary, independent Bar, separation of powers and access to justice.   The NBA president while assuring that the Bar under him will defend and promote  the rule of law, said citizens and government have a duty to protect, safeguard and advance the rule of law at all times.   His words: “In no circumstance will the NBA stop to defend, promote and to protect the rule of law. Even when it appears that people in authority are undermining the rule of law, the NBA has sworn to continue to highlight those actions that degrade the rule of law.   “We will not only stop at continuing to talk about those issues, we will also name and shame those involved, so that the populace will know that we are concerned about some of these practices.   “The only thing that we will do and that we are still doing is to meet relevant authorities and highlight these issues to them for them to know the damage that the degradation of the rule of law does to the image of Nigeria. It destroys our economy and discourage investors from coming to the country. It does so much negative things to the country”.   Usoro informed his audience that the recommendations and decisions were adopted in acknowledgment of the roles of different stakeholders in ‘facing the future’ for the betterment of the legal profession, the Nigerian economy and the general public. He said the conference achieved the objective of speaking to the task of its theme; ‘Facing the Future’, not just by NBA, representing all of the legal system, but also the nation.   In the communique, the NBA urged the Supreme Court to avail itself any available opportunity to make unambiguous determination on the status of the Code of Conduct Tribunal and clarify whether it is an organ of the Executive or a quasi-judicial tribunal capable of bring vested with criminal jurisdiction.   Besides, through the communique, the NBA is urging judicial officers to be independent, courageous and unbiased in the execution of their functions without regard to the appointing authority, in order to bolster and retain confidence of investors, businesses and the public in the judiciary.   The NBA also identified poor socio-economic situation in Nigeria as a contributory factor for the increase in kidnapping and terrorism. It consequently urged the Federal Government to adopt policies that will support socioeconomic empowerment without reference to ethnic, religious or geographical location.   It also called for an holistic and total enforcement of the Criminal Justice Act 2015, Criminal Justice Laws of some of the states, the anti-kidnapping provisions of the Criminal Code Act and the Kidnapping laws of some states, Terrorism (Prevention) Act and Fundamental Human Rights to reduce the act of kidnapping and terrorism.   It was also recommended that the Nigerian Bar Association should review the Rules of Professional Conduct (RPC) for an improved and efficient disciplinary process. The Conference featured 42 sessions, 209 Nigerian and foreign speakers from the legal and business community, academia, legislature as well as the public sector. It witnessed a record attendance of 12,000 delegates.