Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi has mourned the passing away of the Oluyin of Iyin-Ekiti, HRM. Oba Ademola Ajakaiye, Oyinyosaiye Uyin II. Oba Ajakaiye, the 17th Oluyin, was the pioneer Chief Judge of Ekiti State and former administrator of the National Judicial Institute, Abuja.  Governor Fayemi, who received the news of the Oba’s passage from the royal family, described the death, as a huge loss to the state.  Fayemi commiserated with the late monarch’s family, the people of Iyin-Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government and indeed the entire citizens of Ekiti State.   In a statement signed by Chief Press Secretary, to the Governor, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, in Ado -Ekiti on Saturday, the Governor said that the State had lost one of its most cerebral and colourful royal fathers who combined brilliance with admirable traditional flamboyance. Dr. Fayemi, who described the late monarch as a successful lawyer and respected bencher, during his stint in the legal profession, said the late Oluyin was ever willing to avail the government his wise counsel on issues of development and social justice.  He also observed that in spite of the late monarch’s commitment to Christianity, the rich, cultural heritage of the ancient town flourished under his leadership, the same way Iyin-Ekiti witnessed unprecedented level of development, peace and prosperity during his reign.  The Governor said the late Oluyin would be remembered as one of the patriots whose commitment led to the creation and successful take off of Ekiti State in 1996. He recalled how Oba Ajakaiye vacated his official residence as Chief Judge for the Military Administrator of the newly created state to live, while he commuted to Ado-Ekiti daily from his personal residence in Iyin Ekiti.  “On behalf of the government and the good people of Ekiti State, the Land of Honour, I commiserate with the members of the immediate and extended families of the late monarch, the Oluyin-in- Council, Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers and the entire people of Iyin-Ekiti on the passage of our highly revered Kabiyesi, HRM Oba Ademola Ajakaiye. Oyinyosaiye Uyin II.