The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has released regulation for electronic payments and collections for public and private sectors in the country.  According to the CBN, the new regulation, which was posted on its website yesterday, is a “revision of the Guidelines on Electronic Payment of Salaries, Pensions, Suppliers and Taxes in Nigeria (2014), and is intended to guide the end-to-end electronic payment of salaries, pensions and other remittances, suppliers and revenue collections in Nigeria. “The objective of the regulation is to fully align with the core objectives of the National Payments System Vision 2020.  It is to ensure the availability of safe, effective and efficient mechanisms for conveniently making and receiving all types of payments from any location and at any time through multiple   electronic channels. “This will reduce the time and costs of transactions, minimise leakages in revenue receipts and at the same time provide reliable audit trails, thereby ensuring that the Nigerian Payments System aligns with international best practices.”  CBN, in the regulation, introduced a penalty of N2 milion for deposit money banks on third party e-payment solution not approved by it on every repeated occurrence. It also introduced penalty of N1 million for other financial institutions on third party epayment solution not endorsed by the apex bank. It also introduced other fines for other forms of infractions.  To ensure implementation of the new regulation, the regulator directed that henceforth, “DMBs are to dishonor payment instructions for all forms of salaries, pensions, suppliers and taxes not transmitted on a CBN approved straight through electronic payment and collection platform issued by organisations with more than 20 employees. “This means payment instructions and associated schedules are no longer to be transmitted to DMBs through unsecured channels, such as paper-based mandates, flash drives, compact discs (CDs), email attachments, etc. by qualifying public and private sector organisation’s.”