A joint venture consortium comprising Saipem, Chiyoda and Daewoo (SCD) yesterday emerged the preferred bidder for the $10 billion Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Train 7 project. This came as the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) insisted on the October target for the final investment decision on the gas mega plant. The SCD consortium, the NLNG said, would be undertaking the engineering, procurement and construction project for the Train 7 project. The gas giant announced the consortium in Abuja at the signing of Letter of Intent for the NLNG Train 7 EPC contract. The signing signifies the endorsement of a legally binding interim agreement outlining the main points of the Train 7 project by the shareholders, which is mandatory before taking the final investment decision. Speaking at the event, Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, affirmed that there was no going back on taking the decision in October, stressing that everything needed to be done was being done to make it a reality on the scheduled date. The GMD, who was represented by the corporation’s General Manager, New LNG, Engr. Ahmed Dikko, said the management of NNPC was very passionate about the project because it holds the potential of boosting activities in the oil and gas sector and ultimately stimulating growth in the nation’s economy. “Before us today is the signing of the letter of intent for the Train 7 project. By October 31, 2019, we will all gather together again to sign the dotted lines for the final investment decision of the Train 7 project. This is, indeed, the wish of NNPC as a shareholder, and I will like to reaffirm to you all our support to carry out all the realignment to make the project a reality,” the GMD stated. He urged the other shareholders to start preparing for Trains 8, 9 and 10, while assuring the SCD Group, the consortium engaged for the engineering, procurement and construction of the Train 7 project, of the sustained support of NNPC towards the successful completion of the project. Earlier, the Managing Director of NLNG, Engr. Tony Attah, said the Train 7 project was expected to increase the NLNG production capacity by 35 per cent from 22 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) to around 30MTPA, adding that the project would attract foreign direct investment of well over $10 billion, including the upstream scope of the LNG value chain. “The project is anticipated to create about 10,000 new jobs during the construction stage and, on completion, help to further diversify the revenue portfolio of the Federal Government and increase its tax base. This is in line with our corporate vision of helping to build a better Nigeria. The construction period after final investment decision will last approximately four to five years,” Attah said. In his remarks, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Dr. Folasahde Yemi-Esan, said the journey to the signing of the letter of intent of the Train 7 project was a very long and tortuous one, which has finally come to reality. On his part, the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Wabote, urged the EPC contractor to abide by the local content requirements of the project. The highpoint of the event was the signing of the dotted lines by NLNG and the SCD Group, which won the competitive bidding for the project. NLNG is owned by four shareholders namely, the Federal Government of Nigeria, represented by the NNPC with 49 per cent; Shell Gas B.V with 25.6 per cent; Total Gaz Electricite Holdings, France with 15 per cent; and ENI International N.A.N.V.S. ar.l with 10.4 per cent.