Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos is a member House of Representatives and represents Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency of Plateau State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with PHILIP NYAM, he bares his mind on pressing local and national issues  President Muhammadu Buhari has just sworn in 43 ministers; what is your impression about the new cabinet? Do you think the caliber of men and women in the cabinet can deliver?   Well, I have seen the ministers; most of them are familiar names; that is people who have been around the corridors of power for a very long time. Some of these old names also include ministers who served with the president in the first term. The President promised next level and we are waiting to see whether the next level will be anything different from what transpired in the last four years.   Perhaps, this is the team he feels can deliver the Next Level for him. My concern, however, is the absence of young men and women in the new cabinet. The cabinet is dominated by old people, which to me is not encouraging because if we say that the youths are leaders of tomorrow, why can’t we give them opportunity at this level to express themselves and contribute their quota to national development.   I don’t think there is any of the minister’s that is less than 40 years; that is not so encouraging in an age where big time countries like France are giving opportunity to the younger ones to lead. The present French President, Emmanuel Macron is just 41 years old, and was in fact, elected at the age of 39, yet, no Nigerian of this age is being considered for ministerial appointment. So, I expected the President to have given the younger generation a sense of belonging in his government because the youths have energy; they are more innovative and vibrant. All over the world, the youths are breaking grounds in leadership and development and ours should not be an exception. But don’t quote me wrong; I am not saying old age is bad. Old age comes with experience and wisdom; therefore I expected that they would have been a balanced blend of the old and young in the cabinet to complement each other.   However, appointment of ministers is the prerogative of the President. He has a blueprint of what he wants to achieve and the people he thinks can drive the process with him. Therefore, he has chosen his ministers and I wish them well hoping that the next level would put smiles on the faces of Nigerians because for now, most Nigerians. There is a general dearth of infrastructure; unemployment is at all-time high, the number of out of school children is growing by the day and worst of all, there is widespread insecurity that is frightening and scaring. I hope the president and his team can provide answers to these myriad problems. And if they successfully do this for Nigeria, posterity will be kind to them.   You just mentioned insecurity and you are from Plateau, one of the states that also suffered series of attacks by suspected herdsmen and bandits. What is the situation in Plateau now?   Yes, Plateau State has had its own share of the security challenge faced by the country especially between 2015 and 2019. The number of people that were killed and those displaced by these attacks is a matter of serious concern. Although, normalcy has returned to some of the troubled areas, there are still some dark spots, which I would like the Federal Government to take proactive measures to ensure that the people are safe and are free to continue with their farming activities.   I had cause to support a motion on the floor of the House on the state of insecurity in the state before we proceeded on recess. It is worrisome that for example that no one has been compensated after the mass murder of June 18, 2018, which affected more than 20 communities in Gashish, Gana, Ropp, Forom and Bachlit Districts of Barkin Ladi and Riyom local government areas, where over 280 persons were reportedly killed by suspected killer herdsmen, thousands of women and children displaced, both public and private properties were completely destroyed.   We are very worried that after one year after, not much has been heard about arrests and prosecution. Therefore, we in the state are concerned with the role played by the Armed Forces in the mode of their operation and response to the attacks because this is capable of causing massive apathy and loss of confidence in the nation’s security on the part of the people. We commend the security agencies for the sacrifices they are making, but at the same time, we want them to do this job in the best ethical manner and in national interest.   There has been an outcry following media reports that members of the National Assembly were paid humongous and jumbo allowances recently despite the hardship in the country.   I think this is just cheap blackmail against members of the National Assembly. To the best of my knowledge, there is nothing like jumbo pay in the National Assembly and I think members of the public need to be properly educated about this issue. Even before I was elected to the House of Representatives, this misrepresentation has been there, but it is simply unfortunate. It is this kind of stories that make out constituents to look at us as money bags and millionaires; and people start chasing us all over the place. A member of the House of Representatives carries a huge load of responsibilities because our main function is being misunderstood by Nigerians. Therefore, as a legislator, you are expected to pay school fees of indigent constituents, you are responsible for hospital bills, wedding and marriage expenses, burial expenses and general upkeep of constituents.   The number of calls and text messages I receive in a day for one assistance or the other is uncountable. Yet, people do not believe that we deserve any running cost. Unfortunately, it is the running cost that they are calling jumbo pay. People also have to know that apart from the legislators, there are over three hundred staff working for the National Assembly; there is a National Assembly Commission, the National Institute for Democratic and Legislative Studies and so on.   Therefore, Nigerians have to appreciate legislators for once. But I often wonder why Nigerians do not probe into the salaries and allowances of ministers, who by the perking order of protocol are below members of the House of Representatives, yet their benefits are far above what we receive.  Do you ever see a member of the House moving with a convoy of vehicles? But every minister moves with at least five vehicles in his convoy; and check the cost of the cars they use and compare with what we have in the National Assembly. In fact, I am giving you an assignment today; investigate and tell us how much a minister is entitled to monthly, annually and at the end of his tenure. How many aides is a minister entitled to? What about chief executives of agencies and parastatals? Do Nigerians know how much they are entitled to? I believe by the time Nigerians get to know how much these category of public servants receive, they will appreciate members of the National Assembly better.   Recently, the Federal Bureau of Investigations, (FBI) released a list of 80 Nigerians suspected to have committed cybercrimes in the US running into millions of dollars. Some people have attributed this to the growing unemployment. What do you think?   First of all, I want to say that there is no excuse for any crime. I do not subscribe to the idea that because things are tough and difficult, people should resort to crime. If a crime is committed out of mistake or ignorance, it could be understandable; but where people deliberately engaged in what they know is illegal and unlawful is not condonable. When I read the story about Nigerians who are being indicted by the FBI, I was devastated because this has further dented the image of our country and it puts the lives of Nigerians living abroad in danger.  One, there is high tendency that more countries will treat Nigerians with suspicion and disdain. There is no doubt that we have crime everywhere in the world but for such high wire fraud to be allegedly committed by nationals of one country in one fell swoop does not speak well of us as a people and nation. It means Nigerians will be subjected to more humiliation at airports, at embassies and in other countries. I will advise young Nigerians to embrace hard work and avoid crime.   I was just imagining if the knowledge and ingenuity they invested in the fraud, was applied in a legal positive venture the kind of innovations and discovery Nigeria would have been associated with. It is unfortunate, but it is wake call to all of us especially parents to instill good morals in our children. But having said that, we must also not forget that the number of Nigerians involved in crime outside the shores of this country is just infinitesimal. A good number of Nigerians are doing us proud all over the works. Nigerians are MPs, mayors, ministers in Europe, America etc.   Nigerians are excelling in academics, science and technology, sports and all areas of human endeavour. So, those engaged in crime are in the minority. We should applaud those doing well and sound a note of warning to those spoiling our name and reputation. Nigeria is a great country and we are also great men and women. This, however, does not vitiate the fact that many Nigerians are going through very difficult times; the economy is not doing so well. The APC government promised security, improved economy and fight against corruption, but things are not moving fast the way Nigerians expected. I think the time has come for the president and his team to fast track whatever plan they have for the people and the nation at large so that we can enjoy the benefits of change. Let his next level be a regime of positive results that can be felt by every Nigerian.   The Federal Government has always maintained that the war against corruption has yielded results as billions of stole funds have been recovered and many corrupt persons prosecuted and convicted. Don’t you   think this deserves applause?   There is no doubt the government is fighting corruption; but many Nigerians particularly those of us in opposition parties have reservations about the way the campaign is being carried out. It seems it is aimed at only opposition politicians and their associates.   I expected that President Muhammadu Buhari would prosecute a holistic anti-corruption fight where there will be no sacred cow. There should be no selective prosecution of offenders. If the government wants Nigerians to have faith in the anti-corruption, it must change its process, which seems to be pointing at the fact that only cases relating to people with opposing political views or those not on the same page with the administration are being investigated and prosecuted.   No suspect or indicted person should be given preferential treatment over others simply because he belongs to the ruling party or is related to a big man in office or has ties with the powers that be.   Secondly, adherence to the rule of law is the first step towards achieving a successful anti-corruption crusade. So, when a government disregards court orders with impunity, what is it telling the citizens? Unless and until people in government and in fact, the president’s direct that even his appointees who are accused of corruption be made to face the music, people will continue to pick holes in the anti-corruption crusade of the administration.   It seems everyone’s attention is on the Federal Government and no one pays attention to what is happening at the state level?  I agree with you totally because if most of the state governors were performing, some of the problems we complain about would have been taken care of.   For example, primary education; the Federal Government has nothing to do with primary education but the state governments have neglected their responsibility. They have completely killed the third tier of government, which is the local government.   I will commend the efforts of President Buhari is his recent move to ensure that funds are released directly to the local councils. It is appalling that some of our governors believe in primitive accumulation of wealth and sharing of state funds with their family members and cronies.   This is where I expect the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to also look into; but we have several instances where governors were accused of corruption and we paid lip service to it. It is true governors enjoy immunity from prosecution, but they are not immune from investigation.   So, governors who have weighty allegations hanging on their necks should be investigated and if indicted be made to face the law as soon as they leave office. But, you must also not forget that if the federal government is doing well, the state governments would be challenged to also perform. Let’s have an improved Next Level. The APC government used four years to learn, it should perform now.     