 It was a pleasant sight at Ibom Hall ground, Uyo, at the weekend, when citizens of Akwa Ibom State defied political divides as indigenes and friends of the state, including Vice- President Yemi Osinbajo and governors of some other states congregated to worship God on the state’s 32nd anniversary.  Preaching at the occasion, Osinbajo who said the celebration was not about the state as a living entity, but for the people of the state within and in the diaspora, maintaining that; “Every prayer and blessing we pronounce today, concerning Akwa Ibom State was for you as people of the state.”  He acknowledged the achievements of Governor Udom Emmanuel, particularly in the last few years, and asserted that even more records would be broken in subsequent years.  Taking his text from Deuteronomy 33.25, which says; “As your age, so shall your strength be,” the vice-president prophesied that for ‘those who believe, their strength shall be renewed with age.’  The vice-president also said that God’s promise, which defies human knowledge, meant that rather than diminishing with age, belief in God can make His people to grow stronger physically and mentally.   Citing the case of Moses in Deuteronomy Chapter 34, he explained that despite being 120 years at the time of death, Moses was still physically strong, “his eyes were not dim and his natural strength was still as it was when he was a young man. “Naturally when someone is older, he bears less fruit and becomes weak. But in your on case, you will remain more fruitful and you won’t be weaker, even in old age,” Osinbajo ministered. He prayed, among other things, for multiplication and fruitfulness for the people.  He, however, implored the people to repent of their wrong doings, which he said could hinder God’s blessings in their lives. Governor Emmanuel at the occasion said Akwa Ibom people had lots of reasons to celebrate, maintaining that God’s faithfulness had seen the state grow in leaps and bounds within the past 32 years. He asserted that the Ibom Airline and other industries brought about in the last couple of years were indicators that the state was making steady progress.