 Telecommunications giant, MTN Nigeria, yesterday shut down its offices and stores across the country to prevent attacks. This came on the heels of violent protests by Nigerians over recent xenophobic killing of Nigerians and Africans in South Africa. Angry Nigerians had vowed to destroy South African business concerns in Nigeria in retaliation for the killings, burning and looting of shops belonging to Nigerians in South Africa. Confirming the nationwide shut down of offices in a telephone chat with our correspondent, MTN’s Public Relations Manager, Onome Okwah, said the action was necessary to prevent further attacks. While noting that MTN was not and would never be in support of xenophobia, he said the company unequivocally condemns hate, prejudice and all forms of violence. “We are against all forms of bigotry and discrimination; they should have no place in society. Everyone has the right to a world where their rights and freedoms are respected – the right to live and earn a living, freely, safely and protected by the law,” Okwah said. Asked about the impact of shutting down its stores would have on the business and its customers, he said the organisation had taken the step as a temporary measure and would soon re-open for business, while hoping for diplomatic resolution of the issue between the two countries. The company also, in a letter sent to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) by its Secretary, Uto Ukpanah, confirmed that over the last day “our facilities, customers and some of our stakeholders have been the subject of attacks in retaliation for the ongoing xenophobia situation in South Africa.” He said that the company had confirmed reports of attacks in Lagos, Ibadan and Uyo. “While we remain committed to providing uninterrupted services, the safety and security of our customers, members of staff and partners is our primary concern. “All MTN stores and service centres will, therefore, be closed as a precaution, until further notice,” MTN said. Meanwhile, despite the closure of its offices, angry Nigerians stormed the outlets of the telecom operator in Abuja yesterday, destroying properties. Videos of the retaliatory attacks showed the mob setting a mast believed to belong to MTN on fire. MTN had, in a text message sent to its subscribers yesterday, informed them that its offices remained shut to all of its customers in the country. The company, however, gave an option for customers to reach MTN via Twitter, MtNonline.com, chat or its call centre. Visits to some of the telco’s outlets in Lagos showed that the shops were under lock and key. In some others, few people were seen clearing and carrying out repairs as a result of damage done by protesters earlier. Some customers at the Surulere sales outlets expressed mixed feelings on the attack and damage on MTN offices. Kunle Adigun, a banker, said the attack on MTN outlets was not the solution to the xenophobia going on in South Africa. “We sincerely do not support xenophobic attacks on our brothers in South Africa, but this is not the best solution. “Unfortunately, most property destroyed in South Africa belong to Nigerians, Nigerian government should take strong actions against that country,” he said. Juliet James, a subscriber of the mobile network, expressed dismay about the way Nigerians were being treated in South Africa. “I am very upset about the treatment lashed on Nigerians in South Africa, it is high time our government took action and because of this, I have decided to stop using MTN. “I am porting to a Nigerian service provider; I have broken my sim card and will not have any business with anything from South Africa,” she said.