The Executive Director, Corporate Strategy at SystemSpecs, Mr. Deremi Atanda, has given the country a thumb up in the area of innovations being driven by fintech companies. According to him, players in the fintech space, where Systemspecs is playing prominently, are now collaborating to ensure that Nigeria becomes a hub of innovation in Africa. Speaking on the sideline of the Nigerian Stock Exchange Market Data Workshop 2019, Deremi noted that Nigeria, with the level of innovations being put in place by private operators, was now overriped for technology-driven data analytics. “We are seeing a lot more people talking about data science in Nigeria and different initiatives are being led to make that happen. We are seeing quite a number of youngsters who have been introduced into this kind of concept and are being exposed at very early stages, for instance, we just finished a summer coding camp that exposed participants from secondary school level to this kind of concepts. “So, I think we are taking the right steps. I think many more people apart from SystemSpecs believe in Nigeria and are investing in what can take us to play on the global landscape,” he said. Describing the huge potential in the country, Deremi noted that “Nigeria is a location of amazing and awesome talents and if you are in that space, you would want to see what start-ups in fintech, paytech, lentech and rentech are doing. “You would be amazed. We have got the talent. We can do better because our goal is not just to compare ourselves to where others are today, it is to become a hub of innovation in Africa and while government is still struggling with how to go about that, the private sector is leading.” On how the country can leverage data technology for economic growth, the Systemspecs director said the same set of data that people have always had could be transformed with technology to boost credit market. According to him, with technology, data such as individuals’ records of earnings, savings, where they have worked, can now be converted into a readily available database that can be accessed by creditors. He noted: “They just need to have a digital authentication and approval to make this available to as many people as possible. With this, you are using technology that leverages data to create a market place where personal data can be leveraged for personal advantage. That is what we are doing using employee and payment data.” He added that in other jurisdictions, telecoms subscribers’ data were being used to facilitate credit. “All they need to do is to profile your telco usage and they are able to extend credit to you based on the pattern they have seen from your usage. The greater thing is when you combine these different data sets together and you are creating layers, rather than have a silo that I am one person borrowing for telco and one person borrowing for school fees, another person borrowing for trade, mix all of this and you suddenly see there are many more opportunities and the economy just grows so these are the kinds of things organisations are doing,” he said.