FIXTURES Crystal Palace v Wolves – 14:00 West Ham v Man United – 14:00 Arsenal v Aston Villa – 16:30 Chelsea v Liverpool – 16:30  Former Chelsea great, Frank Lampard has found that managing in the top flight is not as easy as when he was marauding in midfield for the Blues and today it gets even tougher when champions, Manchester City comes visiting, notes Tunde Sulaiman  S ix weeks after cutting his teeth in top flight management with a chastising defeat against Manchester United on the opening day of the season, this afternoon Frank Lampard faces the biggest test of his fledging Chelsea career when his side hosts Liverpool in the stand out tie of Match Day six weekend.   In years of yore, the opening match between United and Chelsea would have been the headline catcher, unfortunately in the present scheme of things this is no longer the case as the Red Devils are no longer the force they were in the Premier League, nay British football.   Four managers have failed to stem the slide that has bedevilled the once great side since the departure of Sir Alex Ferguson some six years ago.   The latest occupant of the exalted seat, Ole Gunnar Solskjær, who replaced the third occupant, Jose Mourinho, last December is still finding his feet; but kicked off the new campaign with a stunning 4-0 win over the Blues.   However, in truth anyone who watched the match would understand how cruel the “beautiful game” can be with the final result no way reflecting the performance of Chelsea under their former midfielder.   Many an Old Trafford fan and millions of Red Devils supporters around the globe will be thanking their stars that the woodwork came to their side’s rescue twice in the first half before the home side were fortunate to score. And once the goal went in United became a transformed side and then went on to press home their breakthrough with three more strikes.   The final score line was harsh on the visitors, who were the better side before the break and hit the frame of the goal through Tammy Abraham and Emerson, but still suffered their worst ever opening-day defeat in 104 league seasons.   The stats even backed up the fact that the home team was second best throughout the encounter, with Chelsea having 54% of the possession and 18 shots to United’s 11. Lampard was to right to stay positive after the match   “There were lots of elements about today that I liked,” he said. “We were intense in our pressure. We won the ball back high in lots of areas. We dominated the midfield. For big spells in the first half they couldn’t get out. But football is won and lost in the boxes. They won it by being clinical.”   It was clear that Lampard had learnt his lessons from the Old Trafford humiliation so much so that by the time they that they faced this afternoon’s foes, albeit in different circumstances, the UEFA Super Cup, it was a vastly changed performance from the Europa League champions who matched Liverpool grit for grit in battling to a 2-2 full and regulation time draw.   Games between these two sides in Europe have historically been tight affairs, with just one of their 10 previous meetings having been won by a margin of more than one goal.   It was the same again on Wednesday night as the two teams tussled for 120 minutes in a game that did not finish until almost 1am in Istanbul.   In the end, it came down to who could keep their cool in the sweltering heat and after nine excellent penalties, Abraham placed his shot too close to Adrian to hand Liverpool their first silverware of the season.   Although it was their second straight defeat of the season, again Lampard could take plenty of positives from the encounter with N’Golo Kante by far the best player on the pitch in the opening 45 minutes as he pulled the strings in midfield, while Giroud showed the clinical finishing that was absent for the Blues against United. Christian Pulisic also caught the eye on his first competitive start for Chelsea.   The 20-year-old American provided a creative spark, while his movement and vision had more than a hint of Eden Hazard about them.   Since the Super Cup loss in Istanbul, Chelsea have gone on a four match unbeaten run culminating in last week’s destruction of Wolves at the Molineux, the venue which has often proved difficult for the so-called big teams.   Young forward Tammy Abraham, whom Lampard had been given stick for fielding ahead of more experienced strikers, finally came good scoring a hat trick to justify the faith of his manager.   The England striker, 21, scored his treble in the space of 21 minutes to make it seven goals in his past three appearances – and is joint leading scorer in the Premier League with Manchester City’s Sergio Aguero. Abraham joined Cristiano Ronaldo and Dele Alli in becoming only the third Premier League player aged 21 or younger to score two or more goals in three consecutive appearances.   Sadly in midweek all the improvement shown by Abraham and the others came undone when they surprisingly lost 1-0 at home to Valencia in their opening group game of UEFA Champions League.   But in spite of that set back, Abraham still sent out a warning to the Reds insisting that they were ready to use the defeat as motivation against the visiting side.   “We can take our anger out against Liverpool. It’s a massive game and both teams will be going to win,” he said after Tuesday’s game.   Incidentally, Liverpool also lost in opening the defence of their crown in Naples to Napoli.   After more than matching their own with the team that finished second in Seria A last season, the defending champions let to late defensive errors cost them dearly in going down 2-0.   But Liverpool’s defeat at the San Paolo Stadium was only the second time they have been beaten in 31 competitive matches since January 7, and they are yet to lose in the league since January 3 when they were beaten 2-1 at the Etihad Stadium by Manchester City.   However, no matter their poor performances in midweek, the Premier League is different kettle of fish altogether and whichever team shows up on the day normally leaves the field with all three points.  This evening’s game will be no different with full-bloodied challenges expected as neither side with want to give any quarter.   Beyond the three points, what is at stake for Lampard is a true test of his coaching nuance while for his German opposite number, it is not only his side’s unbeaten record, but more importantly a win at Stamford Bridge will further inch the Reds closer to finally ending their 30-year wait to be crowned domestic champions.   Thus why the heart is willing a Blues victory the analytical mind sees another Reds victory – but then who could have ever seen Norwich beating Manchester City!   On a crowded Sunday, three other games are also taking place on Match Day Six weekend with the Red Devils facing a tricky trip to the London Stadium to face West Ham United.   Ole’s task is not helped by the fact that his side played on Thursday night against FC Astana of Kazakhstan in the Europa League at Old Trafford in which the Red Devils again failed to ignite the passion of their fans with their lethargic display.   It took a 73rd minute strike by 17-year-old Mason Greenwood to ensure the home side made a winning start to their Europa League campaign after the visitors threatened to leave with a draw.   In truth though, against the five-time Kazakhstan Premier League champions, United fielded their youngest side for a European game since December 2012 and Ole will expect much better from his first team squad today.   The Hammers will be much rested having last saw action on Monday night in their goalless draw with Aston Villa.   West Ham boss Manuel Pellegrini will undoubtedly be very satisfied with the point after seeing his side play from the 67th minute with 10 men after Arthur Masuaku picked up his second yellow card, and yet were still able to create chances to have lifted all three points.   United fans will, however, view this game with a lot of trepidation remembering that the last time they were there they watched their team being hammered 3-1 by the Hammers.   And on the strength of West Ham’s performance on Monday night, their Argentine manager is slowly getting the best out of the side.   A former Manchester City manager, Pellegrini would have schooled his players on how to exploit United’s weaknesses which Chelsea failed to, but which Wolves and Crystal Palace did, and take the fight to their more illustrious visitors.   Stamina, which Ole pointed out was a weakness in his side last campaign and which he placed so much emphasis in building up in pre-season, may play a major role today in determining which side leaves the field more fulfilled at the end of the game.   Unai Emery faces the same dilemma today as his Arsenal host Aston Villa after making a trip to Germany to play Eintracht Frankfurt in Europa League Group F clash.  The last time out, the Spaniard took a lot of stick after his side threw away a two-goal first half advantage against basement side Watford last weekend.   He knows he cannot afford another second half “horror show” today if he does not want the flak to increase.   Emery will no doubt be buoyed by the performance of a mainly second string team which beat the German side 3-0.   Currently seventh on the table with eight points, four more than 17th placed Aston Villa, the main task for the Gunners is breaking down the defence of a team, which will arrive the Emirates with only one thing on their minds – making the afternoon as difficult as possible for the home team.   And in the final game, Selhurst Park sees the clash of two thoroughly beaten sides hoping to regain some pride   Home side Palace, which stunned Manchester United only a fortnight ago at Old Trafford, was comprehensively outplayed at Tottenham Stadium in losing 4-0, while Wolves’ humiliation was even worse as they lost 5-2 in front of home fans to Chelsea.   They then followed this defeat with another late horror show in Europe in losing 1-0 to Sporting Braga in their first appearance in the main stage of a European competition since 1980. The goal was scored in the 71st minute and sent the Molineux crowd into silence.   So far it is clear that Nuno Espirito Santo is still trying to balance his team’s exertions in Europe and domestically as his side, which took an impressive 16 points from the Premier League’s top six yet, five games into this campaign, they remain without a win and are 19th in the table. The next two weeks are vital.   After visiting Crystal Palace Wolves entertain Watford – the only team below them in the table.   Roy Hodgson will undoubtedly be happy with this hoping to be the latest team to capitalise on this malaise when Wolves come to town.