The National Assembly and State Elections Petitions Tribunal in Anambra State recently confirmed the election of Senator Ifeanyi Ubah, as the senator representing Anambra South. In this interview with OKEY MADUFORO, Ubah speaks on this and other happenings in the state  How do you feel about the outcome of the petition at the tribunal?  What more can I say, than to thank God for this second victory. This goes to prove that I actually won the election against the petitions of my opponents in that election. That has also gone to prove that the judiciary is the last hope of the common man. The tribunal panel was dispassionate in its ruling and we are happy about the outcome.   I campaigned vigorously and there is no electoral ward, community and local government area I did not visit and the Anambra South electorate affirmed that I am the candidate they want in the said election.   The people of Anambra South know my pedigree and even before I ventured into politics, I had always interfaced with them and my foundation has gone a long way in impacting positively on the lives of our people.   So when I joined politics, I found myself in a familiar terrain with my brothers and sisters of Anambra South senatorial zone and at the end I emerged the winner of that election.   When my opponents, Senator Andy Uba and his brother, Chris went to court to challenge my mandate I saw it as a mere academic exercise because it will come to nothing.   You will recall that before the judgment the petitions were consolidated on the demands of the petitioners but one of the petitioners wanted his matter to be transferred to another panel against the consolidation.   I petitioned the President of the Appeal Court, who is in charge of the tribunals and prayed him not to allow the deconsolidation of the petition without following the due legal processes and that attempt failed.   When we now went into the petitions proper, there were startling revelations that even most of their witnesses could not confirm the affidavits which they all deposed to in the respective petitions andeven their prosecution witness could not convince the panel on the allegations of over voting and mutilation of result sheets so the tribunal delivered judgment in my favour.   Everybody at the tribunal who listened to the judgment can confirm that the judgment was clear and devoid of any ambiguity.   What if the duo of Chris and Andy Uba decide to challenge the judgment at the Appeal Court?   This is democracy and every Nigerian has the right to go on an appeal and we shall also be there to take it as it comes. However, going by the judgment, the appeal would amount to wasting tax payers’ money and wasting the time of the Court of Appeal judges by going to challenge a judgment that is spotless and firm.   I wish to advise my two brothers to forget about the idea, because the Appeal Court judges are learned and well experienced panelists that have integrity and cannot rule otherwise.   All the same we are ready to take it from there and that is if they want to go on an appeal.   You were made the Deputy Senate Committee Chairman on Upstream Petroleum. What are the challenges?   This is a committee affair and I am just the vice chairman of the committee. This is part of our oversight functions as legislators and we shall discharge our duties within the ambits of the law. Coming from the petroleum sector I can appreciate the problems being faced by our country and I shall bring my wealth of experience to bear in carrying out my oversight functions and I shall work together with my committee members in order to make the difference in the National Assembly.   We shall look at the oil and gas sector and fashion out ways of tackling its challenges for the good of Nigerians. We shall also consider the problems with other sectors that are related to the oil and gas sector and I wish to assure you that we will not fail Nigerians.   In the past the National Assembly had always been at war with the executive arm of government. What do we expect this time?   We are principally and essentially lawmakers, our duty is to make good laws for Nigeria. We are also there to act as a check on the executive but not to go to war with them. There is no place in the world that you have an absolute separation of powers. We are all part of the government of the federation and the duties of both the executive and the legislature is to provide good governance for Nigerians and that is what Nigerians expect from us.   There should be a kind of synergy between the two arms of government and the executive and legislative friction is not to deepen the problems of Nigerians but to find lasting solution to them.   It is important to note that the senators are from different political parties but once we are inaugurated, the issue of party loyalty does not come into play but the people and the entire Nigerian masses. Anytime we begin to look at our mandates as political party mandates; then we have lost focus on why we are in the National Assembly.   If you want to attract projects for your constituency or senatorial zone you cannot do it alone. You must rely on your colleagues to support the motions or second you and this is irrespective of which ever political party you belong to. You also need the co-operations of the relevant ministries to achieve this and those ministries belong to the executive arm of government.   You have no choice but to deliver to your people whatever campaign promise that you made when you were canvassing for their votes and supports.   After you were declared winner, it was alleged that you had meetings with Chief Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress National Leader. How true?   Yes some people said I wanted to join the APC, some said that I have abandoned my party the YPP. I went to Lagos to assist our Igbo brothers and sisters contesting election in Lagos State. They are all our people and it is not easy for somebody from the South-East to go to Lagos and contest election. So they need to be encouraged and I am happy that we got favourable results and my trip was not in vain after all.  Is it in the spirit of your “Afa Igbo Efuna” campaign which you initiated?  The name of the Igbo people cannot be forgotten and I must work hard to actualise this. There is no part of the world that you will not see an Igbo man. In fact where ever you go and you do not see an Igbo man; there; just go back to where you are coming from. It is only the Igbo man that will go to a very dry area and in the next five or six years business will start booming and development will come to that area. When you go round Lagos you will discover that almost all the big markets were developed by Igbo people. We sand fill the swamps and build markets on top of it and people will start visiting those places.  If you go to Abuja you will witness the same thing even in every part of Northern Nigeria.  So my campaign is that Nigerians should recognize the contributions of the Igbo man in the socio political and economic development of Nigeria. You cannot wish this away and remove the Igbo man from the Nigerian polity. My campaign is for the Igbo man to be counted in Nigeria and beyond. So far I have been mentoring Igbo youths in the area of entrepreneurship and grooming them about life and its challenges in the outside world.  I have taken a great number of them outside the country to interface with their contemporaries in those countries, and it has given them the much needed exposure.   After the tenure of Governor Willie Obiano, Anambra people are looking at Anambra South senatorial zone to produce the next governor. Are you going to contest?  I am a Senator of the Federal Republic and I have the mandate of Anambra South Senatorial zone to give them quality representation. At the moment, that is what is occupying my mind.  On the issue of zoning I support the concept so that we shall have equity. Today Anambra North is in the government house and before then Anambra Central had been there. So it is only fair and just that the south produces the next governor of our state. But we should be aware of the fact that power is not given but is taken. So Anambra South should not go to sleep because we feel it is our turn. We have to work hard to actualize this and we need to come together to fashion out a way of actualizing this ambition. All political parties should buy into this concept so that development will go round.   On your question if I am going to contest for the post of governor, the people of Anambra State will decide and it is not up to me to say. My achievements in the Senate will also count. If I do not do well as a Senator, what locus standing do I have to aspire for the governorship seat of Anambra state? Let the people make a statement on that and let the other zones give us the support.  