A clash between two drivers at Igogo-Ekiti in Moba Local Government Area of Ekiti State yesterday claimed the life of one person. One of the drivers, who allegedly disagreed over ticket being given to members for daily operations, was said to have beaten his rival with a substance suspected to be a charm. The victim died on the spot. Although the two drivers were members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), the crisis was fierce and bloody. Supporters and relations of the dead driver reportedly attacked those loyal to the alleged killer. The irate drivers were said to have brandished dangerous weapons like machetes, cudgels and bottles during the clash. A witness told journalists that the fracas started between two drivers but later escalated to a full-scale fight involving other drivers and relations of the two feuding individuals. The crisis paralysed commercial activities in the community while armed policemen were later drafted to the area. One of the drivers was said to have obtained a ticket in the morning and allegedly declined payment when asked after some hours, a situation which resulted in a hot argument and later degenerated into fracas. “As they started exchanging blows, one of them brought out a substance suspected to be a charm and hit the other. He fell immediately and became unconscious. Efforts to revive him proved abortive,” the witness said. Those who were injured during the clash were rushed to hospital. The state NURTW Chairman, Mr. Osho Farotimi, described the clash as unfortunate and uncalled for. Also, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, confirmed the clash. He said: “We heard that it was a clash between two drivers and one of them was said to have hit the deceased with a substance suspected to be a charm. The victim died. “Due to the fact that a life was lost, it escalated. But the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Asuquo Amba, quickly drafted more men to the area and normalcy has been restored.” Ikechukwu said the principal suspect had been arrested and detained by the police while investigation had commenced into the case.