ADEWALE AJAYI reports on the controversy trailing the recent distribution of education materials by the immediate Senate President, Bukola Saraki, in Kwara State  Since he failed in his bid to return to the Senate, where he was hitherto fortunate to preside over the affairs of the Red Chamber for four years, and also losing the political empire he inherited from his father – Senator Olusola Saraki – the immediate past Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki has been receiving bashing from his political adversaries. His travail is borne out of the fact that his antagonists saw his defeat as an opportunity to get back at him, now that he is regarded as vulnerable, after he lost his influence in Kwara politics during the 2019 general elections. Prior to the 2019 general elections, Saraki, who governed Kwara State with the influence of his father for two consecutive terms of eight years before going to the Senate in 2011, was dreaded and respected by his political associates and followers, as many people looked up to him for favour and patronage. But the state where Saraki called the shots for many years condemned his move to distribute education material for schools in his senatorial constituency. The Kwara State government while rejecting the education materials donated by the former President of the Senate, said Saraki personalised the constituency project that was for Kwara public schools. According to a statement issued by the Press Secretary to the Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Yakub Aliagan, the ministry was not aware of the donation initially. ”The state government wasn’t aware of the distribution of these instructional materials in the first instance. The appropriate thing to do is to send those materials to the Ministry of Education, which has a statutory duty of vetting learning materials for quality control and then approve such for distribution. “Not doing so was a violation of a basic rule, which is key to strengthening our institutions and keeping standards. Besides, it is wrong for anyone to emblazon their images or personal logos on instructional materials made with public resources for distribution in public schools. “The said materials were some sort of Constituency Projects, which have been approved and funded by the Federal Government of Nigeria,” Aliagan stated. He further explained that the state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, had earlier rejected a proposal to emblazon his personal picture on instructional materials for public School. Responding, to the allegation, the Mandate Office of the former Senate President explained that the Kwara State government misunderstood the capturing and implementation process of the distributed instructional materials. The Director of Project and Empowerment of the Mandate Office, Otukoko Ibraheem, in a statement, accused the Kwara State government of having a misconception of the true picture of the process and rejected the donation. “From the published positions, it is clear that the state government has misconceptions about the true picture of the processes involved in capturing and implementation of projects of that nature. “For the purpose of clarity, the distribution of the instructional materials is a constituency project facilitated by Saraki through the Universal Basic Education Commission UBEC. “It is a commission constituted by law as an agency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to build and develop capacities of students in Basic Schools in the constituency. “And the constituency projects with UBEC is not limited to distribution of books, it includes: Construction of classrooms, provision of Pupils and Teachers’ furniture, distribution of customized notebooks and textbooks (as it appears in the UBEC documents). “It also includes the distribution of Science Laboratory equipment, distribution of Mathematics kits, distribution of computer systems and generator sets,” he said. Ibraheem further stressed that during the needs assessment conducted by the Mandate Office in collaboration with the Local Government Education Area offices, which are directly in charge of Basic Schools (Primary 1-6 and JSS 1-3) across the four local governments for capturing of schools with basic infrastructure and material needs and same was communicated to UBEC by Mandate office for implementation. “Prior to distribution of the items, the Mandate Office, again informed the LGAs to invite the selected schools, as shortlisted by UBEC for collection of ‘approved’ items for their respective schools. So, to say the state government is not aware of the distribution will throw many unanswerable questions to one’s mind,” Ibraheem stated. He categorically stated that no picture was emblazoned on the materials as claimed by the state government. According to him, the materials are of UBEC standards across the country. His words: “It was published by the Federal Government approved publishers such as RASMED Publishers Limited, BINANI publishing Limited, STRAIGHT GATE Publisher Limited and others as they are in the UBEC database as approved publishers. ”So, for the ministry to say the items are ‘substandard’ and need vetting would mean that the ministry is not aware of these processes undergone by the UBEC already or that the ministry decided not to know to allow it dance to the tune dictated by the payer of the piper. ”On the emblazoned pictures on the instructional materials, it is to be noted that no picture was emblazoned by Senator Saraki or his Mandate Office on the distributed items. ”It is a standard used by MDAs for some projects of both the Executives and the legislators, especially when it has to do with training equipment and material supplies. ”If the state government has any biased issue with this, it is advisable that she communicates the UBEC and other MDAs involved on the need to change the approach.” While the Saraki camp insists that what is playing out over distribution of the educational materials as venting of anger by the Kwara State government, there is no doubt that some people in the state are still aggrieved over the political hegemony created by the Saraki family and which sidelined some prominent indigenes of the state. While only those who were ready to kowtow before the family were considered for political patronages, the people of the state had wanted to overthrow the dynasty for years, but always failed until the opportunity afforded itself in the last general election. Not satisfied with dethroning Saraki political dynasty, some people in the state are even afraid of his shadow and are doing anything humanly possible to demystify his position and influence. Against this backdrop, any good gesture from his end is misconstrued and misinterpreted. Such is seen as an attempt on his part to bounce back to reckoning. But, some members of political school in the state are of the view that politics should not be a do-or-die affair, but an avenue to advance an idea or a cause and doing contrary may not usher in the development expected, which is the major objective of being in politics. By rejecting the education materials supplied to the state, the pupils are at the receiving end and they are the ones that will hear the brunt. To analysts and observers, there is the need to draw a line between politics and delivering of dividends of democracy to the people. They also opined that that the essence of been in politics is to serve the people and not for personal aggrandizement.