Former Governor and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for inaugurating an Economic Advisory Council (EAC) chaired by Professor Doyin Salami.
Applauding the President’s efforts in fixing the nation’s economy, the politician expressed confidence in the membership of the council.
The Senator noted  that the members of the team are people with integrity and vast experience in their respective fields.
While charging the new team to work collectively with the organised private sector (OPS), relevant government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), the academia and other stakeholders in a bid to retool the economy, Kalu stressed that government must sustain pragmatic programmes and policies that will enhance the Ease of Doing Business (EODB) in the country.
The former governor, who is a big player in the Nigerian economy, emphasized  the imperative of pragmatic monetary and fiscal policies in promoting sustainable development.
In a statement signed by his media office on Monday, Kalu stated that with the inauguration of the EAC, the President has demonstrated his determination to build a strong and robust economy.
He said: “The constitution of an Economic Advisory Council (EAC) by President Buhari is a welcome and timely development.
“The EAC will play a crucial role in complementing the efforts of the President in fixing Nigeria’s economy.
“The government must drive policies that will create a conducive business atmosphere for local and foreign investors.
“The team must review the current economic policies in a bid to stimulate growth and development.”
The former governor, while calling on government to grant concessions inform of tax holidays, import duty waivers and export promotion and expansion grants to the agricultural, manufacturing and industrial sectors, noted that the economic base of the country must be diversified for national well being.
Kalu, who wished the newly constituted team success in their national assignment, urged the OPS and other stakeholders to support the President in his determination to reposition the country.