The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday told the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to use the allegation of violence to rig the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State. INEC had reportedly expressed the fear that violence might affect the conduct of the election. But PDP in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, charged the commission to ensure credible, free and fair election devoid of logistic failures capable of stoking agitations and violence in the election. The party called on INEC to issue direct warning to Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to desist from any act of violence in the election. “Our party is already aware of the heinous plots by jittery Yahaya Bello to orchestrate violence, having realised that there is no way he can win in this election. “Our message to the governor is that such cannot save him from a crushing defeat at the polls. “While the PDP do not support or preach violence, it must be noted that our party is standing behind the people of Kogi State in their determination never to allow anybody to intimidate or suppress them,” PDP stated. The party described the November 16 election as a march by the people of Kogi State against “a suppressive, cruel, chaotic, sadistic, acrimonious and inhuman administration. “It is a determined march against acute poverty, hunger and starvation, fear, general low life and despondency in the state, which Governor Yahaya Bello and the APC represent.” According to the statement, the Kogi election would mark “a triumph of light over darkness, freedom over suppression, prosperity over poverty, justice over impunity, peace over violence, progress over stagnation, democracy over personality cult. and self-centeredness.” It added that no amount of intimidation could stop the people in their resolve to elect a governor of their choice. PDP advised INEC to desist from negative extrapolations and be ready to deliver a credible, free, fair, transparent election, devoid of logistic failures tailored to frustrate the will of the people.