•Lawyer:  ‘Don’t take laws into your hands’  T he General Overseers of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (Worldwide), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has urged Nigerians not to retaliate against South Africans and their businesses over on-going xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in their country, even as a lawyer advised that government should be allowed to sort the issue out.   Beginning his sermon around 11pm at the September edition of the monthly Holy Ghost Service, which held at the Redemption Camp along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on Friday, Adeboye said: “I beg you in the name of God, don’t retaliate against South Africa.”   The revered pastor recalled his frightening experience as a student of the University of Nigeria Nsukka as the Civil War was about to start when non-easterners were seized in the Eastern Region as students of the University of Ibadan were also seized in the Western Region.   Adeboye noted that only a few South Africans were fomenting trouble, stating an average citizen of the country is decent. He also noted that Nigerians relocate to countries like South Africa in search of jobs that were not available in their country.   He, therefore, warned Nigerians against reprisals for the sake of their countrymen who are still in South Africa.   The pastor said in part: “Be careful. Don’t retaliate against South Africa, because of the Nigerians who are still in South Africa.   “So, for the sake of your own kit and kin, don’t retaliate against South Africa. Let us leave this job to the governments, let them solve this problem at the governmental level. Pray for them, that God will give them the wisdom, the understanding, the ability to do it.”   Meanwhile, the Managing Partner at SimmonsCooper Partners, a law firm in Nigeria, Dapo Akinosun, has called on Nigerians to allow Federal Government address the issue of xenophobic attacks against Nigerian citizen in South Africa rather than taking laws into their hands by attacking shops linked to South Africa in Nigeria.   Speaking to journalists at the weekend in Lagos, Akinosun also advised Nigerians living abroad to desist from any criminal activities, such as drug peddling and Internet fraud that can tarnish the image of Nigeria.   His words: “Two wrongs can never make a right. South Africans do not come to Nigeria to come and work in Shoprite; it is Nigerians that are employed there. Three-quarters of the staff of MTN are Nigerians. So, when we attack organisations like that, we are depriving our own fellow Nigerians who are lucky enough to even get job in these places. If all those who work in Shoprite are shut out, who is going to pay them salary? That will create another problem for everybody who depends on those salary earners. So, we should continue saying no to that line of violence.   “There are more civil ways of dealing with such cases. If there is a problem between Nigeria and South Africa, the government can do more than what you can do by looting their shops. They can prevent them from taking money out of Nigeria to South Africa. That would be a more reasonable punishment than saying you wants to go and steal things in Shoprite because those shops belong to Nigerians. The money taken there does not affect South Africans.”   He also called on government to take hard measures against drug pushers in Nigeria, adding that some of the crimes in Nigeria, such as kidnapping are related to drug because some of those who kidnapped for ransom did so to raise money to buy drugs.  “Unless we deal with issue of drug harder, none of us is safe again. We need to address the issue urgently. The situation has become bad to the extent that people do discover different drug substance anytime government bans any drug. Unless we as a country is ready to take very hard stance, none of us is safe. So, we must do something urgent to check drug. There are deeper causes of this that has to be addressed holistically,” he advised.