 E kiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi yesterday disclosed that the World Bank would soon embark on some legacy projects across the state worth about $500 million.   The governor stated this in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, while presenting cheques worth N180 million to 19 benefiting communities under the state’s self-help community development programme.   The presentation came barely six months after the state government doled out about N216 million to some communities for various self-help projects.   Fayemi during presentation ceremony held at the Government House Hall said his administration was determined to improve technical education by ensuring that all the technical colleges in the state were upgraded in its drive to improve skills development and education of residents.   The governor said “I’m also pleased to inform you that no fewer than five World Bank projects would be starting in the state across many of the local governments within the next few months and all of these would cost about $500 million.   “Today’s ceremony is one of the multiplier effects of the Ekiti State value restoration agenda of this administration and we are poised to make a similar meaningful impact in every stratum of our society. As a government that wants both urban and rural developments, we paid our own counterpart fund to activate this World Bank project geared towards improving the living condition of people at the grassroots.   “When you entrusted the management of Ekiti State’s commonwealth in our care, we promised and assured you all that your welfare and well-being will be of paramount interest to us. We are here today to strengthen the bond and deliver one of our promises.   “I admonish you to make sure you use the money for the completion of the projects for the benefit of your people and follow the laid down rules and regulations of the World Bank so those other communities can benefit. The government will not hesitate to sanction any individual, group or community found wanting in the implementation of the selected and approved projects.”   He, however, commended EKCSDA for its effort towards actualizing desired goals of rural development while advising them to work assiduously to ensure the best for the state.   Earlier, chairman of the agency, Dr. Yemi Alatise commended Fayemi for facilitating the World Bank’s support for developing the rural areas of the state through various projects approved by the World Bank.