Following reports on rising non-compliance to Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) in critical sectors of the economy with manufacturing sector topping the list, Nigeria’s economy is reported to be losing N30 billion annually to safety challenges and other forms of accidents. Chairman, Lagos State Branch of the Institute of Safety Professionals of Nigeria (ISPN), Engr. Timothy Iwuagwu, made this known at the fifth Nigeria Safety Award for Excellence Hall of Fame (9jasafe) 2019 in Lagos recently. He said accidents arising from non-safety compliance in the industrial sector and other sectors were costing the country’s gross domestic product N30 billion in revenue loss annually. He explained that safety in the country was still evolving, despite peculiar challenges as a developing nation, and arguably still in the formative stage. Iwuagwu noted that the reason for this was because there is no current national legislation that mandates stakeholders and regulators on safety adherence, saying with the absence of strict regulations, health and safety is approached and seen as actions relegated to use of common-sense practice by most employers and businesses. According to him, most industrial firms operating in the country pay little or no attention to safety practice except multinationals that have adopted world best practices in their work places. The Lagos chairman of the safety institute bemoaned the sorry state of safety regulation in the country, saying that failure of will power had relegated the safety sector to the background despite the laws being there. Iwuagwu said: “In terms of naira and kobo, we are losing N30 billions if not trillions to safety challenges annually especially looking at the gross negligence among operating firms across the country. “Remember that government cannot employ more than necessary and the bulk of those at work are self-employed people who are in the private sector, that is, informal sector and these people are mostly people who either have enough time to sit down to listen to some of the guidelines regarding safety at work place or some of them do not even know the hazards associated with the types of practice they are engaged in. “So they become ill informed either by direct exposure to harmful situations, conditions, materials or they just assumed. You know that some assumptions are very deadly. “I will tell you something, do you know the number of young men who are employed to work at height? Do you know that the telecoms industry has thousands of mass and they engaged Nigerians in installation of Antenna, dishes on these masses? Are you aware that they have to climb and work at height? Are you also aware that most of them have never attended any safety training on working at height because they have never bother to know the office of the institute of safety professionals of Nigeria and their employers are very happy taking advantage of their ignorance and even making sure they are not expose further to such knowledge as far as they climb and come down safely every day.”