Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Western Marine Command, has intercepted 6,550 cartons of poultry products within one week. The seizures were made between September 20 and 24, 2019 at Ebeche and Badagry waterways in Lagos State. Its Comptroller, Boyilila Binga, said in Lagos that the seizures were made by a combination of the command’s intelligence and enforcement capacity. He added that smugglers were getting sophisticated and that Customs had devised means which were more sophisticated to counter them. Binga added that it was very obvious that with the border closure, creeks would be their next options, but the officers were keeping vigil as the command would continue the onslaught until the smugglers retreated. Binga noted that the communal relationship between the officers and villages along the coast had been of benefit to the success and had come to stay. The comptroller said that the availability of operations tools and personnel motivation had helped the service responding whenever any alert was raised. According to him, the NCS has said that the importation of poultry products remained prohibited. Already, New Telegraph had reported that smugglers had shifted to the creeks to bring foreign parboil rice and other consumable goods from the neighbouring countries to Nigeria in order to beat joint security operation at the borders. It was learnt that they were moving rice, frozen, chicken, turkey and vegetable oil from Gbaji, Badagry creeks to Agbara with speedboats in the night because of the tight security at the land borders. However, a trader, who identified herself as Bunmi, told our correspondent that the cost of smuggling the food items through the creeks was high because of the fuel consumed by the boats. Bunmi claimed they paid high charges to boat operators and motor drivers before the goods could finally get to their destination. She added that frozen chicken and turkey had started coming into the market since last week. However, findings showed that the watertight security at the land borders has affected the prices of both foreign and local foods in the Lagos markets.