 The United States Mission in Nigeria and the American Business Council, in affiliation with the Federal Government of Nigeria has set up a regional work group taskforce against counterfeit pharmaceuticals, regional cybercrime, cyber-security, and internet piracy. The resolution was part of the highlights of the two-day Intellectual Property (IP) Symposium held in Lagos at the instance of the US Mission Nigeria with the theme “The Bane of Counterfeit Pharmaceuticals and Piracy.”  The event came to a close yesterday. Present at the symposium were a broad range of stakeholders, including senior officials from Federal ministries, departments and agencies, legislators, lawyers, business, and technology leaders. Delivering remarks on the importance of intellectual property rights protection,  U.S. Embassy Chargé d’affaires, Kathleen FitzGibbon, said intellectual property rights protection enables the innovation and creativity needed to bolster economic growth. FitzGibbon said: “This is not just an American issue. This  is a global issue and as Nigeria moves ahead with goals of diversifying and shifting to a knowledge-based economy, a strong intellectual property rights regime will help attract investment and protect Nigerian ideas and Nigerian businesses.” She noted further that strong intellectual property rights protection was essential to creating jobs and opening new markets for goods and services. FitzGibbon urged stakeholders––government, consumers, and businesses to join forces in ensuring the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights. Other speakers at the opening of the symposium were Robert Bowman from the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development Assistance and Training as well as Professor Adebambo Adewopo, a leading intellectual property scholar and the IP Chair at the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies. In addition, the opening day of the symposium featured panel discussions, exhibitions, and the screening of the documentary “Fishbone.” The Nollywood-produced film highlights the menace of counterfeit pharmaceuticals and their effect on both Nigeria citizens and the local economy. Through economic diplomacy overseas, the United States encourages host-nation governments to establish predictable legal regimes to ensure intellectual property rights can be secured. As a follow-up to the IP symposium, the regional taskforce against counterfeit pharmaceuticals and health-related safety will hold their first roundtable meeting between September 18-20, while the regional cybercrime, cyber security, and internet piracy workshop will take place on September 23-27, 2019.