Manchester United have reportedly made contact with Paul Pogba’s agent in the hope of the midfielder signing a new contract at the club. Pogba made his desire to leave Old Trafford clear at the start of the summer, saying that he wanted a new challenge elsewhere. A transfer saga ensued for the entirety of the close season, with Real Madrid and former club Juventus keen on signing the World Cup winner, but United unwilling to sell and the Frenchman has stayed put. The 26-year-old has now started all four of United’s Premier League games so far this season and the club are reportedly looking to convince him to extend his stay. L’Equipe report that United’s Executive Vice-chairman, Ed Woodward, has contacted Pogba’s agent, Mino Raiola, about the possibility of signing a new contract keeping him at Old Trafford beyond 2021, when his current deal expires. Having already said he wants to leave the club, Pogba will take some persuading to sign a new deal at Old Trafford and it would almost certainly take substantially increased wages to persuade him. The midfielder already earns £290,000-a-week, so a vastly improved offer might be very difficult to produce, and reports have suggested that Pogba has no intention of signing a new contract anyway. Pogba’s brother, Mathias, told El Chiringuito earlier this week: ‘Paul knows that he cannot leave Manchester United so he’s going to focus on this season. “It’s not easy right now, because he has a lot of responsibility in the team, a lot of big players have left. “The only great player is [David] De Gea, the goalkeeper, which means he’s going to have to put a lot of effort in every game.” Meanwhile, Tahith Chong has revealed that Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has told him to be ready for first-team opportunities at Manchester United this season. The 19-year-old featured heavily during United’s pre-season tour but has not yet made an appearance for Solskjaer’s side in their four Premier League matches so far. Chong had loan offers from PSV and Feyenoord in the summer but opted to stay at United instead of leaving Old Trafford. And the midfielder insists he is keen to remain at United as it is the best option for his career, reports metro.co.uk. 