K aduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Hon Samuel Aruwan, yesterday disclosed that security operatives ere working round the clock to free six perople abducted from their village.   The abduction took place in Ungwan Hausawa-Dutse, Dutse village in Chikun Local Government area of the state.  Aruwan, however, denied that any traveller was abducted on the Kaduna-Abuja highway contrary to reports making the rounds.   The commissioner made the denial in a statement entitled: “Clarification on the purported kidnapping of 13 commuters on the Kaduna-Abuja Road.”   He said: “The attention of the Kaduna State Security Council has been drawn to a story making the rounds on social media, suggesting that bandits blocked the Kaduna-Abuja Highway on the 23 September 2019 and kidnapped 13 commuters.  “To set the record straight, there was no report of bandits blocking the Kaduna-Abuja Highway or subsequently kidnapping any commuters on that road. Rather, the crime happened in a village.   “From crime entries and reports from the District Head of Gwagwada, Alhaji Shittu Abdullahi, six persons were kidnapped in the early hours of Monday 23rd September, 2019, at Ungwan Hausawa-Dutse, Dutse village in Chikun Local Government Area. “The kidnapped persons are not commuters plying the Kaduna-Abuja Road and were not kidnapped on the road.”  The commissioner, however, promised that the victims would soon be rescued.  He said: “The military and the police are working assiduously to locate and secure the release of the kidnapped persons.   “It is regrettable that innocent persons were kidnapped in their village and that security challenges persist. But this should not be worsened by inaccurate reports of the location of a crime. False reports increase fear among road users and dampen the morale of the military and security agencies who are working to make the highways safe.” Soldiers attached to the joint Operation Thunder Strike deployed on the Kaduna-Abuja highway have rescued seven persons, among them a seven-year-old girl. The victims were kidnapped at Rijana on Kaduna-Abuja highway on Saturday. They were travelling from Ofa, Kwara State to Kaduna when their abductors dressed in full military uniform,… In "Metro and Crime" Tales of deaths, kidnappings, accidents   Kaduna-Abuja highway has gradually but steadily become the most dangerous road in Nigeria. It is now turned into a hub for kidnappers and robbers that travellers now subsist in their jaws nowadays. ISIOMA MADIKE, who has been following this ugly trend, reports    … In "Investigation" Eight suspected kidnappers operating on the Abuja-Kaduna highway were paraded yesterday at the Force Headquarters, Abuja. Parading the suspects before journalists, the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Jimoh Moshood, said some of the suspects were allegedly responsible for the killing of a former Commissioner of Education in Kaduna State,… In "Metro and Crime"