A buja zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested three suspected internet fraudsters on the list of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States.   The anti-graft agency said while two of the suspects, Chika Augustine and Godspower Nwachukwu, were arrested in a joint operation with the FBI, the third suspect was arrested by an independent team of operatives.   Head of Abuja zonal office of the EFCC, Mr. Aminu Aliyu, at a press briefing to highlight the commission’s activities, also disclosed that a total of N423,006,987.92, $39,253 and €2330 had been recovered. Aliyu added that during the period under review, 293 arrests were made, while over 465 cases were currently being investigated.   A total of 21 convictions were secured by the Cyber Crime Unit, he added.   “Prior to the release of the FBI list, we had in collaboration with the FBI, cases under investigation of which two suspects indicted on the list released by the FBI are in our custody. On the other hand, another suspect on the list is being investigated independently on a different case and his case is pending arraignment.   “Under my leadership, the zone has stayed focused on the commission’s vision and goal to ensure that we fight corruption to the end. In line with that and in accordance with the acting chairman’s mission, the zone has strategised plans aimed at preventing, investigating and prosecuting financial and economic crimes. I make bold to say that this has yielded fruitful results.   “From January 2019 till date, our relentless anti-corruption stance saw us secure 33 convictions. We currently carry out collaborative operations with other zones and it has resulted to about 293 arrests and over 465 cases are currently under investigations. Of these arrests and investigations, 90 arrests were made mostly through intelligence gathering, 21 convictions were secured by the Cyber Crime Unit and 110 cases are still under investigation,” Aliyu said.   On the recoveries made so far, he said: “We have also been able to recover a large number of exotic cars and properties suspected to have been acquired through the proceeds of crime. “Notably, from January to August 2019, recovered funds stand at N423,006,987.92; $39,253 and €2330.   “Devices used by the suspects have been confiscated and the proceeds from these cybercrimes will be forfeited after convictions have been secured. “We have further intensified our efforts in cracking down cybercrimes that have been traced down to Nigeria in collaboration with the FBI”