Principal Partner, Yomi Hussain & Co, Mr. Yomi Hussain, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) as well as the Chartered Institute Of Taxation Of Nigeria (CITN).  In this Interview with Tony Chukwunyem, he speaks on topical financial issues   Data released by NBS shows a slowdown in Q2 GDP growth. There are fears that given what is happening on the global scene, especially the trade wars between China and the US, the nation’s economy could slip back into recession if the Federal Government does not act fast. How do you see the situation?   We are operating within the global setting and there is no way we can possibly   get completely away from what is happening there-whether it is in our favour or against. But what is so important and I have been hammering this all along, is that we are not trying enough to protect our own economy-we get unnecessarily exposed and that now exposes us to more vagaries from the international economy. The China we are talking about had to close their doors at a point and that is why they are relevant today. We should do something similar. We cannot rely solely on what is called international best practices or whatever the IMF or World Bank says. We should look inwards and ‘home-grow’ our own perspectives of the economy. That is the only way we can reduce our exposure to the vagaries of the international economy.   Analysts are also concerned about the Q2 capital importation report, which showed a decline in inflows. According to them, the development can impact exchange rate stability.  How can the country reduce its dependence on capital inflows?   The answer is very simple; we have to emphasise the domestic economy as against the international economy. For a start, the exchange rate; I’m not convinced about the approach to what the exchange rate is. I have engaged a lot of academics who have more knowledge of this matter than I.  They have not been able to convince me. I have not been able to see any convincing reason why   the naira is exchanging for N360 to $1. If we basically consume what we produce, our exposure will be limited.  There was a day a younger brother of mine said he just felt like buying food from one of these roadside canteens. He told me that although he spent only N250 to buy the rice he ate, he could not finish it. If you covert that to dollar, it cannot get you a loaf of bread in America. So let us get this straight; yes we are in the international economic environment, but we have to strengthen our own economy first. It must be a priority; not the exchange rate; not dollar. We are abusing our naira a lot. Now, if  for whatever reason we reduce our level of importation, the exchange rate will follow sooth. If we encourage our professional and technical people to manufacture machines, devices and tools here, that will further strengthen our naira.  You cannot continue to rely on FDI.    As a matter of fact, there is nothing significant about FDI. What we have here is foreign portfolio investment, which to me is like robbery of our economy- I’m sorry to put it that way. Let me give you the perspective to that.  They come in here, buy our shares, make it scarce, shoot up the price, sell and walk away with the profit.  And you know the most unfortunate thing? There is a law that says that there is no tax on it. So what have we benefitted? They bring in their currency, exchange it for our abused currency, use it to buy our own portfolio here, shoot up the price and at the end of the day sell it and walk away with the whole thing. We don’t need to deceive ourselves; that is not what is going to grow our economy. If you want international community to participate in our economy, let them come and establish here so that people can be employed and the economy will be better for it. It is just unfortunate that it is not only the international community that is abusing our naira, even our banking system here. Until when the new finance minister specifically regulates the level of treasury bill transactions by the banks, it was like free money for them. They will just collect peoples’ deposits to go buy treasury bills at a higher amount so they cannot give loans to the real sector any longer. You will thus discover that the banks are walking away every year with a lot of profit  as intermediator when the economy itself is in trouble. I cannot understand that. Economic policy makers are there; but I don’t know whether they are seeing what I’m seeing. You call somebody an intermediator-that is what the banks are – they walk away, year-in-year out with a lot of profit and the economy itself is lying prostrate and nobody is asking questions.   What is your stance on CBN’s announcement that it plans to restrict access to forex for milk importation and also implement President Buhari’s di rective on stoppage of forex access for importers of food items?   We are running a market economy. For you to make a particular business attractive there must be market for the product. If government decides that a ban on the importation of milk is necessary, it will boost the business of making that particular product, I don’t see the problem with that. I had my first degree in agriculture – that was about 40 years ago- and I happen to know that virtually every part of this country had a ranch where milk was being produced. We visited. We made a tour in my university days (my final year) . In those days, they were producing, they were pasteurising and so on. Immediately there is a ban, that sector will be revived and the economy will be better for it. Well, temporarily, it will be hard; there is no success without sacrifice. Let Nigerians see it as a sacrifice. There are a lot of substitutes for milk. People eat what Yoruba call wara. It is the same thing as the milk we are talking about. It is importation that has indulged our palate. That has made us to feel that without certain things we cannot survive; of course we will survive. The Chinese we are talking about, why have they become a large economy, why has their economy become one to reckon with? Why is their economy shaking the global economy? It is because they developed their internal strength and their internal economy to become competitive. There is nothing wrong in us doing the same. I believe very strongly that one of the reasons chop sticks emerged is that they (Chinese) don’t want to be importing forks, spoons and knives. And it has become a fad, it has become like an elitist thing. Let us do the same; we can do it. We have all it takes to do it. The trading scenario in Nigeria, especially importation, is destroying our economy. Let us develop what we have today. Look at what happened to the textile industry. When we were growing up it was the largest employer of labour. Now it is no more. It is either people import already made, or they import used clothes. No, it is not good; it is not good for our psyche; it is not good for our dignity and it is not good for our economy.   But what would you say to critics who worry about the negative impact (pain) on the economy if government suddenly adopts drastic measures? For instance, the closure of borders has led to increase in prices of poultry and other things?   We like to deceive ourselves. For instance, when TSA was introduced, people were complaining as if it was a new thing; it was not.  It was already in the constitution that all monies generated must go to the consolidated revenue account.  It is the same thing. About 40 items were already on CBN’s forex restriction list – most of them were food items. So why are we complaining now? Is it because it is now a kind of public debate and the media has taken it over and is blowing it out of proportion?. It has always been there. Take the closure of the borders for instance. People are talking about the price of turkey. People breed turkey here year in year out.  If you stop the importation of turkey, it will create a market economy. They are talking about agriculture; that is another incentive to boost production. So, don’t let us see every action of government as a punishment.  Let us see it as the sacrifice we have to make to ensure that we stop abusing our economy and we get around this complaint about things being tough. If you produce and sell, things will never be tough for you. But if   you have to wait for government manna to fall from Abuja, the complaint will never end.   Analysts have queried the fact that even though Nigeria’s debts have increased significantly in recent years, yet the country’s GDP has not been growing. What do you think is responsible?   Somebody said that if we don’t kill corruption in this country, corruption will eventually kill us. We talk of corruption as if it is just a normal societal ill that we can just continue to discuss. Corruption is a poison to the economy and for as long as it is there, nothing will ever move. If we look at a hypothetical situation where there is no corruption at all, you will see the value money will bring to individuals, corporate and government. When you go for a loan that you want to use for infrastructure and in the process you over inflate the contract, there is no way the gap in GDP growth and borrowing will end. If you deploy the money for what it is meant, the multiplier effect will show. For instance, instead of constructing 300km of road, you end up constructing 50; the problem will still be there-the infrastructural deficit will still be there. And for as long as we have infrastructural deficit, it will be a day dream to think that the economy will improve.  There is nowhere any economy can grow without infrastructure. If you pump a lot of money into infrastructure, it is the effects that will help the economy to even pay for the loan and even get something on top of it for the economy positively. I’m very sure that if all of us decide to say no to corruption, all these statistics will just change overnight. But it is there and we are pretending as if it is just an ordinary issue. It is a very serious issue. And that is why in some countries, China for instance, if you are caught, you are a dead man. That is why they are where they are. But for long as you are treating it like if it is petty stealing – because that is the  way  we are handling it in this country – the consequence is not there – people will still continue committing acts of corruption. So you see the display of so called luxury in a poor society like ours.  Some forensic accountants have faulted banks on recent measures that the lenders introduced, which compels debtors to sign an agreement that will allow a bank to seize their assets(deposits) in other banks if they default.  What is your position on the development?   If you are honest and your dignity is not in doubt, there is no way you will want to expose the bank and you don’t want to expose yourself. Because that is what it means. If you feel that you want to be indebted to bank A and you want your deposits in bank B to be safe, and you want to put bank A into trouble, then it means that you are not being fair. There is nothing unfair about that arrangement as far as I’m concerned. So let the banks do what they are supposed to do while the customers should protect the banks that are trying to help them in their business. I don’t see any problem with the measure. They are not saying that the debtors are criminals; all they are saying is that if you are indebted to me, let me have a fall-back position.  