A 44-year-old father, Kabiru Oke, and his son, Faruq, 19, have been arrested for allegedly raping and impregnating a 13-yearold girl. Police investigation revealed that the victim had been living with the father and son for some years. The incident, which left many residents stunned, occurred at No 1, Olatikupo Street, Egbeda, Lagos State. In a similar incidente, Mr. Marainerume Alfred (45), living at Oke Itunu Church Close, Ejigbo, Lagos, was arrested for defiling a 14-yearold girl. The victim’s mother reported the matter to the command’s Gender Unit. The girl’s mother alleged that Alfred used to lure the victim into his shop, to have his way with her whenever she was returning from school, along Iyana-Ejigbo Road, Lagos, where he sells CDs. The woman claimed that the suspect used to have sexual intercourse with the underage girl in his shop. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, confirmed both incidents. Elkana explained that on March 27, the Gender Unit received a complaint of defilement of a minor reported by the mother of the 13-year-old girl, stressing that her elder sister’s husband, Oke and his son, Faruq, sexually violated her daughter. He said: “The unholy affairs between the minor and Oke started on October 20, 2018. Oke started having constant sexual intercourse with the victim. The second suspect, who is the son of Oke, started having unlawful carnal knowledge of the same minor on January 10, 2019. Both suspects have constantly threatened to kill the victim if she ever tells anybody about the affairs. The victim exposed them after her mother noticed changes in her and realised that she is pregnant.” The girl was taken to Mirabel Centre by the command’s Gender Unit for medical examination. The two suspects were arrested and charged to Magistrates’ Court 2, Ogba for defilement. The case was adjourned till May 5, while the suspects were remanded in Kirikiri Prison. Speaking on the case of the 14-year-old girl, Elkana said: “The matter was reported to our Gender Unit by the mother of the victim. The complainant stated that they live in the same street with the suspect. That the suspect usually calls the girl into his shop while on her way back from school, along Iyana Ejigbo road Lagos, were he sells CDs and had unlawful sexual intercourse with her in the shop. The crime started on May, 2018 up till 27th March. The suspect, in his statement, revealed that he turned the girl into his sex partner after he divorced his wife in May 2018. The matter was discovered on 27th March 2019 at about 2pm by the survivor’s grandmother, who perceived some odours from the body of the girl when she returned home. The grandmother subjected her to series of questions.” Elkana further said that the girl finally opened up to her grandmother, and narrated the whole story, adding that the suspect threatened that she would die if she ever disclosed the incident to her parents. Elkana said: “The suspect usually gives her some drugs to take and equally used to mix salt and water for her to take after sex in order to prevent her from getting pregnant. Investigation is on-going, suspect will be charged to court for defilement.” Police in Ogun State have arrested a 45-year-old man, Julius Ochim, for allegedly impregnating his 21-yearold daughter (name withheld). The suspect was said to have been having carnal knowledge of his daughter for the past eight years. The victim had even given birth to a baby girl three years ago… In “Metro and Crime” Homosexuality and sodomy are two practices hitherto alien to this clime. But not anymore! ISIOMA MADIKE, who has been tracking the activities of those neck-deep in these acts, tells a disgusting story of a self-confessed pastor filled with evil spirits     He is not just gay but one going… In “Investigation” Police operatives have apprehended a 31-yearold Togolese, Dominic Samson, for allegedly sexually abusing six teenage girls. The suspect was also accused of using the victims for sex orgy. Samson of No. 28, Olusesan Street, Ejigbo, Lagos, was arrested by operatives led by the Divisional Police Officer of Ejigbo Divisional Headquarters,… In “Metro and Crime”