The police on Thursday arraigned six employees, who allegedly stole raw pharmaceutical materials worth N30 million from a company in an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court, Lagos. The police charged Ezekiel Effiong, 33; Olufemi Michael, 21; Tunde Olayiwola, 32;  Lambo Kayode, 31; Blessing Balogun, 38 and Josephine Godwin, 38, with two counts of conspiracy and stealing. They, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. The Prosecutor, Insp Aondohemba Koti, told the court that the defendants committed the offence in January at Ladipo, Mushin, Lagos. Koti said that the defendants stole the raw materials belonging to Daily Need Industrial Group of Companies. He said that the management of the company detected the theft following a tip-off. Koti said when the defendants were questioned, they did not deny it and they were handed over to the police. The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of sections 287 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 287 stipulates three years imprisonment for stealing while section 411 prescribes two years for conspiracy. Magistrate M.O Tanimola admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N200,000 each with two sureties each in like sum. Tanimola ordered that all the sureties must be gainfully employed and should show evidence of two years tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The magistrate adjourned the case until May 8 for mention. (NAN) Two unemployed men: Azeez Noath and Ife Akinyemi, were on Monday brought before an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court in Lagos, for alleged theft of a Samsung phone valued at N140,000. The defendants, Noath, 20, who resides in Saki, Oyo State and Akinyemi, 25, who lives in Egbeda in Lagos State, are… In “Metro and Crime” A 27-year-old suspected cultist, Moses Ikuologbon, on Monday appeared before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for allegedly stealing an Infinix phone worth N30,000. Ikuologbon, whose occupation and address were not provided, is facing a count charge of stealing. The Prosecutor, Sgt. Modupe Olaluwoye, told the court that the… In “Metro and Crime” An Ikeja Magistrate’s Court, Lagos at the weekend remanded in prison custody an employee of a lotto company, Premiere Lotto and an alleged conspirator, for allegedly robbing the company of N2million naira and winning tickets. The accused persons, Obi Kelechi, 24, and Chidiebere Okafor, 22, were arraigned on a… In “Law”