 Members of the House of Representatives loyal to Speaker, Yakubu Dogara are becoming apprehensive over the inability of the nation’s number four man to decide on who to support two weeks after the All progressives Congress (APC) endorsed House leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, as speaker of the 9th Assembly. Saturday Telegraph reliably gathered from sources within the Dogara camp that the anointing of the Lagos lawmaker by the party and the massive support he is enjoying from North West legislators is a source of concern to the group. This newspaper earlier reported how the Dogara camp vowed to put spanners in the works of Gbajabiamila’s second attempt at becoming the speaker. But Dogara’s silence as to whether he will contest or not is a source of concern to his followers across party lines. Our source disclosed that the Dogara group has been meeting but it has not been able to agree on a candidate to adopt who will challenge Gbajabiamila, who is the choice of the APC. The source, who is a returning lawmaker, said Dogara might likely endorse a contestant next week. Although there are five members of the Dogara group contesting for speaker, only two seem to be serious with their ambition as things stand today. The speaker’s loyalists in the race include Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), Hon. Mohammed Umaru Bago (APC, Niger), Hon. Abdulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa), Hon. Babangida Ibrahim (APC, Katsina) and Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara (APC, Borno). “Although five members of this group were initially contesting, only two are visible now. But there is a bit of confusion because we do not know who to support now. It is true we have been meeting. We in the PDP meet and those in the APC also do meet, but there is no consensus yet. “Actually, most of us expect Speaker Yakubu Dogara to clearly come out and tell us where we are going. We have seen reports that he (Dogara) is also interested. But as I talk to you, no one knows his mind. He has not told us anything. The only thing he advised was that those contesting should not spend too much money on campaign so that when we decide on one person, it won’t be difficult for other aspirants to step down,” our source revealed. Continuing, the lawmaker said: “As you can see, only (Hon) Namdas and (Hon) Bago are making serious contacts and campaigning. (Hon) Wase has already agreed with the president to join Gbajabiamila and contest as deputy. He did not tell us but our colleagues got to know at the dinner organised for APC members-elect in the Villa that it is true. “While Bago has relocated his campaign office from Transcorp Hilton Hotel to Treasure Suite Hotel opposite the Federal High Court, Namdas has moved to NICON Luxury Hotel in Area 11. For (Hon) Babangida and Betara, nothing is happening with their campaigns. “But we think the earlier this decision is taken, the better. At one of our meetings, we discussed on the need to adopt a common candidate. It could be from those contesting from the group or we may even adopt a candidate from outside” Asked to name the likely candidates, the lawmaker added: “Our adoption may not likely follow what the APC has done. We are looking at merit, equity and justice. Since Wase is out of the equation, and Betara and Babangida Ibrahim seem to be developing cold feet, we are left with only Bago and Namdas. “Perhaps, Bago would have been our natural choice because he is from the north central, but unfortunately it seems many of our members are not favourable disposed to his choice. As for Namdas, he is liked amongst our members but is from the north east where the senate president is going. “But if for political expediency we decide to look elsewhere, there is Hon. John Dyegh from Benue; there is Hon. Segun Odebunmi from Oyo and of course, Hon. Nkeruika Onyejeocha from Abia can be an option too. In fact, there is also Chike Okafor from Imo. I believe our decision will be best for democracy and Nigeria”, he assured Nigerians. The lawmaker, who expressed optimism that the Dogara camp is confident of beating the APC and Gbajabiamila again, said: “We need just around 35 to 40 votes from APC members to turn the game against him (Gbajabiamila), and it is doable” Messages sent to Dogara’s Special Adviser on Media and Public affairs, Turaki Hassan, to confirm if his principal plans to contest or not were not answered. Meanwhile, Hon. Umaru Mohammed Bago has said the call by certain elements in the camp of Gbajabiamila for the House to abandon electronic voting or secret ballot for open ballot in the election of speaker will not be accepted. Bago disclosed this at an interactive session with select journalists in Abuja, saying the call was tantamount to intimidation while advising members-elect, especially fresh lawmakers, not to be intimidated by it. Bago said: “The call for open ballot voting during the election of the leadership of the National Assembly is crude, if the group behind it is serious, it should have asked that open ballot be adopted for the 2019 general elections. This agitation is pure mischief. If I may ask, who’s afraid of secret ballot? “The House Standing rule is clear on the mode of voting for speaker and deputy speaker. Order 4 (f) (i) and (ii) said: ”The election shall be conducted as follows: by electronic voting; or voting by secret ballot, which shall be conducted by the clerks-at-table using the list of the members-elect of the House who shall each be given a ballot paper to cast his vote, with the proposer and seconder as tellers.” The aspirant for the position of speaker, who is from Niger, maintained that “If any contestant has the number and confident of victory, why the complaint over the system that is enshrined in our House rules and expecting the House to change its rule on the eve of election? I will advise our members not to bow to intimidation.” At the briefing organised by the Niger State APC chairman, Bago quashed suggestions that he had withdrawn from the race, denying ever stepping down from the race. There are, however, allegations that the camp of Gbajabiamila may be hatching a plot to prevent any APC member insisting on contesting for speaker from entering the Green chambers on June 10, the day the election is due to hold. A member of the Dogara camp told Saturday Telegraph in confidence that they had security reports that some of the contestants may be prevented from accessing the chambers. “We have received security reports that they (Gbajabiamila’s camp) is planning to stop any candidate from the APC that refuses to withdraw from the contest before that day from entering the chambers. This to us is a joke and like former President Obasanjo would say, it is a joke taken too far. For goodness sake, this is a democracy and people are free to make their choices. We cannot be stifled.”