 Ambode calls emergency security meeting   Muritala Ayinla Fresh fact yesterday revealed that the abductors of the Lagos State Fire Service Director, Mr. Rasaki Musibau, escaped through the waterway dragging their victims. Among the victims was a couple, who were in their car with two of their children. The kidnappers were further alleged to have taken husband and wife, leaving only children in the car with the car engine running.  This was even as the Lagos State Governor, Ambode Akinwunmi, disturbed by growing insecurity in the state, called for an emergency security meeting. Meanwhile anxiety continues to mount over the kidnappers of Musibau long silence. Many had expected them to contact families of the victims by now.   A source said: “The gunmen at about 8pm, ambushed and kidnapped the fire service boss and six others along Itokin-Epe Road, before disappearing through the waterways near the cenotaph erected in honour of the victims of the ill-fated ADC crash on November 7, 1996.” New Telegraph gathered that besides the fire service director, motorists were flagged down and dragged out of their cars. Among those abducted were parents, whose children were minors.   One of the children was said to have put off the ignition of the vehicle after their parents were forcibly taken away by the bandits, leaving the car engine running. It was further gathered that Musibau made efforts to avoid being kidnapped after sighting the abductors, but he was too close to them.   Thus, his car’s windscreen was smashed just as he was about to make effort to swerve. Musibau, who was alone in the car when he was ambushed, left his two phones, shoes and car key in the car. It was further alleged that the kidnappers deliberately left the victims’ phones to avoid being tracked. Sources close to the family said that the family got to know about the abduction after they were contacted through the state fire service.  “The police got to know of his identity after they called his last dialed number which belongs to the Head of Badagry Fire Station. The Badagry Station alerted the assistant director before we hinted the family,” said a source. Another source confirmed that no contact has been made by the abductors to either the family of Musibau or that of the other victims.   He added: “We’re shocked that Mr Musibau was abducted. We are also worried that the abductors are yet to make any contact or demand. We only pray he is safe because he is dedicated and committed man.” Piqued by the ugly development of kidnap cases in the state, Ambode yesterday summoned an emergency meeting with heads of all security formations to tackle the resurgence of kidnapping and other security issues in the state.   It was gathered that the spate of kidnapping has increased in the Epe axis of the state especially in the riverine areas and villages leading to the ancient town. It was alleged that several people had been kidnapped lately. Some of the victims were said to have been rescued through efforts of community associations, jointly contributed money to pay ransoms.  A source in the State House said that the meeting which would hold at the Ikea State House, Alausa was to wake the Lagos State Police Command from its slumber.  The source said: “Governor Ambode was seriously worried by the abduction of the Director of the State Fire Service, Mr Rasaki Musibau, and had ordered relevant security agencies to ensure that no stone is left unturned to safely rescue him and others. Yes, the governor is worried with the latest kidnapping and has summoned an emergency security meeting.   At this stage, I can’t give too many details on the ongoing operation, but the governor has ordered the concerned security agencies to ensure the safe rescue of the victims.”