Anfield is the setting for Liverpool’s ‘biggest’ remaining test in their quest to end 28 years of league anguish when they play Chelsea this afternoon, notes Tunde Sulaiman  Two weeks ago Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool needed a massive slice of luck to pass the test thrown at them by Tottenham Hotspur when they met in week 32 of the English Premier League. The German and his Reds are battling an almost three-decade jinx in their quest to finally land the ultimate prize in English top flight football – the league trophy. It may sound unbelievable but it is true that the once most dominate force in British football is yet to land the world’s most lucrative prize in the “beautiful game” – the English Premier League, since it first birthed in 1992. In fact one has to go back two seasons before its kick off for the last time the team from the red half of Liverpool last topped the summit of profession top-flight football in England. And in December it appeared that the former Borussia Dortmund handler was on course to landing the city the “Holy Grail” when Liverpool moved seven points clear of current champions Manchester City. But then it seemed that weight of ending the 29-year itch became heavier and the once fluid playing Liverpool began to falter allowing the team from the blue half of Manchester claw back the deficit and even move above the Reds. Many football experts blamed the turn in fortunes on nerves, pointing out that having been champions as recently as last season, City was better equipped to handle the weight of expectations than Liverpool. But the claims have been dismissed by Klopp who has repeatedly insisted that his side has the mental fortitude to overcome whatever nerves that may kick in the title run in. Speaking after his side’s “lucky” escape against Fulham, Klopp in an effort to douse the mental issue said: “I have no doubt about my players’ nerves. I always want perfection but it’s rare that you get it. People will say we should be more convincing in games like this but this is us, we are in the middle of a development, not at the end. How the boys dealt with it was brilliant.” A fortnight ago, the issue once again cropped up when Liverpool played one of their two “biggest” remaining fixtures of the campaign – home to Spurs, when but for a major blunder from the London outfit’s World Cup winner Hugo Lloris, the game was heading to a 1-1 draw, which would have effectively ended their title hopes. In that game, Tottenham looked on course to earn a point – and even wasted chances to go in front – after Lucas Moura deservedly equalised Roberto Firmino’s first-half header for the home side. Liverpool were on the brink of losing ground to Manchester City – 2-0 winners at Fulham on Saturday – until the title race took another dramatic twist in the closing moments in front of the Kop. Spurs keeper Lloris failed to hold Mohamed Salah’s routine far-post header and the ball ricocheted into the net off Alderweireld. It was sheer elation for Liverpool, who are now two points clear of City having played a game more, but misery for Spurs, who are in a real fight for a top-four place and were left to regret Moussa Sissoko’s glaring miss when through on goal minutes earlier. However, it is clear that Liverpool are simply refusing to be denied in their Premier League title battle with Manchester City – no matter how late they have to leave it to get the three points. They were fortunate victors on the day, but once again they dug deep, rode their luck, and were the beneficiaries of another dramatic conclusion at Anfield. And not for the first time this season, a visiting goalkeeper was culpable. Everton’s Jordan Pickford and Crystal Palace’s Julian Speroni have both had nightmare moments in front of the Kop that have resulted in tight home wins; now Lloris can add his name to the list of those who might be privately cursed by Pep Guardiola’s reigning champions.  But as all football fans know, “mother luck” often plays a big part in determining the outcome of games – either a linesman’s flag is not raised to signal an offside, as was the case in Chelsea’s come from behind 2-1 win over Cardiff City or the width of a post denying a certain goal, luck is part and parcel of the “beautiful game”. Speaking after the game, a mightily relieved Klopp Sky Sports: “I was relatively calm [after the winning goal] because it was a surprise. I saw the header and nothing else. I had no clue how the ball went in. “In the first half, we had fantastic chances and scored a wonderful goal. In the second half, we looked heavy and couldn’t really play. They changed only a little bit. We didn’t adapt well. After Spurs’ goal, we started playing again more. “We compete with the best team in the world [Manchester City] and play against one of best in the world in Tottenham – it is a tough task. “City last year were champions and are still pretty good. We have to fight like crazy. The crowd was outstanding. They were really here to push us and at the end it helped. It is only positive. I said there are 500 ways to win a football game and today was slightly ugly. Who cares? “We compete with the best team in the world for one position and that is really hard.” This afternoon Klopp’s theory will once again be put to the test when his side faces (at least on paper) their last sternest test in the form of Chelsea. Currently third on the table, 16 points behind their table topping hosts, Chelsea’s “Sarriball” was played to perfection on Monday night when they easily brushed aside West Ham to move above Spurs, Arsenal and Manchester United and back into Champions League contention. While Maurizio Sarri will undoubtedly be pleased with the overall presentation of his wards, he will be clearly gushing over the outstanding performance of the player of the match, Eden Hazard scored one of the goals of the Premier League season in swatting aside the resistance put up by the Hammers. Hazard, who has been strongly linked with a move to Real Madrid this summer, evaded five players during a stunning run, before the Belgium forward calmly beat keeper Lukasz Fabianski. He added a late second goal to cap a magnificent individual performance in an entertaining game at Stamford Bridge.   Chelsea, who can still qualify for next season’s Champions League by winning the Europa League, are three points ahead of fifth-placed Arsenal – who have a game in hand – after a third successive league win. This afternoon, Blues fans will be praying that the Belgium skipper also brings his A game to Anfield as Chelsea tries to move further away from the chasing pack. When both sides met in the reverse fixture on September 29, Stamford Bridge fans were treated to an exhilarating encounter which finally ended 1-1 courtesy of an extremely late Daniel Sturridge, which ensured that the Blues did not do the double of the Reds within the space of a few days. Four days earlier both sides had met in the Carabao Cup with the team from the British capital emerging victorious 2-1 and had looked on course for another win in the league before the late escape. Hazard’s 25th-minute strike, driven low past Alisson, had threatened to be his second match-winner of the week against Liverpool. The Reds wasted a host of opportunities before Daniel Sturridge curled a magnificent shot into the top corner from 25 yards to rescue a point in the 89th minute. Both managers were satisfied after the game with Chelsea’s Italian manager saying that his side was “closer than I thought” to Liverpool. “There are six or seven top teams here who are among the best in Europe, not just in England,” he said “We have to try to stay very close in the table with the top-level teams. And we have to try to improve more.” On his part Klopp said: “What a spectacular football game,” he said. “We had many chances and played fantastic football. “Getting a point at Chelsea is always a good result but if we play like that, we will win plenty of games.” Sarri and Klopp smiled and embraced warmly at the final whistle of a high-class encounter that left them with mixed emotions. However, since then, while Liverpool has somewhat maintained some form of consistency which has ensured that they have remained in and around the top of the table, Chelsea on the other hand has blown hot and cold and at a point dropped to sixth placed and even though Monday night’s victory put them back in third – they are still some way off the two pacesetters. And if history is anything to go by, then Sarri knows that the odds are against him this afternoon as in 181 previous meetings between them dating back to Christmas Day in 1907, the Blues have managed 63 victories to Liverpool’s 77 with 41 others ending in draws. Although the Blues’ most recent victory over the Reds at the iconic venue was their Carabao Cup victory in September, however, their last league triumph there was way back on November 8, 2014 when Chelsea secured a 2-1 win. Since then though they have met seven times in the league with the Blues only winning once and that was a 1-0 win last May at Stamford Bridge. Ironically while four of the meetings have ended all square, the two times Liverpool as scooped all three points have been away from Anfield. Klopp and Liverpool fans will be hoping that this stat will change this afternoon and the Reds will be able to get the better of the Blues in front of over 44,000 baying Anfield fans acutely aware that with only five games left for them to play they cannot afford to drop any points with the City juggernaut breathing down their necks. Having played a game more, Liverpool is just two points ahead of the champions. But with a certain Hazard in their fold Sarri and Chelsea fans will be quietly confident that they can cause an upset which will not only further cement their top four credentials; but inadvertently boost the chances of City retaining their title. With so much ridding on the outcome of this crunch showdown, fans should be in for an afternoon of high intensity football brought on by two sides who know that draw does not help their cause. Before the “battle of Anfield” Premier League fans the world over will be treated to another enthralling tussle at Selhurst Park where title chasing City face Crystal Palace. Incidentally when both sides met on December 22, Palace shocked City 3-2 at the Etihad in a game the visitor’s manager, Roy Hodgson described as “one of those bonanza days”. Andros Townsend smashed home a sublime 30-yard volley to help Palace cause the biggest shock of the campaign to date by claiming their first win at City for exactly 28 years and end the defending champions’ 100 per cent home record in the top flight this season. “You get your work-rate as it should be, you get your shape and discipline as it should be, then you also score goals,” said former England boss Hodgson. “To score three goals away from home against a team of this quality says a lot… and makes you wonder where they have been until now. “Today was one of those bonanza days.” However, since then Palace has languished in mid table (they are currently 12th) while City has consistently battled Liverpool at the top of the table. With the finishing line looming large, one cannot see Pep Guardiola allowing his team slip up this afternoon and anything short of City leaving Selhurst Park with all three points will be a shock. On Tuesday night though, Pep’s side tasted defeat in the UEFA Champions League when he got his personnel and tactics wrong against Mauricio Pochettino allowing Spurs secure a narrow 1-0 win ahead of this Wednesday’s return leg. This is bound to weigh somewhat on the Spaniard’s mind which might see him resting some players ahead of the all-or-nothing second leg clash with Spurs – thus slightly negating City’s performance this afternoon and boosting the chances of Palace getting something out of the match. The Premier League weekend concludes tomorrow night with FA Cup finalists, Watford hosting Arsenal, with the Gunners desperate to return to winning ways after their shock 1-0 loss to Everton last Monday. 