The 0n-going leadership tussle in Nigeria’s largest technology market, Computer Village, is threatening the hub built over the last 15 years. While major players in the market are divided along ethnic lines, stakeholders are calling for urgent intervention of Lagos State Government to restore peace. SAMSON AKINTARO reports  The Computer Village in Lagos, which is often referred to as the largest technology hub in Africa, is not new to controversy. The tech market, which not long ago wriggled out of crisis arising from the Lagos State Government’s plan to relocate the market to other part of the state, is now embroiled in leadership crisis. But unlike the initial crises, in which the market players teamed up to fight for their common interest against external forces, current fracas within the players has had them divided along ethnic lines, thus threatening the peaceful co-existence that had sustained the market over the last 15 years. It is now a matter of ethnic interest and things are beginning to fall apart among the traders. At the centre of the crisis is the issue of which ethnic group should present the next leader after the expiration of the term of current executives this July. The crisis, which began last year has also pitched incumbent Executives against the market’s Board of Trustees (BoT).
Accommodating over 3,000 ICT Small and Medium Enterprises, the market is reputed for generating over N1.5 billion turnover on daily basis and contributing significantly to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This laudable contributions to the economy is however, being threatened by the ongoing leadership tussle in the market.  Confusion over tenure Current executives of the Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN), which is the market’s umbrella body, led by Hammed Ojikutu, were elected in July 2016. However, while the elected leaders believe that they have three years to complete their tenure, which would lapse in July this year, the market’s Board of Trustees had written the executives notifying them that their tenure would soon expire. A letter written by the BoT to the current CAPDAN executive, dated July 30th, 2018, which was made available to the media, stated : “Please refer to our letter dated 10th July, 2018, particularly to paragraph three thereof concerning the plan by the Caretaker Committee to takeover from the present executive members and conduct a fresh election in line with the provisions of the constitution.” The Board of Trustees, in the letter, listed the members of the caretaker committee to include: Mr. Tunde Aremu as Chairman; Chief Viginus Odinaka as Vice Chiarman; Mr. James Odia as Secretary, Alhaji Tope Alebiosu as member and Mrs. Joke Sofowora as member. The letter further informed the Ojikutu-led CAPDAN executive that the caretaker committee would be officially inaugurated on Friday August 3, 2018 at the CAPDAN Secretariat, while requesting the support of the current executive for a peaceful handover. Having written the letter, the caretaker committee gathered for the inauguration and handover, but they were surprised to see armed Policemen who prevented them from holding the inauguration and handover in the secretariat. The Police told them that there was an order from the Commissioner of Police, asking both factions to meet at Area F Police Command same day. At the meeting, which was attended by the Police Area Commander, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and the two factions, the Police ordered the current CAPDAN executive to return back to the market, and hold a meeting with the Board of Trustees to settle their differences and report back to the Police. Reacting to the situation, Ojikutu said the caretaker committee was illegally constituted without the presence of CAPDAN President and Secretary. He equally said the committee wanted to force him out of office whereas he has not completed his three years of one tenure as stipulated by the constitution. “The constitution allows for three years tenure and we have spent just two years, and they want us out,” Ojikutu said.  Succession battle While the BOT had approached the court over the tenure issue, the crisis has assumed a new dimension with ethnicity playing major role. Beyond the BOT versus Executives, there is now Igbo versus Yoruba fracas, as the current executives plan to vacate office this July. According to sources in the market, while the Computer Village has been led by Yorubas from inception and the current executives elected in 2016 also has a Yoruba man as President, the Igbos are demanding to occupy the leadership position after the term of current Excos, which expires in July this year. This is however, being rebuffed by the Yoruba dealers, who are insisting on retaining the leadership position. While the Yorubas are claiming that as the owners of the land where the market is situated, they deserve to remain the leader; the Igbos are predicating their stand on the fact that they have the larger number of traders in the market and deserve to also lead. “If you look at this market, the Igbos account for over 80 per cent of shops here, we have been here since inception and we are contributing immensely to its growth,” a top dealer in the market, who is of Igbo extraction said.  After about 15 years, we are saying let us also lead this market for once, but they are saying no. We have tolerated them for long, but this time, we have to fight for our right,”  The Excos’ stand Confirming the development, the current President of Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN), which is the umbrella body for the market, Mr Ahmed Ojikutu, said efforts are ongoing to resolve the issues despite the court case. “It is true that the market is currently going through a tough time over the issue of leadership,” he said. “I know that some people are against having Igbo as the next market leader after our tenure, which is unfair because Yorubas have led the market over the last 15 years. My stand is that the right thing should be done and we hope that this will be resolved amicably.” Also speaking, Assistant Public Relations Officer of CAPDAN and Chief Executive Officer K-Chronos Global Tech Limited, Mr. Presley Ibadin, expressed regret that the progress and growth of the market is now being truncated by the leadership crisis. “This is a matter of interests and I believe it can be resolved amicably if the parties can come to a round table. It may be rowdy at first since temper is still high, but a second meeting and third will lead to resolution of the matter, with all interests catered for.” He noted that the suit filed by the market’s BOT would only extend the tenure of current leadership unduly because nothing could be done until the case is decided.  New installation Meanwhile, the current crisis in the market may be worsened by another recent move by Yoruba leaders to install Iyaloja in the tech market. The Iyalaoja is a common title in all the conventional markets in Lagos. However, the dealers are seeing such title in a technology hub as taking the market back to the medieval age. “This is a technology hub for crying out loud, not just a market. This is not a tomato or pepper market, we are talking about technology. We shall resist it because it is also an avenue to bring up someone that will be enriched through the market” one of the dealers said. The market’s BOT are however, going ahead with their plans on the installation.  Last line While the key actors in the market are still fine-tuning their plots as July draws nearer, other stakeholders in the market have called on Lagos State government to call the gladiators to order. According to them, only government’s intervention could save the market from an impending implosion. ●Dealers divided along ethnic lines LEADERSHIP The tech market is boiling over leadership position as two major ethnic groups claim rights   There is currently a raging crisis among dealers at Nigeria’s biggest and most popular technology market, Computer Village, New Telegraph has leant. The fracas, which arose over leadership,… In “Business” Computer traders and Information Technology (IT) professionals in major computer markets across the country, principally spearheaded by the Ikeja Computer Village in Lagos, is seeking the telecoms regulator’s collaborations towards increasing the IT markets’ contribution to the country’s economic growth. KUNLE AZEEZ reports Nigeria’s telecommunications industry is today a $68… In “ICT / e-World” NCC is signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with ICT traders towards boosting their contribution to economic development   Information Technology (IT) market popularly referred to as Computer Village in the heart of Ikeja, Lagos, currently contributes an estimated N1.5 billion to the nation’s economy daily. This was disclosed by… In “Business”