 Bullish Investors defied political risks and were taking positions on banks due to good fundamentals and to benefit from expected dividend  Despite the political tension that had pervaded the investment landscape, the banking stocks remained resilience as investors gained N37 billion in the sector. Checks by New Telegraph revealed that the stocks recorded a gain of N37 billion or .30 per cent to close at N2,880 trillion in market capitalisation on the last trading day of March as against opening figure of N2.843 trillion at the beginning of trading on January 2. Further investigation showed that activities on NSE, which opened the trading month at N11.720 trillion in market capitalisation and 31.430. 50 in index points at the beginning of trading on January 2, 2019, closed the quarter at N11.672 trillion and 31,041.42 index points, earning year-to-date loss of about N48 billion or 1.23 per cent. Some market analysts had opined that investors should trade cautiously in the short to medium term, as selloffs are likely to persist, amidst the growing political and security tension of the general polls. However, investors defied political risks and were taking position on banks due to good fundamentals and to benefit from expected dividend they may declare for the financial year ended December 31, 2018. FXTM Research Analyst, Mr. Lukman Otunuga, said that Nigerian equities market has repeatedly displayed resilience against both external and domestic risks since the start of 2019. He noted that the combination of bargain hunting and growth optimism is likely to push domestic stocks higher after the elections.  Otunuga, who stated this in a report sent to this newspaper, said investor optimism over government spending, which boosts domestic growth, has continued to support appetite for risk in Nigeria with the All Share Index moving higher. He noted that Buhari’s re-election certainly suggests continuity, something that offers the nation a chance to build on its economic recovery and growth strategy. “This fact alone is a welcome development for foreign investors, especially those attracted to stability and consistency in economic policy,” he said.  “The truth of the matter is that the president faces an extensive four-year timeframe, including rekindling economic growth, boosting infrastructure and most importantly, diversification. On top of all of these, there are external risks in the form of trade tensions, slowing global growth and depressed oil prices, all of which have the potential to threaten the nation’s economic recovery.” He noted that digging deeper into Nigeria’s economic conditions, unemployment has risen to over 23 per cent in the last four years, while the nation’s stock markets are one of the world’s worst performing. “While it’s easy to point fingers and blame Nigeria’s leadership for its woes, external risks in the form of falling oil prices were a primary culprit behind the recession,” he said. “Lessons from the past should encourage the administration to invest in infrastructure and step up its efforts in finding growth from other sustainable sources. With Nigeria boasting a youthful population and fertile land, one of the solutions to attaining stability could be found in agriculture.” Analysts at FSDH Research also said they expected some positive performance. “We expect savvy investors to take strategic positions in the months leading to expected recovery in second quarter of 2019,” the experts said. “Despite the overall decline in January, we have seen pockets of this positioning over the months and expect to see further examples.