Mother of the former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, and founder of Reality Organisation worldwide, Chief Eunice Uzor Kalu, has called on the destitute and people living with disability not see their condition as the end of life. Kalu made the call while donating food items and cash to the destitute homes in Abia State. She also challenged the well to do to share their wealth with the less privileged. No fewer than 20 homes in Abia State benefited from this year’s Reality Organisation’s charity week. Each of the homes got a bag of rice, a carton of biscuit and noodles as well as detergent and cash. Speaking at the event at the Reality Organisation office in Umuahia, the president and founder of organisation, Elder Kalu, encouraged the beneficiaries not lose faith in God. The mother of the former governor assured them that the organisation would continue to make the plight of the lees-privileged part of its programme. Kalu, who was represented by the Abia State women leader of the organisation, Mrs. Ngozi Orji, said that Reality Organisation had consistently identified with the plight of the less-privileged not necessarily because the resources were available but because of the deep feeling for the indigent in society. She said: “There is no home we have not touched in Abia State at one time or the other. This time she decided that rather than not having it at all because she is not in the country it is better organised in the organisation’s office instead of the elaborate programme at her country home in Igbere. “Even when she is not in the state, she keeps asking about the welfare of the homes.” She told inmates of the homes that in whatever situation they found themselves they should trust in God who cares and keeps them. Also, the state coordinator of the programme, Chief Maduka Okoro, urged the homes to make the best use of the items. He said the organisation would continue to make them the centre of its programmes. After receiving the items, some of the benefiting homes – Onyemelum Francis Uzoamaka of Psychiatric Hospital, Mgboko in Obingwa Local Government Area, Evangelist Comfort Mboru, Cecilia Kalu Ibe of Asaga Ohafia Motherless Babies’ Home and Rev. Elijah Nwankwo of Chims Motherless Babies’ Home – thanked the founder of Reality Organisation for remembering them and prayed that God would reward her to sustain the programme.