As the jostling for the leadership of the incoming 9th National Assembly gets hotter, KENNETH OFOMA reports that today’s meeting of the South East APC in Enugu may take a final position on the matter.  Barring any last minute change in plans, the South East leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will today meet in Enugu State to fashion a way forward for the party in the zone and take a position on the ambition of some of its members who are vying for leadership roles in the National Assembly. Some officials of APC in the zone had previously rejected the zoning position adopted by the national leadership of the party, describing such as individual decisions which was not reached through the constitutionally recognised organs of the party.
Today’s meeting, which was called at the instance of the National Vice Chairman of APC in the South East zone, Emma Eneukwu, has three items on the agenda. The major issue the meeting would be addressing is the harmonisation of the zone’s position with regards to which of the principal offices in the Senate and House of Representatives the lawmakers from the zone should go for as one political family.
Three APC members were declared winners in the just concluded general election. But while only Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu of Abia State received his certificate of return from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Governor Rochas Okocha and Ben Uwajumogu, both from Imo State, are yet to be issued with their certificates of return.
Should the two of them succeed in crossing the political huddle and receive their certificates of return, it would then mean that the South East has produced three senators. On the other hand, APC produced two House of Representatives members from the zone in the persons of Nkiruka Onyejeocha (Abia) and Chike Okafor (Imo).
The other two items on the agenda are repositioning APC in the South East after the 2019 general elections and other matters arising.
It will be recalled that the national leadership of APC led by its chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, had announced the zoning of the two topmost positions in the National Assembly, the Senate President and Speaker of House of Representatives, to the North East and South West respectively.
However, the development had been raising some dust across the country as other lawmakers from other zones have thrown their hat into the ring for the two topmost principal positions.
For instance, the South East zonal leadership of the APC, appears to be comfortable with the zoning formula adopted by leaders of the party.
According to inside sources, the group is likely to endorse one of their own to run for the House Speakership position or Deputy Senate Presidency position. This means that the zone will either settle for Kalu or Nkiruka Onyejeocha. While Kalu is aspiring to be the Deputy Senate President, Nkiruka Onyejeocha wants to be the Speaker. In the alternative, the zone is going to demand for principal position in government, like the position of Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). South East position
However, in contrary to widespread belief that the party has zoned its National Assembly leadership positions to the various geopolitical zones of the country, the South East Zonal Publicity Secretaries of the party have declared that the party has not yet taken any official position with regards to zoning of the positions.
Speaking on behalf of his colleagues in an exclusive chat with Saturday Telegraph, the Anambra State Publicity Secretary of APC, Mr. Okelo Madukaife, stated none of the constitutionally recognised organ of the party has taken a decision on zoning.
He said that what was happening was that some vocal members of the party were trumping the names of their preferred candidates hoping to cow others and have their way.
According to the party spokespersons, the South East zonal caucus of the party has resolved to promote the zoning of Senate Presidency and House of Representatives’ Speakership positions to South East.
The South East zonal secretaries of the party however warned that any attempt to dictatorially impose some lawmakers on the party and members of the National Assembly would be resisted stoutly.
“Our official position in the zone is that its either we get Senate Presidency, which was zoned to South East in 2015 but we didn’t have the personnel, we now have three; or we get speakership where we have the most experienced person in the person of Nkiruka Onyejeocha.
“Although she is returning to the House for her fourth term, where Femi Gbajabiamila is returning for the fifth term, but she has been a commissioner in the state, that’s the executive; she has been a local government chairman, that’s executive; she is a bridge across both caucuses; having been in PDP before, and she has her personal competences. So work experience has taken her through executive, judiciary and legislature,” he said.
When asked that what will happen if the party approves contrary zoning position, Madukaife retorted; “Who is the party? The party is ruled by constitution and the constitution creates organs, seven of them. Out of these seven, four apply at the national level; they are the board of trustees, the national caucus, the National Working Committee and the National Executive Council. None of them has decided, so you don’t pronounce what has not been decided, hoping to ride roughshod over others.
“None of these four organs at the national level has decided and anything outside their deciding is not democracy but dictatorship, so it won’t be acceptable.
“What you find is a few vocal persons trying to trump in their own personal agenda hoping that with time it becomes a refrain that everybody else will be made to pathway with subterfuge. Unfortunately it’s finding tough resistance and it would be sustained”, he said. Kalu’s position
Earlier, during a recent interview with The Sun Newspaper, Kalu had insisted on his ambition, giving reasons for his stance. Noting that he is a loyal party member, Kalu had said that he would not go against the position of the party by not vying for the Senate Presidency but will run for the deputy’s slot.
“I am a very loyal party member. The party has zoned the position of the President of the Senate to the North East and I am bound to respect the party’s will. Therefore, the second position, which is the Deputy President of the Senate, is what we are not going to allow the party to decide. Therefore, I am going to run for that position because the party is supreme.
“As far as I am concerned, in the South East, I am going to run openly on the floor of the House for the Deputy President of the Senate. I am not going to listen to the party; neither will I listen to anybody. Nobody who is going to be the Deputy President of the Senate is more loyal than I am to the party. I have suffered for the party, and I want the party to respect the will of every other person.
“So as far as my desire is concerned, we are going to be seeing votes on the floor of the Senate for that position. Section 50 of the constitution has made it very clear that the members of the National Assembly shall elect their leadership and I am going to use that section of the constitution to vie for that position. I learnt they have ceded the Deputy President of the Senate to the North West, but it is not right to do anything like that.
“We are going to contest this vehemently on the floor of the house. And I have the backing of my colleagues. So, whether they already gave it to an individual, that is left for the party at the National Assembly to decide. But for the Deputy President of the Senate, I will contest with any candidate on the floor of the house.
“The party is supreme. I know that our Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is a listening Chairman and President Muhammadu Buhari is a man of justice”, he had said.
So, if justice must prevail, the right thing should be done. You give the President of the Senate to the North East and then Deputy President of the Senate to the South East and that’s very fair.
“And I am sure you know that the APC chairman is from the South South, the president of Nigeria is from the North West, the Vice President is from South West, and they have decided that the President of the Senate will come from the North East, whether it’s Lawal or Ndume, the senators will decide that one on the floor of the Senate.
“So, for me, Nigeria is like a tripod; comprising Igbo, Yoruba and Hausa. So, it will be unfair not to have a South East in that tripod; we are going to get the Deputy President of the Senate. I will fight on the floor of the Senate for it like no other person has fought. This is not like challenging the party; rather, this is looking for equity and justice.
“Buhari said he will be addressing issues of injustice in the country. This is part of the issues of injustice. You cannot tell us in the South East to go and be Chief Whip. I don’t have a whip to whip anybody. You don’t build loyalty to a section of people or individuals. I am loyal to the people; I am loyal to Nigeria, which is important. But I am not going to be loyal to individuals. I am a Catholic and I believe there is need for a co-existence between the different ethnic and religious people in the country.
“So, when I say I want to be Deputy President of the Senate, I don’t imply that I want to be a Deputy President of the Senate for some people. I am not going to be Deputy President of the Senate for anybody. Otherwise, if they don’t listen to my plea, I will also join others and contest for the President of the Senate on the floor of the Senate.
“I will join the race because I already know that it is going to be like a shopping matter. And I can shop than any other person they are putting there. I have the capacity and capability to shop because the whole thing will be shopping on the floor of the House. If the party continues this way, I will run for the position of the President of Senate.