Importers and port users operating in Lagos will have to wait for another four months to access the ports freely, as the facilities to ease gridlock are yet to be fixed. BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports  Worried by the failure and challenges encountered in the implementation of the manual call-up system introduced last year to end gridlock at the port roads, Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) has said that it will soon end hardship of port users with the installation, configuration and deployment of a purpose-built Truck Call-up System across all ports, terminals and container holding bays in Nigeria. Also, the authority said it would deploy Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags, readers and related infrastructure on all certified trucks, terminal access gates and trailer park access gates to facilitate the real time monitoring and tracking of truck movements. Hitherto, the security operatives at the port access roads had exploited the manual call system to make illegal money from truckers.  The issue The Executive Secretary of Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Hassan Bello, blamed the situation on the deplorable access roads. He explained at a stakeholders’ forum in Lagos that all the ports access roads were in a very poor condition. “If you rate our ports based on some key performance indicators, you will discover that they are also not doing well,” Bello said. “Let us not look at the cargo clearing time, the number of days it takes you to clear your cargo at port. We are still in the range of 19 to 20 days. “If you look at the demurrage free period, (free number of days given to an importer to take his goods away from the port before they start calculating demurrage). “In Nigeria it is five days, after five days you will start paying demurrage on your consignment. But the Port of Benin gives 10 days; Port of Cameroon is 10 days; Chinghai Port in China is 10 days.”  Challenges A report had earlier revealed that 56 per cent of trucks laden with containers loitering daily at Apapa had no business to transact at Lagos Port. Already, report released by a maritime consulting firm, Ships & Ports Limited and Lagos Business School (LBS, explained that a total of 5,515 trucks were surveyed at both observation points over a period of two weeks. The study, which stemmed from an independent study conducted by Chief Executive Officer of Ships & Ports Limited, Mr. Bolaji Akinola, and a Don of the Lagos Business School, Dr. Frank Ojadi, noted that only 44 per cent of the truckers had genuine business in the port. However, the prolonged gridlock at the port roads would continue to linger till August 2019 as the truck terminal parks at Tin-Can Island Port and Lilypond Container Terminal, Ijora are still under construction and rehabilitation. It was learnt that the Federal Ministry of Works had re-awarded the contract for completion of its shoreline protection at the Tincan Island truck park, while Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) said that it would embark on rehabilitation work at Lilypond terminal, Ijora very soon. The authority’s General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communication, Mr Adams Jatto, explained that automation of the call-up system for trucks would tarry till August, 2019. He noted that what was holding back the take-off of the call-up system was shoreline protection for the Tin-Can axis of the truck terminal. Also, he stressed that the management of the authority was working toward ensuring that Lillypond terminal be converted to a truck transit park for easy flow of traffic along ports access road in Lagos. Jatto noted that the authority had concluded the procurement process to enable NPA engage its investors to manage the truck park.  Temporary measure He said: “Call-up system is not just the areas we are looking at for us to ease the congestion along ports access roads. It is a kind of temporary measure for us to ensure that we have a free flow on the axis that lead to the ports. “The call-up system is for us to be able to have truck parks along ports area and some of the truck owners have assured us that they have truck parks, where they can park their trucks.” The general manager said that the authority was looking forward to implementing sustainable solutions to the gridlock. Furthermore, he explained that the system would streamline the trucks coming into the ports in order to ease congestion. According to him, NPA had provided short, medium, and long term solutions to the gridlock. Jatto said that the present management of NPA had also engaged the support services of the Federal Ministry of Works, Power and Housing, Dangote Group and Flour Mills of Nigeria to build part of the road in partnership with it. Also, he said that under the long-term solutions provided, the Federal Ministry of Transportation would ensure that cargoes were evacuated to the hinterland through the rail system being put in place. Jatto noted that the Managing Director of NPA, Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman, had taken a bold step to ensure that the truck terminal would be managed by Public Private Partnership (PPP).  Last line Without good roads and holding bays, ease of doing business in Nigerian ports will continue to fail.