Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited has delivered maternal and neo-natal care equipment to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Ebute-Metta, Lagos, as part of ‘The Safe Birth Initiative’ – a Coca-Cola partnership with the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH), the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals and an NGO, Medshare International Inc. A critical intervention that aims to tackle the high rate of maternal and new born deaths in Nigeria, the Safe Birth Initiative is focused on supporting doctors and nurses to achieve successful birth outcomes by strengthening the capacity of target public hospitals in three critical areas including: the procurement of vital maternal and neonatal medical equipment and supplies to enable safe deliveries and post-delivery emergency care; training biomedical engineering technicians to improve equipment maintenance and uptime; and reactivating a large stock of abandoned medical equipment wasting away in public hospitals. The equipment was formally handed over at a special event at the FMC, Ebute-Metta. Some of the dignitaries in attendance were Dr. Yahaya Hamza, Head Sectors, Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs (OSSAP-SDGs), representing Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs; Alhaji Ishola Balogun Fulani, Chairman, Board of Management, FMC Ebute-Metta; Mr Eben Armstrong, Director, Biomedical Engineering and Training, Medshare International and Dr. (Mrs) Folashade Oludara, Director, Family Health and Nutrition, and Lagos State Ministry of Health, representing Dr. Olajide Idris Commissioner of Health.
As part of the event, dignitaries joined in a facility tour led by Dr. Adedamola Dada, Chief Medical Director the FMC.
Federal Medical Centre, Ebute-Metta is the second out of the 15 hospitals set to receive a set of medical equipment provided under the Safe Birth Initiative. During the first phase, 15 major public hospitals across Nigeria recommended by the Federal Ministry of Health, will receive hospital equipment, kits and supplies worth a total conservative value of about $10.8 million (N3.8 billion). The Coca-Cola West Africa Public Affairs & Communications Director Mr Clem Ugorji, said: “Active and intentional collaboration between members of the private and public sector is key to transforming healthcare in Nigeria. We commend the good work our doctors and nurses are doing but recognise that there is a limit to what they can do without the critical equipment required for effective diagnosis, testing and treatment. “Through the SBI, we are pleased to be able to donate vital equipment to aid the work currently being done to safeguard the lives of mothers and babies here at the Federal Medical Centre and the 14 other hospitals that will receive donations as part of the first phase of the Safe Birth Initiative.” The Chief Medical Director, FMC, Ebute-Metta, Dr Adedamola Dada, said: “We are grateful to Coca-Cola, the OSSAP-SDGs, Medshare International and the Federal Government for this initiative.”