…Kicks against adoption of Gbajabiamila  •It depicts corruption, says S’ East group  Youths from the 19 Northern States and Abuja under the aegis of Arewa Youth Awareness Forum (AYAF) yesterday declared that they are opposed to the decision of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to adopt the Majority Leader of the House of Representative  Femi Gbajabiamila, as the next Speaker.  This is as the group also accused the National leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole of plotting to impose those that will work for them in 2023 as leaders of the National Assembly. A statement made available to newsmen, in Ka-   duna yesterday also said the endorsement of Femi Gbajabiamila was against the collective interest of the north ahead of the 2023 Presidency.  The statement jointly signed by the group’s Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Secretary-General – Mohammed Sani-Kabir, Salisu Abdurrahman and Ben Alege, respectively said they are in support of members-elect that are opposed to the party’s candidate, saying Gbajabiamila was not the best option to represent northern interest. According to them, Tinubu and Oshiomohle, are already scheming for the 2023 presidency with their manner of imposition.  The group described as “dictatorial and insensitive” the way and manner the party is trying to foist the leadership on the two   Chambers of the National Assembly.  They, however, cautioned the APC against “compromising the interest of the region” and urged the party leadership to allow members- elect to freely choose their principal officers for the 9th National Assembly. According to the group: “The plot is railroading the National Assembly towards having a leadership that will benefit the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomohle and the National Leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, for the 2023 Presidency. “We are alarmed by the dictatorial and insensitive plot by the APC leadership trying to foist the leadership of the two chambers on the National Assembly. “We are also concerned by the fact that northern interests are being com-   promised with great implication for the future of the region.”  In a similar development, the Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL) has lampooned the party’s leadership for its recent endorsement of candidates for the leadership of the NASS. COSEYL said the ruling party’s decision to force its own anointed candidates from the North East and South West Geo-political zones on the National Assembly without considering the necessary rules and balance in power sharing among other zones is the worst from of corruption.  The coalition led by its President General, Chief Goodluck Egwu Ibem and its Secretary General, Dr. Igwe Kanice while addressing newsmen in Aba, Abia State yesterday  urged APC to first intensify fight against corruption by correcting it’s zoning arrangements of the principal position in the National Assembly stating that, “Patronizing and favouring some geo-political zone above the other is an act of corruption.”  The coalition, said it condemns in strong terms the endorsement of Senator Ahmed Lawan from the- North East geo-political zone as APC candidate for Senate President and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila from the South West geo-political zone. COSEYL said it is totally unacceptable for the APC leadership to have endorsed Gbajabiamila when they know that he happens to come from the same geopolitical zone of the Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo.