Chairman, President and CEO, Boeing Company, Mr. Dennis Muilenburg, yesterday said the company would complete the software update of the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System (MCAS) in 737 Max aircraft. Muilenburg disclosed this in a statement in response to the preliminary report on its crashed flight 302, released by the Ethiopian Accident Investigation Bureau on Thursday. The software update is said to be a fallout of the report submitted to the management following the crash of Ethiopian airline’s 737 Max, which claimed about 157 passengers, including Nigerian-born Canadian, Prof. Pius Adesanmi. He said the full details of what happened in both Lion Air and Ethiopian accidents would be issued by the government authorities in the final reports. Boeing president added with the release of the preliminary report of the Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 accident investigation, it was apparent that in both flights, the MCAS was activated in response to erroneous angle of attack information. According to him, the history of our industry shows most accidents are caused by a chain of events. He said it was the similar case in the recent two accidents, adding that pilots had stated that erroneous activation of the MCAS function could add to what was already a high workload environment. According to Muilenburg, it is our responsibility to eliminate this risk; we own it and we know how to do it. He said: “From the days immediately following the Lion Air accident, we have had teams of our top engineers and technical experts working tirelessly in collaboration with the Federal Aviation Administration and our customers to finalise and implement a software update that will ensure accidents like that of Lion Air Flight 610 and Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 never happen again. “We are taking a comprehensive, disciplined approach, and taking the time, to get the software update right. “We’re nearing completion and anticipate its certification and implementation on the 737 MAX fleet worldwide in the weeks ahead. We regret the impact the grounding has had on our airline customers and their passengers. “This update, along with the associated training and additional educational materials that pilots want in the wake of these accidents, will eliminate the possibility of unintended MCAS activation and prevent an MCASrelated accident from ever happening again. “We at Boeing take the responsibility to build and deliver airplanes to our airline customers and to the flying public that are safe to fly, and can be safely flown by every single one of the professional and dedicated pilots all around the world. This is what we do at Boeing.” The CEO expressed confidence in the fundamental safety of the 737 MAX, assuring that all who fly on it—the passengers, flight attendants and pilots, including families and friends deserved the best from Boeing.