Govs vow to deal with hoarders  Motorists and commuters in Ekiti and Kebbi states were apprehensive at the weekend over reports that the Federal Government plans remove fuel subsidy.  Sunday Telegraph learnt the may have been responsible for the long queues in many states of the federation, even as only two filling stations were dispensing products in Kebbi on Saturday. Our correspondent learnt that fuel dealers might have resorted to hoarding the product in anticipation of an increase in the price of the pump price of the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol if government eventually carries out its plan   to  remove the fuel subsidy.  In most of the filling stations visited on Friday and Saturday, motorists struggled for as long as 30 minutes before they could buy the product. Most astounding was the fact that motorists have been besieging the petrol stations with 50kg kegs with the intention of buying and storing in anticipation of a full blown scarcity.  This is even as despite the long queues, the pump price has not risen above the official N145 a litre. Speaking to our reporter, a commercial driver, Mallam Usman Sani who expressed dismay over the sudden scarcity of the product, urged the Federal government to intervene urgently to mitigate the suffering of the masses.  In a reaction, the National Zonal Vice Chairman of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Birin Kebbi, Alhaji Muhammad Dantella called on the Federal Government to direct the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to boost its sup- ply of the product across the country.  “NNPC has failed to supply us with fuel despite the huge amount of the money they are charging us, if they gave us at the 135 to 137 they will still buy it at sale 145 per liter,” he said.  He condemned NNPC for delaying the supply of the product across the country, saying that persists; it will cause hardship in the country. Meanwhile Ekiti State government has appealed to owners and operators of    filling stations in the state to desist from hoarding petroleum products thereby creating artificial fuel scarcity in the state. The state government said that hoarding of petroleum product is an act of economic sabotage, which creates unnecessary hardship for the people and cripples businesses.  A statement on Saturday by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor Mr. Yinka Oyebode stated that monitoring teams have been dispatched to go round filling stations in the state to ensure that no filling station hoards fuel at the detriment of the people.