The House of Representatives’ Committee on Regional Planning and Urban Development yesterday turned down the brief of the Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing, Alhaji Baba Mustapha Shehuri and the permanent secretary, Alhaji Muhammad Bukar, describing it as “copy and paste” budget. The committee also expressed displeasure over lack of details of expenditure in the 2018 appropriation and directed the ministry to return with a clean copy with the inclusion of overhead column on the document with accurate accounts of releases and how they were spent before the 2019 proposal could be considered. Trouble started when a member of the committee, Hon. Ossai Nichola Ossai (PDP, Delta) interjected the minister, who was briefing the committee on the 2018 budget performance. Ossai raised the issue about the details of personnel spending as it relates to unit-by-unit allocations, as well as how releases were done. The lawmaker insisted that the minister must provide answers to his questions before the committee could proceed with consideration of the 2019 budget proposal. He pointed out the absence of overhead allocation in the documents presented; asking if they also lumped it up with personnel cost and spent as they come. Similarly, the committee demanded details of staff who travelled for a certain African Union event and how much was spent per head and another trip relating to UN Habitat event which coincided with the General Assembly in 2018, as members called for detailed information of officials on the trip and amount spent on them. While responding, the permanent secretary, Bukar, stated that personnel cost was not being managed by the ministry and that they couldn’t provide details and that the ministry’s personnel emolument was a function of the new Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). On allegation that the 2019 document was a photocopy of 2018, as raised by Hon. Saheed Fijabi Akinade, the director in charge of Finance in the Urban and Regional Development Department, said that it was not deliberate. In his earlier presentation on the 2018 budget appraisal, Shehuri had said that “the sum of N128.353 billion was appropriated to the housing sector of the ministry in the 2018 fiscal year. Out of this amount, the urban and regional development department received a total capital allocation of N1.229 billion.” He stated that on the side of releases, performance/ implementation, “the sum of N373,431,919.01, which represents 30.37% of the sum of N1,229,535,392 appropriated in the 2018 Appropriation Act for the Urban and Regional Development Department, was released.” According to him, “On the 2018 budget performance, the Urban and Regional Development Department received the sum of N373.431 million, which represents 30.37% of the appropriated amount in the 2018 Appropriation Act. “The amount released was utilized to pay for; the outstanding certificates owed contractors for various projects executed under urban renewal and slum upgrading programme, commemoration of the world habitat/cities days and preparation and conduct of study for sustainable development of the urban centres.”