A Federal High Court sitting in Minna has been called upon to shut down the Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) Plc over contaminated coca cola products sold to Nigerians. This was made by the Counsel to the plantiff, Barrister Oyelekan Akingbade of Ultimate Chambers asking the Court to order the Defendants to compensate the Plaintiff, Mr. Adewuyi Adewunmi the sum of N25million saying it will serve as a deterrent to other erring companies who take Nigerians for granted. In the case, FHC/MN/CS/15/19 which was first mentioned on Thursday, Adewuyi Adewunmi versus Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) as 1st Defendant, the National Agency For Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) as 2nd Defendant and the Nigeria Consumer Protection Council (NCPC) as 3rd Defendant, the Plaintiff claimed the bottles of Sprite he bought in March 2019 are not healthy for consumption for Nigerians. According to the Writ of Summons made available to our Correspondent by Counsel to the Plantiff, Akingbade said “we are asking the Court to compel the 1st Defendant (NBC) to shut down production across the country pending recertification by the 2nd Defendant. “We pray the Court to compel the 3rd Defendant (NCPC) to carry out awareness of contaminated products produced by the 1st Defendant across the country; an immediate confiscation of all such products. “We seek an order of the Court compelling the 1st Defendant to pay the sum of N20million to the Plaintiff for psychological trauma and general charges and of course the sum of N5million as cost of litigation against the 1st Defendant.” While saying the expiration dates of the products are in June, 2019, Akingbade queried that “the 1st Defendant’s intention is to produce a poisonous substance which are injurious to the health of Nigerians”, adding that “this has caused several health problems to many Nigerians and have ended up in various hospitals.” However, Counsel to the 1st Defendant (NBC), Barrister Amuwa Olatunde told our Correspondent that “we produce our bottles according to international standards. We will fight this case with all the legal arsenals. “We are armed to the teeth, we won’t handle this case with Levity because the corporate image of-of the NBC is at stake through damages.” The Court presided over by Justice Aliyu Aminu Aliyu fixed May 13th, 2019 for further mentioning of the case.