Ahead of the African Boxing Union (ABU) lightweight title clash, Ghana’s Success “Brave Warrior” Tetteh has vowed to be the first boxer to defeat Nigeria’s Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph, the reigning champion, when they meet at GOtv Boxing Night 18 on 21 April. The bout will headline the event slated to hold at the Indoor Sports Hall of the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium (formerly Liberty Stadium) in Ibadan. Joe Boy, who also holds the Commonwealth (Africa) lightweight title, has remained undefeated in his 14-bout professional career. Speaking from his Accra base, the challenger said he is familiar with the champion’s strengths and weaknesses and is working on plans to neutralize him. “I’m very motivated to become the first boxer to defeat Joe Boy. I have watched him fight many opponents, who clearly did not know what to do in the ring. He will fall. It doesn’t matter that the fight is holding in Nigeria. I’m not named Success for nothing,” boasted Tetteh. The Ghanaian added that he has intensified training and has also taken his diet more seriously. In another international bout billed for the event, Nigeria’s Akeem “Dodo” Sadiku will take on Republic of Benin’s Ekpresso Djamihou in a light middleweight contest. Dodo, a cult figure among boxing fans in Ibadan, is a knockout expert. Six local bouts are lined up along the two international encounters, with the biggest being the national super featherweight title bout between Ridwan “Scorpion” Oyekola and Taofeek “Taozon” Bisuga. Oyekola, a fast-rising boxer, won the best boxer award at GOtv Boxing Night 15 and defeated the vastly experienced Nurudeen “Prince” Fatai at GOtv Boxing Night 17. Also in action is the West African Boxing Union (WABU) welterweight champion. Ghana’s Benjamin Lamptey and Emmanuel Mensah, who are billed to fight at GOtv Boxing Night 16, have vowed to disgrace their Nigerian opponents in the latest revival of the traditionally fierce Nigeria/Ghana sporting rivalry. Both boxers spoke on Friday after their arrival in Lagos for GOtv Boxing Night 16, which… In “Sports” President of the Nigerian Boxing Board of Control Dr. Raufu Ladipo has attributed the rating of Nigerian boxers by the Commonwealth Boxing Council to GOtv Boxing Night. Ladipo spoke on Tuesday in Lagos at a press conference to announce the 16th edition of GOtv Boxing Night. The NBB of C… In “Sports” Abdulrahim Ahmed, Egyptian and Mediterranean lightweight champion, has vowed to defeat Nigeria’s Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph when they clash for the African Boxing Union (ABU) lightweight title fight at GOtv Boxing Night 13 on 26 December. The event, which holds at Landmark Events Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, will feature seven… In “Sports”