Police in Enugu State and yesterday announced the arrest of suspected kidnappers and killers of Rev. Fr. Clement Rapuluchukwu Ugwu. Ugwu, until his death, was the parish priest of St. Marks Catholic Church, Obinofia Ndiuno in Ezeagu Local Government Area of the state.  In a statement, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Ebere Amaraizu, gave the names of the suspects as Sunday Chibuko (32), a native of Umunna Ndiagu in Ezeagu Local Government Area and Benjamin Osogwu (28), a native of Obollo Eke in Udenu Local Government Area of the state.  Amaraizu said the suspects were arrested at their hideout at Area 1, Garki, Abuja, on March 28, 2019 by operatives of the command working on intelligence information.   He said: “The suspects are helping the command in their investigations with a view to arresting the remaining fleeing members of their gang.” It would be recalled that Fr. Ugwu was abducted by gun men in his Parish, St. Marks Catholic Church, Obinofia Ndiuno on March 13, 2019, at about 9pm.  The gun men took him away in his blue-coloured Prado Jeep while in his pool of blood. The decomposing remains of the priest was found not far from the church a few days later, even as the criminals used the ATM card of the deceased to clear his money in the bank. Enugu Catholic community was thrown into mourning yesterday as the body of the abducted Rev. Fr. Clement Rapuluchukwu Ugwu was found. Ugwu was abducted by gunmen in his parish, St. Mark Catholic Church, Obinofia Ndiuno in Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State. The body was discovered yesterday morning less… In “Metro and Crime” The new Commissioner of Police, Enugu State Command, Mr. Suleiman Balarabe, has assured Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, that his command is “doing everything possible to fish out the perpetrators” behind the killing of a Catholic Priest, Rev. Fr. Clement Ugwu, and the Secretary to the Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area, Dr. Nnamdi… In “Metro and Crime” Army deserter, 22 others arrested in Anambra     Police yesterday paraded a 32-year-old former corporal, Jude Madu, and five others arrested for the kidnap and murder of Rev. Fr. Cyriacus Onunkwo, Others are Izuchukwu Okafor (28) from Ukwukwa in Azia in Anambra State, Cyril Onyema (29) from Okwelle in… In “Metro and Crime”