The agitation by lawmakers and other stakeholders from the North Central geopolitical zone for the position of speaker of the House of Representatives has ignited a religious question. PHILIP NYAM examines the depth of the agitation  Barely two months to the proclamation of the 9th National Assembly, the frenzy, hysteria and crave for leadership positions in both chambers of the parliament is palpable. In the House of Representatives, at least 15 lawmakers are said to have indicated interest in vying for the exalted office of speaker, while three are in the race for the position of deputy speaker. The spokesman for the House, Abdulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa); Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos); chairman, Committee on Marine Safety and Education, Umaru Mohammed Bago (APC, Niger) and chairman, Committee on Aviation, Hon. Nkeiruika Onyejeocha (APC, Abia) have officially declared their interest to vie for the House’ no one position. Others said to be interested in the position include the deputy leader, Abdullahi Idris Wase (APC, Plateau); chief whip, Hassan Ado Doguwa, Umar Bago (APC, Niger), Babangida Ibrahim (APC, Katsina), Aminu Suleiman (APC, Kano), Aliyu Muktar Betara (APC, Borno), Khadija Bukar Abba Ibrahim (APC, Yobe), Mohammed Monguno (APC, Borno), Segun Odebunmi (APC, Oyo), Yusuf Buba Yakub (APC, Adamawa) and Garba Datti Mohammed (APC, Kaduna).  So far, only Abdulrahman Suleiman Kawu (APC, Kano) and Lado Suleja from Niger State have declared interest in the position of deputy speaker.  North Central demand The agitation by the North Central for the seat of speaker, House of Representatives began on March 19, when the zone’s caucus of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House requested the leadership of the party to zone the position to them. Led by a three-time lawmaker representing Gboko/Tarka federal constituency of Benue state, Hon. John Dyegh, the group said it was imperative for the speaker of the House in the 9th Assembly to come from the North Central in the interest of equity and fair play. Dyegh, who spoke on behalf of the group, noted that ceding the speakership position to the zone will advance equity in distribution of positions in the country, especially as the North-West and South-West have already produced the president and vice president, respectively.  Noting that it is not a coincidence that the 1999 Constitution (as amended) provides for Federal Character in the distribution of offices and leadership in the country, he said: “We note that apart from the North-West and the North-East, the North Central zone delivered handsomely for the party in the general elections and as such needs to be rewarded for the hard work and loyalty.”  He added: “The need to ensure balance and spread between and among the six geopolitical zones has made it imperative to give prime consideration to the North Central zone to produce the position of speaker.  “Being the zone with delicate and peculiar location and challenges within the federation, it is of utmost importance to carry us along in the hierarchy of power distribution in the country, as this will in no small measure, help in stabilizing the polity.” The North Central, which is made up of Benue, Plateau, Kogi, Kwara, Nasarawa and Niger states as well as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) came third in terms of performance for the ruling party.  In the presidential election, the North-West comprising seven states produced 5,995,651 votes for the APC, representing 72.45 per cent of the votes cast; North-East comprising six states produced 3,238,783 votes, representing 74.36 per cent; North Central comprising six dates produced 2,465,599 votes representing 54.92 percent; South-West comprising six states produced 2,036,450 votes representing 53.41 per cent; South-South comprising six states produced 1,051,396 votes representing 32.01 per cent and South-East comprising five states produced 403,968 votes representing 19.26 per cent.  While declaring for the office speaker, Bago said for equity and justice to prevail, APC should zone the position of speaker to the North Central. He explained that in the past 20 years, no lawmaker from the zone has occupied the office of speaker or deputy speaker.   The Religious question  Although, the APC North Central Reps caucus did not touch on the issue of religion, it has resonated in many circles. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), some lawmakers and other stakeholders are calling for a religious balance in filling the principal offices particularly the presiding positions. The proponents of this religious balance observed that going by the APC’s zoning arrangement and endorsement of candidates; Christians stand marginalized if the 9th Assembly adopts the party’s formula as all the three arms of government would be controlled by Muslims.  “President Muhammadu Buhari, head of the executive is a Muslim, Senator Ahmed Lawan, who is tipped to be Senate president and chairman of the National Assembly is a Muslim, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila anointed for the position of speaker is also a Muslim and the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad is a Muslim too”, an executive of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) observed. The contention within the Christian circle is that if the Senate president is a Muslim, the deputy should be a Christian and if the speaker is a Christian, the deputy should be a Muslim and vice versa.  Although in the Senate, two Christians – Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (APC, Delta) and Senator Francis Alimikhena (APC, Edo) are said to be likely candidates for Senate deputy president, in the House of Representatives, Hon. Suleiman Kawu (APC, Kano) and Hon. Datti Garba Datti (APC, Kaduna) are in the race for deputy speaker and they are all Muslims like Gbajabiamila.  It is in reaction to these permutations that CAN, pleaded with the incoming lawmakers to balance appointments of principal officers across religious divides. The Christian body submitted that “this will prevent domination and marginalisation of any kind in the interest of equity, justice, and fair play as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution.”  CAN also urged both the presidency and the leadership of the ruling APC to “support the position of the association in its quest to find an enduring peace, unity and development for our fatherland,” adding that “doing this will go a long way in fixing some of the problems confronting our country today that are rooted in religious, tribal suspicion, domination and marginalisation at every level of the government.”  CAN in a statement by its President, Rev Dr. Samson Ayokunle, advised the lawmakers thus: “As you prepare for your inauguration, CAN urges you to balance the appointments of your principal officers across religious divides to avoid domination and marginalisation of any kind in the interest of equity, justice, and fair play as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution (as amended).”  So far, only two lawmakers from the North Central have indicated interest in the position of speaker; Bago and Wase. While Hon. Umar Mohammed Bago officially declared his ambition last Sunday, Hon. Abdullahi Idris Wase is yet to do so. Coincidentally, they are all Muslims.  There are however reports to the effect that President Muhammadu Buhari may have convinced Wase to drop his ambition and support Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila’s candidature. Again, Hon. Yusuf Buba Yakub (APC, Adamawa), who is also contesting for speaker is a Christian, but he is from the North-East, where Senator Lawan also hails from. The argument is that the zone cannot have both the Senate president and speaker.  A ranking member of the APC Reps North Central caucus, who spoke to New Telegraph on condition of anonymity, said: “We in the caucus believe the next level of our party is to make amends and correct the negative perception Nigerians have about President Buhari’s administration and the APC as a party on the issue of religion.  “If you look at where we are today, the president is a Muslim and head of executive, the Senate president is a Muslim and head of legislature, the Chief Justice of the Federation is a Muslim and head of legislature. So, if the speaker is also taken to South-West and given to a Muslim, it means this government has no regard for Christians.”  He said both the President and the party must ensure that there is balance in terms of region and religion. “The most unfortunate thing is that the North Central and particularly Christians are not even factored into the party’s calculations. I’m a Muslim, but this is unfair and must be redressed. We have to be sensitive to these sentiments if we must get to the next level.  “These are some of the things we overlook and then give room to uninformed people to start flying rumours that Buhari and the APC are planning to islamise Nigeria. I want to advise that the party handle this religious aspect cautiously because we do not want what happened in 2015, with the emergence of Saraki and Dogara to occur again,” the lawmaker said.  Going by these agitations, the thought of a Muslim-Muslim ticket in the House may not fly.  ●Buhari’s ex-aide, Kawu, Suleiman, Datti latest entrants The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may have its hand full as more members of the House of Representatives have indicated interest in contesting for the presiding offices of speaker and deputy speaker in the 9th Assembly. A returning member of the House… In “Politics” A group of concerned members of the House of Representatives under the auspices of Parliamentary Democrats Group (PDG) has warned the All Progressives Congress (APC) to desist from surreptitious attempts to prevent Speaker Yakubu Dogara from dumping the party for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The group, in a… In “News” As a response to the spate of agitations across the country, the House of Representatives has resolved to constitute an ad hoc committee to liaise with stakeholders in the six geopolitical zones on how best to restructure the country and sustain the unity of the nation. This followed a unanimous… In “News”