Two 100 Level students of the Benue State University, a boy and a girl, at the weekend got drowned in River Benue. This came as gunmen on Saturday night murdered Orkuma Amaa-Bai, son of a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in the state, Prince Yandev Amaa-Bai. But the students, whose names were given as Adakole Christopher of the Department of Computer Science and Emmanuella Mson of the College of Health Science, were said to have got drowned on Friday about 6p.m. when they went to the university’s water works close to the riverside that looks like a beach in company with three others when the two of them died. Reports said Mson was the only child of her family. They were reported to have visited the area to play football and to enjoy the cool weather after the excruciating hot weather without informing the school management through the security unit. One of the students who accompanied the victims said “a strong current pulled the two victims deep into the river while they were swimming and three of us were able to swim back to the shore. But the two did not make it back”. The university’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), Mr. Tser Vanger, confirmed the incident. He said five of the students sneaked out to the river to swim when two of them were reported to have died in the process. Vanger said the body of the male student was recovered while that of the female student was yet to be found despite relentless search by a rescue team. The PRO added that the school authorities were not aware of their outing. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Sewuese Anene, also confirmed the incident. She said: “I heard about it. I am also aware that the Marine Police have been involved in the rescue operation but I will consult with my superiors and give you details soon.” Also the university, in a statement through the security unit, said the institution’s authorities had launched a search and rescue operation through the Nigeria Marine Police in the state to recover the two missing students. The statement warned students against visiting the river in the name of swimming, adding that any student caught would be arrested and handed over to the police for necessary action.