…as lawmakers disagree on state police  Worried by the worsening spate of killings and kidnapping in the country, the Senate, yesterday, invited the Acting Inspector- General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, to appear before it next week and explain what the Force was doing to tackle the situation. This was as senators disagreed on the call for the establishment of state police as one of the pragmatic measures towards tackling the problem of insecurity more effectively across the country. The Red Chamber also urged the security agencies to intensify the search for the killers of a 29-year-old Briton, Faye Mooney, a Nigerian and abduction of three others last week Friday in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The senate further urged the government to set up inter-agency task force to tackle cases of banditry and kidnapping in Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and Niger states. Moreover, the Upper Chamber urged security agencies to give special security cover to foreign workers and tourists to avert a repeat of the ugly past where foreign aid workers or other foreigners were either kidnapped or killed by bandits. The Senate also urged security agencies to immediately deploy the use of drones and interceptors in tracking kidnappers asking for ransom from their victims. It further urged community leaders, traditional rulers and all stakeholders in the Project, Nigeria, to cooperate with security agencies in their efforts to combat the bandits in the country. The Senate also urged the telecommunication companies to provide security agencies with information in areas where there are kidnappings. The Red Chamber further resolved to send a delegation to the British embassy to condole the British Government over the killing of its national in Kaduna by bandits. The Senate made these resolutions following consideration and adoption of a motion, entitled: “Senseless killing of a Briton and the abduction of the three others in a Holiday Resort in Kaduna State by armed bandits”, brought to the floor of the Chamber by Senator Shehu Sani and co-sponsored by 107 other senators. Senator Joshua Dariye (APC, Plateau Central), who is currently serving ten years in prison, after being convicted by Abuja based court, for alleged corrupt offences while in office as the Governor of Plateau State, was also included in the list of senators that sponsored the motion. Leading debate on the motion, Sani noted with serious concerns that armed banditry and kidnapping had been increasingly going on in different parts of the country, without a formidable and technological approach to fight the menace. He lamented that the Nigeria political elite is more interested in preservation of power than preservation of lives and property of the citizenry, warning that if nothing was done to tackle the deteriorating insecurity in the land, the elite, currently taking refuge in Abuja would not find such safe heaven in any part of the country. The lawmaker expressed worries over the killing of a Briton, Ms Faye Mooney and a Nigerian, Mr. Matthew Oguche, and the abduction of three other Nigerians, noting that Mooney was a humanitarian worker with an NGO, Mercy Corp. According to Sani, the Briton had worked in war torn countries like Iraq and Kosovo, helping the needy, the vulnerable and internally displaced persons. In his contribution, the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, said that the creation of state police was one of the major solutions to cases of killings and kidnapping in the country. He further urged kidnap victims to open up on the hideouts and activities of kidnappers, to assist security agencies in arresting them. “Kidnap victims should learn to open up and narrate their ordeal so that these hideouts can be traced. For instance, some people were kidnapped some time ago and one of them was a customs officer. They manhandled him more than their other captors and the ransom demanded from him was more than that of others. “As they kept beating him a lady advised him to pretend to be a fake customs officer and that was how they brought down the ransom from 10 million. From what has happened to the Briton it is time we tackle this menace. “It is becoming an embarrassment to the country, so, if it means declaring an emergency, it is necessary. We need to declare a national state of emergency to enable the government put in place measures to end this problem.” Senator Joshua Lidani (PDP-Gombe) said that the development, if not addressed as soon as possible would greatly affect tourism and foreign investment among others. “The implication of the spate of killings in the country is enormous. It affects tourism as countries might begin to warn their nationals against coming to Nigeria. We are inundated, every day, with reports on killing and kidnapping, in fact armed robbery is no longer in vogue. If not tackled we will not have investment in this country. “Nigeria is becoming a killing field and this will have an effect on investment and tourism. We need to do something drastic, something unusual that we have not done before. We need to mobilise the military to those areas and we should not be shy of asking for help, “he said. Senator Baba Kaita (APC-Katsina) called for specific suggestions on how to tackle the problem, saying that it was a collective fight that must not be left for the Executive alone. “We should marshal out plans from the chambers of this Senate to secure this country”, he said. The Deputy Minority Whip, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, also called for creation of state police while also urging for synergy between the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) vigilante groups and locals of affected states, noting that such move would drastically reduce the menace. “We also need massive military deployment to these flash points, as well as come up with capital punishments for these crimes.” On his part, Senator Kabiru Marafa (APC-Zamfara) said, “The north is at war. Unless something is done, I am afraid that in the next two to three years, the situation might be out of control. This has become a business because there is technically no business in the north. The way forward is to fight corruption and set standards.” He however, opposed establishment of state police, saying that doing that would be a recipe for total breakdown of law and order in the various states of the federation, alleging that state governors would misuse and abuse the apparatus. “I don’t support the creation of state police. This is because the kind of leadership we see now are irresponsible. We saw what some state governors did during the just concluded general elections. If they have a state police under their control, it will be a recipe for total war”. Senator Andrew Uchendu (APC-Rivers), said that the major reason for the menace was the the high level of unemployment in the country, saying, “Until our youth are engaged, this problem will continue”. In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, said that it was time workable solutions were employed to holistically address the security challenges in Nigeria. “When we talk about the way forward, we need to be honest with ourselves because in addressing these issues we need to be frontal on what has led us to where we are today. We must look beyond our political parties and see it as a problem that all of us need to address. “Where there is a fault, we must be bold enough to say where the fault is and where there are sanctions we must be bold as well to say so,” he said. Saraki expressed optimism that with the new Police boss, the relationship between the National Assembly and the Police Force would improve for better services to the country. He said: “You have all been in this chamber for one year and noticed that we could not even communicate, converse or engage with the Police. You were all here when the head of Police refused to even come before us. “How can we work together to move things forward because at the end of the day, we must begin to sit down with those in charge and discuss what we need to do,” he said.