A Magistrates’ Court sitting in Kano on Tuesday remanded a 55-year-old man, Mu’azu Isah, in prison custody for allegedly raping his 12-year-old stepdaughter. The defendant, who lives at Unguwar Dabai Quarters, Kano, is facing a one-count charge of rape, contrary to Section 283 of the Penal Code. The Prosecutor, Insp. Pogu Lale, told the court that one Hauwa Usman, the wife of the accused residing in the same address, reported the matter at Dala Police Division Kano, on March 22. He said that the incident happened about five months ago when the man left the complainant (his wife) in their own sleeping room and sneaked into the sleeping room of the minor. “The defendant went to meet the 12-year-old daughter on her bed in her room and had unlawful sexual intercourse with her severally on different occasions,” he told the court. The defendant however pleaded not guilty to the charge. The Chief Magistrate, Muhammad Jibril, ordered the remand of the defendant in prison custody, pending legal advice from the office of the State Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). He adjourned the matter until May 5 further mention. (NAN) A 27-year-old man, Adeoye Olatomide, was on Friday docked in an Okitipupa Magistrates’ Court in Ondo State for alleged attempt to rape a 60-year-old woman. Olatomide is facing a three-count charge of conspiracy, assault and attempted rape. The Prosecutor, Insp. Zedekiah Orogbemi told the court that the defendant committed the… In “Metro and Crime” A Minna Magistrates’ Court on Thursday in Minna  ordered the remand  of a 33-year-old clergy, Paul Aderinwa,  in prison for allegedly raping a minor. Aderinwa was arraigned on a count charge of rape, contrary to section 283 of the penal code law. The Police Prosecutor, Insp Gunduma Ibrahim,… In “Metro and Crime” A Kano State Chief Magistrates’ Court on Wednesday ordered the remand of three men, Marcus Sani, Iliya Garba and Halilu Musa, in prison for allegedly raping a 30-year-old woman.   The defendants, Sani, 30, Garba, 40, and Musa, 35, who reside at Fammar village, Kibiya Local Government Area of Kano… In “Metro and Crime”