 The Federal Government has, on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council (NJC), extended the appointment of the Justice Tanko Muhammad as the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), after spending his first three months in office.
This was contained in a statement issued yesterday by the Director of Information of the NJC, Soji Oye. The statement reads: “The attention of the National Judicial Council has been drawn to an online newspaper and daily newspaper report, stating that the Council would meet next week to deliberate on the extension of the Acting Appointment of Honourable Dr. Justice I. T. Muhammad CFR, as the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria. “Contrary to the above, the Council actually met on Thursday 18th April, 2019 and at the 88th Meeting considered and approved the request of President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, for the extension of the Appointment of Hon. Dr. Justice I. T. Muhammad, CFR, as the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria for another three (3) months and Council has since forwarded its approval to the President.” President Muhammadu Buhari had on January 24 appointed Justice Muhammad as the acting CJN, after he suspended Justice Walter Onnoghen who was then standing trial over his non-assets declaration as the CJN. By virtue of section 231(4) of the Nigerian 1999 Constitution, Justice Muhammad’s three-month tenure as the acting CJN ends on April 25, and he cannot be re-appointed unilaterally by the President without the NJC’s recommendation.
The implication is that a Justice can only act in acting capacity for three months after which his appointment will be confirmed or on the other hand renewed. Controversies had earlier trailed the appointment of Justice Tanko as the acting CJN, as some stake holders in the judiciary had filed a petition against him before the NJC.
While the petition against Tanko was filed, the same time another petition was filed against the now convicted Justice Onnoghen. While the petition against Tanko was challenging him for accepting to be sworn in as an acting CJN, the petition against Onnoghen was over his non-declaration of assets and corruption allegations.
Based on the petition, the Council had excused both Onnoghen, who was the Chairman, and Tanko, who was the Vice Chairman of the Council.
However, after considering the petitions, the Council held that Tanko had not erred by accepting to be sworn in as the CJN, being the next most senior Justice of the apex court.
The Council has equally recommended that Justice Onnoghen be retired voluntarily based on the strength of the petition against him. Onnoghen had about 24 hours after the report of the NJC to the President, sent in his letter of retirement which was alleged not to have been accepted by Buhari. However, the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT), wherein Onnoghen stood trial on a six-count criminal charge bordering on non-assets declaration convicted him (Onnoghen) and consequently removed him as the CJN.
The Tribunal also barred him from occupying any public position for the next 10 years and equally made an order of forfeiture of all the monies in the five undeclared accounts.
Onnoghen, however, described his conviction as “unconstitutional” and “premeditated” and subsequently appealed the CCT’s judgement.