Boasting a gripping rags to riches story that could produce a best seller, Prexy Sam Ola said music lifted him above his realities as a child. He spoke to ADEDAYO ODULAJA.  How did you start your career in music?
I started my music career with Foursquare Gospel Church when I joined the group then known as Glory Landers, the youth choir, in 1992. From there, I met Evang Kenny Olubanjo band and I left for Kano as I was led by the Lord in 1995. I left Nigeria for the United States in 2007. On getting to America, I asked the Lord what he wanted me to do with my ministry and he told me to sing. So far we have three album Silekun, Sound of Africa 1 and 2 and the fourth album is on the way. Where did you grow up and what was it like?
I was born in Ekiti, I came to Lagos at the age of nine to live with my uncle at Bariga where I did my primary and secondary school, and it was very rough.
I was born into a family of generations of carpenters; things were very tough for us. I didn’t wear my first shoes until I was 21; can you imagine? For someone coming from such a background, would you then say music was a childhood dream of yours?
Yes. My parents were very poor and my father. My father is a carpenter and my mother traded in anything available just to feed us and be able to get by. I would see other kids looking good and sharp when they come home from Lagos or wherever they came from and I would tell my mother I needed to do what those people were doing so that I could have the same feelings but it didn’t work out. Today, we are living the dream. I was not ready to do anything, but whenever I saw those children who put on shoes with beautiful clothes, good food and all, I also wished we had all those things and would ask my mother why we couldn’t have them. I was very inquisitive and outspoken as a child and often wondered why we always eat bread and sugar water as dinner or garri with sugar or solid pap and just water.
Then my mother would tell me those people didn’t live in our village; they lived in Lagos and I thought living in Lagos would automatically give you all the good things of life. Immediately I came, I couldn’t go to school. I had to continue my second journey into carpentry which happened to be my family’s profession right from the time of my forefathers.
I was not happy, I wanted to go to school which eventually happened at the later stage as I was enrolled at Bishop Howells Memorial Primary school, CMS, Bariga. I was an outcast in the school, I couldn’t speak Yoruba or Enghish. I was only able to speak Ekiti dialect but at the end, God helped me. I went to Ajayi Crowther Memorial Grammar School with a few friends. I was not popular then but I was able to learn fast and catch up fast. What were your parents like? Soft or disciplinarians?
My parents were very loving to me and I have no records of my mother or father ever scolding or beating me. They would flog my siblings but for me, nothing of such. They pampered me and this automatically put it in the minds of my siblings that I am the saviour of my family, but everything they said came to pass. Could you recall some of the pranks you played as a child?
I don’t play pranks, but one that I can remember as a child, I will go about town telling everyone Onise owo kin jiya,Onise ni mi, Mio ni jiya (An artisan doesn’t go hungry; I won’t suffer) and I would be carrying on like that. It dawned on me as an adult. What is the name of your record label?
Swelerion Music Int’l abroad but in Nigeria Swelerion Music and Entertainment Ltd. What informed the decision to name it that and structure it as such?
I like inventing words. One or two words put together always means something to me. My mind is very artistic. That is how we invented that name with deep, personal meaning. For how long have you been singing?
I have been singing for 24 year. How would you describe the journey so far?
My journey is very spiritual. I told God I didn’t want to sing because I wanted to be rich and famous. Singing affords me the chance to see people happy and giving praises to his (God’s) name. Doing that is my fulfilment and I am grateful; we don’t ‘blow’ as Christians in that sense, but we make our God bigger and greater.
For how long have you been married and where did you meet your wife?
A decade plus and still counting. My wife is from Delta State in Nigeria, She belongs to a capella singing group which consists of five ladies called RUDEL SISTER. They were the superstars of the northern part of the country in the 90s. I became a friend of the group and whenever they came to my concert we would hang out and I did hang out in their house too until we progressed into dating, Then I proposed and she said yes, the rest is history. Our marriage is blessed with three kids – two handsome boys and a beautiful girl. What attracted her to you and vice versa?
Singing and music was our point of attraction. What kind of song do you sing precisely?
Strictly Gospel music. How would you describe your journey as a musician so far?
It’s been so wonderful and joyful; I love it all the way. So far it keeps getting better every day. How does Nigeria compare to the United States where you are based now?
Home is home and being abroad can never be the same as home to me. But you have to understand the peculiarities; for instance to my children America is their home but to me, I am an always an Ekiti man. How many albums have you produced and which do you consider most challenging?
In total, I have released 4 albums and in terms of the one that was most challenging, I would always point to the first album.