A former Manager of Akure Branch of Zenith Bank Plc., Mr. Sunday Alade, yesterday revealed how a former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, received N1.2 billion from the office of the former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) few days to the 2014 gubernatorial election in the state. He made the revelation while testifying in the ongoing trial of Fayose and his company, Spotless Limited, over alleged N3.3 billion fraud before Justice Mojisola Olatoregun of a Federal High Court in Lagos. In his evidence, Alade, who is the 11th prosecution witness in the matter, narrated how he got a call from the bank’s Head of Operations, Ademola Oshodi, sometimes in 2014, about a customer waiting at Akure Airport with huge cash that needed to be attended to. “On 17th June, 2014, I was in my office in Zenith Bank, Akure. I received a call from my Head of Operations, Abiodun Oshodi that a customer would be coming to make deposit into his account with the bank. “He said in order to provide security, we should arrange for a bullion van to go to the airport to pick the cash. “After an hour, my Head of Operations, Abiodun Oshodi, came and said the customer had arrived. He introduced Abiodun Agbele as the customer. “He said we should prepare to go to the airport. I asked for time to arrange for security, but they said that won’t be necessary as they had sufficient security. They came with MOPOL and some soldiers in a Hilux van,” the witness said. Alade further disclosed that he accompanied Oshodi and Agbele to the airport, along with the bullion van and the security men. “At the airport, we waited for a few minutes before the arrival of the aircraft. Three individuals came out of the aircraft. Two of them walked away. The remaining person introduced himself as O. Adewale (Obanikoro’s aide-de-camp). “The cash was offloaded into the bullion van and we drove to Zenith Bank, Akure branch,” he added. Speaking further, Alade said: “When we got to the bank, the money was counted in my presence. Oshodi, Adewale and Agbele were also present. “The money was counted in our presence. It was N724 million. We were informed that there was a balance. We went back to the airport and picked N494 million. “The total cash amounted to N1.219 billion. Another aircraft brought the N494 million. “I gathered that the cash was lodged in three bank accounts: those of De-Privateer, Spotless Investment and Ayodele Fayose. I also understand some cash was taken away that day by Mr. Agbele.” When asked by the prosecution lawyer, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), if he knew those who walked away from the aircraft after it landed, Alade said: “One of them resembled Obanikoro. I never met him in person. But he resembled the person I saw on television and newspapers.” While being cross-examined by defence lawyers, Ola Olanipekun (SAN) and Olalekan Ojo (SAN), the witness disclosed that he knew nothing about what the money was meant for. He added that he did not submit a bulk cash register on the transaction to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Further hearing in the matter has been adjourned to 10th May, 2019. Fayose was, on 22nd October, 2018, arraigned by the EFCC alongside his company, Spotless Limited, on an 11-count charge of alleged N3.3 billion fraud. He, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge and was subsequently admitted to bail in the sum of N50 million with one surety in like sum.