Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) recently spoke to journalists at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja on the resignation of former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen among other issues concerning the party and government, stating that the party won the just concluded election because of its performance. JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM was there and reports  What is the reaction of the party on the resignation of the CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen? The issue we have in this country is that, many people, especially those who have been part of the impunity of the past are struggling badly to adjust to the reality of rule of law. That is the major issue we are facing in this country. There is so much struggle to allow the past that is not good enough for us as a country to go and for all of us to rise and face the future, the future of promise, future of change, so that we can move to the ‘Next Level’.  When this happened, as usual, especially the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and some of their allies, the civil society groups, not the entire community of the civil societies because some of the allies of PDP, including PDP, everything they read were the barometer of politics and we do know that, until we all rise above sentiments, no matter what part of the divide you find yourself and we see first and foremost this as an issue that has to do with our country. That is the only way we can progress. We knew right from the beginning that the allegations against the immediate past CJN (that is if his resignation letter is accepted), were very serious and we know that the President does not act on frivolities. He must have done his background checks; he must have gotten good information to have taken the action he took, and not just taking that action, that there was basis for the action that can be legally proven but those lawyers… who had over the years dipped their hands along with some of these judicial officers, in the ’till’ of this country, continued to lampoon the President; lampoon the APC and blaming this government that is doing its best to right several of the wrongs that we were used to.  They were actually the ones trying to kill democracy and this party rose in the defense of the President because we understand that the President means well; he knows the real purpose that drives his actions. Now, events have proven the President right. Events have proven the party, APC right. Events have proven those Nigerians who believe Nigeria first before any other thing right.  We all can’t be hiding behind one finger, otherwise we knew Nigerians; reasonable Nigerians knew from the word go that those allegations were not cooked up and if they were real. The next thing for the CJN to have done was to have stepped aside and the question of, he wouldn’t be the only one, or why him should not have come in. There is nowhere in the world where judgment is passed on every sinner at once.  It is not every armed robber you can catch the same day. And even some of you know that, the slow wheel of justice may not catch up with them immediately but we must continue to see evidence that we are moving towards that sanity that we are making progressive efforts and sending strong signals to people who think this country must continue as long as they are comfortable and the rest of Nigerians are suffering. We must send that signal to them. It is not going to be business as usual.  Now, you have seen the head of National Assembly, Senate President, in the dock. Now, you have seen the CJN in the dock. So, one day, we will see a President that will also misbehave in the dock which now shows that nobody is above the law of this country.  So, anybody who finds himself in any position should now begin to look closely at his own actions knowing full well that today may protect him but tomorrow may expose him.   The Senior Advocates of Nigeria that you talked about, their argument was not about Onnoghen; it was about due process. They always crave for due process that Onnoghen was supposed to be made to resign due to recommendations of NJC. Suddenly, NJC has made the recommendation… Is it just a mere coincidence that Onnoghen…  Well, there are two questions in that. The first thing is the so-called due process they are asking for. NJC’s action has confirmed that due process was actually followed. You see, we are too much in a hurry to protect what is wrong because there were two issues involved. One is the issue of declaration of assets which there is abundant proof from superior court that no court has power to stop the Code of Conduct Bureau or Tribunal from doing its work.  So, it was the same Code of Conduct Tribunal that says this person has a case to answer, Mr. President, we need him to step aside. And the President acted based on a kind of directive from a competent court. The President is not in the best position to examine the action of that court whether it was wrong or right, the law does not give him that power. Even, if you believe he has acted wrongly the correct thing for him to do is to comply with that instruction.  The second issue is the criminal case which was sent to the NJC. So, the people who were saying that it is only NJC that can act were not separating the issue of Code of Conduct Tribunal from the criminal aspect of Onnoghen’s actions.  For instance, you saw what the prosecutors did at the Code of Conduct Tribunal. They were not talking about where he got the money from or how did so much money get into your account. What they were talking about was, the money we found in your account, you didn’t disclose or declare in your Declaration Form. It doesn’t matter whether you earned it legitimately or not, that is not the issue. The law says even the ones you earned legitimately, you must disclose in your form and you must continue to update your form as the situation changes but he didn’t do that.   So, it was not about whether he stole money or whether he got bribe. That was not the issue before the Code of Conduct Tribunal. And that was what took him to that place. When they now worked diligently on the criminal aspect of it and sent it appropriately to the NJC, because these people are not actually looking for something on the basis of what is right, it is on the basis of impunity, because they were all part of it and they have all been benefiting from it. That is the issue.  You will find out that most of the monies they found there, most of these SANs, were the ones trading with judicial officers. Some of them are agents of these judicial officers and that is why they all came out and said they were defending the judiciary, that they are defending separation of powers; that they are defending rule of law; that they are fighting for the constitution whereas they are fighting to protect themselves from the long arm of the law.  On the result of Rivers State governorship election, was it a failure of the APC?  No, we don’t have anything to do with the Rivers State election. APC didn’t have candidates in Rivers State and that is why, from the beginning, we didn’t throw ourselves so much into it. You knew what the Supreme Court did, that we were not qualified to contest. So, on that basis, whatever happened in Rivers, whether a local government that gave 80 per cent of the total votes during Presidential election suddenly produced 320,000 for Wike during governorship election didn’t hurt us in any way. If INEC says that was correct, fine, it is up to the parties involved to take actions if they find it necessary but for us as a party, we didn’t have the opportunity to contest fairly in Rivers State.  You adopted AAC.  No! But that was the controversy because a chieftain of the party was said to have worked directly with AAC? What happened last time was whether what he did amounted to anti-party activities and I said no because they have not denied any of our candidates anything in Rivers State. So, I separated what had happened in Rivers from Ogun and Imo where we had our own candidates and our own members worked against our own candidates and worked for some other candidates. It was a different thing in Rivers. Whatever local arrangement they had there, we were not aware of it, neither were we part of it. I’m sure you didn’t see anybody here campaigning for anybody outside of APC. On the case against the Kwara State governor-elect over allegation of certificate scandal. What would APC do if it turns to be true? See, there is no scandal. You see, APC is a party of due process. Once you comply with your party’s rules, things become easy for you. We have a process and they (the then governorship aspirants) went through the right process. We are confident and completely certain that our governor-elect has nothing to hide. The certificates are genuine. So, those who are involved in those antics would fail. You see, it is laughable that of all things, they cannot come out to say the election was rigged because they were trashed even beyond their own imagination. So, maybe they could use something from that to say that they have something to go to tribunal, so at least they can’t just walk away but they need to wake up and face the reality of that defeat, it is an eternal defeat, it is total. In the just-concluded elections, your party lost some major states like Bauchi, Adamawa, Sokoto, Oyo and you narrowly won in Kano. Is your party not jittery ahead of 2023? Not at all. Again, the pictures you painted are not exactly correct. Sokoto, we lost by less than 500 votes. Kano, we won by thousands of votes. Which one is narrow? Is it the Sokoto State that PDP has claimed they have won with three hundred or Kano that we won by over 20,000 votes, so it is not narrow. But the important thing to note is that, being a journalist myself, I begin to ask myself, what has happened to us in the media? It is our roles to interpret events and if we interpret these events very well, you will know that you have a ruling party that is supposed to mobilise all the resources of coercion, all instrument of coercion to get what they wanted but you have seen now that we lost some states, major states. I will tell you that the only reason that happened was because this party has provided a platform for people to go and face the electorate and for the electorate to pass judgment on the people that had been put forward without anybody doing anything against it.
We have just talked about Rivers State. Whatever was going on in Rivers State, as far as this party is concerned, belongs to people of Rivers State. Otherwise, we would have said ‘okay, and move in and do this or that.’  We have witnessed it in this country under PDP, that a whole state was locked down. Their own method is win by all means, let others go to tribunal. We didn’t apply that.  You have seen major politicians in this country, big politicians in this country, losing election even in our own party. You saw the serving governor in Oyo State who couldn’t win one-third of the state. A governor of the entire state couldn’t win one-third of the entire state to get to the Senate.  You saw a struggle that is still going on in Akwa-Ibom State. Somebody of the calibre of Godswill Akpabio even though we know there are issues to that and it would be corrected but at the same time, we should have deployed, in such a way that we will want to arm-twist anybody or the system or manipulate the system. That question did not even arise at all and I think media should step back from the milieu, so that they don’t get carried away by what kind of ‘flu’ politicians are going with. So, they can see the issue clearly and say what is responsible for this.  You could see that we lost Oyo in presidential election. We have a sitting governor; we lost Ondo State, we have a sitting governor and this was because we didn’t want to condone impunity. We did all we did in Imo State in a way to undermine ourselves and the choice we had was to accept what would have amounted to the impunity, so that we could win Imo but we said No! We would rather do what is decent.  What are the chances of your party ahead of 2023?  The chances are even now brighter. You know why? Nigerians have shown that they have also come of age that no matter who you are you can lose election. See what happened in Kwara State for instance. With the behemoth status of somebody like Senator Bukola Saraki whose opponent’s results nearly doubled his own. Not a single person was slapped. He couldn’t even go to tribunal to protest. The only way this could happen was because voters have come up of age, and they now look at performance unlike sentiments that they’ve been following.  You knew what a lot of clergies did and the election this time around, you can’t say it went along divides. No! In most cases, voters passed judgment based on performance.  We now know that the only way for us in 2023 is to ensure that we have credible performance, which Nigerians can still claim that we have clearly done so well, that they can’t take the risk of not voting for us. So, we will be facing Nigerians in 2023 and we want to be judged based on performance.  Sequel to yesterday’s resignation of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, some lawyers have advised the Federal Government to drop all charges against the former CJN, who is standing trial before the Code of Conduct Tribunal over alleged non declaration of assets, and allow him to… In “News” The Federal Government has slammed a six-count charge bothering on non-assets declaration charge on the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen before the Code of Conduct Tribunal sitting in Abuja. The Tribunal has, however, fixed tomorrow for the arraignment of the CJN. According to the Head, Press and… In “News” The groundswell of opposition to President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to suspend the Chief Justice of the Federation, Justice Walter Onnoghen is growing with the nation’s dominant opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) making moves to get the international community to mount pressure on the president to retrace… In “News”