No fewer than nine suspected cult members have been killed as rival cult groups clashed in Sagamu area of Ogun State.
The victims, who were said to be members of the Eiye and Aiye confraternities, died between Monday and yesterday.
It was learnt that the crisis erupted at Tusokun area of Sagamu during an Easter carnival which featured a popular Fuji musician. Though the circumstances surrounding the killings were sketchy at press time, it was learnt that it had ignited tension and fear of reprisals in the town.
It was also learnt that the victims were either shot or hacked to death. A source, who spoke with our correspondent yesterday, disclosed that six cultists were killed on Monday while three others were killed yesterday. Briefing journalists yesterday, the state Police Commissioner, Bashir Makama, confirmed the killings in Sagamu but said only one death had been recorded by police authorities.
Makama, who spoke during the parade of 93 suspected criminals by the state police command, however, assured that investigation had been launched into the killings.
The incident came on the heels of violence that erupted in Ifo area on Sunday, which claimed the life of a 25-year-old mechanic, Akeem Akinsanya. Akinsanya was reportedly killed by operatives of the Zonal Intervention Squad of Zone 2 Police Command; a development which led to razing of the vehicles and constituency office of the state Deputy Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo. Meanwhile, the command yesterday said a police inspector, Sunday Ogundapo, earlier declared missing in connection with the Ifo incident, had been found. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed this in a statement yesterday night, said Ogundapo was found with various degrees of machete injury all over his body. He said: “The Ogun State Police Command wishes to inform members of the public that the police Inspector declared missing in the wake of crisis in Ifo area of the state has been seen.
“The said officer Inspector Sunday Ogundapo reappeared about 10a.m. of Tuesday 23rd of April 2019 with various degrees of machete injury all over his body.
“He narrated how he was rescued from the scene of the mayhem by a Good Samaritan who used a motorcycle to take him to a hospital in the area.”  “He narrated further that while in the hospital, the doctor informed him of the plan by his assailants to come and finish up with him in the hospital consequent upon which his helper quickly took him away to an area close to the border from where he managed to find his way back to Abeokuta early in the morning.”