 Open Defecation (OD) has been a serious environmental problem in Nigeria with over 39 million people practicing the act even as another 68 million Nigerians are homeless and others without decent toilet facilities. This gave Nigeria the third place position among countries of the world with high rate of OD. As a way of solving this problem which is provision of more public toilets in the areas where they are needed, the Anthony Village Diamond Lions Club, District 404 1A Nigeria, Lagos, has constructed and donated a four-unit public toilet to Anthony community in a further bid to ensure clean and safe environment for the people. The Club also donated a borehole and generator to the community to enable the community to take good care of the project and ensure it’s put in use for optimal satisfaction. According to the Charter President, Anthony Village Diamond Lions Club, Lion Chinwe Ogana, the project, which is located at a strategic location at Anthony Oke, will serve the mechanics, commuters, footers and even the offices around the place that do not have toilet facilities or decent toilet. The cream painted toilet facility was a project of the Club’s 2018/2019 Lions Year. The project, which cost was put at over N2million, was jointly executed by Anthony Village Diamond Lions Club and Lions Club International, District 40. The Lions Club District Governor, Lion Sir Monday Onyeme, who cut the ribbon during the handover ceremony of the facility to the community, thanked the club and its members for their commitment to embarking on robust projects. He said: “Anthony Village Diamond Lions Club is a young club yet it has huge far sight. The Club is doing well and I want it to keep having big projects like this once every year. This region is close to my heart. “You have been first in so many places. The region has chartered other clubs. Remember that your core project is membership. This region was the region that was called at Las Vegas for recognition. We are still the heart beat in Africa; you have not failed me despite the challenges we are facing in the country.” He urged the Club to also mentor the community so that they can take care of the toilet to ensure that the project is not vandalise. Region Chairperson, Lion Joyce Apata, who introduced the District Governor and the Charter President, also reeled out the major achievements and the challenges of the Club. However, the Community Leader, Hon Adebayo Busayo, who said the community will take good care of the facility, also appealed for more support from the Club to enable them to take care of the toilet. “Many people will benefit from this gesture. If we can have this in all the wards, it will help to reduce open defecation in the Lagos State. This Club has done well and I pray for the Lions to continue. This club is trying and making big marks on our environment.
“We need some equipment here and support. We need to fence it and put somebody there to protect it and work with vigilante group. The position is good and prefect.”