  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of replacing all its servers nationwide in a bid to obliterate the actual presidential election results transmitted from polling centres across the nation during the February 23 presidential election. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement yesterday, said the commission and the presidency have engaged the services of computer experts to switch the servers and mutilate vital information in the system in an attempt to erase all trails of transmitted results to the main server. INEC, in a swift reaction, said it would not engage the party in a media war in a matter that is already in court. PDP described as reprehensible that the commission could take the action, noting that it further exposed its culpability in the manipulation and rigging of the 2019 presidential election. The party stated that the leadership of INEC and the presidency have become jittery, which explains their resort to the desperate measure after they realised that the servers have information of Atiku Abubakar’s victory at the election. “Our party also has details of how the INEC leadership and the presidency agents procured and detailed computer experts to the commission’s offices to switch the servers, mutilate vital information in the system and attempt to erase all trails of transmitted results to the main server,” the statement added. It further alleged that weeks after the election, some INEC officials manipulated voter registers in some states by ticking names of individuals, who did not participate in the presidential election as having voted. “This is with the view to using such to cover the fictitious results it wrote for the APC. What INEC and the Buhari presidency do not understand is that computer software and applications leave traces, signatures as well as footmark. “Forensic investigation of the system will reveal the real votes transmitted from the polling centres, which show Atiku Abubakar as the winner of the election,” the party said. It insisted on forensic examination of all relevant documents and equipment used for the presidential election, adding that no amount of manipulation by INEC will detract it from reclaiming its mandate at the tribunal. But, Chairman, Information and Voter Education of the electoral commission, Festus Okoye, told New Telegraph that INEC will not engage in a media war with any political party over a matter that is pending in court. “The issue of data from a server is a major issue before the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal and the commission has filed its reply to the petition,” Okoye said. Meanwhile, INEC, yesterday, said it will release the report of the 2019 general election before the end of August. Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, stated this in Abuja at the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room Stakeholders Forum on Future of Elections in Nigeria. Yakubu, who was represented by Okoye, said the electoral body will commence review meetings with various election stakeholders from May. He added that the review will include meetings of the Inter Agency Consultative Committee on Elections Security, the media, political parties, civil society organizations; retreat with its Assistant Electoral Officers and heads of departments in each of the six geopolitical zones in May. He further explained that in June, the commission will hold retreats for its national commissioners, electoral officers and debriefing of selected collation and returning officers as well as meet with Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) and Administrative Secretaries of the Commission. According to him, “As required by law, the commission will produce the report on the 2019 general election and submit to the National Assembly.” He, however, revealed issues that would dominate consultations with stakeholders to include deployment of personnel and materials, opening of polls, voting processes and performance of equipment, counting, collation and declaration of results, operation of the national situation room, election management and support centre. Others are challenges of violence, disruption of electoral process, kidnapping of key election staff, non-use of Smart Card Readers; audit of key processes and procedures; reverse logistics; storage of election materials; addressing electoral offences; handling of election petition and review of election observation report and recommendation. He noted that the commission will propose far-reaching changes in the nation’s electoral processes. The changes, according to him, will include the disposal of all pre-election cases before elections. He noted that the extant law whereby pre-election cases are yet to be concluded on the eve of elections makes the commission’s work difficult. His words: “This keeps the commission on edge to the Election Day. It makes it difficult for the commission to produce sensitive materials ahead of time. The commission will prefer a timeframe and timeline that allows for the disposal of all pre-election matters before elections. “The commission will work with the National Assembly and propose alterations to the constitutional and legal framework on critical issues that pose challenges to the conduct of the 2019 elections. “The commission will also follow closely the pronouncements and judgements of the various courts and tribunals on novel constitutional and electoral issues and incorporate them into our proposal and electoral reforms.” Earlier in his remarks, Convener of Situation Room, Clement Nwankwo, called on INEC to commence an independent inquisition into the conduct of the 2019 general election even as he condemned the role of the Nigerian Army during the polls. He recommended that the executive arm of government should not carry out the inquiry on the grounds that it is an interested party. “Situation Room is calling for an inquiry into what happened with the 2019 elections because against the background of what happened and we step over it and lay it under the carpet and claim we are heading to 2023, then we are going to be in serious disaster. “And I don’t think anybody in INEC should be doing countdown to 2023. What we should be doing is asking the question: What happened with 2019? Unless we answer that question, there can’t be no countdown to 2023 because it means that we will all have wasted our time and simply pretending that we are observing elections,” Nwankwo said.