Emenite Limited, one of the surviving companies set up by the administration of defunct Eastern Region under the late Premier, Dr. Michael Okpara, has undergone many transformations and upgrades.  That is in order to retain her iconic status.  Its contemporaries like the Nigeria Cement Company (Nigercem) Nkalagu Ebonyi State; Niger Steel Company Limited, Emene; Nigergas, Emene; Sunrise Floor Mills Ltd, Emene; and lately, Anambra Motor Manufacturing Company Limited (ANAMMCO), also in Emene industrial layout Enugu have all gone sick or completely dead.  But not so for Emenite; thanks to the privatization of the company to a Belgian firm, with the governments of South Eastern states of Enugu, Anambra, Imo, Abia and Ebonyi still retaining minority shares in the company.  Only recently, a facility visit by Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN), Enugu State chapter to Emenite Limited offered deep insight into the life and times of the company. Emenite Limited is a Limited Liability Company established in 1961 as Turners Asbestos.  In 1976, the name changed from Turners to Emenite. But the firm was later renamed Emenite after going through management change and acquisition by Etex, a Belgian industrial group based in Brussels but operating 123 factories and 116 subsidiaries across 44 countries. Etex now controls the majority stake.  Emenite Limited started actual business of manufacturing reenforced cement materials such as roofing sheets and flat sheets (ceiling boards) in 1962. The product line was later expanded to include pressure pipes. APWEN Enugu state chapter, led by its chairman, Engr. (Mrs) Evangeline Ekoh (MNSE, MNICE, MNIHE), visited the company where among other things, she called for employment of more female engineers into industrial complexes in Nigeria.  The female engineers were received by some senior management staff of the company, who took them on different aspects of the firm’s operations.  The management staff including, Mrs. Ike Comfort from Human Resources Unit; Dr. Patrick Ugwu and Engr Benson Ikusike of Environment, Health and Safety dept; and Engr Felix Echezona, Sales Manager (Specification) took the visitors through the history, health and safety issues and production processes in the firm, before they were taken round the various production lines and sections.  Ugwu told the visitors that the company does what it called pre-employment baseline health examination of employees to ascertain their health status, and then place them on periodic health check. “Health is important for productivity.  Even after you must have retired from the company, we do post-medical examination. We use standards higher than internationally acceptable standards,” he said.  According to Ugwu who also represents Enugu State Government on the board of Emenite, the standard threshold limit value (TLV) (that is the amount of asbestos permissible in the air within the industrial complex, is 0.5 fibre per milligram of air.  But for the company, her own action point is 0.25, at which point the company triggers safety control measures. He explained that even when the environment was safe, the company in the year 2000 phased out asbestos production and switched over to PVA (Polyvinyl Alcohol) due to the phasing out of asbestos across the developed countries.  He said that yet again in 2013, the company introduced a production line using kalsiceil. In all, he said the duty of the health department was to ensure that they have a healthy workforce. On his part, Ikusike, who is in charge of Environment and Safety Department, said that the company’s target is not number of products it produces or sells but to ensure the safety of the workers, the third party and environment. He said that the slogan of the company is, “Safety is key, it’s up to you and me”.  Echezona, said that the company operates integrated management system and uses some raw materials such as PVA fibre, cellulose (waste paper) fibre, limestone (calcium carbonate), kaolin, hard ground waste (recycled waste) and silica for its production of roofing sheets and ceiling boards.  Speaking earlier, Ekoh explained that the facility tour was part of events by the association to celebrate International Women’s Day, noting that although the Day was celebrated on March 8 of every year since 1911, the association shifted her celebration to March 15, due to the 2019 general elections.  She expressed surprise that a big engineering/industrial complex like Emenite had few women working in the place, and called for more opportunities for women in the firm and similar firms across the country.  “The theme of this year’s celebration is ‘Balance for Better’. This celebration as you know started in the year 1911, and the main aim of it is to reduce gender gap globally. So since that 1911, it has continued to exist and it has continued to be celebrated globally.  “A lot has been achieved through it just as you have seen today, and I and my colleagues have discovered that we have one or no female working in this very big company with all the beautiful work they are doing. We women, we always believe that we have something to contribute and of course, we have not failed doing so. God has given us the privilege to do so,” she said.  Ekoh stated that the Association came along with female engineering students in order to expose them to what was being done at the firm to encourage the students to read hard and study hard, as they go through all the engineering divisions such as civil, mechanical, electrical and chemical engineering production processes of the company.  Miss Ezeanyim Chinecherem, APWEN President Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) Chapter, who spoke on behalf of other students, expressed gratitude to APWEN leadership in the state for the exposure and opportunity to undertake the tour.  “I’m very grateful for this wonderful opportunity. I have been hearing of Emenite but this is my very first time of coming into the industry and I’m impressed by what I saw. It is very impressive. If I’m asked, in fact, I will tell you that nothing of such exists here in Nigeria but I’m glad it does and not just any other place in Nigeria but here in Enugu, I’m very glad.  “My colleagues will benefit from this experience, especially those in civil engineering. They will benefit very well. At least, I have students from civil engineering that came with us. The way they were questioning our instructors, I was okay, I was very glad they came,” she said.