A Lagos-based medical doctor, Lanre Ayoade, has called on Nigerians to give back to the community where they are born and bred. Dr. Ayoade stated this during his free medical mission to residents of Apapa Road Community in Ebute- Metta area of Lagos State. The free medical mission is held yearly to mark Dr Ayoade’s birthday. Speaking on the importance of his health mission tagged “Health is Wealth”, Dr. Ayoade stated that a healthy community is a wealthy one. He said: “I was born and bred in Ebute Metta area in Lagos. When I was growing up, we had a lot of medical challenges. I told myself then that when I become a medical doctor, I will give free medical treatment to my community. “Three years ago, that dream became a reality and on my birthday, the medical mission has given free treatment to over 1500 residents. We are giving free treatment to over 200 patients this year. We will perform over 15 surgeries and give out free glasses, blood test and others. The initiative began at Ago-Egba community; we have visited the Oko- Oba community and given free treatment to the community members. Mr. Ademuyiwa Abodurin, the chairman planning committee of OLarry Cares Initiative and advised young persons to make their lives count. A Lagos based medical doctor, Lanre Ayoade has called on Nigerians to give back to the community they are born and bred. Dr. Ayoade stated this during his free medical mission to residents of Apapa Road Community in Ebute- Metta area of Lagos state The free medical mission is held… In “Metro and Crime” Over 2,000 patients and farmers in some communities in Edda clan, Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State have received free medical attention through a United States of America-based Non- Governmental Organization, Healthcare Educational Liaison Project. The project is courtesy of Dr. John Kalu Ijem, as UCHENNA INYA, in… In “News” As part of effort to contribute towards the well-being of the people, the Founder and President of Freedom Health Initiative /Olooto Health Advocacy Group, Dr. Akinnuga Olusanya, who is based in the United States (US) has provided free healthcare and drugs to some communities in Nigeria. Speaking with New Telegraph… In “Health”