The Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja yesterday fixed Thursday to deliver judgement in the nonassets declaration charge the Federal Government preferred against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen. The three-man panel tribunal, led by Danladi Umar, fixed the date after the prosecution and defendant counsel adopted their final written addresses. The tribunal had earlier ordered a lawyer, Prof. Zainab Duke, who is a member of the prosecution team, out of the court. The order of tribunal was sequel to an oral application made by the lead prosecution counsel, Aliyu Umar (SAN). The mild drama started after Aliyu had announced appearance and informed the court of the business of the day. After that, Prof. Duke had indicated that she wanted to make a submission, an act which was quickly rebuffed by Aliyu. While Duke insisted, Aliyu prayed the tribunal to expunge her (Duke) name from counsel’s list. In a short ruling, the tribunal granted the application, and consequently removed Duke’s name from counsel list. The tribunal further ordered her to go out of the court or relocate her seat to the back of the court. After the order, Duke picked all her belongings and left the court room. Meanwhile, while adopting his address, Onnoghen, through his counsel, Okon Nkanu Efut (SAN), urged the tribunal to discharge and acquit him on ground that the FG failed to prove that he committed any offence that is known to the law. Also, Nkanu argued that false declaration of assets charge against Onnoghen was unknown to law because it was not clearly defined by the constitution. He added that for the prosecution to succeed, the elements of each count in the six-count charge must be well established and its absence, the tribunal, under the law, must rule in favour of the defendant. The defendant particularly faulted the claim of the prosecution that Onnoghen made partial asset declaration, adding that the claim establishes the fact that Onnoghen declared his asset and that if it was done, it raises doubts that must be resolved in favour of the defendant. Nkanu further submitted that from the asset declaration form of Onnoghen, which was admitted by the tribunal as exhibit, it was clear that Onnoghen’s claims were not verified by the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) as required by law and, therefore, the charges against his client were based on hearsay. The defence counsel, therefore, prayed the tribunal to dismiss the entire charges, discharge and acquit Onnoghen from the alleged offences. The prosecution counsel, Umaru, in his own submission, asked the tribunal to convict and impose maximum punishment on the former CJN, contending that it successfully established that he acted in breach of the code of conduct for public officers in the country. He insisted that the defendant did not declare his assets between 2005 and 2015. And added that when he did so on December 14, 2016, five bank accounts with Standard Chartered Bank, opened between 2009 and 2011, were not declared. The prosecution, therefore, urged the tribunal to hold that the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. The tribunal had also said that it will deliver ruling on two applications filed by Onnoghen challenging the jurisdiction of the tribunal and another application asking the chairman to recuse himself. The Federal Government had, in the charge marked CCT/ABJ/01/19, alleged that Onnoghen’s failure to properly declare his assets, was in violation of section 15(2) of Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act. It further alleged that the ex-CJN, who was suspended from office by President Muhammadu Buhari on January 25, operated five foreign bank accounts, contrary to the code of conduct for public officers. However, in opposition to his trial, Justice Onnoghen queried the validity of the charge against him, stressing that FG violated established judicial precedents by not allowing the National Judicial Council (NJC) to firstly investigate the allegation against him, before it rushed the matter to the CCT.