Two political parties, Alliance for Democracy (AD) and Labour Party (LP), are currently challenging the victory of the governor-elect of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, at the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal. Will they succeed in their bid to upturn the March 9 victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC)? WALE ELEGBEDE asks  As envisaged by political analysts, the March 9 governorship election in Lagos State wasn’t going to produce any upset, and so it was. With a rigorous and tensed election that made the parties to give good accounts of themselves on the campaigns, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, was declared winner ahead of the 44 other candidates. Declaring the results of the 2019 governorship election at the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC’s state headquarters in Yaba area of the state 24-hours after the election, the Returning Officer, Prof Eyitope Ogunbodede, who is also the Vice-Chancellor, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), said Sanwo-Olu, won the election after polling 739, 445 votes from the total valid votes of 997, 476. With the victory, Sanwo-Olu defeated his closest rival and candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Jimi Agbaje, who is contesting for the Lagos governorship for a third time, with a margin of 533,304 votes. The PDP candidate polled 206,141 votes. Ogunbodede pointed out that 31 party agents signed the result sheet. Also, the results indicated that votes were cancelled in about 63 polling units due largely to over-voting.
Like he did in 2015 to the incumbent, the defeated Agbaje conceded defeat and put a call through to congratulate the governor-elect at about 7:10pm on March 10. However, unlike in 2015 when he challenged the victory of the incumbent governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, at the tribunal, and exhausted the whole judiciary process up till the Supreme Court, Agbaje decided not to contest the outcome of the 2019 governorship elections in the state. Also walking in Agbaje’s stead of not heading to the courts against Sanwo-Olu was the candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in the governorship election, Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi.
The real estate mogul who took the third place with a total of 4,780 votes, said he won’t contest the outcome of the governorship election in the state but prepare for the next election.
He said: “My decision is to wait and contest the next election and hopefully, the votes will count then. “I agree that the election in the state was an absolute fraud and a sham with many instances of open multiple voting recorded in places like Ikorodu, Lagos Island. However, I do not have any more resources to waste on a process in which I have no confidence.”
But not ready to toe the steps of both Agbaje and Gbadamosi, the governorship candidates of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), Chief Owolabi Salis and Labour Party, Mr. Fagbemi Awamaridi, decided not to let the sleeping dog of the Lagos governorship election lies. The Election Tribunal commenced sitting in the state on Monday. For Lagos State, there is one House of Assembly case, House of Representatives 11, Senate two, and governorship two. Salis, who is a United States base legal practitioner, stated that the election was marred with high level of election irregularities including “multiple voting, intimidation, and collation fraud”.
“I am not accepting the results of the gubernatorial election as it is complete fraud on the people of Lagos State. The election is full of many machinations as many voters were intimidated and lot of multiple voting occurred in many polling units.
“I do not believe Sanwo-Olu won a clear contest. I am going to court. I have overwhelming evidence and will get lawyers that handle electoral matters to look into these irregularities committed against my party in the just concluded election.
“It is very easy to win the case when you have enough evidence. We will follow the matter to a logical conclusion and we believe we will get justice.” Speaking alongside the Chairman of AD, Mr Kolawole Ajayi, at a joint press briefing, Awamaridi, who was the LP candidate at the election, said the summary prayer before the tribunal was that Sanwo-Olu was not fit and proper to contest the 2019 governorship election. According to Ajayi, part of the prayers by the AD include: “A declaration that the pronouncement of Babajide Sanwo-Olu of APC as the winner of the governorship election is null and void and such pronouncement be set aside, because of the gross electoral fraud and/or gross electoral misconduct. “A declaration that the law-abiding winner of the 2019 Lagos Governorship election is Owolabi Salis of the AD and should be sworn in immediately. “The court shall make further order and or declaration as it deems just and proper to promote legality of elections, justice and advance the political and social economic interests of the people,” Ajayi said.
He said the party is also alleging that the election was marred with voter intimidation, vote-buying and multiple voting. “Multiple voting was done by APC, using PVCs of other registered voters. The sources of most of the PVCs are those that are not collected, stolen or non available. “Many PVCs were cloned by the ruling party, APC, and such cards were used to vote ahead of the genuine PVC card holders, contrary to the electoral laws.
“The materials released by the CBN to the INEC Lagos in the presence of other parties agents were incomplete before the commencement of the election. The incomplete materials, which include ballot papers and results sheets, were released to the ruling party, APC, outside the normal distribution system.” Ajayi added that there was none use of card readers in many polling units, alleging that APC, in collusion with INEC, claimed card readers were broken down. This, he said, denied votes for other parties, particularly AD, but allowed votes for APC.
He said the party had gathered overwhelming evidence of the electoral fraud and had decided to take legal action through the tribunal. The AD polled 3,370 votes at the election. On his part, Awamaridi, of the LP, said he had approached the tribunal, seeking for the outright cancellation of the election. He said the election was marred with fraudulent practices and irregularities. The Labour Party scored 392 votes at the March 9 election. Recall that Awamaridi had caused a stir at the INEC collation centre on March 10 when he protested against the announcement of the results after the result of the last local government, Ojo, was announced by the collation officer.
Awamaridi argued that the election in the state should not have held on Saturday, given that the number of electoral materials were incomplete, as discovered during the distribution at the premises of the Central Bank of Nigeria in the state on Wednesday.
Two representatives of two other political parties, on the other hand, applauded the conduct of the election.
A heated argument ensued thereafter at the centre until some other persons and security agents persuaded him to take his seat. Responding, the state Returning Officer, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, stated that Awamaridi’s observations had been noted.
With Sanwoolu’s inauguration coming up in less than four weeks from now, it is left to be seen whether the prayers of the plaintiffs would be acceded to by the tribunal Ahead of the 2019 governorship election in Lagos State, a campaign group, Campaign for Dignity (CFD), has reiterated their commitment to work for the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, noting that Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat joint ticket… In “Politics” Ahead of 2019 governorship elections in Lagos, the Independent Campaign Group (ICG) of All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday inaugurated 57 coordinators and secretaries of Sanwo-Olu Vanguard, urging the campaign coordinators and all the party members to work for the party’s victory in next year elections. The gubernatorial ambition of the… In “News” TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on how last Saturday’s governorship election was won and lost in Lagos State   Lagos State was one of the states that generated a lot of attraction, not only in the state but entire Nigeria in last Saturday governorship election where the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship… In “Politics”