The war of attrition between presiding officers in the National Assembly and the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, took a new dimension yesterday as Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, accused the APC leader of pursuing a fascist agenda in order to control governance at all levels in the country. The Speaker pointedly told Tinubu that his stock in trade is scheming, manipulation and subversion. Dogara, who was responding to Tinubu’s recent attack on the leadership of the National Assembly, said the former Governor of Lagos had ulterior motives for sponsoring some aspirants to various leadership positions in the forthcoming 9th Assembly. The Speaker said it was most unfair, unpatriotic and wicked for Tinubu to have resorted to falsehood in promoting his fascist agenda in the polity. He said that while Tinubu had a right to support any candidate, it was obvious that he desired to foist on the National Assembly those he considered as his stooges and would be at his beck and call at any given time. Dogara, in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media Affairs, Turaki Hassan, accused Tinubu of peddling falsehood in a bid to paint an erroneous impression of the 8th House of Representatives. Tinubu had, at the weekend, accused the leadership of the 8th National Assembly of frustrating the legislative initiatives of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration and attempting to hoist “noxious reactionary and self-interested legislation” on the country. “We do not expect Asiwaju Tinubu to dwell on brazen mendacity, much less murder facts and decorum in his rabid bid to justify his patently clear fascist agenda of controlling all levers of power in Nigeria. “Asiwaju Tinubu’s nocturnal agenda has no parallel in the history of any democracy and it is more loathsome when he throws caution to the winds and maligns government officials who are doing a yeoman’s job of stabilising the government of President Buhari, even in spite of political differences. “It is on record that the Rt. Hon. Speaker has done more to stabilize this government more than Asiwaju Tinubu and his ilk whose stock in trade is scheming, manipulation and subversion, especially when they feel they cannot be caught. When the history of Buhari’s administration is written by those who know the truth of what really transpired in the last four years, Asiwaju’s pretentious loyalty to President Buhari will then be exposed. “We won’t say more, but no matter how long it may last, the truth will one day overtake lies. Perhaps, Asiwaju is still bitter about the leadership contest for Speakership of the 8th Assembly, even though the actors have moved on culminating in Speaker Dogara magnanimously facilitating the appointment of his opponent in the race and Tinubu’s protege as House majority leader,” he said. Dogara faulted Tinubu’s claims that the leadership of the National Assembly indulged in budget padding and deliberately delayed passage of annual federal budgets, arguing that the accusation was borne out of ignorance. According to Dogara, the lawmakers have constitutional powers to alter the budget proposals submitted to the National Assembly by the executive arm of the government and cannot be criminalized for performing their lawful duties done in the public interest. “It is important to emphasize that the National Assembly is not a rubber stamp parliament and reserves the right, working cooperatively with the Executive to interrogate projects unilaterally inserted by the Executive branch without the input of or consultation with parliament. “The legislature cannot be accused of padding a budget it has unquestionable constitutional power to review. The budget is a law and the Executive does not make laws. Therefore, it’s only the ignorant and those who hold dubious academic certificates that say the maker of a document has padded the document that only he can constitutionally make. “The parliamentarians are representatives of the Nigerian people and you don’t expect them to rubber stamp budgets that are heavily skewed and lopsided against most sections of the country. It is their responsibility to ensure equitable and even distribution of capital projects across all the nooks and crannies of the country, if the Executive fails to do so. “In any case, it is false to state that legislative intervention in the budget process is to benefit the legislators and not their constituencies. We challenge Asiwaju Tinubu to prove otherwise. He should also show in what way the 8th Assembly acted differently from other Assemblies of the past to warrant the kind of language used. “In any case, all the aspirants to the Senate Presidency and Speakership he is sponsoring are majority leaders in the 8th Assembly and took part in the budget process that he made the chief basis of his crude attack. “This proves beyond doubt the hypocrisy of Asiwaju’s stated reasons for supporting his candidates. He should find better reasons other than the lies being peddled about the budget and obstructing government business. Asiwaju shouldn’t take better informed Nigerians for fools. “Otherwise, when he sought to take control of the 8th Senate and 8th House in 2015, was it because of any budget Saraki and Dogara had delayed or pet projects they had inserted into any budget before 2015? Asiwaju must come clean on this matter. He should let Nigerians know why he wants to install the Senate President, the Speaker and leadership of the 9th Assembly. He may yet win the support of some of them if he comes clean on this matter,” he said.
Dogara attributed the delay in the passage of the budget on the persistent refusal or neglect of the executive to present it in good time. “For the records, in the last four years, there was no urgency or plan by the Executive to achieve a January to December budget cycle. What Nigerians don’t know is that the Executive, through the various ministries, continued to propose additional projects to be included in the 2018 budget even as at April and May of 2018 which further delayed the passage of the 2018 budget. “The 8th National Assembly is on record to have supported Mr. President’s requests on critical issues of governance. We backed him by resolution on the issue of fuel subsidy; we backed him on the National Minimum Wage, even though we were more sympathetic to workers’ rights.
“In security matters, we never cut any proposal from Mr. President, save our refusal to rubber stamp a clear constitutional overreach of spending $1 billion  in arms purchase without appropriation. We have passed more Bills than any Assembly before us including Bills that are helping the government improve the ease of doing business in Nigeria, and there were times we passed Bills within two legislative days. Is Tinubu genuinely ignorant of all these? “We challenge Asiwaju Tinubu to list out the Bills he claimed were not passed by the National Assembly. The oil and gas or petroleum sector is the most important and critical sector of our economy which accounts for over 70 per cent of our earnings, the Executive didn’t forward a single Bill to the National Assembly to reform and reposition the sector in the last four years, even when repeatedly urged to do so by Mr. Speaker in his first year in office. “The lawmakers waited in vain and had to take the bold initiative of crafting a Bill – Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PGIB), among others, passed it in record time and transmitted same to Mr. President for assent. This bill was vetoed without an alternative legal framework proposed by the Executive. Did Asiwaju miss this also?” he queried. President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, yesterday described the allegations of budget padding and deliberate budget delays levelled against the leadership of the 8th National Assembly by the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as "careless, irresponsible and callous" lies concocted to smear the… In “News” ...says he can’t work against Buhari on NASS leadership ...accuses Saraki, Dogara of hijacking budget process     National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday, declared that he is not obsessed with power or political office, but committed to supporting President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve… In “News” A northern youth group, Arewa Youth Forum (AYF), has accused the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, of turning himself into a dictator within the ruling party. AYF, in a statement yesterday, said the move by Tinubu to impose his allies on the members of… In “News”