Tunde Oyesina writes on mixed feelings trailing sudden resignation of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen   Lawyers yesterday expressed shock following resignation of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, blaming the federal government for the former Chief Justice’s travails.
Onnoghen at the weekend threw in the towel and forwarded his resignation letter as the nation’s Chief Justice.
His resignation was the first in the country’s history for a Chief Justice and head of judiciary to voluntarily resign from office.
Onnoghen’s resignation equally came barely 24 hours after the National Judicial Council sent in its recommendation following findings of its investigative panel on the suspended Chief Justice alleged misconduct to President Muhammadu Buhari.
Prior to his resignation, Onnoghen is standing trial on a six count criminal charge bothering on alleged non-declaration of five of his dollars, Euros, Pounds and Naira accounts domiciled with Standard Chartered Bank.
Although, the Council did not reveal what was contained in its recommendation to the President, it was speculated that the Council had recommended Onnoghen for a compulsory retirement, a decision some judiciary watchers have described as a soft landing for the embattled CJN.
On 7th January, 2019, a Civil Society, Anti-Corruption and Research Based Data Initiative (ARDI), had written a petition against Onnoghen, alleging non-declaration of assets and submitted same to the Code of Conduct Bureau.
Subsequently, a six-count charge was filed against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal. The charge reads:
• That you Justice Walter Onnoghen CJN, GCON between 8th June 2005 to 14th December 2016 being a public officer serving as Judicial Officer in the Federal Republic of Nigeria as a Justice of the Supreme Court failed to declare and submit a written declaration of your assets and liabilities within the prescribed period of three months after being sworn in as the Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria on the 8th day of June 2005 and you thereby contravened the provision of Section 15(1) of Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act Cap C 15 LFN 2004 and punishable under section 23(2) a, b and c of the same Act. • That you Justice Walter Onnoghen CJN, GCON being a public officer as Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria who is under a duty to declare his assets to the Code of Conduct Bureau on or about 14th December, 2016, refused to declare a domiciliary (US Dollar) account No 870001062650 maintained with Standard Chartered Bank (Nig) Ltd Wuse 2, Abuja which is being operated since 2011 and you thereby contravenes the provisions of Section 15(2) read along with Section 15(1) of the code of conduct bureau and tribunal act Cap C 15 LFN 2004 punishable under section 23(2) a, b and c of the same act. • That you Justice Walter Onnoghen CJN, GCON being a public officer as Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria who is under a duty to declare his assets to the Code of Conduct Bureau on or about 14th December, 2016 falsely declared your assets in your Assets declaration form CCB 1(after you were sworn in as the Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria) by omitting to declare a domiciliary (Euro) No 93001062686 maintained with Standard Chartered Bank (Nig) Ltd Wuse 2, Abuja which is being operated since 2011 and you thereby contravenes the provisions of Section 15(2) read along with Section 15(1) of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act Cap C 15 LFN 2004 punishable under Section 23(2) a, b and c of the same act.
• That you Justice Walter Onnoghen CJN, GCON being a public officer as Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria who is under a duty to declare his assets to the Code of Conduct Bureau on or about 14th December, 2016 falsely declared your assets in your Assets declaration form CCB 1(after you were sworn-in as the Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria) by omitting to declare a domiciliary (Pound sterling ) No. 285001062679 maintained with Standard Chartered Bank (Nig) Ltd Wuse 2, Abuja which is being operated since 2011 and you thereby contravenes the provisions of Section 15(2) read along with Section 15(1) of the code of conduct bureau and tribunal act Cap C 15 LFN 2004 punishable under section 23(2) a, b and c of the same act. • That you Justice Walter Onnoghen CJN, GCON being a public officer as Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria who is under a duty to declare his assets to the Code of Conduct Bureau on or about 14th December, 2016 falsely declared your assets in your Assets declaration form CCB 1(after you were sworn in as the Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria) by omitting to declare an e-Saver savings (Naira) account No 5001062693 maintained with Standard Chartered Bank (Nig) Ltd Wuse 2, Abuja which is being operated since 2011 and you thereby contravenes the provisions of Section 15(2) read along with Section 15(1) of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act Cap C 15 LFN 2004 punishable under Section 23(2) a, b and c of the same act. • That you Justice Walter Onnoghen CJN, GCON being a public officer as Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria who is under a duty to declare his assets to the Code of Conduct Bureau on or about 14th December, 2016 falsely failed to declare declared your assets in your Assets declaration form CCB 1(after you were sworn-in as the Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria) by omitting to declare a Naira account No. 010001062667 maintained with Standard Chartered Bank (Nig) Ltd Wuse 2, Abuja which is being operated since 2011 and you thereby contravenes the provisions of Section 15(2) read along with Section 15(1) of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act Cap C 15 LFN 2004 punishable under Section 23(2) a, b and c of the same act.
The tribunal however scheduled January 14 for Onnoghen’s arraignment but he was not present at the tribunal based on alleged improper service of summons on him.
On the same day, the Federal High Court granted an interim order stopping the tribunal from further continuing with the trial.
Similarly, on January 15, the National Industrial Court sitting in Abuja gave another order restraining police from arresting Onnoghen and also stopping the tribunal from proceeding with the trial.
On January 16, the Federal Government through office of the Attorney General of the Federation asked the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) to freeze five bank accounts belonging to Onnoghen.
On the next adjourned date of January 22, Onnoghen was equally absent at the tribunal on ground that there was an appeal pending before the Court of Appeal.
The Federal Government had approached the tribunal on January 23 with an ex-parte application praying for the suspension of Onnoghen. Same was granted.
President Buhari, acting on the order of the tribunal on January 25 suspended Onnoghen and sworn-in the second most Senior Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Tanko Mohammed as the acting CJN.
Following his suspension, the Police on January 28 sealed off Onnoghen’s office.
The Court of Appeal, Abuja Division consequently ruled on the application filed by Onnoghen to stop CCT from trying him, on January 30 threw out the application.
Onnoghen finally appeared before the tribunal on 15th February, 2019 and pleaded not guilty to the charge after which he was admitted to bail on self-recognizance.
The prosecution, however, called three witnesses against Onnoghen.
After the prosecution closed its case, Onnoghen filed a no-case submission, which was refused by the tribunal.
Onnoghen, however on the order of the tribunal opened his defence by calling one witness, after which he closed his case.
The three man panel of the tribunal led by Danladi Umar had adjourned till April 15 for adoption of written addresses.
Acting on a petition before it, the National Judicial Council (NJC) had on April 3 said it had forwarded the outcome of its investigation into corruption allegations against Onnoghen to President Muhammadu Buhari for action.
The Council made this known in a statement that was signed by its Director of Information, Soji Oye.
The Council said it convened an emergency meeting to consider the report of the five-man committee it constituted to investigate allegations of misconduct levelled against Justice Onnoghen and the Acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad.
The Council, however, noted that it decided to refrain from considering the allegation that Justice Onnoghen failed to declare his assets, on ground that it would amount to subjudice since the matter is in court.
The statement reads: “The National Judicial Council reconvened today in an emergency meeting to consider the report of the 5-man Committee constituted to investigate the allegations of misconduct made against Hon. Mr. Justice W. S. N. Onnoghen, GCON and Hon. Mr. Justice I. T. Muhammad, CFR.
“Council decided that the allegations relating to assets declaration that were levelled against Hon. Mr. Justice W. S. N.Onnoghen, GCON were subjudice and therefore abstained from considering them.
“Council reached a decision on the petitions written by Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and others and conveyed its decision to President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR.
“Council also resolved that, by the nature of the decision reached, it would be inappropriate to publicize it before conveying it to Mr. President.”
The Council had on February 13, said it was satisfied that corruption allegations against the suspended CJN deserved to be investigated.
The Council equally okayed probe of the Acting CJN, Justice Muhammad on allegation that he engaged in misconduct by making himself available to be sworn in by President Buhari as Onnoghen’s replacement.
Pursuant to Rule 20 (1) of the Judicial Discipline Regulations, the NJC, constituted a five-man investigation panel headed by a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice S. A. Akintan, to look into various petitions that were lodged both against Onnoghen and Muhammad.
The council equally directed the Investigation Committee “to work expeditiously, determine all the petitions and responses and report to Council for a final decision.”
However, the straw was broken when on April 5, Onnoghen resigned as the Chief Justice of Nigeria.
Although there is yet to be an official confirmation of Onnoghen’s resignation, a senior lawyer in his legal team, Chief Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN) had confirmed the resignation.
Awomolo said “I have just spoken with him. He confirmed to me that he resigned voluntarily yesterday.” Raji, Ozekhome, Akamihe, Awa Kalu, others speak
However, reacting, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria(SAN) Ahmed Raji, described it as a welcome development which would save the image of the judiciary and indeed the whole country in the committee of nations.
He said: “While I commend the former CJN for the bold decision, I most sincerely plead with the President to accept the resignation in the interest of all. My humble appeal also goes to the amiable Vice-President in this regard being highest political office holder with a sound legal mind.
“All pending cases before any court or tribunal in connection with the ex-CJN should abate as well.”
Another senior lawyer, Dr. Adams Akamihe, said the resignation of Onnoghen was a right decision, especially at a time like this.
“This is the first time this will happen in the judiciary.
“It is however a right decision, especially as it will go a long way to save our judiciary. This is a dark moment in the judiciary, and for every dark moment there must be a sacrifice.
“My Lord, Justice Walter Onnoghen has eventually paid the price of the sacrifice by voluntarily resigning from his position.
“I believe this should terminate all the charges against him. The judiciary should be allowed to start up on a clean slate,” Akamihe said.
To Prof. Awa Kalu, SAN, it was sad development, saying he had no doubt that Onnoghen’s resignation was inevitable.
He said: “I have to say that I am extremely sad because a good career has come to an end in a way that not all will acclaim. I don’t think that the majority of the people who have watched the travails of the learned Chief Justice will come to an inevitable conclusion, that is to say that justice has been served.”
Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) said “Onnoghen was virtually hounded out of the judiciary and of the seat of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, not because of any offence that has been proved but I genuinely believe, because of one, where he comes from, his ethnic group; two, his religion; three, the fact that he was too unbending to accommodate the excesses of the executive arm of government; and four, because he was not even considered to have been fit to occupy the position in the first instance.
“That was why the President never agreed to confirm his appointment many months after the Senate had okayed him until the President travelled and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo had to do the unthinkable. And I also think that the cabal never forgave Osinbajo for that.” Sequel to yesterday’s resignation of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, some lawyers have advised the Federal Government to drop all charges against the former CJN, who is standing trial before the Code of Conduct Tribunal over alleged non declaration of assets, and allow him to… In “News” Justice Walter Onnoghen, the Chief Justice of Nigeria, who was suspended by President Muhammadu Buhari last Friday, has debunked the rumour gaining traction online on Monday that he has resigned. Onnoghen, whom President Muhammadu Buhari replaced with the next most senior Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Tanko Mohammed, as… In “News Around Nigeria” I knew it would come sooner than later. When Justice Walter Onnoghen’s travails started in January, I predicted that the cabal was out to rubbish him. They desired to bespatter him with the paintbrush of shame, odium and obloquy in such a way as to make him visibly unfit for… In “Back Page Column”