 Manufacturers, importers, exporters, product end-users as well as other stakeholders gathered in Lagos last week in a talk shop organized by the Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON) in pursuit of its sensitization effort on new legislation governing its activities.
The new legislation, Standard Organization (SON) Act 2015 enacted into law by the 7th National Assembly repealed and replaced the SON Act Cap. 59 of 2004.
The SON Act 2015 which maintained to a large extent, provisions of the SON Act 2004, however, added some major provisions to ensure efficacy of the agency, more stringent penalties for offences and so on.
Delivering a paper entitled “The Standard Organization of Nigeria Act 2015: Enhancing quality, harnessing opportunities”, Guest Speaker and law teacher, Mr. Wahab Kunle Shittu, noted that the SON Act, which he believed were enacted in line with internatiShittuonal best practices, had sufficient and all-embracing provisions for the agency to deliver on its mandate.
Shittu, a teacher at the Faculty of Law, University of Lagos, urged SON’s management to live up to the agency’s mandate of combating adulterated products.
He noted that while the Federal Government confronts political problems created by civil strides in the North-East, North-West and most recently the South-South, there is a serious neccesity to take up the menace of fake products which are commonly being dumped on the public.
“To enhance quality of the products to be consumed by all, the SON must live up to its creation. Execute its mandate under the statute and in doing this, it is necessary to deploy fit and proper persons into the organization. The idea of political jobbers cannot work here. Intellectuals with qualifications in the required fields are needed to execute the powers, duties and authorities imposed under the Act.
“This is an intellectually managed organization. It is not open to mediocre or political manipulations in order to enhance quality and harness opportunities that are offered by research, technologies and the new world order of competition in economic development.
“The dynamics of management and governance in institutions like SON must be in tandem with the conditions for requirements and manpower in SON. Nothing less can work professionalization of the organization in line with the Act.
“The authority to execute punitive sanctions on the erring public through seizures, forfeitures, sealing of premises, confiscation of products, etc can be executed under the coverage of the Act. The immunity from suit by the public on an individual staff shall allow an unfettered execution of their mandate under this Act”, Shittu said.
Speaking on a topic, “Promoting business growth through SON Act”, a silk, Mr. Paul Ananaba, lauded the enactment of the SON Act 2015 by the 7th National Assembly saying the SON Act 2004 did next to nothing in ensuring that standards relating to products are being met.
The silk who was represented by its chambers head, Mr. Okey Barrah, also noted that additional functions introduced by the new legislation was to assist SON in being more proactive in the prevention of substandard products in Nigeria.
“By virtue of the SON Act, 2015, both evasion and attempt to evade fees or levies payable or chargeable under the Act is an offence which upon conviction years or both. This is by far one of the laudable provisions of the Act and if properly implemented and enforced, will go a long way in ensuring compliance with product standards as imposed by the organization.
“It is believed that this provision of the law will rid the market of all these substandard and hazardous products daily paraded for sale in our markets. It will also curb the unscrupulous activities of manufacturers, importers and even sellers and ensure that goods conform to the Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS)”, he said.
Also speaking at the event, SON’s Director General, Mr Osita Aboloma, revealed that fake and substandard products worth over N300 billion have been confiscated by the agency across the country in the last few months.
Aboloma, who was represented at the occasion by the Head, Ports and Border at SON, Mr. Yaya Burka, indicated that adulterated lubricants, electric cables and cylinders topped the list of confiscated items.
According to him, the theme of the workshop, “SON Act 2015: Enhancing quality, harnessing opportunities” is apt because it is in tune with the current efforts by the Federal Government to turn around the nation’s economy.
“Let me inform you that the big haul of seizures which the agency made recently is a testimonial that we mean business by harnessing to the fullest the enormous powers which the Act has accorded us.
“Within the last few months, we have confiscated fake and substandard products worth over N300 billion across the country.
“We have since embarked on arraignment and trial at various courts of some of the suspects linked with the impounded goods. We are not resting on our oars.
“We decided to conduct nationwide sensitisation workshops on the Act not only to enlighten people on the provisions of the Act but equally to strengthen stakeholders’ engagement and collaboration. The positive outcomes and impact of the sensitization exercises in places where they have been conducted so far have been so encouraging”, he said. Director General of Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON), Mr Osita Aboloma, has revealed that fake and substandard products worth over N300 billion have been confiscated by the agency across the country in the last few months. He made the revelation in his remarks at a stakeholders' sensitization workshop on SON… In “National news” Director General of Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON), Mr Osita Aboloma, has revealed that fake and substandard products worth over N300 billion have been confiscated by the agency across the country in the last few months. He made the revelation yesterday in his remarks at a stakeholders' sensitization workshop on… In “News” The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has said that genuine manufacturers and importers would benefit from the SON Act 14, 2015 if the follow due process when clearing their goods from the ports. Making this assertion in Kano recently, the Director General of SON, Osita Aboloma, told participants at… In “Business”