 Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams has reaffirmed his belief in Yoruba culture, urging Nigerians both home and in the Diaspora to showcase their cultural identity wherever they might find themselves.
Speaking yesterday in Lagos at the 2019 edition of Wealth Festival (Odun Aje), the Aare lamented denigration of culture and tradition by Nigerians just as he insisted that promotion of Yoruba deities and festivals had remained pivotal for cultural rebirth and transformation. He said: “We cannot continue to bury our culture and tradition and remain relevant in the world. It is not possible. It is a fact that we must bring back our culture and identity. Any nation that buries its cultural identity and traditions buries its history and that will be disastrous for us as a people. “For instance, Rwanda, as small as it is, has shown that planning is not about how big but how well focused and decisive leadership can be. Today, the country has become an investment and tourism hub because the leaders have collectively said they will never allow the poor experience of the past to determine the greater future ahead of them. And true to their words, Rwanda is on the verge of becoming one of the greatest countries in Africa.”  “In Nigeria, we are yet to make up our minds. And nobody is asking questions. Have you ever asked why Nigeria has remained so poor amid plenty of human and natural resources? Have you ever bothered to know why we are not making any meaningful progress as a nation since independence? We are where we are today because we have abandoned our culture. We are where we are today because we have abandoned our history. We are where we are today because we have lost everything that belongs to us as a race. And many of our deities are not happy with us.  “All our monuments and tourists centres in Yorubaland, like Oke Idanre in Ondo, Olumo rock in Ogun, Okebadan in Oyo, Ikogosi Water spring in Ekiti, Osun Osogbo, in Osun, and others must be revived. “We can only make meaningful progress as a race if we go back to our roots and promote what is truly ours,” he said.