A youth leader has condemned alleged manipulation of National Youth Council of Nigeria ( NYCN) by politicians and advocated the inclusion of more young persons in governance. The South-East Publicity Secretary of NYCM, Mr. Izunna Agwuncha, made the condemnation in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) in Owerri . Agwuncha, who identified one of the challenges facing youth leadership in Nigeria as the manipulation of youth bodies by the political class, said the trend posed a threat to the unity and progress of young Nigerians. He decried the idea of restricting youths to the position of special adviser on youth affairs to the president and state governors and called for their active inclusion in policy formulation and decision making. Agwuncha advised youth leaders to speak out on issues affecting the youth instead of sacrificing the well-being of the younger generation for selfish interests.
“The position of Nigerian youths in the Nigeria project is worrisome. “As those who will someday take over from today’s political elders, it is only imperative that they be actively involved in decision making and policy formulation. “As Nigeria prepares for her 59thindependence anniversary, it is also worrisome that she is yet to boast of a youth house, more so when we have a fast growing population of over 80 million young persons. “I call on my fellow youth leaders across the country to eschew sycophancy as a means to political relevance as this could render us incapacitated in the long run.’’ Agwuncha, however, lauded the leadership attributes of the NYCN National President, Mr Bello Shagari.
He described the NYCM president as “a leader with strong political will, proven integrity and strong political background who represents the overall interest of Nigerian youths.” Agwuncha urged Nigerian youths to support the NYCN leader in the fight against sycophancy and selfishness within the council to prevent disunity and perpetual crisis in the organisation. Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has appointed National Vice President of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Comrade Chidi Ilogebe and a former Vice President of National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Comrade Ogechukwu Nnamene as Special Assistants on Students and Youth Affairs respectively.   The appointments followed… In “News” Nigeria is the most populated country in Africa as well as the 7th most populated country in the world. Youths in the country represent over 65 per cent of her entire population and most countries plan towards increasing their youth population to tap into their energy, innovativeness, vibrancy, resilience and… In “Perspectives” Esther Bakare The Deputy National President of Nigeria Youth Council (NYCN), Abd-Rahman Agboola has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to call the Minister for Youth and Sports, Mr. Solomon Dalung to order over his alleged meddling and side taking over the leadership crises of the council. Agboola said this to… In “News”