Akorede Habeeb Lawal is the National Assistant Publicity Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). In this interview with TUNDE OYESINA, he x-rays the 2019 general election and concluded that it was characterized by violence  What is your assessment of the just concluded general election in the country?
It is relieving that the general election was gone. I say this because it was as though the whole nation was stalled due to the elections, the mobilization of men and resources for the process was massive and we have to wait on the economists to know the humongous figure that the nation lost for the simple reason that we decided to choose less than 10,000 persons amongst us as leaders.
Incidentally, I was a member of the Election Working Group of the Nigerian Bar Association. With members spread across 125 branches in Nigeria, the Bar Association prides itself as a leading Observer Group. Our works were extensive and the reports we gathered were factual. We discovered that Nigerians are very much politically conscious, but this consciousness did not seem to have much impact on voters’ education as INEC recorded a large volume of invalid votes. The consciousness did bear its weight on the encouraging turn out for the Presidential and National Assembly election. However due to the noticeable irregularities in the first election, the Gubernatorial and the House of Assembly elections suffered low turnout by voters. We however realized that INEC did improve on the deployment of materials and officials in the course of the governorship election unlike what obtained in many polling units in the presidential elections where voting did not commence until evening and INEC staff had to duplicate ballot papers due to insufficiency of electoral materials.
We also discovered that violence is still a part of our electoral process. There were killings and maiming. Also, vote-buying isn’t going away and we have failed to improve on the 2015 gains of the smart card readers, as we noticed that INEC staff abandoned the use of card readers for authentication of voters even when the card readers were not faulty. In sum, my assessment is that our electoral process has a lot of space for improvement. It is important that INEC starts preparing for the next round of election immediately even as I hope that the National Assembly and the executive shall have the will to pass the amendment to the Electoral Act which will ensure the electronic collation of results. The recommendations that the Election Working Group have made are far reaching and we hope to turn in our Final Reports to the electoral body as soon as practicable. Do you hold the view that the election was militarized?
The involvement of the military in the electoral process means that the Nigerian leadership has a warped idea of the democratic essence of the electoral process. No doubt, the police are overwhelmed because most of its officers were attached to VIPs or whoever has money to hire, this notwithstanding, the Nigerian Police Force is the lead security agency for the purpose of elections. We must recognize that following our long military experience, Nigerians still feel intimidated by the presence of military officers anywhere and to have them at polling units wielding arms was enough to scare away citizens that wanted to freely exercise their franchise. Hence, the deployment of military men especially outside the North Eastern States where there are apparent security challenges touched on the freeness of the elections.
On the legal implications, Section 29 (3) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) provides that INEC may request and deploy security forces, but that the Armed Forces are only to be deployed for the purposes of securing the distribution of electoral materials and protecting electoral officers.
However, from the observation of the Election Working Group of the NBA, the armed forces particularly men of the Nigerian Army did more than the law expected them to do. There are allegations that soldiers even snatched ballot boxes in Rivers State. It is therefore encouraging that the Nigerian Army is set to probe the roles of her officers in the last elections; it is an acknowledgment of failure on the Army’s part. What provisions in the Electoral Act needs to be amended?
A lot of practitioners will tell you that Nigeria has a lot of fine laws, but the will to implement by the executive arm of government is the challenge. The present National Assembly passed the Bill for the amendment of the Electoral Act which was not signed to by the President. Like many Nigerians, I will like the introduction of electronic voting and the validation of the Smart Card Reader as legal means of accreditation of voters. The present position of the law is that accreditation of voters is by manual ticking of voter’s name on the voter’s register and this gives a lot of space for rigging. What is the legal implication of INEC declaring a candidate winner of an election and not issuing him a certificate of return as in the case of Governor Rochas Okorocha?
I am afraid this issue is subjudice as the candidate concerned has already approached the Federal High Court as such I will have to reserve my comment in this regard. However, I am certain that the determination of this case shall further improve our electoral jurisprudence. It will be interesting to know if INEC indeed has the powers to seize the certificate of return of a candidate it has declared winner because of an allegation of ‘bad electoral behaviour’ against such candidate. Perhaps, whatever decision the court gives will encourage the legislature to take a second look at our Electoral Act and make necessary provisions that will address similar incidences in the future. Can President Muhammadu Buhari single-handedly appoint or pick Senate President?
Nigeria operates a presidential system of government. The president of Nigeria is quite powerful, but his power is restricted within the indubitable principles of separation of powers and checks and balances by the other arms of government, that is, the legislature and the judiciary. The president himself appreciates this as he recently set up a committee on autonomy of the state judiciary and the state legislature. The president therefore has no such powers to pick the heads of the legislature as the senate has its own standing rules on how its leader will and should emerge. Of course, for the reason that the president’s political party has the majority in the legislature, the president as a politician could exert some influence on who emerges as the Senate President, but then, the Saraki-Dogara experience in the 8th Assembly evident of the fact that such presidential influence may not necessarily affect the eventual choices of the members of the legislature. How would you assess the anti-corruption fight of the Federal Government?
Every government has its own mantra, mantras are however different from realities. This government has chosen to be called the name “anti-corruption fighter.” It has to be said that there are appreciable discoveries and recoveries of stolen funds, but there is this perception that the government has allowed politics to taint its anti-corruption mandates. Some members of the ruling parties are being given soft landings in their corruption charges while some perceived opponents of the government are being hurried to court on trumped up charges. The Nigerian Bar Association has noted on a number of occasions that corruption is bigger in scope than stealing public funds. The President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Paul Usoro (SAN) has said that the flagrant disobedience to the orders of court by this government is corruption in itself. It is from this point that I assess the anti-corruption fight of the Federal Government. If government continue to disrespect the orders of courts, then, this fight may become free for all and anarchy which is a greater challenge than corruption may set in. The executive has always blamed the judiciary for delayed corruption cases . What is your take on this?
I will react to this by relying heavily on two items in your question. The first is “delay in prosecuting,” who prosecutes? All prosecuting agencies in Nigeria are strictly under the executive. Most prosecutorial powers in Nigeria are by virtue of Sections 174 and 195 of the 1999 Constitution, respectively kept in the offices of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Attorneys-General of the States. Other prosecuting agencies like the Police, EFCC, ICPC, NDLEA, NAPTIP, Code of Conduct Bureau et al are directly agencies of the Federal Government. All these agencies are funded by the executive. Therefore, the judiciary cannot by any stretch of imagination be responsible for the delay in the agencies of the executive to perform her prosecutorial functions. If any blame must be apportioned, it must be put right on the doorstep of the executive. The second item is “corrupt person”, if a man is corrupt, there is hardly no reason why he should be brought to court, because the job of the court is to pronounce him corrupt or not corrupt based on the relevant and admissible evidence before the court. Every man is presumed innocent until the contrary is proved by the prosecution, but if we wish to presume every man alleged as corrupt before the court says so, then the Federal
Government should simply push to the National Assembly a Bill to amend or delete Section 36 (5) of the 1999 Constitution which provides for the presumption of innocence of everyone charged with a criminal offence. The media both conventional and social has a lot of work to do to educate citizens on the exact roles of the three arms of government and the essence of the rule of law. Will you say the judiciary is independent in this present situation?
The independence of the judiciary is guaranteed by the Constitution and no matter what the present situation is, the operation of the law is firmer than the will of man. The legal maxim is “firmior et potentior est operatio legis quam dispositioh ominis.”
The present state of the judiciary in Nigeria is not heartwarming, but as lawyers we are certain that the judiciary remains the most important arm of the three arms of the government. It is pertinent to recall that even in the dark days of the military era, the armed forces in a bid to confer some legitimacy on its authority permitted the judiciary to operate with a reasonable degree of independence. Judges were respected, they were not called bad names and they had the protection of the State as they went about discharging their functions. It is unfortunate that this democratic government is giving a lip service to respecting the independence of the judicial arm of government. It is for instance contemptuous of the presidency to spew the narratives that the Supreme Court is responsible for discharging persons alleged of corruption, it is disturbing as I earlier mentioned that the executive pick and choose the orders of court to comply with, it is savagery for the DSS enter the houses of judges in the middle of the night as though members of the judiciary are terrorists, it is wrong to remove the Chief Justice of Nigeria on the order of a Code of Conduct Tribunal against the clear provision of the Constitution. I could go on and on to describe the contempt of this government towards the judiciary. All of these affect the judges who are now finding it difficult to go about their work without fear or favour. Thankfully, the Nigerian Bar Association has been at the forefront of the advocacy for the independence of the judiciary and the Paul Usoro leadership of the Bar is determined to keep up this advocacy. Young lawyers have always complained that they are badly paid by their seniors. How will you react to this?
The welfare of young lawyers is a challenge, but it is a challenge that represents on a smaller scale the challenges of every young graduate in Nigeria. This challenge is getting full attention of the leadership of the Nigerian Bar Association. At our just concluded National Executive Committee Meeting on 28th day of March, 2019, the NBA President, Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN) mentioned in clear terms the readiness of his team to redouble effort in attending to the welfare of young lawyers in the coming months. My personal view is that in order to appreciate this challenge, we must approach it in a very holistic manner. We must understand the financial state of the law firms we have in Nigeria. There are not up to five hundred law firms in Nigeria that can pay competitive salaries to lawyers. Also, the Nigerian legal market is unregulated, a service that FIRM A would not accept less than a NI million to offer may be readily offered by FIRM B across the street for N20, 000. It is for this reason that the present Bar leadership headed by Paul Usoro is dedicated to pushing for the regulation of the Nigerian legal market in a manner that protects the Nigerian legal practitioners, because we believe that if the law firms are better and financially stronger, the young lawyers in such firms will be better paid. More importantly is the strategy of teaching how to fish rather than giving out fishes. One of the initiatives of the Bar President, is mentorship programme for young lawyers. The progamme involves matching young lawyers with senior successful lawyers and firms who have specific skills or specializations in areas that interest such young lawyers for a specific period of time. The Nigerian Bar Association works through her three sections. One of the Sections, the Section on Business Law has already commenced the Mentorship Programme, we shall be working with the Section on Legal Practice and Section on Public Interest and Development Law to follow suit. It is our hope that this mentorship programme and other young lawyers centered initiatives that we shall equip the young lawyers with the necessary skills and confidence to make a success of their legal profession.  What do you think should be the major task before the incoming 9th Senate?
The major task should be consolidation of the Nigerian democracy. The Senate and indeed all other legislative houses in Nigeria have the duty to make laws and follow up the laws by carrying out oversight functions on ministries, departments and parastatals of the government. In doing all of these, they should encourage fine relationship with the executive without necessarily becoming the rubber stamp of the executive. It must be noted that the legislative arm of government is what distinguishes a democratic system of government from the military system we had before 1999. A situation where the legislature is not autonomous and assertive will hinder our journey towards engendering the needed democratic values in the country. 