 Super Eagles defender Kenneth Omeruo has refused to describe Group B of the 2019 African Cup of Nations which pitches Nigeria with Burundi, Madagascar and Guinea as an easy group, insisting that they will attack their opponents like any other country on the continent. He said rather than rejoice over the relatively easy draw, his experience in the last couple of years has taught him the lesson that it was always difficult to play against smaller nations in Africa.
He said although they had their eyes on the big prize, they must approach every game with utmost seriousness. He said Guinea had produced big players in the past and it would be interesting to face such a good side, not undermining the progress that Madagascar and Burundi have made considering their performance in the qualifying series. “AFCON is a very difficult competition and no country in Africa can be underrated; we did not qualify for the last two editions of the tournament even though we won in 2013, it shows how tough the game has become on the continent. “We are happy to be back in the competition, the group looks so easy on paper, but in football it is not always like that, we have a young team, we have some of us who have won it before, we also have the experience from the World Cup and that will count for us,” he said.
He admitted that the Eagles must hit the ground running from their first game, admitting that a resounding victory in their opening game against Burundi will set the tone for a successful campaign. “I agree with you that we have to start very well; our first game is as important as any other one we are going to play in the competition. We have to take every match seriously and hopefully we can go far in the tournament and even win it,” he said. The Super Eagles of Nigeria have been handed a relatively easy draw for the 2019 African Cup of Nations as they are pitched in Group B of the competition alongside Burundi, Madagascar and Guinea. Burundi and Madagascar will be making their debuts at the AFCON finals, and given their inexperience… In “Sports” Former internationals Garba Lawal and Peter ijeh have warned the Super Eagles against complacency, saying they could be stunned by their African Cup of Nations Group B opponents if they fail to hit right form. Nigeria is in the same group alongside Guinea, Burundi and Madagascar, and many pundits have… In “Sports” Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, has warned that Nigeria cannot afford to underrate Madagascar and Burundi, pointing out that the underdogs could be spoilers. The Eagles triumphed at their last outing at the tournament in 2013 but after back-to-back absence, the three-time winners are the favourites to top Group B… In “Sports”