A speakership candidate in the House of Representatives, Hon. Mohammed Umaru Bago has denied reports that insinuating that he has withdrawn to support Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila saying “he is very much in the race” A statement from Hon. Bago’s campaign spokesperson, Hon. Victor Adam Ogene, the Niger state lawmaker said “the pursuit of justice is a marathon and not a sprint dash” The statement said “following persistent inquiries from members-elect, journalists and members of the public, we wish to clarify that our Speakership hopeful, Hon. Mohammed Umaru Bago is still very much in contention to lead the 9th House of Representatives, billed for inauguration in June, 2019. “We denounce the scaremongering tactics of some persons who gleefully dish out falsehood to the effect that Hon. Bago has stepped down from the race so as to distract our campaign. ” Such insidious disposition besides being malicious, untrue and unbecoming has never really assisted anyone ascend an unmerited position” Ogene explained that “For the avoidance of any doubt, Hon. Bago is in the Speakership race not merely driven by personal ambition, but instead propelled by the aspiration and quest of his people of the Northcentral zone for inclusiveness in governance. “For us, therefore, the task ahead requires the tenacity of a marathon runner, and any thought of quitting only looms large in the infantile imagination of those who wish Hon. Bago were not in the field” He noted that “having being clearheaded about the injustice against the North central, we reiterate that the only redress possible is a Bago victory – a feat which by the grace of God, and the increasing number of converts to our cause, we shall achieve. ” We are not unaware of the alleged endorsement of the party’s position by some lawmakers from Niger state. But while we cannot deny them their democratic right, we insist that the ultimate decision rest with all 360 members on inauguration day”, submitted. It will be recalled that the chairman of the Niger state chapter of APC and a member-elect were reported to have addressed a press conference in Minna announcing the withdrawal of Bago from the race in order to support the candidature of the party’s anointed candidate, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila. Crisis seems to be brewing in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over the Speakership of the House of Representatives as Hon. John Dyegh (APC, Benue) and Hon. Umaru Mohammed Bago (APC, Niger) insisted in going ahead with their bid for the office less than 24 hours after the party… In “News” ...North central Reps insist on contesting   The speakership ambition of leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, seems to be embroiled in more problems as opposition against him swelled after his endorsement by the All Progressives Congress (APC). The opposition against the Lagos lawmaker is coming from the… In “News” A speakership candidate and chairman of the House of Representatives’ Committee on Marine Safety and Education, Hon. Umaru Mohammed Bago, has said despite pressure from some quarters, he will not back out of the leadership race. Bago made this declaration yesterday when he received the leadership of the National Association… In “News”