The Federal High Court sitting in Makurdi has remanded, Mrs. Felicia Ochiga-Ogbuja at the Federal Prisons, Makurdi, for negligence over the alleged rape and death of 13-year-old Ochanya Ogbanje by her husband and son, Mr. Andrew Ogbuja and Victor Ogbuja. Ochanya, it could be recalled had died in October last year due to complications arising from alleged sexual molestation she suffered in the hands of Mr. Ogbuja and son. Mr. Ogbuja is a Senior Lecturer with the Department of Catering and Hotel Management of the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo while his son, Victor, who is now at large, is a final year student at the Federal University of Agriculture Makurdi. But Mrs. Ogbuja, 43, was arraigned by the Federal Government through its agency, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) on a two-count charge. In a suit marked FHC/MKD/CR/12/209, Mrs Ogbuja who until her arraignment was also a staff of the Polytechnic. One of the charges was that, Felicia Ochiga-Ogbuja (Female) 43 years of Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo, Benue State, sometime between 2014 and 2018, in Ugbokolo, Benue State within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court did omit to take action against the sexual exploitation of one Elizabeth Ochanya Ogbanje (Female) 13 years by your husband, Andrew Ogbuja and your son, Victor Ogbuja, thereby committing an offence contrary to section 13 (4) (b) of the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act, 2015. The second charge was that  Message. Ogbuja did keep, detain or harbour one Elizabeth Ochanya Ogbanje (Female) 13 years, knowing that she is likely to be sexually exploited by your husband, Andrew Ogbuja and your son, Victor Ogbuja, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 15 (b) of the Trafficking in Persons Prohibition Enforcement and Administration Act, 2015.” Mrs. Ogbuja pleaded not guilty to the charges after they were read to her. Consequently, the prosecuting counsel, Mr. Swanta Bossan, urged the court to remand her in prison pending the commencement of her trial. However, counsel to the defendant, Mr. David Ojile, prayed the court to admit his client to bail, arguing that the offences for which she is being tried are bailable and further drew the attention of the court to his client’s bail application dated and filed on April 5, 2019. The trial judge, Justice M. O. Olajuwon however failed to grant Ojile’s submission and therefore remanded Mrs Ogbuja in Makurdi Medium prison pending when she would provide N6 million bail bond. “The defendant is admitted to bail in the sum of N2 million with sureties in like sum. The sureties must be civil servants not less than grade-level 12. They must own properties within the jurisdiction of this court. The sureties must submit letters of introduction from their Head of Department to the Court Registrar. They must submit the Certificates of Occupancy of their properties, which must be verified by the Court Registrar. “The defendant will be remanded in the Federal Prison, Makurdi, pending when she fulfils her bail conditions,” Justice Olajuwon held and subsequently adjourned the case till May 10, 2019, for trial. Agents of the National Agency for the prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) have tracked and arrested Mrs. Ogbuja, wife of Mr. Andrew Ogbuja, who allegedly, along with his son, Victor Ogbuja, serially sexually violated Elizabeth Ochanya Ogbanje, leading to her death. According to Press and Public Relations Unit, NAPTIP,… In “Metro and Crime” ...from brutal sexual assault by father and son   Ochanya is an Idoma indigenous name meaning ‘Queen of Women.’ The name entails joy, pride in womanhood and portrays queenly attributes. It’s a rare name for a female. Any girl given that name is seen to be full of grace and… In “Metro and Crime” A 51-year-old senior lecturer in the Department of Catering and Hotel Management at the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo, Mr. Andrew Ogbuja, was yesterday arraigned before a Makurdi Chief Magistrate’s Court for criminal conspiracy and culpable homicide. Consequently, the court remanded Ogbuja in prison custody for alleged rape and persistent molestation… In “Metro and Crime”