…As Supreme Court dismisses APC’s appeal on Rivers polls  Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has called on the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, to join hands with him to develop the state. In a state-wide broadcast to mark yesterday’s landmark judgement of the Supreme Court that struck out appeals by the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over exclusion of its candidates from the National Assembly, governorship and state House of Assembly elections, Governor Wike said Rivers State stands to benefit more if all leaders in the state are united. His words: “Although the present politics of acrimony and bitterness may have strayed from the noble path of the past, I still believe that we shall be better of standing and working together for our state and our people. “I therefore appeal to the APC and the Minister of Transportation to join hands with us to move our dear state forward. We cannot as leaders continue to remain divided and expect government to deliver on its responsibilities to our people. Let us from henceforth seek the common ground instead of allowing our differences to be exploited to retard our march to progress. “I appeal to our people to eschew all acts of acrimony, criminality, unrest, and violence throughout the state. I wish to recommit myself to continue to do all that is humanly possible to ensure the unity and peaceful co-existence of all our people irrespective of political affiliation.” Wike directed the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice to review all pending criminal cases linked to politics before the 2019 elections and make necessary recommendations to promote reconciliation. He said: “I hereby direct the Honourable Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice to review all pending criminal proceedings filed against any person by the state and directly related to political activities prior to the 2019 general elections and make appropriate recommendations to me for necessary action to promote reconciliation among us.” The Rivers State governor pledged to run an inclusive government aimed at promoting the developing the state. “Today, I recommit myself to be the governor for all the people of Rivers State for the next four years. Accordingly, we shall form an all-inclusive government to advance the collective interest of all our people, irrespective of party, ethnic or religious affiliations. “We have come a long way in the last four years and accomplished a lot to be proud of. But there’s still a lot more to do to advance and realize the ultimate vision of our founding fathers for a truly united, secure, and prosperous state and we need the support of all our people to realise this bold vision. “We salute the opposition for their courage to fight within the confines of the law to the end. Now that the legal battle is over, the task of building the state must take precedence over all other considerations,” he said. Governor Wike expressed gratitude to God for the Supreme Court judgement and assured Rivers people that with the judgement, all legal tussles have come to a close with the people having nothing to fear. “Few hours ago, the Supreme Court of Nigeria struck out the consolidated appeals of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Tonye Cole for lacking in merits. “With this decision, all legal issues regarding the fielding of candidates by the APC for the 2019 National Assembly, governorship and state House of Assembly elections in Rivers State have finally and permanently been put to rest. What this further means is that the victory of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidates in the 2019 National Assembly, governorship and state House of Assembly elections is legally safe, secured and protected. “I wish to assure you that there is nothing else to fear or be worried about, as there is nothing more the APC or any other person can do to deny us the victory you freely gave to the PDP and its candidates. Let me also express my deepest gratitude to the people of Rivers State for the opportunity to serve you as your governor for another four years. I am truly humbled by your continued trust and I will not take this support for granted. “For me, the collective interest of the people of Rivers State is the reason I am in politics. When you gave me the mandate about four years ago, I committed myself to be the governor for all the people of Rivers State and stayed through to that commitment,” he said. The Supreme Court, had yesterday, in a unanimous ruling by a seven-man panel of justices led by the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, dismissed the remaining appeals filed by the APC, seeking to reverse court judgements that led to the exclusion of its candidates from vying for any elective position in Rivers State in the just concluded general elections. The APC had through its counsel, Jubrin Okutekpa (SAN), approached the apex court, praying it to set-aside its previous decisions that validated lower courts judgements that barred it from participating in the Rivers State elections. The applicant prayed the Supreme Court to invoke its original jurisdiction under section 22 of its Act, and review all the circumstances that resulted to the exclusion of all its candidates. It further prayed the apex court to set-aside the judgement of the Rivers State High Court, which held that it did not conduct valid primary elections to nominate candidates for various positions in the state. The APC further asked the Supreme Court to reverse its previous position that its appeal against the verdict of the Port Harcourt Division of the Court of Appeal was merely academic. However, delivering ruling on the matter, the court said it was satisfied that the appeal by APC was grossly incompetent and deserved to be dismissed in its entirety. The Acting CJN, who gave the ruling, upheld argument by counsel to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Emmanuel Ukala (SAN) that the appeal was incurably defective. In its preliminary objection, PDP noted that the APC had in its notice of appeal, erroneously directed its prayers to the Court of Appeal instead of the Supreme Court. Consequently, Ukala argued that the APC had no valid appeal before the apex court, a submission that was affirmed by the CJN-led panel. Similarly, the apex court dismissed two other separate appeals relating to the Rivers State governorship election. In the second appeal, Prince Tonye Cole sought to be declared the authentic governorship candidate of the APC in the state. The third appeal was lodged against Senator Magnus Abe by the APC. The apex court terminated all the appeals on the premise that they were not only incompetent, but also legally defective. The court had last Monday, struck out an appeal filed by the Senator Abeled faction of the APC in Rivers State for its candidates to be recognised as duly nominated to participate in the 2019 polls. It had urged the apex court to among other things, determine whether it was the faction or the group loyal to the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, that conducted valid primaries for the purpose of the 2019 general elections. However, the appeal was also struck out for being defective. The apex court held that notice of appeal was filed in gross violation of section 285 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). It will be recalled that the Supreme Court had in separate judgements it delivered on February 8 and 12, declined to compel the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to recognise candidates of the APC in Rivers State. The court took the action after 23 aggrieved members of the APC, who secured the judgement that voided the outcome of primaries the party held in the state, challenged the competence of the appeal. The group, through their lawyer, Henry Bello, contended that the appeal had turned academic in view of previous judgements of the Supreme Court on the matter. Bello argued that under section 285(14) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and past decisions of the Supreme Court, 60 days time-frame for hearing of pre-election matters, had elapsed.He noted that the judgement the APC asked the apex court to set aside was delivered by the Port Harcourt Division of the Court of Appeal, on December 12, 2018. The apex court had rejected an application to set-aside the initial order that restrained APC from conducting its ward, local government and state congresses in Rivers State, pending the determination of the suit by its aggrieved members. The plaintiffs, who are members of a faction of the APC loyal to Senator Abe, had on May 11, 2018, secured an interim injunction from a High Court in Port Harcourt, which restrained the APC from going ahead with the indirect primaries that held on May 19, 20 and 21 respectively. Among beneficiaries of the primary elections was Cole, who the party had urged INEC to recognise as its governorship flag-bearer in Rivers State. The APC failed to persuade the apex court to clear legal impediments against its list of candidates that contained Cole’s name. Rather, another panel of the apex court headed by Justice Mohammed Dattijo, reaffirmed a previous ruling that validated the High Court order that barred APC from going ahead with the Rivers primaries. The panel further invoked section 22 of the Supreme Court Act and dismissed an appeal the Ojukaye Flag-Amachree’s led APC filed before the Port Harcourt Division of the Court of Appeal to challenge the said High Court order. In the lead judgment that was delivered by Justice Side Bage, the apex court said it was satisfied that the matter the APC filed before the appellate court deserved “a decent burial.” It further held that the appellate court ought to have terminated further hearing on the appeal marked CA/PH/198/2018, after it was duly withdrawn by a lawyer that was duly briefed by the Rivers State Legal Adviser of the APC, Chieme Chinweikpe. It will also be recalled that the apex court had also on October 22, 2018, nullified an interim order of the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt, which gave APC the nod to conduct its ward, local government and state congresses in Rivers State. In a ruling that was delivered by Justice Centus Nweze, the Supreme Court, faulted the appellate court for halting the execution of a Rivers State High Court order that barred APC from going ahead with its planned congress, pending the determination of a suit that was entered by the aggrieved members. It noted that the High Court had on the basis of the said suit, issued injunctive reliefs that expressly forbade the APC from conducting congress in the state. According to the Supreme Court, Justice Chiwendu Nwogu of the High Court gave the interim order of injunction on May 11, the same day that some hoodlums loyal to a faction of the party besieged the court premises in Port Harcourt. It observed that despite the attack and the restraining order from the High Court, which was further reaffirmed on May 13, the APC which was a respondent in the matter, went ahead and conducted its ward, local government and state congresses on May 19, 20 and 21, 2018. The Rivers State High Court had in a ruling on May 30, 2018, nullified the ward, local government and state congresses of the APC held on May 19, 20 and 21, 2018, respectively. Justice Nwogu maintained that the process that led to the emergence of Ojukaye Flag-Amachree as Rivers Chairman of APC, was fraudulent. He ordered the party to return to the status quo of May 11, 2018, pending the determination of the substantive suit. Meanwhile, the national leadership of the PDP has said the Supreme Court judgement has finally vindicated the PDP, Governor Wike and the people of Rivers State. The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “The resoluteness of the Supreme Court in upholding justice and resisting manipulations by APC leaders to revisit the issue of APC flawed primaries in the state, which were lawfully annulled by the lower courts, has brought respite to Nigerians and further restored their confidence in the institution of the judiciary. The spontaneous public jubilation that trailed the concluding judgement attests to this. “The judgement signifies the final triumph of the will of the people over the manipulative forces in APC, who have been deploying all manner of underhand dealings and violence, in their desperation to forcefully take over the control of the state.” The PDP charges APC leaders to note that they have come to the end of the road and that though evil may thrive for a moment, truth, justice and the will of the people will always prevail. It also expressed confidence that just as the will of the people of Rivers State has been preserved, its presidential mandate, “which Nigerians freely gave to Atiku Abubakar on February 23, but brazenly stolen by the APC, will also be retrieved at the tribunal.”