Four operatives of the Inspector-General of Police (IG) Special Intelligence Response Team were hospitalised after they were attacked by Indian hemp smokers. The four operatives, who were on inter-state investigations, were attacked at Ogoja, Cross Rivers State with machetes, stones and other weapons.  They were attacked on April 17. According to a police source, trouble for the operatives started after they embarked on an investigation, which started from Lagos State, leading them to Benue State and then Ogoja in Cross Rivers State. The operatives were trying to recover a stolen Toyota Sienna vehicle from a car receiver, identified as Ikenga.  The men were left with machete cuts. The operatives were deployed from the Lagos Annex office of the IRT to Cross Rivers State, to track and recover the stolen vehicle, belonging to Master Chapel, a church based in Lagos State. It was learnt that the vehicle was snatched at gunpoint by a four-man gang of armed robbers, later identified simply as Peter, Ben, Ebuka and Johnson, on November 8, 2018, taken to Benue State and sold to Ikenga for N250,000.  A source said: “After the IRT operatives got report of the robbery, they commenced investigations and arrested the four suspects. They confessed to the robbery, including several others. One of them led the operatives to Benue State, where the vehicle was sold. Investigations showed that the vehicle has been moved to Ogoja by Ikenga.” The operatives, on arriving at Ogoja, made their presence known to the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Ogoja Police Station and the Area Commander. But on arrival at the location where Ikenga was with the vehicle, they were attacked by thugs armed with machetes and other dangerous objects.  “The operatives weren’t expecting Ikenga and the thugs around him to be hostile. The policemen came peacefully. They introduced themselves to Ikenga. The operatives could not use their firearms as they were being attacked and inflicted with machete wounds because they didn’t want a twist to the incident if any member of the thug was killed during the melee,” said a source.  The source added: “The operatives could have killed some of the thugs attacking them with their firearms but if that has happened; the story wouldn’t have been the same today. What you would have heard would have been different from what actually happened.” The operatives managed to escape to the Ogoja Police Station.  They were rushed to Markurdi General Hospital, Benue State, while Ikenga escaped with the Toyota Sienna. It was learnt that three of the operatives have been discharged from the hospital, but one of them, identified as Julius, who sustained the most serious injury, was still receiving treatment at the hospital in Markudi. It was learnt that efforts are on to arrest Ikenga and the thugs who attacked the police team.  The incident occurred just days after the IG, Mohammed Adamu, warned policemen against indiscriminate use of firearms.