A 50-year-old man, Sani Yusuf, has been sentenced to eight years imprisonment by a Chief Magistrates’ Court in Minna for defiling a 14-year-old girl. Sani Yusuf was on Monday arraigned on two counts of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor and causing grievous hurt. The Police Prosecutor, Sergeant Bello Mohammed told the court that one Hajiya Asabe Zagi of Tudun Fulani, Minna, Niger state reported the matter at the Bosso Police station on March 27, 2019. He stated that the complainant had accused Yusuf of having carnal knowledge of her 14-year-old granddaughter on three occasions after she went to fetch water from the house where he (Yusuf) works as a security guard. He said when the complainant confronted him on the issue, Yusuf was said to have used his knife and stabbed her on her body, to which she sustained dip injuries. He noted that the offences were contrary to sections 18 (2) and 248 (2) of the Niger State Child Rights Law 2010 and the Penal Code law respectively. When the charges were read to him, he pleaded guilty and begged the court for leniency. The prosecutor thereafter prayed the court to try him summarily in line with section 157 of the Criminal Procedure Code. In his ruling, the presiding Judge, Hauwa Yusuf sentenced him to eight years in prison without any option of fine for the first count charge and three years in prison or a fine of N100,000 for the second count, adding that the sentences are to run concurrently. A 50-year-old man from Niger Republic has been arrested by the Police in Niger State for allegedly stabbing his neighbour severally over a failed attempt to rape a 14-year-old girl in Minna, Niger state. The suspect, Sani Yusuf, a Security Guard was apprehended by the operatives attached to the Bosso… In “Metro and Crime” A Chief Magistrate’s Court in Minna has ordered the remand in prison custody of a 55-year-old security guard, Michael Itang, accused of defiling a 10-year-old girl. Itang is standing trial on a count charge of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor. The Police prosecutor, ASP. Daniel Ikwoche, had told the… In “Metro and Crime” A Magistrates’ Court in Minna, Niger State has remanded in prison custody a 33-year-old cleric, Paul Aderinwa, for allegedly defiling a 16-year-old girl. Aderinwa was arraigned yesterday on a one-count charge of rape, contrary to Section 283 of the Penal Code Law. The police prosecutor, Inspector Gunduma Ibrahim, told the… In “Metro and Crime”