Hon. Ossai Nicholas Ossai represents Ndokwa East/West Federal Constituency of Delta State and is chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Ethics and Privileges. In this interview with PHILIP NYAM, he speaks on his ambition to vie for the position of Minority Leader in the 9th Assembly and other relevant matters  The House has rejected the bill for an act to establish the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors of Nigeria for effective regulation and registration of members, but you seem to be in support of the proposed legislation. Why? I am for the bill because there are many challenges that have bedeviled our nation when it comes to accountants preparing the end of year financial report. At the end of the day if you look at it forensic wise, you can detect fraud. A forensic auditor is one that has acquired advance knowledge on issues of corruption and investigation. So, accountants need to acquire extra knowledge in the exposition of fraud. Hence, a forensic auditor is more than a regular auditor. A forensic auditor looks at conflicting interests. There are many ways to look at auditing. Even, we the lawmakers that are doing oversight, we are indirectly auditing. I supported the bill vehemently and with passion. Remember that when the issue of ANAN came up, ICAN never supported it but today it has come to stay. And we cannot sit down here and the federal government is always bringing forensic auditors from abroad whereas we can as well produce them here. Recently, there were forensic auditors that came to look at the books of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC); were they not accountants? Yet, they detected some fraud. So, it goes beyond that; the forensic auditors statements are allowed in court because of the extent of the knowledge they have acquired in that field. We want this country to do well and I believe that we should look beyond the issue of protecting our positions. The mover of the bill has expressed his opinion and those of us passionate about it would want it re-presented. We want it resurrected. We want to create value for money for this country.  With the 8th Assembly winding up, don’t you think this bill cannot see the light of day? Yes, with the 8th Assembly, it may not be possible again, except it has to come through another motion. But it is possible it can come next week. However, it can be reintroduced in the 9th Assembly. But there are brighter chances because the bill has already been passed in the Senate.  From the utterances of the APC National Chairman, the House may just have to endorse the choice of the party for the position of Speaker and Deputy Speaker. Don’t you see this scenario playing out? We are competent enough to preside over the House of Representatives and the National Assembly indeed. Judging from the quality of lawmakers that have indicated intention to contest for Speaker and Deputy Speaker, you can see that they are highly qualified lawmakers. They are all eminently qualified. And those of us who are not contesting we know those that can effectively man the presiding seats. We have x-rayed their characters and we know exactly what each of them can offer. We know the ones that can carry members along and also set up a great agenda that will advance the cause of our legislature, if given the mantle of leadership. We need a lot of forward looking in terms of building this country. They should continue to be consensus building to galvanise the entire political climate. Nobody can dictate for the House who the Speaker or Deputy Speaker should be. We are independent and not subservient to any arm of government. I listened very attentively to the national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and I was deeply disappointed with his utterances. I think we need to put the nation first before any personal consideration irrespective of the political party we belong to. When we come to National Assembly we do not think along political party lines, we think nationally. So, for the APC chairman to be saying the opposition party lawmakers will not chair any committee or hold any position is unfortunate.  But how would you stop the APC with the overwhelming majority it controls? The House is ruled by supremacy of positive arguments and not ruled by political party or political strength; and it has been the practice since I came to this House in 2011. Our debates on the floor are not based on party affiliation but on superiority of argument. Don’t be surprised, a PRP member may become the Speaker of the House of Representatives. It does not necessarily mean it has to be APC because they have the majority. It does not work that way. So, competence, relationship and strong character are what determine who becomes the Speaker. The constitution is very clear; it says the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker shall be elected amongst members’ not political parties. It means that an SDP lawmaker with cognate experience and competence can be elected Speaker or Deputy Speaker.  The APC has zoned the speakership to the South-West but many are agitating that it should be given to the North-Central. What is your take on this? Well, they have their reason for advocating that the speakership should have been zoned to the North-Central. To them, they maintained that they gave the APC the third highest number of votes in the presidential election aside from North-West and North-East. Probably, those insisting that it should go to the South-West are arguing that the South-West region has a long standing relationship with the party. They believe that they have sustained the party and should therefore be given the opportunity to produce Speaker after eight years.
But in line with Section 14 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, which talks about the distribution of offices, I think the party should meet again and reconsider many other factors they overlooked while zoning the Speakership to the South-West. Their distribution of offices has to be equitable and should also reflect our political, social and religious diversity. Notwithstanding what the party has done, we in the House are going to distribute looking at a much larger picture. We will distribute through competence; someone that can man the position of Speaker, not just been a party member.  Why is there no one from the opposition, at least for now, who is interested in contesting for the position of Speaker or Deputy Speaker? I don’t know but may be some just want to follow the tradition. But we will continue to interface and interact and at the end of the day settle for a Speaker and Deputy Speaker that can work for the interest of the House and the nation and not someone who will be more interested in working for an individual, a particular party or a group instead of the generality of Nigerians. We need someone that can also challenge the executive if there is need for it. Our party (PDP), will be pushing out for a solution. We will be providing an alternative where necessary.  Your name has been mentioned in so many circles as one of the likely contestants for the position of Minority Leader. Are you truly interested? Yes, it is true that there are reports linking me to the position of Minority Leader. I think I am competent enough to be the face of the opposition in the House of Representatives. I have what it takes to occupy the office. I have what it takes to strengthen the opposition especially my party (PDP) through zonal arrangements; strengthening parliamentary caucuses that have not been well harnessed. I think the time has come when the Nigeria should have parliamentary caucuses, in which lawmakers will be able to show case sectors and areas they have passion for. For example, we have educationists could be grouped into one parliamentary caucus, which can push and interact with NGOs to resolve some of the concerns noticeable in the sector. And when it comes to national issues, you go above political affiliation. I have passion for this nation and I am a loyal party man and I believe the programmes of my party are more germane than any other party. That is why I am interested in becoming the Minority Leader where I know I will be very assertive.  Has the PDP as a party and as a caucus decided on her voting pattern in the election of Speaker and Deputy Speaker? No, the PDP has not discussed that. I am a member of the PDP caucus and to the best of my knowledge that has not been discussed. But I believe that we need a great Speaker; someone with a large heart; someone that can unite the House.  There is this contention that the current Minority Leader, Hon. Leo Ogor has done well and should be allowed to continue in the 9th House. Don’t you share this view? Yes, somebody has done well but there is a gap and it is that gap that needs to be filled. Hon. Leo Ogor has done very well; give it to him. He is competent and knowledgeable. But I think we need a complete transparent parliament now, an e-parliament where the masses make input in the legislative process. We need to transform the image of the parliament; we need to change the narrative of the National Assembly being the problem of this nation and we need new hands that can drive this effectively. These are the gaps I am talking about and we need someone with the intellectual capacity to make this happen. My brother Hon. Ogor has done very well, but we need someone to build and improve on what he has done in the last four years.  Apart from PDP, there about eight other minority parties with representatives in the House. Should a lawmaker from any of these parties other than the PDP comes up will you be comfortable with that?  I do not have a problem with that if the person advances more knowledge in achieving what we desire as an opposition. So, if there is such a person, why not?  Considering the not so favourable economic state of the nation, would you be supporting those advocating for a cut in the remuneration and benefits of National Assembly lawmakers? We in the National Assembly are the real auditors; when we oversight, when we expose corruption and when we investigate issues, we are auditing the society. And I want Nigerians to differentiate between salaries and monies meant for oversight and committee work, for example, if I want to travel to Lagos for an official function, you don’t expect me to use my money to book flight and accommodation; there must be allowances to cater for that. I don’t have to use my salary to run my office. When the ministers or civil servants in the MDAs travel on official assignments, they do not use their salaries. So, the legislature cannot be an exception. Why is the salary collected by ministers not an issue? We tend to be talking more about the legislature and leaving the executive and the judiciary.  If you go around the country, you will discover that most of the abandoned projects are constituency projects. Why is this so and how do we get it right in this area? Look, the three southern states of Delta, Rivers and Bayelsa brought the idea of constituency projects. I was a member of the Delta State House of Assembly. The current Transport Minister, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi was the Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly and I was the majority leader in my state. We advanced the issues after going to the USA and seen the issue of constituency fund. Constituency projects are very beneficial to the constituents. The only federal project you see in my constituency is a prison. Today, my constituency supplies electricity to Abuja yet we do not have electricity. A civil servant in Abuja does not know what is happening in my constituency, but I being a grassroots man know what my constituents are going through. The only way to solve the problems inherent in implementing or executing constituency projects is to build a strong synergy between the executive and the legislature. I expected that there should be a retreat where the executive and the legislature will interact at the inauguration of the next government so that we can brainstorm and outline how issues like constituency projects could be better handled.