Armed men believed to be herdsmen yesterday invaded Eda, a community in Iyemero-Ekiti in Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State. The invaders killed two people and injured three others with machetes. Scores of other people were displaced from their houses by the assailants, who invaded the farmstead at midnight. Sources identified one of the dead as Mr. Danjuma Ali, a farmer, while the identity of the second person was not clear. The victims’ bodies have been deposited in the morgue of the General Hospital, Ikole-Ekiti. Those being treated at the emergency unit of the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido-Ekiti (FETHI) are Mrs. Jennifer Akoko, Mr. Joseph Achebe and one other victim. The source said: “It happened again today (yesterday). It has been a recurrent killing. Some herders called Bororo stormed the farmstead and shot these innocent people. “They came about 1a.m. and were there till dawn. Our farmers are all afraid to go their farms. They all rushed to the palace of the Olu of Iyemero-Ekiti, Oba Ebenezer Agboola Ogungbemi, to take refuge. “We are mourning today at Iyemero. We are not happy about this incident and the government must do something about it,” a resident said. The Olu of Iyemero, Oba Ogungbemi, and the Olu-In-Council, restated their calls for establishment of a police station in the town to check criminal activities. The monarch, who spoke through the palace spokesman, Chief Ariyo Abejide, said there was urgent need for the teeming population of farmers in the farmstead to be protected by the security agencies. He said: “These Fulani herders stormed the community through the border of Iyemero at Eruku in Kwara State. This makes Iyemero a porous exit and entrance, which portends dangers and insecurity to the community, Ikole Local Government and the state in general.” Ogungbemi urged the residents to be peaceful and called for immediate intervention of government. Also, the head of security and community vigilance group, Chief Jimoh Eshikin, called on government to empower the village hunters in order to assist the security agents in effective security surveillance and patrol. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, said he had not been briefed about the matter.