Police in Abia State arraigned a Fulani herdsman, Salisu Garuba, for attempted murder. Garuba was charged after he was arrested for cutting off four fingers of a woman, Esther Ibemecha, on Sunday at No 1, Pepples Road, Ogbor-Hill, Aba during a disagreement. According to the victim, the bone of contention was simply because she asked the suspect to move his cattle away from her business premises where she sells drinks. Confirming the arraignment of the suspect, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Geoffrey Ogbonna, said he was arraigned for murder and was later remanded. Ibemecha, who is currently receiving treatment at General Hospital, Aba, said she runs a beer parlour and hails from Asaga in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State.  Narrating her escape from death at the General Hospital, Aba, Ibemecha said: “On Sunday 31st of March, about 4.37p.m., I said let me go to my shop and relax at No.1, Peoples Road, Ogbor Hill, Aba. “I couldn’t pass and enter my shop because a herdsman with his cows blocked the way. I asked the herdsman to move the cows out of the shop area, but the herdsman threatened to cut off my head. “I thought it was a joke and insisted that the herdsman should please move his cows, but before I knew what was happening, the herdsman hit me with a stick.  “As if that was not enough, he brought out a machete, trying to cut off my head, I defended it with my hand and it cut off my four fingers. People were not around. “When the herdsman saw that blood was gushing out and that my cries will attract attention, he ran away, I pursued him with the blood and was shouting.  “I ran to the Army checkpoint near the area and reported the incident and the soldiers went after him and caught him. “They merely asked him to kneel down and flogged him with the palm of his machete before handing him over to the police.” Ibemecha, who said she as a single mother, pleaded for justice. She also urged government to come to her aid concerning her hospital bills.