A new global consortium, the Sustainable Rice Landscapes Initiative, is bringing together experts from international organisations, research institutions and business groups with significant market influence to tackle the enormous environmental footprint of rice production, members of the partnership have said. The new consortium according to a statement, will introduce sustainable approaches to farming practices, incentivise production and demand for sustainable rice with market-based instruments, deliver policy support to governments, and improve knowledge sharing and collaboration on sustainable rice solutions. Rice is a leading cause, as well as a victim, of climate change, and its production impacts many natural systems. Rice is responsible for about the same greenhouse gas emissions as Germany, particularly from methane, which is emitted from rotting vegetation in inundated paddy fields. Similarly, rice yields and nutritional values are significantly reduced by rising temperatures, and production must increase by 25 per cent by 2050 to meet global demand. Practices such as removing rice straw can reduce methane emissions by up to 70 per cent, but farmers currently lack awareness, training, policy and market support. The founding members of the Sustainable Rice Landscapes Initiative represent the range of partners needed to make these practices commonplace, namely UN Environment, the Food and Agriculture Organisation, the Sustainable Rice Platform, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the International Rice Research Institute and the German Agency for International Cooperation. “UN Environment is proud to be a member of the Sustainable Rice Landscapes Consortium. Sustainable rice production is one remedy that can fix a host of issues,” said Dechen Tsering, Regional Director of UN Environment’s Asia and the Pacific Office. A new global consortium, the Sustainable Rice Landscapes Initiative, is bringing together expertise from international organisations, research institutions and business groups with significant market influence to tackle the enormous environmental footprint of rice production, members of the partnership have said. The new consortium will introduce sustainable approaches to farming… In “Business” Delta State government is set to launched 42-hectare Deghele Cluster Rice Farming and the 54-hectare Cluster Rice Farming in Mbiri, under the state's Youth Agricultural Entrepreneurs Programme (YAGEP).   Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, said the rice from the cluster farms would not be sold until they have been milled, processed and… In “News” Last week, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved the sum of N10.7 billion for the construction of 10 new rice mills in Nigeria to actualise its rice-sufficiency programme. Taiwo Hassan looks at the implication of this initiative   It is no longer news that Nigeria is now a rice producing… In “Business”