The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has unveiled plans to generate N750 billion from defaulting accounting firms and others with N1 billion turnover and above. Executive Chairman of FIRS, Mr. Babatunde Fowler, disclosed this yesterday at a budget defence session of key revenue generating agencies organized by the House of Representatives’ Committee on Finance. He explained that the FIRS achieved 78.86% or N5.320 trillion out of its revenue target of N6.747 trillion for the 2018 fiscal year, adding that the Service’s initiative, tagged: ‘Bank Accounts substitution exercise’, was aimed at using banking information of non-compliant taxpayers with N1 billion and above turnover into the tax net. According to him, the sum of N23.25 billion has, so far, been recovered by the Service from undisclosed firms, while efforts are being intensified to cover those with turnover of N100 million and above.
“The exercise has been extended to cover those with turnover of N100 million and above. “To date, about 500 of them have come forward and they have paid and we have collected in the region of about N24 billion. We believe we should be able to go through the 55,000 before the middle of this year.
“In terms of estimates, we should be able to generate from this exercise alone, that will be about N750 billion,” he said.  Meanwhile, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has begun a clampdown on some law firms which have failed to comply with extant financial regulations. According to the report obtained from FIRS, the joint task force set up to actualize the recovery – FIRS/EFCC Joint Task Force – was introduced in 2018 to enhance the fight against tax related fraud. As at December 2018, a total of N6.94 billion and $278,430 had been recovered by the JTF. This and other such initiatives are continuous and will be continuous going forward. In his presentation, Fowler disclosed that additional sums of N28.51 billion and $77.83 million has been recovered through regular enforcement from various tax offices, tax audit and investigation assessments. Through the recently introduced Voluntary Assets and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS), the Service, through the implementation of Executive Order 004, recovered the sum of N53.04 billion at federal level out of N92.7 billion liability declared as at December 2018, adding that the agency is vigorously pursuing the balance of N39.68 billion from indebted taxpayers. Similarly, FIRS has recovered revenue worth N4.3 billion accruing from property owners in Abuja and Lagos State, just as it unveiled plans to extend the initiative to other parts of the country. “In this regard, Oyo and Kaduna states have commenced. It is important to note that this is not a property tax, but rather the use of the provisions of the law to bring into the tax net, companies that own properties, but failed to file necessary tax returns and pay appropriate taxes due,” he said. Through its Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative (SRGI) for the year 2018 aimed at securing some quick wins for short and medium terms period, FIRS realized the sum of N212.79 billion through National Tax Audit and Pioneer Audit, sequel to improvements to the audit process and resultant increased efficiency. “Following the expiration of the Pioneer Audit granted several companies, we have identified 190 companies in this category and have commenced post Pioneer Audit of 129 out of the identified companies. We expect to conclude the process before the end of 2019,” Fowler said. The Federal Government is facing serious revenue challenge. To exit its current cash-strapped position, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has handed a threat to billionaire tax defaulters if they fail to do the needful. Abdulwahab Isa reports   Tax collection is a herculean task. By nature, most Nigerians are… In “Business” The year 2019 could be tough for tax defaulting companies in the country as the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) seems to have decided to intensify its revenue drive this year, writes Tony Chukwunyem     At the opening of the 2019 Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) management and stakeholders… In “Business” Despite concerns in some quarters about the tough measures it is using to recover unpaid taxes, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) seems to be succeeding in getting tax defaulters to pay their liabilities, writes Tony Chukwunyem     With the slump in oil prices pushing the Nigerian economy into… In “Business”