At least 13 people yesterday lost their lives in motor accident which occurred in Ogun and Edo states. Five people reportedly died in an auto crash in the Kobape-Siun axis of Abeokuta-Sagamu Expressway in Ogun State, while eight others were killed in Auchi, the headquarters of Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State. The victims of Ogun accident died when a commercial vehicle lost control and somersaulted on the highway, killing all the five occupants. The incident, which occurred about 1.37p.m., at Olorunsogo village, involved an Abeokuta-bound Nissan Primera car with registration number Lagos KTU 875 DP. According to witnesses, the car somersaulted and rammed into a stationary Volvo truck marked LAR 119 YD, which was parked off road. The victims died on the spot. The Public Relations Officer, Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforce-ment Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the incident. Akinbiyi, who said the victims included three males and two females, attributed the crash to over-speeding. He said the remains of the victims were evacuated and deposited at the State Hospital, Ijaiye, Abeokuta. The PRO added that the vehicles were promptly towed to the Obafemi- Owode Police Station. He said: “I learnt the commercial Primera car is used in running shuttle from Sagamu to Abeokuta. “All the five casualties involved in the accident were inside the Primera car when the accident happened. “TRACE is again using this avoidable and unfortunate incident to appeal to our motorists to desist from overspeeding and reckless driving because of its attendant consequences.” In the Edo accident, apart from the eight people which a truck crushed to death, several others were wounded on the Benin-Abuja Expressway. The accident occurred at Jattu Junction. It was learnt that six of the victims sustained various degrees of injury in the accident which involved a Dangote truck laden with cement about 11a.m. A witness said the truck coming towards Benin from the northern part of the country when it lost control and rammed into several vehicles held in traffic at the junction. The state Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Anthony Oko, said it was a multiple accident. Oko, however, attributed the accident to tyre burst. He said: “Fifteen people were involved in the accident; five died while six sustained various degrees of injury. Seven vehicles were involved in the accident.” According to him, the truck coming towards Benin had a tyre burst and in the process lost control and rammed into the vehicles from behind. The sector commander said the injured victims were taken to the morgue while those injured were taken to the hospital for treatment. Kunle Olayeni Six persons lost their lives yesterday in an auto crash that occurred along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway in Ogun State. The fatal accident occurred at Sagamu Interchange on the highway about 2:12pm. Two vehicles, including a commercial Nissan Quest car with registration number Lagos FKJ 297 AJ and an… In “Metro and Crime” Ten persons, including a two-month-old baby, Thurday lost their lives in an auto crash that occurred along the Abeokuta-Sagamu Expressway in Ogun State. The accident, which occurred about 10:30am, involved a white Mazda commercial bus with registration number TRE 556 XA, and a granite-laden truck marked Lagos LND 564 XP.… In “Metro and Crime” Five people lost their lives yesterday in an auto crash on the Abeokuta-Siun-Sagamu Expressway in Ogun State. The accident occurred about 7.15a.m., when two vehicles had a head-on collision at Orile Imo area of the expressway. It was learnt that a black Honda Accord car with registration number Lagos EKY… In “Metro and Crime”