Two armed robbers, who are on death row in Kirikiri Prison, Lagos State and 14 others on ‘Awaiting Trial,’ have become master bakers in prison. One of the death row inmates said that he was now a fulfilled person following his training and his becoming a baker. The Assistant Comptroller General of Prisons (ACG), Mr Tunde Oladipo, who is also the head of Lagos State Prisons Command, said that the training of the inmates wouldn’t have been possible if not for the sponsors, Hour of Liberty and Honeywell Company. Oladipo said: “With such empowerment in bread making, I believe some of the inmates would grow to become big bakers in the country. People should always give the inmates opportunity in lives. They are inmates today, but can become heads of states tomorrow. We have seen instances where inmates became presidents of countries, and great clerics. The inmates should be respected and accepted in communities after they are through with their jail terms.” Oladipo said that he was happy that good things were taking place in the prisons and being achieved by inmates. He added: “Four inmates are presently doing their PhD programmes. Also, 12 inmates wrote the last Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board Examination (JAMB). Many of them are undergraduates and post graduate students of National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN). Part of the prison reforms is for the inmates to have good lives after prison. We have introduced various reform programmes to make life meaningful to them after leaving prison. We have won an international award from France and other places for our activities to empower inmates. I have ordered that no staff should sew his or her uniform outside the prisons because we have inmates who are trained and empowered in sewing of clothes. They are doing well. The furniture we use in our command’s office was made by the inmates.” The Head of Hour of Liberty Ministry, Pastor Kemi Olaja, said that during one of their visits to the prison, they thought it would be nice to empower the inmates. She said: “The bakery training came to our minds and we took it upon ourselves to engage the inmates in baking. As a Christian ministry, we named the bread made by the inmates, ‘Bread of Life.’ The inmates come to prisons condemned, but looking at them, there is hope that their future is very bright. We have trained them, and I will keep on providing for them what they need to make it in lives through baking.” She advised the inmates not to give up in life, even after serving their jail term. Managing Director of Honeywell Company, Mr. Lanre Jaiyeola, said that they were very happy to identify with the Nigeria Prison Service in training of inmates in bread baking as part of empowering them for a better life after prison.