 An Uyo High Court in Akwa Ibom State has sentenced three policemen to death for kidnapping.
Four others, including a woman hired by the gang for N50,000 to cook for the victim, Deaconess Ime Anietie Ekanem, while negotiation for her ransom was on, were also sentenced to death.
The court presided over by Justice Joy Unwana gave the ruling on 27th March, 2019 in the case with Suit No HU/13c/2012 instituted against eight members of the gang in 2012. Those sentenced are Corporal Emmanuel Charlie, Ekaette Edet Moses, Fidelis Emmanson Jeremiah, Corporal Bassey Sunday (377812), Constable Mfon Bassey (478463), Ndu Okon Johnny, Unyime Edem Etukakpan, and Itohowo Godwin Akpakwa.
The culprits were all convicted on a three-count charge of conspiracy to commit felony, kidnapping, aiding and sponsoring kidnapping. According to the confessional statement of the 8th accused, Mrs. Itohowo Akpakwa, which was admitted as exhibit, she confessed to visiting her friend in a bar at Idakeyop Aka where she gave the 7th accused, Unyime Edem Etukakpan, money to buy medicine for his ill health. Though Akpakwa denied knowledge of the plot to kidnap her friend and neighbour, no fewer than three other members of the gang told the court that they did not know her name at the time she visited the final meeting point at Aka. They insisted that she was the one who identified her friend and gave direction to her house at Obio Etoi village, Uyo. It was learnt that the victim was dragged out of the Toyota Sienna car driven by her husband, in front of the family house about 6:30p.m. and whisked away in a Volvo wagon to Afaha Udoeyop in Ibesikpo Asutan Local Government Area where she was kept, under armed guards, in an isolated building pending agreement and payment of ransom.
The Anti-Kidnapping Unit of the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID) swung into action as telephone negotiations between the kidnappers and the victim’s husband brought down the initial demand from more than N20 million to about N1.8 million to be paid on two instalments. Plainclothes operatives of the SCIID were shocked to discover that the first two people who approached the Afaha Ibesikpo Market square venue for the ransom delivery were their colleagues at the SCIID.
Shortly after the encounter, the change in venue for delivery of the ransom was relayed to the husband of the victim by phone.
Police investigation report, it was learnt, indicated that after changing the venue thrice, the first instalment of N800,000 was delivered at Itam, in another local government area.
From the totality of evidence before the court, it was observed that the gang might have got away with the crime had the proceeds been equitably shared. It was also revealed that serious disagreement in the sharing formula led to friction.
A member of the gang, who, at the time of sharing, was in the Uyo Prison on a different criminal matter, returned home to discover that he was short-changed. He then gave details of the plot and how it was carried out to the police, and later became the star witness for the state.
The 8th and only accused who escaped the capital punishment, Mrs. Itohowo Akpakwa, an employee of the University of Uyo, was earlier granted bail. Samuel Ikpo Esq counsel to Akpakwa had insisted that there was no reason his client should languish in prison when there was no direct evidence linking her to the commission of the alleged crime.
Her bail was secured when Ikpo successfully argued that in the absence of a prima facie evidence against his client, it became baseless and punitive to curtail her freedom. Despite persistent argument to the contrary by Eyo Asuquo Esq, insisting that Akpakwa was the ‘woman’ mentioned by other suspects, the court was not persuaded, and therefore had no grounds to deny her bail.
Reviewing arguments on both sides, the court noted that evidence of most suspects was that the woman who attended their meeting at Aka before the kidnap operation was the one who identified the victim, and also supplied information about her residence and movement. It noted that two state witnesses (policemen) also confirmed to court that they heard from suspects that the 8th accused supplied information and also identified the victim.
Justice Unwana echoed the position of Ikpo who pointed out that hearsay evidence by the state witnesses must not only be discountenance, but that of other suspects who did not mention the name of his client. Furthermore, the court was convinced by his position that in the failure of police to conduct identification parade to give other suspects, the opportunity to identify the ‘woman’ they allegedly saw, his client could not be declared as the ‘woman’ in question.
The court was of the view that there were no grounds to convict Akpakwa, and accordingly discharged and acquitted her.
On the other hand, convinced that the state has successfully proven beyond reasonable doubt, the three-count charge, the other seven were convicted.