Veteran filmmaker, Eddie Ugboma, has cried out for help from well-meaning Nigerians as he may be thrown out of hospital soon over unpaid bills. The 78-year-old filmmaker is critically ill and needs urgent and sustained medical attention.
Ugboma’s present condition which has been described as distressing was made known on the Facebook page of Shaibu Husseini, a scholar, Nigerian journalist, performing artist and film curator.
According to Shaibu, the medics at a private hospital in Ilogbo Eremi are no longer attending to Ugboma and have also threatened to eject him over unpaid bills.
Shaibu wrote on his Facebook page: “I just got a distressed call that foremost filmmaker Chief Eddie Ugbomah, OON, is critically ill and needs urgent and sustained medical attention.
“I gathered that the medics at a private hospital in Ilogbo Eremi are no longer attending to the living legend who made 13 celluloid films including “Death of A Black President” and “The Rise and Fall of Oyenusi”, because of unpaid hospital bills.
“The picture of him I saw this morning drew tears from me and the situation as Ugbomah’s young child called to tell me this evening is distressing. He may be thrown out of the hospital any moment now.”
The hitherto agile Chief Ugbomah, in his seventies, is not one to roll over. He will either be writing stories, updating the huge collection of photographs he has in his self-sponsored hall of fame or simply be in his farm.
In a telephone conversation with the Delta High Chief days ago, he said he has been dealing with the health issue for some time now and when he couldn’t cope funding the needs alone, he reached out to undisclosed member of the Delta State Government who promised to intervene as soon as the elections were over. However, he expressed regrets that weeks after the election, the government of his state is yet to make good its promise. He’s appealing to men at the helm of affairs in his state to save him with timely intervention.
You may recall in 2018, Ugbomah had intended to raise N50 million from the sale of his intellectual property to cover his medical bills but his efforts failed to materialise.
“I am seriously down with 205/190 BP, no road, no light, no clinic and I am dying. What a shameless country. The nearest clinic is five miles away. The town is Ilogbo Eremi off Badagry Expressroad,” Ugbomah wrote at the time.
A holder of the national honour of Officer Order of the Niger (OON), Ugbomah has directed and produced films such as the Rise and Fall of Oyenusi in 1979, The Boy is Good and Apalara, a film about the life and murder of Alfa Apalara in Oko Awo, Lagos.