Amidst anxiety generated by the abduction of the Lagos State Director of Fire Service, Mr. Rasaki Musibau, by kidnappers, the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, yesterday denied that there was resurgence of kidnappers in the state.  This was even as rumours are rife over establishment of contact and possible demand of ransom by Musibau’s abductors. It was learnt that residents and motorists travelling to remote areas in the state, especially Epe, and other suburbs close to the creeks were scared over the operations of kidnappers. Allaying the fear of the people, Muazu said that Lagos remained safe for residents, stressing that all hands were on deck to ensure the safe return of Musibau and other victims.  Addressing journalists after the State Security Council meeting, Muazu said: “This present case does not mean that the spate of kidnapping has returned to Lagos. You knew when there used to be kidnapping in Lagos and the situation now. I see this as a very unfortunate incident and I assure Lagosians that all the security agencies are putting their heads together to ensure we put a stop to this menace.” Musibau and six others were abducted by gunmen on Saturday about 8p.m. on Iwoye Bridge, on Itoikin-Epe Road. Muazu, who declined to give further details on the ongoing operation to rescue the victims, expressed optimism over the case.  He said: “I confirm that there was an incident of kidnapping involving the State Director of Fire Service. All security agencies in the state are working toward the safe rescue of the victims. For now, this is all I need to reveal about the kidnap, but we are working to ensure their safe return.” On the fears being expressed over likely return of kidnappers to the state, Muazu said: “All security agencies are working seriously to put a stop to it.  There is nothing to worry about.” Meanwhile, there are speculations over possible contact of the abductors with families of victims, with a demand of ransom. While some said that the kidnappers had reached out to the relatives to demand N3 million ransom, co-workers and staff of the state government close to Musibau’s family, denied hearing from the abductors.