A policeman yesterday lost his life when kidnappers numbering about five tried to abduct an expatriate in Kaduna. The attack occurred at a company, Mothercat, located at the Mando area of Kaduna metropolis. Three of the attackers also lost their lives in the ensuing gun battle between the police and the kidnappers.  The incident occurred about 6a.m. yesterday when the daredevil kidnappers, attempted to abduct some expatriates in the company but met a stiff resistance from the team of policemen in the vicinity. However, addressing a press conference on the attack, The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Department of Finance and Administration, Onah Sunny, confirmed the attack at a press conference. He said: “I feel obliged to brief you this morning following an incident that occurred today (yesterday) about 5.40p.m., when some armed men entered the Mothercat Company at Mando area, shooting sporadically and attacking policemen on guard duty.  “The gallant policemen engaged the hoodlums in a fierce gun duel. “They repelled the attack and in the process gunned down three of them. During the fierce gun duel, two of our men AP NO 161126 Inspector Bijimi Maiyaki, F/No 251990 and Sergeant Kabiru Shuaibu attached to Operation Yaki, sustained injuries. They were rushed to 44 Army Reference Hospital for treatment.  “However, the sergeant died while receiving treatment while the inspector was treated and discharged. “Exhibits recovered from the hoodlums include four AK 47 rifles, eight magazines with one 130 live ammunition, five pieces of suspected Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and a Golf Wagon vehicle with registration number W 812 FST.  “Teams of operatives are still on the trail of the remaining two hoodlums who escaped with bullet injuries.” Onah also appealed to members of the public to assist the police with “prompt and relevant information on any suspicious movement in their respective neighbourhood so as to ensure effective proactive crime prevention efforts. “The command highly appreciates the support of the public and the media in our collective stride to bring down the rate of crime and criminality in Kaduna State to the barest minimum.” Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai’s convoy yesterday foiled an attempted kidnapping along the Kaduna-Abuja highway. The road had been notorious for kidnapping with an upsurge in recent days. According to Samuel Aruwan, spokesman of the governor, "the governor was on his way to Abuja and getting to Akilubu village… In “News” 12 killed, 65 wounded in Maiduguri bomb blast Gunmen kill two policemen, abduct Americans, Canadians Herdsmen murder five in Benue   Tragedies struck Borno, Kaduna and Benue states yesterday as at least 19 people killed by herdsmen, kidnappers and suicide bombers. In Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, about 12 people… In “Metro and Crime” Residents of Obalende area of Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State scampered in different directions yesterday when anti-robbery policemen and suspected kidnappers engaged in a gun duel. The incident was fallout of the attempt by an eightman gang to abduct a Chinese expatriate working at 6&6 Quarry in the area. One of the… In “Metro and Crime”