Regardless of the dictates of the Lagos Traffic Law 2012, commercial motorcycles riders, popularly known as Okada riders, are fully back on Lagos roads, but the Lagos Taskforce on Environment and Special offence Unit has also declared war on recalcitrant operators. Already, about 109 motorcycles have been impounded with threat of crushing 2,500 seized in three months. Muritala Ayinla reports  Even the blind could confirm that they are back on Lagos roads with full force, threatening motorists and other road users with their reckless riding. The motorcyclists popularly known as Okada riders also ply Alausa axis-seat of power. To these riders, the Lagos Traffic Law 2012, which restricts their operation and stipulates operation guidelines, is on suspension especially with the political developments in the state. At a time when Lagos residents are lamenting over slow pace of governance, when the complaints over deplorable roads, traffic snarl, worsening condition in health and education sectors are gaining momentum, there are fears that if the government continues to allow commercial motorcycles to operate unregulated, threat to security of lives and property would soon become the major challenge in Lagos with needless loss of lives to robbery and avoidable accidents experienced in Pre-Traffic law era. The Lagos State Road Traffic Law which came into effect on August 2, 2012 restricts the operations of commercial motorcycles on about 475 out of more than 9,000 roads in Lagos State. The law also stipulates that motorcyclists and their passengers must always put on crash helmet while on the road. The law also stipulates that operation of motorcycles commence from 6am to 8am. Other offences according to the law are: Riding motorcycles without crash helmet, riding the motorcycles without rider’s permit, conveying more than one passenger at a time, installation of musical gadget on motorcycles, riding against the traffic or on the kerb, median or road set back, carrying pregnant woman or adult with a baby or child below age 12 among others. The penalties of these offences are N20, 000 fines for first offender while subsequent offender is N30, 000. Today, irrespective of what the law prescribes, Lagos Traffic Law 2012 seems to be on suspension as the motorcyclists are fully back with a seemingly semblance of vengeance. To some residents, the unregulated operation of Okada riders was clear indication that the government has shut down in the state. While some attributed return of Okada to the political development in the state, saying that the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode appeared to have lost interest in governance ever since he was prevented from securing a second term ticket by his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). Other blamed police for lack of enforcement of the traffic law, accusing them of extorting the motorcyclists to enable them to operate freely without having to comply with the law.  Speaking with New Telegraph, James Fashina, a bank official, attributed return of Okada to the political development in the state, saying that he wasn’t expecting the governor to pay serious attention to some issues any longer in the state.
He said: “From the look of things, it seems the State governor no longer cares about the unruly activities of commercial motorcyclists as they now ride with impunity on highways from which they have been restricted.” But Alabede Kareem, a lawyer, accused the law enforcement agencies, saying “rather than enforcing traffic law, the enforcement agencies, especially the police, have allowed motorcyclists to operate by extorting money from them. If Taskforce is enforcing the law, what about Divisional Police Officers and the Area Commanders? The new CP must ensure all laws of the state are enforce for sanity. We impounded 2500 motorcycles in three months.” Speaking with New Telegraph, Lagos State Task Force, Chairman CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi said that the agency irrespective of the political development in the state has been enforcing the Traffic law 2012, saying that a total number of 2,500 motorcycles have been impounded between January and March, 2019 for flouting the law. According to him, the agency has also impounded additional 109 commercial motorcycles for operating on restricted routes at 2nd Rainbow end of Oshodi-Apapa Express-way, Lagos, over the weekend, adding that the agency was planning to crush 25,000 motorcycles impounded across the state for various traffic offences. Egbeyemi who, disclosed this, said that the 109 motorcycles were impounded over the weekend after several warnings to motorcycle riders to desist from operating on restricted routes, particularly highways and bridges across the State. According to him, the agency was inundated by series of complaints received from the public on illegal and criminal activities perpetuated by motorcycle operators. He said: “While some of them harass innocent members of the public at various bus-stops, others engage in all sorts of criminal acts by dispossessing their passengers of valuables such as phones, jewelries and bags. Also, motorists held in traffic both morning and night around these areas were not spared.” The Taskforce boss added that total clampdown on illegal activities of the motorcycle operators on restricted routes would now be vigorously sustained on daily basis with the full support of other Divisional Police Officers and the Area Commanders across the State. According to him, out of 115 motorcycles impounded during the enforcement operations recently, 23 were branded commercial ‘Gokada and Maxokada’. He said that activities of these newly branded commercial motorcycle operators are illegal, adding that many of them were operating without valid documentation from the State government. The Chairman reiterated that in accordance with the law no commercial motorcycle operator is allowed to operate around 475 restricted routes including highways and bridges across the State. “The government enjoined members of the public to henceforth desists from patronising commercial motorcyclists on all restricted routes as passengers are as well liable for prosecutions,” he said. He added that it was an eye-sore seeing operators of these newly branded commercial motorcycles (Gokada/Maxokada) competing for right of ways with motorists on highways and bridges across the State. The Chairman warned dispatched riders using power bikes (200cc above) to desist from engaging in illegal commercial activities as anyone caught violating Lagos State Traffic Laws would be prosecuted. To ensure peaceful operation of motorcycles in the state, Egbeyemi urged various motorcycle riders associations across the state to always educate their members on all 475 restricted routes and the life threatening dangers surrounding plying high-ways and bridges.