The National President of Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Waba, has said that NLC will completely reject any attempt to increase the pump price of the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) and the Value Added Tax (VAT). Comrade Ayuba Waba who was speaking at the Borno state 12th Triennial Delegate Conference held at the State Hotels, Maiduguri on Monday said: “we warn that any increase in VAT or PAYE would not only rob workers of minimal relief from the increase in the national minimum wage but would also our economy in dire straits”. The NLC  President who was represented by Radio and Theater Art Workers Union, (RATTAWU), General Secretary  Comrade Akposuo Anietie added that “We urge the government to consider other progressive ways of financing the budget government should progressive taxations in a manner that captures more people in the tax net and also ensures that rich and luxury items ate property taxed”, the NLC President said. “we call on government to adhere to the provision of chapter two Nigeria’s 1999 constitution which states inter alia that government must ensure that the economic system is not operated in a such a manner as to permit the concentration of wealth or means of production and exchange in the hands of few I did also group.” Earlier in his goodwill, Governor Kashim Shettima said the Borno state government will continue to work in harmony with the NLC to for the development if the state, as the civil service is the engine room if government. The Governor who was represented by the state Head of Service. Alhaji Mohammed Hassan said ” the Borno state government has been paying salary as at when due. The government is ready to settle all entitlement of workers within the shortest possible time”. He urged workers to always cooperate with the state government in moving the state forward, stressing that they should also shun corruption. The Nigerian Labour Congress has called on state governments owing pensioners arrears to pay them as soon as possible to reduce their hardship. NLC National President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, made the call in Kano during NLC state delegates’ conference. Wabba, who was represented by his deputy, Alhaji Nasiru Dangwandu, said… In “Business” The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to hasten the removal of the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige for being a cog in the wheel of the implementation of the N30,000 National Minimum Wage.   The NLC which held a nationwide protest ahead of… In “News” The Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, yesterday decried the attitude of Nigeria’s leaders to workers, lamenting that the plight of the poor and the downtrodden were never their concern. The NLC made the claim through its National President, Mr. Ayuba Waba, who paid a courtesy visit to Plateau Governor, Simon Lalong… In “News”