 As Nigerians grapple with economic realities, entertainers are investing their time and energy into other endeavours, including fashion labels, eateries, and table water, as means of alternative incomes, write TONY OKUYEME and EDWIN USOBOH    BUKKY WRIGHT Bukky Wright is a veteran actress and business woman. She has over the years featured in several Nollywood movies of Yoruba and English languages. She also featured in Wale Adenuga’s Television series Super story. Although, the celebrated actress has had a share of controversy in the industry, she tries not to let it bother her. “It does not get to me. It takes the grace of God and determination to stay in this kind of profession without going through controversies here and there, but I have never allowed controversies to get to me. I understand the fact that I have a price to pay for being a celebrity. But that does not mean I should start jumping over the place because I am a celebrity or because I want people to know I am still relevant.” Aside from being an actress and business woman, Bukky is also involved in politics. She considers it an interesting and rewarding experience. In 2014, as a member of Social Democratic Party (SDP), the actress tried to run for the post of a member of the Ogun State House of Representatives. Although she did not emerge the winner, she was glad she did what she felt she had to do.  FAITHIA WILLIAMS  Nollywood actress, Fathia Williams (formerly Balogun) has starred, produced and directed several Nigerian films over the years. In 2008, she won the Africa Movie Academy Award for the Most Outstanding Actress Indigenous and her movie Iranse Aje won the best indigenous film of the year. According to her, she has never wanted to be an actress, but fell in love with the profession after some great broadcaster while growing up. “The truth is that while growing up, acting was never part of what I dreamt to do. My parents, especially my father, wanted me to be an accountant. At a point, I fell in love with broadcasting. After watching the ace broadcasters of those days, I would wish I could do what they were doing.” Fathia is a proud owner of a restaurant ‘Unusual F’s Kitchen which was recently open in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The restaurant provides breakfast, lunch and dinner to her client in the capital. With this, the mother of two joins the league of celebrities investing in business. OMONI OBOLI  Filmmaker and author, Omoni Oboli wrote a lengthy message on her page, revealing how her mother had various streams of income while they were growing up and this helped shape the woman she has become. Omoni began her movie career in 1996 with her first movie role in ‘Bitter Encounter’. She studied at the New York Film Academy, and has written several screenplays such as; ‘The figurine’, ‘Anchor Baby’, ‘Fatal Imagination’, ‘Being Mrs Elliott’, ‘The First Lady’ and ‘Wives on Strike’. The mother of three says 2019 is a year she wants to motivate people to have startups while also disclosing some of the ways she makes money apart from acting. She disclosed that she has a thriving fashion line @omoniobolibyave with business partners @ayovanelmar. “Aside from content production, Omoni run arguably the biggest movie and tv lighting and some equipment rental business in the country  FUNKE AKINDELE  Funke is not just successful in acting, she is also a skilled entrepreneur. She owns an acting school, Scene One School of Drama. Scene One School of Drama teaches aspiring actors, producers and dancers how to develop their talents and be the best in their creative careers. She is also the CEO of Scene One Production. Scene One Production is a content production company for television stations and movies. Scene One production also has entertainment platforms- www.sceneone.tv and a mobile app for watching TV series, Nollywood movies, TV shows and music. She has a lot of endorsement deals with different brands. Some of the brands include Lagos State Inland Revenue Service, Iroko TV, Vitafoam, Western Lotto, Sports betting company 1960 Bet, Keystone Bank and many more  HARRYSONG Harrison Tare Okiri, better known by his stage name Harrysong, is a multiple award winning artiste, songwriter and instrumentalist who rose to fame after his tribute song to Nelson Mandela won the “Most Downloaded Callertune Award” at The Headies 2013. But, all is just about music for this Delta State born entertainer, according to the Kingmaker “Music is my life, but of course, I have other businesses that I am working. First, I want you to know that Alterplate is business conglomerate. We are into other things asides music. We are working on my clothing line called Kingmaker Clothing Line (KCL) and also working on the Kaywaters that I hope to expand across the country, I am also into Real Estates big time. Yes, music is number one but, there other things,” he said in an interview.  MERCY AIGBE Beautiful Nollywood actress Mercy Aigbe is always in the news not just for her acting prowess. In an interview recently the movie star cleared all rumours of her getting money from politicians. She insisted that she has other sources of income aside from acting. She said: “What drives me is the urge to succeed. I always want to be successful with whatever I do. I also have passion for acting and fashion, which are the things I do. People who follow me on social media can attest to the fact that I’m a very trendy person. Apart from acting, I have other streams of income. I am not a lazy person and I believe that I have not even achieved half of my dreams.”  TERRY G  Gabriel Oche Amanyi, popularly known by his stage name Terry G, is widely known for his eccentric dresssense, controversial lyrics and awkward identity. He has been described by The Punch as “one of the world’s weirdest singers”, by Vanguard as a “weird singer”, and by Channels TV as the “craziest musician in Nigeria”. The singer and self-styled ‘Akpo Master’ known to many has a water bottling line, ‘Terry G Table Water’, one of the businesses which the gifted musician run along his musical musical career. “Terry G commenced his ‘pure water business,” he wrote alongside a photo of his company’s truck. He cited the unending demand for water in the suburbs as the inspiration behind his choice of business. Investing his money wisely has helped him send his son abroad to study and also have something to fall back on as his sachet water business is booming seriously in the country.  LIZZY ANJORIN  Star actress and movie producer, Eizabeth Ibukunoluwa Anjorin, popularly called Liz Anjorin, is one controversial but hardworking actress you can’t but admire, she once said that the movie industry in Nigeria may soon collapse. Anjorin, who has starred in several Yoruba movies, disclosed that it was the fear of not being stranded should that happen, that pushed her into creating other sources of income to survive. The model turned actor has also produced some of her own movies. Her debut movie, Tolani Gbarada, was followed by Gold, a compendium of her life experiences; Iyawo Abuke, Kofo Tinubu, Kofo De First Lady, and her latest sensational movie, Owo Naira Bet. But, the actress has proven many wrong who have rumoured that she depends on sugar daddy’s for means of survival as she has solely been able to push herself to the top with the little she earns from acting. The Owo Naira Bet, our source says is a good business woman who knows how to invest wisely, she is having lots of customers especially government officials who storm her fashion store which is located at Lekki, Lagos, for serious shopping.  IYABO OJO  Beautiful and hardworking Nollywood actress Iyabo Ojo is one actress you would love to hate, aside acting, the mother of two is also know for entrepreneur skill. She once revealed how she sold her landed property and also her jewellery to start her amala business. Iyabo Ojo started off with a beauty salon, then ventured into spa business before she launched her Abula Spot restaurant. Ojo who jokingly said that people now refer to her as ‘Iya alamala’ (amala seller) said that she is not ashamed to sell food some “I opened the Abula Spot because I noticed that on the Island, they do not really have anywhere you could go to get the local dish unlike the way we do on the mainland. When I moved to the Island, I decided that I was going to open my restaurant here. I had been planning to open this business for a long while but I did not have the time to monitor it at the time. When I saw that I had the time to go into the business, I went for it. I had two shops on the mainland so I decided to close one down,” the actress said.  ANNIE MACAULAY-IDIBIA  The wife of music star, 2Face Idibia, Annie, is known for her acting prowess. Aside acting Annie is also a model and presenter. Annie and legendary musician 2Face, got married in Dubai on March 23, 2013. After they walked down the aisle, the pair has continued to grow strong in love, enjoying the pleasures and moments that come with being married. Hence, the stars have as much inspired many with their love story. Annie was born in Ibadan but is originally from Eket in Akwa Ibom State. she recently announced plans to become an entrepreneur. The actress, model and mother of two took to Instagram to make the announcement as she shared a photo with the inscription – ‘Beolive Hair Collection by Annie Idibia‘. She accompanied the photo with the caption, ‘Good morning fam… #NewBusinessVenture #StayTuned #Excited. With the new venture, she joins the list of celebrity entrepreneurs like Genevieve Nnaji, Ruggedman, 2shotz and others.