Benue State government is to put in place modalities to ensure that Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) return to their ancestral homes, the Executive Secretary of State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) Emmanuel Shior has said. Mr. Shior, who disclosed this during an interraction with representatives of Benue IDPs in his office said the government is concerned about their plight and the need for them to go back to their ancestral homes. According to the SEMA boss, the time for IDPs to go back to their homes is long overdue. “The camp is not a place where anyone would like to stay for two days, it is a place that is like a prison yard. “It is in my plans that if things work out alright, government will assist you where possible to go back home. You are in the camps not because of your making, it is because of the situation you have found yourselves,” Shior stated. He commended the Executive Director of Community Links and Human Empowerment Initiative (CLHEI) Dr. Helen Teghtegh, who he said has been very supportive in attending to the needs of the IDPs. “I have dicussed with Mrs. (Helen) Teghtegh on the need to talk to you on your relocation. Her organisation has done well in seeing to your welfare. She has been very supportive in attending to your needs,” Shior stated. The SEMA boss agreed with IDPs’ initiative to go back home and assured that their request will be presented to the governor for necessary action. He commended the State Government for its efforts in catering for the needs of the IDPs who have been in camps since January 2018. Earlier in his address, the IDPs’ Coordinating Chairman, Philip Usartse, told SEMA that they are tired of staying in camps and wish government will facilitate their relocation to their homes. He explained that a number of reasons including lack of privacy, inability of their children to access education, absence of economic activities among other challenges have compelled them to opt to return to their homes. “We are faced with so many difficulties. Our children are not going to school; we don’t have privacy in camps neither are we engaged in any economic activity among other challenges. “It is our conviction that as a father, you will take our message to the governor. So, we are here basically to reason with you so that if it is convenient we will go back to our homes. “If you go to the camps, there is no privacy. We are making this case for ourselves so that the world will know our plight. “Yes, the government of Benue State has done a lot for us. But we lost everything including homes, hospitals, schools and we feel an enabling environment be created for us to go home. “The federal government had promised to assist but that assistance has not come up to this moment. We need assistance to go home,” Usartse said. Other IDPs who spoke including Scholastica Udewua and Yengev Cosmas both said it was time for them to go back home and continue with their endavours that would impact their lives. Present at the meeting include representatives of IDPs from Daudu I, Daudu II, NEPA Quarters, Mbawa, Baka, Abagena and John Mark camps.