On Wednesday, April 17, the Supreme Court finally laid to rest Engr Segun Oni’s challenge of the legality of the candidacy of Dr. Kayode Fayemi in the Ekiti State gubernatorial primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Reacting to his victory at the Supreme Court during a chat with journalists in Ado-Ekiti, Governor Fayemi said though it was within Oni’s right to seek redress in court, the exercise, was needless because it was clear that he resigned his appointment as minister in line with the laws of the country. The governor was of the view that Oni would see the verdict of the Supreme Court as the end of the matter and as wakeup call on him to begin to play active roles as a leader in the APC.  Fayemi said Oni’s decision to seek redress in court after his defeat in the party’s governorship primaries last year has not made the former governor his enemy.  Fayemi said: “Going to court does not necessarily translate to being enemies. He felt strongly about a position and I believe that is why he went to court. Now that the highest court in the land has pronounced definitively on it, I hope he will see it as a cue to play active roles in the party.  “To the best of my knowledge Engr Oni remains a member of APC and I don’t believe he has decided to remove himself from the party. I hope this will not lead to another round of recriminations and attack because I have said it in the past that it is within his right to pursue anything he felt strongly about in the law court.” While calling on Oni to support his administration in moving the state forward, Fayemi said distractions and recriminations should end. The Court of Appeal had earlier upheld the victory of Fayemi,   which made Oni to proceed to the Apex Court.  For over a decade now, gubernatorial contest has resulted in legal tussles between the duo of Oni and Fayemi, though at different political dispensations, starting in 2007-2014, with memorable impacts on the political history of Ekiti State  The duo were the major contenders for the governorship seat in the state in 2007 gubernatorial poll. While Oni was the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Fayemi was the candidate of then Action Congress (AC). Oni in the election garnered 170,000 votes followed by Fayemi, who polled 108,000.  The former, who was said to have won in 11 local governments, became the winner, while Fayemi won in four local councils. Alleged misconduct made the election umpire to cancel results from Efon Alaye Local government. Discontented Fayemi swung into actions and approached the election tribunal, which commenced sitting in June 2007 in Ado Ekiti.  Justice Usman Bwala chaired the five-man panel of justices, where Fayemi then challenged the results from 10 local governments on the grounds of non-compliance with the 2006 Electoral Act. However, the Bwala tribunal after about one year of sitting gave a unanimous verdict in favour of Oni.  Fayemi again was displeased with the judgement and headed to the Appeal Court in Ilorin, Kwara State, praying that the appellate court headed by Justice Mohammed Dantijo set aside the rulings of the lower court for not ruling on the non-compliance issue raised at the tribunal.  Fayemi maintained there were malpractices in 10 local governments. Sequel to the complains, with critical observation of the submissions of the counsels of both parties, the Appellate Court nullified Oni’s election and ordered rerun in parts of the 10 contending local governments.  The supplementary election, held on April 25, 2009 was supervised by then Resident Electoral Commission (REC), Mrs. Ayoka Adebayo. Violence erupted at the election, observers and journalists were beaten and held hostage. INEC office at Ido Osi Local Government was set ablaze.  Amazingly, the REC suddenly disappeared to unknown destination without declaring the winner of the supplementary poll, but later resurfaced after seven days of the election to declare the result of the election. Oni was again declared the winner. Fayemi again, after the declaration of Oni as the winner, headed to the five-man tribunal, headed by Justice James Barka.  This time, the candidate of the AC contested the results from Ido Osi local government- Ifaki ward A and B, Orin Ora five wards, and Ipoti ward A and B. A new concept in settling election matters emerged at this tribunal by the two contending parties.  Whereas, Fayemi’s legal team brought Adrian Forty, a forensic expert from the United Kingdom (UK) was brought by Fayemi’s legal team for analysis of the votes, John Lazaretto; a criminology expert from the United State of America (USA) was also brought by Oni group to counter the team of Fayemi. Surprising, the ruling did not favour any of the contenders when the two foreign experts concluded their assignment.  The two experts reported that 72 per cent of the ballots papers used for the election were invaluable, rendered those     ballots papers invalid from the findings.  Even at that, the tribunal gave split judgments. Justice Hama Bakar-led majority judgment declared Oni as the duly elected governor and subsequently dismissed the petition of Fayemi, as lacking in merit. The majority judgment declared that the petitioner failed to prove and establish the allegations of malpractices, corruption and non-compliance with the Electoral Act pleaded in his petition. Barka, in his judgment, therefore, nullified the elections in Ipoti Wards A and B and a Ward in Orin/Ora for non-compliance, substantially with the 2006 Electoral Act. After the deduction by the judge from the overall scores in all the 16 local government areas of the state, Oni obtained 109,391 votes against Fayemi’s 106,816. On the other hand, the minority judgment read by Justice A. Adebara dismissed Oni’s election on the grounds of irregularities and declared Fayemi as the winner of the election. The judgment said there is merit in Fayemi’s petition. Fayemi still dissatisfied with the judgment, proceeded to the Appeal court, presided over then by Justice Ayo Salami. After listening to the submission of the counsels, the panel delivered judgment on October 15 2010 in favour of Fayemi, in tandem with the minority judgment of the tribunal. The Appeal Court ruled that Ifaki ward A and B votes were invalid and Fayemi was sworn in as governor of the state on October 16 2010, after Oni had spent three and half years in office. Towards the kick off of another political era in the state, Oni left the PDP and defected to the All progressives Congress (APC) and was then made the Deputy National Chairman, South of the party (APC) , the two contenders eventually buried their animosity and moved on in unity. Early in 2018, Oni declared gubernatorial ambition when Fayemi was still a serving minister as Minister of Mines and Steel Development. APC aspirants contesting for the governorship seat in the state rose to 32 , with the belief that Fayemi was not interested in the contest. Many of these aspirants were close allies of the former governor who said that Fayemi told them to join the race, begin work in earnest and sell their candidatures. Surprisingly, against these beliefs of the aspirants, Fayemi declared interest few weeks to the party’s primary, thereby creating bad feelings among them. Thus a cold war began, as Oni and other aspirants plotted against Fayemi, thinking that he would use his connection in Abuja and the structure of the party, which he installed during his first term in office for his electoral benefits. The first primary that took place under the supervision of the Nasarawa State governor, Tanko Almakura was marred by hard feelings, owing to glaring indications that the former governor would lead the constest. The primary was described as a show of shame, as aspirants and their supporters openly chanted ole; ole (thief) at Fayemi. The second primary election held at Damlec Event Centre in Ado Ekiti, witnessed the heavy presence of armed security personnel. The exercise was peacefully conducted on May 12, 2018 under the vigilance of the electoral committee members, the police, DSS among others. Fayemi led with a total of 941 votes, beating Oni, who scored 481 votes to the second position. Oni and some other aspirants were apparently dissatisfied with the outcome of the poll, but Fayemi and the party, APC initiated reconciliation efforts to assuage the pains of the aggrieved. The situation seemed normal as political activities commenced with strong determination of APC to take over the mandate in the state.  Openly, Oni campaigned for electoral victory of Fayemi and was even at the stadium when President Muhammadu Buhari came to Ekiti to campaign for the APC candidate. The outcome of the governorship election held on July 14 2018, tilted towards the side of the APC, as Dr. Fayemi defeated the then Deputy Governor and candidate of the PDP, Prof. Olusola Kolapo. Fayemi’s victory eventually turned out to be a new stage for another round of litigation between the two (Fayemi and Oni) as Oni commenced court action which initially came to the people as rumour. Members and supporters of APC were confused as they find it hard to believe Oni could think of challenging Fayemi’s candidacy.  What they thought could not be, became the reality as Oni filed a suit praying the court to dismiss Fayemi’s candidacy on the grounds that he did not resign from his position as a Minister of Mines and Steel Development 30 days before the APC primary. Oni also stated that Fayemi was not qualified to contest the primary on the grounds that he was indicted and barred from holding public office by the Ekiti State Judicial Commission of Inquiry set up by Governor Ayodele Fayose.  Sources close to Oni said that he went to court because in 2007, he had prevailed on Fayemi not to go to the tribunal, pledging to help Fayemi succeed him after one term in office, but Fayemi was said to have rebuffed the olive agreement. This was why Oni remained adamant on vengeful mission. APC elders intervened, appealed to Oni to withdraw suit. The elders had asked Oni to withdraw the suit challenging the eligibility of the governor-elect, Dr. Fayemi, in the July 14 2018 governorship election. The APC elders said the withdrawal of the case by Oni and his group would help calm the heated atmosphere in the party. However, Oni’s suit challenging Fayemi’s eligibility was dismissed by both the High Court and Appeal Court. At the Federal High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti, presided over by Justice Uche Agomoh, who ruled that the case was “completely lacking in merit.” The court held that Fayemi was validly nominated by APC and that he was not a public officer envisaged by the Electoral Act, 1999 Constitution and Party Guidelines to have resigned before contesting. Also, the Appeal Court sitting in Ado Ekiti, dismissed the case contesting his eligibility. The three -man appeal panel presided over by Justice Adamu Jauro, in a unanimous order, said Fayemi not resigning as the then Minister of Steel and Mines Development to contest the May 12 2018 governorship primary, where he emerged as candidate, was not evidence to disqualify him. The Appeal Court held that Fayemi’s indictment by Justice Silas Oyewole-led judicial panel of inquiry set up by Fayose to try the governor for alleged embezzlement could not prevent the governor from office. It said only a conviction by a competent court of law can bar any aspirant from participating in a primary or general election and not a mere indictment by a panel. Since the judgment of the Supreme Court came to his favour, Fayemi has been in control of the state, but the position of Deputy National Chairman (South) held by Oni has been given to another former governor of the state and chieftain of APC, Mr. Adeniyi Adebayo.  Oni, since Fayemi assumed office in October 2018, had not attended any public function in the state, the development which some said could make Oni to be politically down for some time, unless Fayemi extends magnanimity to him. Although Fayemi has made numerous appointments, extended his olive branch to his party members, even many of them who called him names during the outbreak of violence at the primary election, including Oni’s loyalists are now confidently serving in his cabinet, occupying various positions as his aides. 