Although the incumbent speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, still holds the ace to return as leader of the 40-man state legislature, there are, however, subtle moves to upset the apple cart in the legislative chamber, WALE ELEGBEDE reports  For the initiates, politics in Lagos State has a pattern and order. At the top of the pyramid of Lagos politics is the former governor of the state, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. From his vantage point, Tinubu, since he became governor in 1999, not only dictates the pace of political affairs of Nigeria’s commercial capital, he superintends over who gets what, when and how. Since he left office in 2007 as governor, he has been the revered kingmaker in the state. He enthrones and dethrone kings, and interestingly, he usually gets the backing of the majority of the people, who see him as a man who lives in the tomorrow of politics.  But, analysts averred that lately, especially since 2015, when he became the arrowhead of his party – All Progressives Congress (APC) – and even got the unofficial appellation of being the party’s National Leader, his level of influence and dominance in the state’s affair have dwindled, except for key decisions that may affect the overall interest of his political family.  At a point during the APC governorship primary election that returned the Governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Sanwoolu, Tinubu had to make a quick detour to Lagos from his national assignment for the APC.  With his hands already full at the national body, especially his appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari as the co-chair of the APC Presidential campaign, the former Lagos governor had no choice than to delegate overseeing affairs to some of his trusted allies. Notable among these people are the immediate past governor of Osun State, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola; Alhaji Tajudeen Olusi and members of the respected Governors Advisory Council (GAC).  Unlike in the 2015 general elections, where the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won eight Assembly seats in the state’s hallowed chamber, the ruling APC was quite decisive this time around as it clinched all the 40 seats available in the Lagos State House of Assembly.  With the elections coming out favorable for the APC especially at the state legislative level, the jostle on who gets what within the party is getting heightened and several permutations are already in the air on who leads the legislative arm of government.  While it may be a given that the incumbent speaker, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, may have it rosy ahead of the convocation of the 9th Assembly in June, some forces and interests, mainly from outside the four corners of the legislative arm want a change of baton in the leadership of the house.  Flaunting his four year achievements as a speaker before all that cares to see, Obasa has not hidden his interest to continue as the leader of the 40-member Assembly and he has the support of the majority of his colleagues.  Obasa, a fifth term member was first elected into the Lagos State House of Assembly in 2003. He had earlier been elected a councillor in Agege Local Government Area between 1999 and 2002 under the platform of the Alliance for Democracy (AD).  Prior to his emergence as the Speaker in 2015, Obasa had headed committees like the Budget and Economic Planning Committee and Public Accounts (Local government) Committee. He had also been a member of various committees like Transport, Housing, Lands, and Environment.  Representing Agege state constituency 1 of the state, Obasa is quite entrenched in both party and elective politics. Within the last four years, he has been able to solidify his loyal base both within and outside the Assembly.  But from every indication, the race may be somehow tougher than imagined for Obasa, who has carved a niche for himself in the business of legislation as some interests are giving a change in baton in the Assembly a consideration ahead of the 9th Assembly.  Speaking to New Telegraph, a source within the ruling party who chose to be anonymous said the events of the past one week has somewhat cast doubts on the absoluteness of Obasa’s return as Speaker of the Lagos Assembly.  According to him, “It was supposed to be automatic given Obasa’s influence and the fact that he is a true party man, but some other considerations are being floated and they are getting to the listening ears of the powers that be in the state. However, Obasa still holds the ace because he is committed and the party doesn’t want any minor or major crisis that may disrupt the smooth take-off Sanwoolu’s administration next month.”  When asked about the considerations being brought to the table and who are those championing it, the party leader said: “The issue of indigeneship in the state elective offices is what the arguments of those seeking a change in the guard in the leadership of the Assembly revolve around.  “They claim that the Governor-elect, Mr Babajide Sanwoolu and the Deputy Governor-Elect, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, are from Ogun State, and that the current speaker, Obasa, also hails from the state, ditto for two of the three senators-elect in the state. “I think it’s on this premise that they are said to be rooting for an indigene of Lagos State to be elected as the Speaker of the House after the exit of former speaker, Adeyemi Ikuforiji, from Epe area of the state in 2015.” While faulting the basis of the conjecture, the source said that the party is not given to sentiments on issues of governance, but on who will deliver the common good of governance for the people of the state. But, shading more lights on the looming impasse, a member of the Governors’ Advisory Council (GAC), told our correspondent on the phone that the party in the state is majorly occupied with Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila’s interest in the House of Representatives speakership position and that the Lagos Assembly is the least of all issues giving the party any headache. He said: “Don’t get yourself worried, we have a system and we have committed lawmakers, who will abide by the dictate of the party. What is paramount now is Gbajabiamila and a smooth take off by Sanwo-Olu from May 29.” But, an outgoing lawmaker in the Assembly confided in New Telegraph that there is substance in the alleged move to edge out Obasa as speaker and replace him with his deputy, Hon. Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni. He said: “A former first lady of the state, who is like the political godmother of the Lagos-born Eshinlokun is actually the one orchestrating the move. I can tell you that even the deputy speaker has not come out to openly tell anyone that he wants Obasa’s job. Everyone is trying to be cautious because of the influence of those involved in the brewing power game.  “But, I know that one of the ears and the eyes of Tinubu, which is Aregbesola, is definitely on the side of Obasa. With that, there may not be cause for alarm. He knows how to fix things, especially now that the senator-elect, Bayo Osinowo (Pepper) is leaving the Assembly for the Senate.  “Don’t forget that Obasa himself is not a greenhorn politician. He is in the United States for a legislative course with some of our colleagues and that will give him the opportunity to cross the T’s and dot the I’s.”  In 2015, Eshinlokun, who is making a third appearance in the House, took a shot at the speakership, but was obliterated from the race owing to the gap of absence from the chamber.  He first came to the House, representing Lagos Island state constituency 1 under the banner of Alliance for Democracy for a single term between 1999 and 2003. He was thereafter elected as the chairman of Lagos Island Local Government between 2007 and 2014.  Before making his return to the House in 2015 and assuming the position of the Deputy Speaker, he served as a Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Legislative and Political Matters.  As it stands, the dice is cast and it is only left to be seen how the 14 ranking members and the freshers in their midst will decide who leads them. Will they choose their leaders or capitulate to external influence? The answer surely lies in the belly of time.