In commemoration of its 55th year anniversary and as part of their corporate social responsibility, the Nigerian Airforce mobility Command Bayelsa state on Monday took its medical outreach to Toro Orua the community of the Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson. Speaking at the flag off of the medical outreach, the flag Officer Commanding Air Vice Marshal Peter Uzezi said the medical outreach was part of their corporate social responsibility drive to our host community. “This outreach was graciously approved by the Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar which was geared towards improving civil-military relations between Nigerian Airforce and its host communities. “The Nigerian Airforce has been in the for the front of responding to welfare and emergency needs of host communities through the provision of essential amenities and medical outreach. AVM Uzezi, however, said that the medical outreach was one of the topmost priorities of the CAS to ensure that they relate well with their host communities adding that was why they were in the community and why they have been in many other places. He said “This year, he directed specifically that we must organise a medical outreach because Health Care is one of the things he takes dearly to his heart and he believes that if a man is healthy, he can be productive to himself and to his society. “Even in the IDPs in the, north the Nigerian Airforce is there. He has established hospitals and schools some in those places so education and health are some of the focal points of the Chief of the Air Staff and it will continue to be. In his reaction, Henry Seriake Dickson, the Governor described the gesture as a show of love adding that as a government, Bayelsa state was very pleased with the Nigerian Airforce. He said “ We are grateful not only for what we are experiencing today but for the consistency over time. They have demonstrated that while they are fighting to protect our territorial integrity that they care for our people. “They are true caregivers. In all time when we are have had challenges from natural disasters, flooding in 2012 when most of the area were submerged, they were there. “Even last year they were there and in all areas of the challenge, they have always shown a good example. That is why when you mention Airforce our people see them as a different arm of the armed forces. “While thanking the Airforce, we are also calling other oil multinationals and other corporate bodies that this is the only way to show that you a national cooperate citizen. He said. Michael Mamgbisa the Sagbama Local Government chairman said he was impressed and happy about the Nigerian
Airforce adding that if every stakeholders should give assistance to humanity, the government will be relieved of certain expenses.
“I commend them seriously and I wish them to do more but let our people, in turn, come out and embrace this kind of gesture because it is not easy to go by. A beneficiary Good luck Perebowei aged fifteen said he was very excited with what he saw adding he appreciated the Airforce. He said “I’m happy to see that the hospital is coming to our village. I was once a sickler when I went to the hospital they prescribed drugs for me and I’m taking it gradually I’m living. “So I’m much impressed to the see this happening in my village I pray that God should give them more knowledge and more wisdom to go to other places.