As the battle for leadership positions in the 9th Senate hosts up, OKEY MADUFORO, in this analysis, looks at the chances of the South-East in the power equation  The travails of late Senate President Chuba Okadigbo; the Oyi of Oyi at the hallowed chambers of the National Assembly and the horse trading that led to his removal paint a vivid picture of the fate of the South-East geo political zone in the Nigeria power sharing equation in the past decades. Between 1999 and 2007 the Igbo-speaking extraction produced five Senate Presidents. The traducers of the zone ensured that no Senate President of Igbo extraction lasted up to four years, hence making it a near impossibility to have a political rallying point and standard bearer. After the 2007 elections, the zone has continued to play the spare tyre, acting under the directives of their principals, the Senate Presidents and such ceremonial positions have continued to be the exclusive reserve of Ndigbo with no bite from its toothless bulldogs. During the last dispensations the zone could only make do with Deputy Senate President and Deputy Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives. In fact, the zone since the First Republic has continued to nosedive from the post of a ceremonial President in the mode of late Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe to late Abisinia Nwafor Orizu as Senate President and one-day Acting President to that of a Vice President under late Alex Ekwueme. In 2015 National Assembly, principal positions of Senate President and Speaker House of Representatives eluded the zone, no thanks to the failure of Senator Chris Ngige to get a second term. Today the zone is not even in the picture of the Senate Presidential seat and the likes of two-term governor, Orji Uzor Kalu are practically begging for the post of Deputy Senate President which may also become elusive going by the permutations on the ground. As the heat continues in Nigeria’s political kitchen, the South-East zone is not even looking on the way of who becomes the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives. Apparently after the exit of Imo State governor-elect, Chief Emeka Ihedioha as a two-term Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly, the zone can only settle for chairmanship positions of committees, occasioned by the brand of in house politics of both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who would jettison their party divides and embrace the repugnant ethnic politics in Nigeria all in bid to inadvertently subjugate the collective wishes an aspirations of the South-East. Political watchers have always argued that the South-East has never supported the APC hence the zone does not have any moral justification to lay claim to the post of Senate President or Speaker of the House of Representatives.
But in what appears to be a paradox of fate the South-East has always been the game changer at every general election, playing the cannon folder for the victory of every presidential candidate. In the eight Green Chambers, augment are that no APC ranking member from the South-East was at the National Assembly and that was why the zone lost the Speakership position. Interestingly today, the zone has two ranking members and one from Okigwe South Federal Constituency who is in his second term, Deacon Chike Okafor, a former Commissioner for Finance in Imo State is not strange to the gladiators and stakeholders of APC, both at the zone and at the national level. According to the National Auditor of APC and member of the party’s Board of Trustees (BOT) Chief George Muoghalu; “The young man Chike Okafor is one of the great party loyalists who have shown selflessness in building the party at all levels and his contributions to the fortunes of the party is immense. I do not see anything wrong in his becoming the Speaker of the National Assembly because he has served the party creditably and he is well experienced.” Former member of the National Assembly, who represented Awka North and South Federal Constituency, Chief Emeka Nwobo further laid credence to the support and capacity of Chike Okafor.
“Anyone that goes about town asking for the caliber of leadership for the National Assembly from the South East must have lost sight of the personality of Hon. Chike Okafor who to me would be the bridge builder in the National Assembly and what more can one say about his political sagacity and creditability.” Similarly the body under an umbrella of South East Rainbow coalition (SERC) made up some members of the People Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressive Congress (APC) led by Maximus Uzoka, who spoke to reporters in Enugu insisted that the zone should be given the position of speaker of the National Assembly. “We have four members of the National Assembly from the APC and any of them can be Speaker of the National Assembly. But after due consultation across the APC and PDP we in our communiqué yesterday endorsed the candidacy of Deacon Chike Okafor for the Speaker.” “He has age on his side and coming from the banking sector and haven managed the finances of Imo State as a commissioner with a four year active experience at the National Assembly it is our belief that the time is now.” Already it is being gathered that sustained joint cacus meetings have been on among the National Assembly member across political parties in the zone with the agenda of returning Chike Okafor as the next speaker of the National Assembly. “Of course we are meeting and this time it is not a PDP or APC thing. Even our members-elect from APGA and other Political Parties are being mobilized. If Chike Okafor emerges as our speaker it is better for us all than having a loyal APC member from another geopolitical zone who do not appreciate what we in the South-East are facing since 1999,” a member said Just recently, an Arewa Group endorsed Okafor as its candidate for the post of Speaker and with the support from the North this speaks volumes of the quality of support and mileage being enjoyed by him at the moment.
But ironically, not much is being known about the level of support the South-East chapter of the APC is giving to their own going by the near docility of the leadership in the area. When contacted the South-East Chairman of APC, Emma Enukwu dismissed those claims contending that the zone has its eyes on the ball.
“It is not true that we are just keeping quiet and doing nothing. We are on the top of the game and the Speaker position coming from the South-East has been our agenda and we are not sleeping. “We have credible members of the party at the National Assembly and we have been making moves that are producing positive results. As for Chike Okafor, he is no doubt very qualified to head the ninth National Assembly and the zone is behind him and any other Igbo lawmaker gunning for that position.” Born in year 1971 Deacon Chike Okafor schooled at Holy Ghost College Owerri where he obtained his O’level certificate and attended Imo State University’s Owerri where he studied Economics.
He joined the banking sector and worked in Oceanic Bank and Intercontinual Bank respectively and has a Master’s Degree in Business Management.
Okafor is a community leaders who as a member of the Federal House of Representative in the last four years, attracted social security and human capacity building and in Okigwe North Federal Constituency and being a true son of Umuokeh community in Obowo Local Government Area of Imo State. History beckons. As normalcy permeates the polity, following the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, there is more work to be done, especially in the area of political balance. Nigeria, no doubt, stands on a tripod and any arrangement that does not put into consideration this tripartite background will continue to attract not… In “Editorial” An intriguing battle for the position Senate President has ensued within the All Progressives Congress (APC), which won majority of seats in the upper legislative chamber ahead of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, Felix Nwaneri reports   The National Assembly elections have come and gone, with winners and… In “Politics” The All Progressives Congress (APC) has won the majority seats in the Nigerian Senate – at least 62 so far of 109. It is therefore set to produce the Senate President when the 9th National Assembly is inaugurated in June. A proclamation by President Muhammadu Buhari, after he must… In “Opinions”