In about five weeks from now, the fifth circle of the Nigeria’s democratic process since 1999 would come to an end. On May 29 this year, a new set of leaders would mount the saddle at the federal and state levels, with some fresh from the electoral oven, while others would be going for a second term in office.  For some other governors and lawmakers who may have finished their tenures or not re-elected for another term, another journey of life outside power begins.  For those in this class, their efforts are documented for posterity purposes, either for good or bad.  One of such persons is Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, who would bow out on May 29, after serving just a term in office. For one, Ambode came into office with so much expectation. That was so because coming after Babatunde Fashola, one of the governors considered among the best to have emerged in Nigeria since 1999, Ambode had the difficult task of filling the big shoes left behind by his predecessor.  But a few months in office, Ambode left no one in doubt that he was equally a good product, even if not at par with Fashola. He did enduring projects that endeared him to Lagosians and brought a softer touch to governance in the state, a contrast to the iron fist used by Fashola.  All was moving well with Ambode until he had problems with his backers, who denied him a second term in office by propping up Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who roundly trashed the governor at the All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries for the governorship ticket. Sanwo-Olu had gone ahead to win the governorship election and is scheduled to be sworn in on May 29.  We realise that Ambode might have been hurt by the manner he was denied a second term. We also realise that Ambode might be sulking from the defeat he suffered in a humiliating manner to his incoming successor. But we are pained that owing to the manner he was dropped, Ambode appears to have also dumped governance in the state, thereby leaving ordinary Lagosians, who were not part of the power play that ousted him, in quandary.  Since October 2018 when he lost the primary election through March 9 when the governorship election was held and up till now, governance in the state has practically grinded to a halt. From traffic management to street lights, road projects he initiated to security and other issues of governance, everything appears to have halted to the annoyance of most residents and citizens of Lagos State. Thus, instead of Ambode to end his tenure on a high, the governor is ending on an abysmal low that is only annoying.  We recall that when he came into office in 2015, one of his signature projects was the “Light Up Lagos” project, which put street lights on major roads and streets in the state. The project was welcomed by Lagosians with much relief as most parts of the state became drivable at nights. He was also quick to fix potholes and tackle gridlocks, which were major sign posts of the state.  With less than two months to the end of his tenure, Lagos generally has returned to the dark city with street lights off at night and pitch darkness reigning supreme. Potholes have taken over major roads in the state with even those close to the seat of power in Alausa not exempted.  We note however that it appears that Ambode is not alone in the conspiracy to make life miserable for Lagosians in these last few months of his reign. For instance, we are aware that he had earlier in January submitted the budget of the state to the House of Assembly. That was after much noise between the governor and the assembly members over the submission of the fiscal document.  But close to three months after the submission, mum has been the word from the assembly on the budget. We cannot say for certain if the non-passage of the budget is part of the governor’s problem, but we know that even in the face of non-passage of the budget, governments still have a window of spending to some percentage of the budget.  We are worried that Ambode has allowed politics and hurt to obliterate whatever achievements he recorded in the state. We are worried that in a society where one evil is remembered more than 99 good deeds, Ambode’s tenure would end with Lagosians remembering more of the sufferings his anger caused them than his achievements. We are also worried that the litany of potholes and abandoned projects that litter the state currently would be remembered more than the signature projects he left behind.  We are therefore of the belief that with a few weeks to the end of his tenure, the governor should dust himself up, forget his loss and end on a strong note. After all, Lagos has a population of over 20 million people. Being a governor of the fifth largest economy in Africa is a rare privilege that should be savoured to the fullest. Not getting a second term is not a good reason for the parlous state he is leaving the state at the moment.  