 Following the murderous activities of Boko Haram in parts of the North East, leading to a majority of the people in those areas homeless, Edo State and the International Christian Centre, a home for the less privileged located in Uhogua in Ovia North East of Edo South, has played a major role in providing a comfortable home for the Internal Displaced Persons (IDPs). In this interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN, the assistant camp commandant of the camp, Pastor Mrs Evelyn Omigie, revealed that residents of the camp are currently faced with challenges that need urgent attention.   Immediate challenges Firstly I want to thank God Almighty for taking us this far. I also want to thank all the people that have contributed in one way or the other to the upkeep of these people that God has commissioned into our hands. We are also very grateful to both the state and federal governments for their contributions so far. But be that as it may, we are currently facing a catalogue of challenges, and they are enormous. You know that the people we have in the camp here are increasing on a daily basis, so also are their needs. We are in urgent need of help from the government, churches, NGOs international community, donors and all public-spirited individuals. We are in need of food items to be able to meet the daily needs of the persons in this camp. Population Strength When we started this home for the needy years ago, we have very few people in the camp, but since Boko Haram started their killings, the number of people at the camp has increased tremendously, we now have over 4 000 people including mothers, widows and children who lost their parents to the insurgency in the North East. As I speak to you now, we have over 4 000 persons in our camp. We are in serious need of food items to take care of the people. If that can be done now, we will be very happy. I‘m talking about all kinds of foods ranging from rice, beans, garri, yams, vegetable oil, we also need more cooking pots among others. Schools In terms of education, this IDP camp has a high standard educational structure and programme which has benefited a lot of our people. Right here we have produced medical science students, social science students, lawyers, bankers and nurses who passed through our school system. These are people who never thought of going to school but when they came to this camp as orphans, they keyed into the system. We have two lawyers that are currently serving under Edo State government. In every academic year our students put in a lot of hard work to ensure that they get admissions into universities. The camp management is responsible for their fees; now we need to build more blocks to be able to accommodate the students especially those entering the senior secondary schools. For instance, a classroom that is made to accommodate 40 students now accommodates 100 students; so we need more classrooms in the camp. Again, I ‘m very proud to inform you that we have four first class teachers in our schools; that is why you see our students fighting hard to get admissions to universities. In the 2018 and 2019 academic session, we have 26 students that gained admission into various Nigeria universities studying various courses. Therefore we need assistance to be able to take care of them, buy their books, clothing and all other things they need as students. Our children that have just gained admissions into various universities need people to take over their sponsorship. Health Centre You can see our health centre is so small we need a bigger one that is well equipped with good health facilities that can accommodate more persons with health challenges. We need people to come and give us drugs like anti-malaria drugs. Uhogua camp is one of the best in the country in terms of maintenance. We try as much as possible to give the children good living condition so that they will not feel the absence of their parents. You can also see we have some sporting facilities; these children are very much at home with our system here. I want to personally appeal to our mummy, wife of the Vice President, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, who is a woman God has sent to help humanity for assistance. We are very committed to giving these children a better and meaning life so that they can be useful to themselves and the society.