Peaceful atmosphere of Atan Offot, a suburb of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, has been shattered with the killing of a pastor with New Apostolic Church by two of his younger brothers.
It was learnt that the victim, Pastor Okon Sunday, on the fateful day, was said to have taken three sheets of ceiling boards owned by his younger brother, Felix Sunday, to put in one of the rooms in the family house in readiness for rentage not knowing that he was digging his own grave. When Felix returned home and discovered that his elder brother had used the ceiling boards without his consent, he was highly infuriated and threatened to deal with the pastor.
A family source said that the pastor quickly called the police and registered complaint about the threat to his life by his brother. But before the police came to his rescue, Okon, a father of three, had been hacked to death.
“Pastor Okon, after making the call to the police to come over for the arrest of his two brothers, Felix and Kingsley, had boasted that the two of them would not sleep in house that night.
“When it became obvious that Okon was determined to get them arrested that night, they told the pastor ‘so you want to arrest us back to the C Division as you did last month. Since you said we will not sleep in this house you will not also sleep in this house,’” an eye witness told our correspondent. It was also learnt that Felix immediately ordered his wife to leave the house with his only child to an undisclosed destination before asking Kingsley to bring out two machetes from their room which they reportedly used to kill their pastor brother.
Sources said that there had been a running battle between the deceased and his two brothers, Felix and Kingsley, over the ownership of the family house since their father’s demise. “Felix and Kingsley met Pastor Okon in the bathroom where he had gone to take his bath while his wife was preparing dinner and started inflicting machete cuts on him. “The wife could not help. She shouted but her voice was not loud enough to attract neighbours for help. Pastor Okon, after serious machete cuts, managed to run out of the bathroom and fell down a pole away from the house. Felix, who had been trailing him, met him at a spot where he was lying and calling for help, gave him three more cuts which ended his life,” another witness said.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Macdon Odiko, said he was not yet briefed about the incident. Odiko promised to call back as soon as the information was made available to him by the homicide department.