With the recent moderation in their Non-Performing Loans (NPLs), deposit money banks (DMBs) in Nigeria are turning their attention to seeking for ways of raising funds in order to boost lending, writes Tony Chukwunyem  Barely two years ago, the rising volume of Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) in the Nigerian banking industry was a major cause for concern among local and international financial regulators.  With the slump in oil prices and foreign exchange scarcity triggering a crippling recession, which caused lenders’ NPLs to climb to about 15 per cent in 2017-far above the five per cent regulatory threshold- there was speculation then that many DMBs were seeking for ways of bolstering their capital reserves. Indeed, the development led to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) advising the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to consider asking the country’s banks to recapitalise. Speaking at a Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria’s (CIBN) event last year, the Senior Resident Representative and Mission Chief for Nigeria, African Department, IMF, Mr. Amine Mati, emphasised the need for banks to remain strong so that they would be able to effectively play their role as financial intermediaries in the economy. “We believe the banking sector should be strong to support the economy. So it is important we recapitalise the banks to make sure that they are very strong. The regulators should try to make sure that the banks operate in line with international standards to be able to withstand any shocks,” he said.   NPLs moderation But since Mr. Mati made that remark, oil prices have steadily improved thereby propelling the country’s economic recovery and a moderation in banks’ NPLs. For instance, according to data obtained from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the high volume of banks’ banks significantly moderated from a peak of 16.21 per cent in February 2018 to 11.68 per cent in December 2018. Also, data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed that lender’ NPLs, which rose to N2.245trillion in the third quarter of 2018 from N1.939trillion in the second quarter, had dropped to N1.792trillion in the fourth quarter. The drop in NPLs was also highlighted by members of the CBN’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) in the personal statements they wrote at the January 2019 meeting of the group. They noted that the gradual reduction in banks’ NPLs had further strengthened the lenders’ balance sheets.  Specifically, in her personal statement, the Deputy Governor, Financial System Stability, CBN, Mrs Aishah Ahmad, noted that data provided by bank members of staff showed that the industry’s Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) significantly increased from 10.23 per cent in December 2017 to 15.26 per cent in December 2018. “The improvement in capital buffers is a positive development, which will be critical should a downward trend in crude oil prices manifest given banks’ portfolio concentrations in the oil and gas sector,” she said. A few days before the MPC meeting, the NBS had released data showing that credit from banks to the oil and gas sector stood at N3.55 trillion at the end of the fourth quarter of 2018, out of a total credit of N15.13 trillion to the private sector. However, Ahmad noted that despite the improvement in banks’ capital buffers, credit to the private sector remained lower than required to support business investment and long-term growth. She said: “Growth in lending portfolios is particularly important to diversify banks’ asset portfolios away from energy-related assets as earlier mentioned. Banks are strongly encouraged to commit fully to de-risking their portfolios in this aspect through new lending to SMEs and previously overlooked, but high-potential sectors such as services and creative industries.” Another member of the MPC, Dr Aliyu Sanusi, said: “This moderation in NPLs, if sustained, would encourage banks to increase lending to the economy, which has remained challenging during the year.”  Fidelity, Union banks, others raise funds However, even before the MPC meeting, some banks had been going to the debt market for funds to boost their operations. In May last year, for instance, Fidelity Bank announced it was considering issuing local debt to raise funds to boost lending. Reuters at the time, reported Fidelity’s Chief Operations and Information Officer, Gbolahan Joshua, who is now an executive as saying the mid-tier lender could look to the local funding market before the end of last year after it raised a $400 million Eurobond last October to refinance existing debt and boost lending. Joshua was further reported as saying the bank would target the consumer goods sector, manufacturing and retailers, aiming to boost total loans in 2018 by between 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent, up from seven percent growth in the previous year. Also, last September, Union Bank of Nigeria announced the registration of a N100 billion Debt Issuance Programme and the subsequent inaugural issuance of Series I and II Bonds under its registered Bond Programme. The lender stated that at the conclusion of the Book Build, the N20billion issuance was 165per cent subscribe, adding that the funds would support its loan book diversification efforts and provide further working capital. Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank, Emeka Emuwa, also explained that the issuance under the N100 billion bond program marked a milestone achievement in the bank’s bid to accelerate business growth and continue its commitment to re-establish the bank as one of Nigeria’s leading financial institutions.  Similarly, last February, Access Bank announced that it had received a syndicated loan of $162million from the Dutch development bank, which is known by the acronym FMO, and other financial institutions, to boost lending to the private sector, including micro small and medium enterprises(MSMES). In addition to FMO, the participating lenders in the arrangement are the BlueOrchard Microfinance Fund, which is managed by BlueOrchard of Switzerland; Dutch cooperative Oikocredit and government-backed institutions such as: the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries (BIO); CDC Group of the UK; Germany’s Deutsche Investitions – und Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG); European Financing Partners, which is headquartered in Luxembourg; and Finnish Fund for Industrial Cooperation (Finnfund). The funding from European Financing Partners is sourced from the European Community and Norwegian Investment Fund for Developing Countries (Norfund). Access Bank Chief Executive Officer, Herbert Wigwe, described the Tier-II funding as “supporting the bank’s efforts to promote the growth and job-creation potential of the private sector through improved access to financing. Additionally, specific attention will also be paid to strengthening micro-, small, and medium-size enterprises, as too many have been held back due to a lack of access to finance.” Furthermore, only last week, Pan-African Bank, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), announced that it had successfully raised $450 million in its debut Eurobond, which was oversubscribed. The lender said that the Global Offering was a 5-year unsecured note (144A/RegS), listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, which matures in April 2024 and was issued with a coupon pricing of 9.5per cent with interest payable semi-annually in arrears. In a statement, the lender said the proceeds will be used for its general corporate purposes and to refinance existing Holdco obligations. Commenting on the Eurobond issuance, Group Chief Executive Officer of ETI, Mr. Ade Ayeyemi, stated: “This is another first for Ecobank and I’m very excited at the prospects for the Group as we continue the second phase of our 5-year ‘Roadmap to leadership’ strategy. Our efforts toward greater operational and capital efficiency are paying off, and this offer is another example of the measures we are taking to strengthen our institution and deliver value for all of our stakeholders”.  Also commenting on the bond issuance, the Group Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Greg Davis, said: “The success of this Eurobond reflects appetite from high quality and real money institutional investors globally and the trust that continues to be conferred on our institution and the markets we have chosen to participate in.”  IMF’s advice However, in a recent report issued at the conclusion of its Article IV consultation with Nigeria, the IMF noted that although there was a moderation in Nigerian banks’ NPLs, there was still the need to recapitilise the country’s weak banks, as they were negatively impacting the performance of the financial sector. The report stated: “IMF Directors welcomed the decline in Non-Performing Loans and the improved prudential banking ratios but noted that restructured loans and undercapitalized banks continue to weigh on financial sector performance.” It added that the IMF Directors also suggested: “strengthening capital buffers and risk based supervision, conducting an asset quality review, avoiding regulatory forbearance, and revamping the banking resolution framework. “Directors also recommended establishing a credible time    bound recapitalization plan for weak banks and a timeline for phasing out the state backed asset management company AMCON.”  Last line The IMF’s position was backed by a top official of a Tier 1 bank who did not want to be named. According to the official, although there is a moderation in banks’ NPLs, a sudden slump in the price of oil could again trigger an increase in bad debts.  The official said: “It would obviously help the economy a lot if banks succeed in raising adequate funds for lending. But growth is still so sluggish that the only advice I have for any bank that is in a hurry to step up lending is: Proceed with caution.” Apart from helping to boost Nigeria’s external reserves, the recent surge in the price of oil could also positively impact the banking industry as it might lead to a reduction in non-performing loans (NPLs), findings by New Telegraph have shown. According to industry analysts, with about 29 per cent… In “Business” The economy’s exit from recession in Q2 2017 appear not to have had a significantly positive impact on lenders’ Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) as it increased by 13.46 per cent, from N2.08 trillion in 2016 to N2.36 trillion last year, New Telegraph has learnt. The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) disclosed… In “News” Despite forecasts of lower Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) for the Nigerian banking industry this year, lenders in the country added N306.04billion to their NPLs in Q3 2018, latest data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) shows. According to “Selected Banking Sector Data-Q3 2018” released by the NBS last weekend,… In “Business”