IHRC: Nigeria frustrating medical team sent to El-Zakzaky  The House of Representatives, yesterday, adjourned abruptly its plenary following an invasion of the National Assembly by members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), also known as Shittes. Members of the sect, who have been on a series of protests in Abuja, were on the streets demanding the release of their leader, Sheik Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife who have been in detention since December 2015. New Telegraph learnt that yesterday’s protest, which began as early as 7a.m., saw the Shittes storming the main gate of the National Assembly near the National Arcade and asked the security operatives stationed there to grant them passage.
Eye witnesses, however, told New Telegraph that when the protesters were prevented by security operatives from gaining access, they surged toward, shook the gate vigorously and forced it open. In their numbers, they overpowered the detachment of policemen deployed to maintain law and order. They were already approaching the northern gate to the Supreme Court before a reinforcement by the police was able to force the marauding crowd of Shittes members back and out of the gate. However, when the news frittered into the National Assembly complex that the Shittes members had gained access and were heading towards the lobby of the “White House”, which is the gateway to the chambers, Deputy Speaker, Lasun Yussuff, quickly adjourned the plenary. Before then, the House had sat for over three hours and had considered motions and bills, and was in the committee of the whole considering reports presented by different committees of the House.
Yussuff, who was presiding over the session, conferred with the Sergeant-at-arms in the chambers before announcing that the House would adjourn till today since the protesters were said to be causing disturbances outside the complex.
As at 3 p.m., New Telegraph observed that hundreds of the protesters were still on their protest just outside the main gate of the National Assembly. The protesters, comprising men, women and youths were seen in different groups singing anti-government songs and demanding the release of their leader, Sheik Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife who have been in detention since December 2015.
A group of young men were also seen marching like soldiers and carrying a banner bearing the portrait of their spiritual leader. They were also singing and demanding the release of their leader and other members of the sect. They also decried the massacre of hundreds of their members. Security around the protesters was tight as a squad of armed anti-riot policemen kept vigil, but nobody was being molested.
In an apparent justification of the protests, the Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC), an NGO in Special Consultative Status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, has accused the Federal Government of Nigeria of frustrating a foreign medical team flown in from the United Kingdom to attend to the imprisoned Shittes’ leader and his wife. IHRC, in a statement released yesterday, claimed that security forces in Nigeria were obstructing the doctors seeking to treat the imprisoned el-Zakzaky, in defiance of a court order earlier this year clearing the way for him to receive specialist medical attention from experts of his choice.
According to the group, Sheikh el-Zakzaky lost sight in one eye and the use of one arm after being shot during the invasion of his residence by the Nigerian military in December 2015.
Over 1,000 followers of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria were said to have lost their lives in that encounter between the sect and Nigerian military in Zaria, Kaduna State.