What you eat affects your blood pressure in several ways. Eating a lot of foods which are high in saturated fats can cause a condition called atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis causes your blood vessels to narrow, resulting in high blood pressure. Foods that are high in fat or sugar can also contribute to obesity, which increases your risk of high blood pressure. The same applies if you eat more calories than you burn.  Foods, which contain potassium, magnesium and fibre are all thought to help control blood pressure. Potassium is a mineral that helps to lower blood pressure by balancing out the adverse effects that salt has on your body. You can get potassium from a wide range of foods, such as potatoes, (especially sweet potatoes) bananas, no added sugar tomato sauce, orange juice, yoghurt and fat-free milk. Tuna fish is also a good source of potassium. Potassium helps your kidneys get rid of more sodium through your urine. This, in turn, lowers your blood pressure. Below is a list of some foods that can help lower blood pressure.  Leafy greens Leafy greens, which are high in potassium, include: • Lettuce • Waterleaf • Garden egg leaves • spinach • beet greens • Pawpaw leaves  Waterleaf is especially useful for managing high blood pressure. The leaves are excellent for diarrhoea, liver enlargement, and hepatitis. It is an excellent immune booster to those who often feel weak and tired, and those prone to frequent attacks of malaria.  In many scientific studies and trails, waterleaf showed that it could inhibit the proliferation of cancerous cells and shrink tumours. Other studies have been focused on its cerebral-protective potential, and it indicates that consumption of waterleaf enhances brain activities and protects brain tissues. Waterleaf is also a good remedy for insomnia (sleeping disorder). Waterleaf contains more proteins than cashew nuts, more pectin (a food fibre that helps digestion) than apples, and have a high level of vitamin B, essential amino acids, omega3-fatty acids, resins, iron, calcium, copper, lead, manganese and zinc. It is also a rich source of carotenoids, vitamin C, A, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, alpha and beta tocopherols.  Below are things to keep in mind when using vegetable: • Don’t buy fruit and vegetable dishes that come with sauces. They often contain a lot of fat, salt and sugar. • Vary the types of fruit and vegetables you eat. Each has different health benefits, and it will keep your meals interesting. By eating a wide range of fruit and vegetables, you will ensure that your body is getting all the nutrients it needs. • Don’t add sugar to fruit or salt to vegetables when you cook or serve them. • Try to eat fresh fruit and vegetables as soon as possible. They will lose their nutrients over time, so if you want to store your ingredients for a while, it is best to freeze them or buy frozen packets. • Avoid leaving vegetables open to the air, light or heat if they have been cut. Always cover and chill them, but don’t soak them because the vitamins and minerals can dissolve away. • Vegetables keep more of their vitamins and minerals if you lightly steam or bake them, instead of boiling or frying them. • If you boil vegetables, use as little water as possible to help keep the vitamins and minerals in them.  Beets Beets are high in nitric oxide, which can help open your blood vessels and lower blood pressure. The nitrates in beetroot juice help to lower blood pressure within a few hours. Beets are grown in the northern part of Nigeria and transported to the rest of the country for sales. Check your local vegetable market for beets. You can juice your own beets or merely cook and eat the whole root. Beetroot is delicious when roasted or added to stir-fries and stews. You can also bake them into chips. Be careful when handling beets — the juice can stain your hands and clothes.  Bananas Eating foods that are rich in potassium is better than taking supplements. One large banana contains 602 milligrams of potassium and has only 140 calories, two gram of protein and four grams of fibre. Other vitamins and minerals are a full range of B Vitamins, 0.7mg of thiamine, .15mg of riboflavin, .82mg Niacin, .88mg Vitamin B6, 29mg of folic acid and13.8mg of vitamin C. Banana also contains, magnesium, iron and zinc. For those suffering from hypertension, it is recommended that they take two to three bananas daily. However, if you are obese or prone to being overweight, you might consider not taking more than two bananas a day, as the high potassium content of banana makes it unsuitable for those who wish to lose weight.  Salmon, mackerel, and fish with omega-3s Fish are a great source of lean protein. Fatty fish like mackerel and salmon are high in omega-3 fatty acids, which can lower blood pressure, reduce inflammation, and lower triglycerides. In addition to these fish sources, trout contains vitamin D. Foods rarely contain vitamin D, and this hormone-like vitamin has properties that can lower blood pressure. One benefit of preparing fish is that it’s easy to flavour and cook. To try it, place a fillet of salmon in parchment paper and season with herbs, lemon, and olive oil. Bake the fish in a preheated oven at 450°F for 12-15 minutes.  Garlic and onion Garlic and Onion can help reduce hypertension by increasing the amount of nitric oxide in the body. Nitric oxide helps promote vasodilation, or the widening of arteries, to reduce blood pressure. Incorporating flavourful herbs and spices into your daily diet can also help you cut back on your salt intake.  Coconut oil Coconut oil is an example of healthy fat. It contains polyphenols which are inflammation-fighting compounds that can help reduce blood pressure. Coconut oil can help you meet your two to three daily servings of fat as part of the DASH diet. DASH stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension. The DASH diet is a lifelong approach to healthy eating that’s designed to help treat or prevent high blood pressure. The DASH diet encourages you to reduce the sodium in your diet and eat a variety of foods rich in nutrients that help lower blood pressure, such as potassium, calcium and magnesium.  By following the DASH diet, you may be able to reduce your blood pressure by a few points in just two weeks. Over time, your systolic blood pressure could drop by eight to 14 points, which can make a significant difference in your health risks.  Watermelon Watermelon is rich in vitamins A, B6, C, calcium, magnesium, protein, potassium, niacin and thiamine. However, lycopene, which is also present in tomato, is the most well-known phytonutrient present in watermelon. Watermelon is made up of 92% water, has little or no fat, is low in sodium and low in calories. Fruits like watermelon allow the human body to function optimally because of the high contents of antioxidants. Antioxidants are good protection against cancer, arthritis, diabetes and high blood pressure, while Amino Acids boost the body’s immune system, thereby protecting against all forms of diseases. Lycopene, which is also present in tomatoes, grapefruits and guava, is beneficial for a healthy heart, strong bone, and helps to prevent prostate cancer.