An 11-year-old girl (name withheld) has told an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos that a sixty-year-old Grandpa, Ahmadu Ali (aka Baba Ninety) defiled her inside an uncompleted building. The little girl, who is currently a BASIC 6 pupil at Estate Primary and Secondary School, said that the old man raped her on two separate occasions; at her grandmother’s house and the uncompleted building. Ali, who had earlier denied the allegation, is standing trial on a one count of child defilement. According to the Chief State Counsel, B. T. Boye, the defendant committed the alleged offence on February 3, 2017 at about 1400 hrs behind NDLEA office, Kasoleri, Itokin road, Ikorodu. Testifying before the court, while led in evidence, the 11-year-old girl said that Baba Ninety covered her mouth, put her on his shoulders and carried her to an uncompleted building where he raped her. The victim, who was staying with her grandmother (now deceased) when the incident happened, told the court that the defendant comes regularly to her grandmother’s shop to buy provisions. When asked if she knows the defendant, the little girl pointed at the dock, identified Ali and said, “I know him. He is called Baba Ninety. On that day, my Grandma sent me to the shop to give sanitary pad to my sister. ” On my way back, Baba Ninety carried me from behind and took me inside an uncompleted building. He removed my skirt, tore my pants and removed his own knicker (shorts) too. He brought out his penis and put it in my bum bum (referring to vagina),” she said. The little girl, who is now 13-years-old, demonstrated to the court as she points to her vagina to identify her bum bum. Calmly, she said, “He raped me from the front. He closed my mouth with his two hands as he raped me so that I would not shout. “I couldn’t shout because he covered my mouth, I was only crying. When he finished, he dropped N70 beside me, on the floor, and told me that I can have it and not tell anyone. “He told me that he would kill me if I told anybody. I was scared and I didn’t tell my Grandma,” she said. When asked if it was the first time the defendant had raped her, the little girl said, “He raped me twice. The first time was inside our house and the uncompleted building was the second time. ” I didn’t tell anyone when he raped me the first time because he said he would kill me. “It was one NDLEA (National Drug Law Enforcement Agency) man that saw us at the uncompleted building. The man immediately held Baba ninety and took us both to their office. “The NDLEA officer went and called my Grandma. They later took me and Baba Ninety to the police station at Shagamu Road Division, Ikorodu,” she said. However, during cross-examination by the defence counsel, R. E. Obepkolar, the little girl said that she taken to the hospital for medical checkup. “I made a statement, but was handwritten by a police officer, at the station. Even Baba Ninety was asked to do same,” she said. She also said that the defendant was even owing her grandmother the sum of N240 before the incident occurred. Justice Sybil Nwaka thereafter adjourned the matter till May 4 for the continuation of trial.