 The result of the March 9, 2019 gubernatorial election is unarguably a template for future elections in the 43-year-old Pace Setter State of Oyo.  The electorate shall no longer vote for parties but candidates whose integrity is proven, particularly in the assessment of style of administration. Power of incumbency will longer be a deciding factor to winning second term as coalition of aggrieved parties, with the support of masses, will booth any masses-insensitive administration out of office through their voting power.  The jinx of second term which Governor Abiola Ajimobi broke in 2015 caused by the disunity among the candidates of the opposition PDP then might not be repeated any longer unless any governor like the incoming Seyi Makinde does the will of the masses in his first term.  Prior to the gubernatorial election in Oyo State, all political parties and power brokers in the state came up with two broad coalitions, each pitching their tent with candidates of the two leading political parties: the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP).  The game was eventually zeroed in on Adebayo Adelabu and Seyi Makinde respectively, with each of the top contending candidates embarking on a last minute moves to gather support so as to emerge victorious.  Undoubtedly, the campaign train of Makinde got a boost when the former governor and one that could be described as a key player in Ibadan politics, Senator Rasheed Ladoja, collapsed his political structure to support his ambition.  It is recalled that Makinde and Senator Ladoja had had a history of political difference, but interestingly, the fresh move by Ladoja to lend his weight behind Makinde signaled a political tonic which Makinde needed to match the sweeping APC movement. Besides Ladoja acting as a buffer to his political chess game, Makindel enjoyed the solidarity of three other opposition gubernatorial candidates, namely: Sharafadeen Ali of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Senator Olufemi Lanlehin of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), and Chief Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN) of the Social Democratic Party, (SDP).  Similarly, Makinde got the endorsement of the Chairman of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), Akin Fasogbon.  On the other side of the divide, however, Adelabu did everything humanly possible to neutralise Makinde’s moves, enjoying support from more political parties that also endorsed him. At least, no fewer than 13 political parties signified their support for the APC candidate, thereby making his chances higher to emerge winner of the governorship election.  The parties included: Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), Allied People’s Movement, (APM), United Progressives Party, (UPP), Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria (GDPN) and the Young Democratic Party, (YDP).  Others were: Northern People’s Congress (NPC), Independent Democrats (ID), Freedom and Justice Party, (FJP), Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA), Nigeria Elements Progressives Party (NEPP), People’s Democratic Movement (PDM), Rebuild Nigeria Party (RNP) and Democratic Peoples Party (DPP).  What is more interesting is that the Chairmen of the various political parties conveyed their endorsement message to the APC Chairman, Chief Akin Oke, via a joint letter signed on March.  The Adelabu campaign got a significant boost with the decision of the former governor of the state, Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala, who aligned the African Democratic Party (ADP) in which he was the gubernatorial candidate, with the APC. He has always been the most popular politician in Ogbomoso, always coasting home to victory in the five local government areas in the town.  Alao-Akala had then appealed to the people of Ogbomoso to shift their support for Adelabu, the APC candidate. This abandonment of the opposition coalition which he initially mooted with the objective of not allowing the type of defeat of 2015 repeat itself however miffed some people in Ogbomoland who alleged that Alao-Akala took the sudden U-Turn because of pecuniary influence from Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu and the national leadership of the APC.  While Alao-Akala hails from Ogbomoso, the two gubernatorial candidates are Ibadan men, which have 11 local governments and boasts of over 40 per cent of the voting strength of the state. They had exhausted their campaign canisters in this zone, reason the governorship candidates chose their deputies from Oke Ogun, the next most populated zone with 10 local governments.  While their campaign lasted, the APC and PDP candidates explored the opportunity to head to Ogbomoso to utilise the Alao-Akala factor to their advantage, even though the administration of Governor Ajimobi sometime in February 2019, approved the sack of Alao-Akala’s son, Mr Olamijuwon Alao-Akala, as the Executive Chairman of Ogbomoso North Local Government Area. Olamijuwon, who was elected on May 12, 2018, was immediately replaced by his Vice, Abas Bello, in an acting capacity to chair the council. The action came consequent upon the change of party by the sacked local government Chairman from the ruling APC to his father’s Action Democratic Party (ADP).  The decision to approve the young Alao-Akala’s sack, as well as, the swearing-in of the acting local government chairman came through the state’s Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Mr. Bimbo Kolade, at the state secretariat in Ibadan, the State capital.  During the swearing-in of Bello, the commissioner explained that the ministry, on February 18, received official correspondences from the council’s legislative body announcing the suspension of Mr. Alao-Akala. Kolade posited that the councilors suspended the chairman for alleged “misconduct and abuse of office”, also recalling that apart from Olamijuwon Alao-Akala who was then suspended, four other councilors from the same local government were also suspended.  The commissioner named them as: Mr. .Olawunmi Olutayo, Adeniyi Adekunle, Oladele Sunday and Alagbe Ayodunmade. He said four others from the neighbouring Ogbomoso Central Local Council Development Area (LCDA) were also affected.  According to Kolade: “Other councilors who were suspended from Ogbomoso Central Local Council Development Area (LCDA) are: Akande Ranti, Olabode Abiola, Salaudeen Muhammed and Muhammed Yusuf.”
The commissioner presented a letter of authority to Bello, urging him to discharge his duties according to the rules.  In his response, Bello, who promised not to jeopardise the confidence reposed in him, further stated that what would be topmost in his heart is the success of APC in the 2019 general elections.  Meanwhile, before the confirmation of Olamijuwon Alao-Akala’s sack by the Oyo State government, Councilors in the local government had suspended the young Alao-Akala as the Chairman of Ogbomoso North Local Government Area, after Olamijuwon announced his preference for the governorship ambition of his father, Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala, of the ADP.  Olamiju had emerged winner of the local government election under the platform of the APC when his father and the incumbent governor, Ajimobi, were still in good terms.  As a way of reminder, the senior Alao-Akala fell out with Ajimobi before the APC primary that eventually produced Adelabu as the party’s governorship candidate.
Olamijuwon’s suspension was contained in a letter dated Friday, February 15, 2019, and signed by four councilors – Adebowale Oladunmoni, Zakariyau Kabiru, Adisa Kingsley and Busari Adesina.  The letter read: “Take notice that we, the undersigned councilors in the Ogbomoso Local Government Area, hereby passed a resolution suspending you (Alao-Akala) from the office as the Executive Chairman of the Ogbomoso North Local Government Area for gross misconduct.”
To further confirm the suspension of Olamijuwon, the Publicity Secretary of the APC in the state, Dr. Abdulazeez Olatunde, suggested that the party had also suspended him because he had dumped the APC to join the ADP.
Olatunde said: “We have suspended him. He left the party and went to the ADP.
“The councilors also took the right decision by suspending him.” But somewhere along the line, Olamijuwon Alao-Akala was reinstated as the Chairman of Ogbomosho North Local Government area hours after his father formed an alliance with the ruling APC.  Even, the older Alao-Akala had announced his decision to dump his ambition for the APC candidate, Adebayo Adelabu ahead of the March 9, 2019 election.
This among other factors must have instigated the same government under the watch of Governor Ajimobi to reinstate the fired chairman.  The governor in a letter signed by the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Bimbo Kolade, Olamijuwon was expected to to have resumed last Thursday.  Before the reinstatement of Olamijuwon by the Ajimobi-led government, his father had stated that the suspension of his son, Olamijuwon, by some councilors was nothing beyond an expensive joke which cannot hold. Alao-Akala, who was reacting to the suspension at his Ibadan residence, stated that such action was beyond the abilities of the councilors who are mere pawns in the hands of the state government.  According to him, it was illegal that his son will be suspended by a minority in the Commissioner’s office, adding that it was not the work of the councilors who allowed themselves to be used but the electorate to send the person they vote for packing.  He said: “How legal is it for councilors that have not been inaugurated to come together to suspend a duly elected chairman? Who suspends a chairman in a commissioner’s office? They did not even carry out the suspension in Ogbomoso but on the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs’ office here at the Secretariat in Ibadan.  “No one can suspend my son except the electorate which in this case are the people of Ogbomoso because my son is not a political appointee but a duly elected officer by his people; the party has no power to do so,” he said.
Insinuations are, however, rife that the people of Oyo State believe that the APC would have emerged winner of the governorship poll, but that was not to be on the reason that Governor Ajimobi had neglected the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) even though it was co-owned by Oyo and Osun States.  It is also not in contention that the people of Ogbomoso, where the senior Alao-Akala hails from are visibly angry with Governor Ajimobi for not taking into consideration the well being of LAUTECH which is one of the backbones of the economy of Ogbomoso.
The people of Ogbomoso particularly felt slighted by the choice of Ajimobi of building a university that is elitist in nature in Ibadan at the detriment of LAUTECH. It is also of interest to note that the Oyo State kingship controversy may have played a role in the loss of the APC candidate in the last governorship election in the state.  Equally imperative to state is that political watchers have continued to observe that despite Governor Ajimobi’s issues with LAUTECH, the Olubadan of Ibadan, the popular gospel artiste, Yinka Ayefele and pensioners, APC still polled its traditional 300,000 to 350000 votes.  It is not in doubt that the outcome of the election has also thrown up a new political leadership in the state with political chieftains like Senator Lanlehin, Sharafa Ali and Chief Bolaji Ayorinde SAN now in enviable positions as Kingmakers in the State. SOLA ADEYEMO reports on the political intrigues that led to the defeat of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the general elections in Oyo State     It is no longer news that Oyo is the only state in the South-West that lost… In “Politics” The Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC) has dismissed planned coalition of some opposition parties aimed at dislodging the ruling party in the forthcoming elections as a dream that would not materialize. APC Chairman in the state, Chief Akin Oke disclosed this during the APC campaign rally at the Plank… In “News” The All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial running-mate in Oyo State, Mr. Samuel Modepoola Egunjobi, has described a coalition arrangement being championed by a former Oyo State Governor, Senator Rasidi Ladoja as an exercise which would end in futility. He spoke against yesterday’s endorsement of Seyi Makinde of the Peoples Democratic… In “News”