President Muhammadu Buhari has directed heads of the nation’s security to immediately deal ruthlessly with bandits terrorizing communities in Zamfara state. The President has also given a marching order to the security agencies to end kidnapping and other security challenges confronting many parts of the country. Buhari gave the order yesterday when he met with Service Chiefs and some heads of security agencies at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The meeting, which held behind closed-doors, lasted for about two hours. Speaking to State House Correspondents after the meeting, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin, said that they reviewed strategies being adopted by security operatives so as to address all the challenges confronting the country. He said: “The security meeting we just had with Mr. President today (Thursday) is to review the strategy that we are adopting in confronting security issues in Zamfara State especially and other places nationwide. “And this review strategy is to address all the issues, including kidnapping, banditry and other associated issues confronting the nation and we are coming out with a revised strategy to handle those challenges.” Asked specifically whether there was a marching order from the President to the security agencies over the spate of insecurity in the country, General Olonisakin said: “Yeah, the marching order is for us to deal with this issue immediately and ruthlessly and ensure that all those bandits are immediately dealt with and all those issues that are bordering with our security are properly addressed.” In his remarks, the Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, said that the Abuja/ Kaduna Road has been cleared and now safe for motorists. Adamu said that after a confrontation with bandits and kidnappers on the road where the kidnappers were fatally injured, some of them were arrested. He said: “I want to assure Nigerians that Kaduna/ Abuja roads are now safe. We have cleared the roads, we have arrested a lot of kidnappers and in confrontation with some of them, some were fatally injured. “So the road is cleared. Our patrol teams, the combined security services that are patrolling the road are constantly there, 24 hours.” Those present at the meeting were General Olonishakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Yusuf Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Ibok-Ete IIbas, and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadiq Abubakar. Also present were the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj-Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd); Director General of National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmed Abubakar; the Director General, Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi; Minister of Interior, Lt-Gen. Abdulrahman Danbazau and the Minister of Defence, Brig-Gen. Mansur Dan Ali. The IGP, at the weekend, told reporters that the Federal Government had ordered immediate suspension of mining activities in Zamfara State and its environs. President Buhari was reported to have cut short his trip to the United Arab Emirate to attend the growing insecurity crisis in the parts of the country. The renewed massacre of innocent Nigerians by killer herdsmen across the country is of concern to not only well meaning Nigerians but to the outside world. The incessant killings have become a national tragedy and several individuals, groups and nations have condemned it and called for decisive actions from the… In “Columnists” Hard truth at Senate’s security summit CHUKWU DAVID reports on the National Security Summit organised by the Senate, which provided Vice President Yemi Osinbajo the opportunity to make clarifications on the proposed grazing reserves and clamour for state police   The Senate recently organised what it termed “National Security Summit”… In “Politics” President Muhammadu Buhari is considering the reorganization of the nation’s security architecture to stop further killings of innocent citizens.   Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, disclosed this yesterday after a closed-door meeting with President Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. The meeting, which centred on discussion of… In “News”