 The Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN) has raised the alarm over illegal method of conveying fake medicines to sales destinations and urged the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) to checkmate the use of night buses and other illegal modes of freight forwarding deployed in moving counterfeit drugs in Nigeria. Also, the ACPN has also called for ban on sales of drugs in illegal outlets including buses and other means of transportation. These are contained in an ACPN’s congratulatory message to NAFDAC on the Agency’s 25th Anniversary celebration, which held last week. The statement was signed by the National Chairman of the ACPN, Samuel Adekola and the National Secretary of the association, Bose Idowu. Similarly, Adekola and Idowu affirmed that non-adherence to designated ports of entries for drugs (both airports and seaports) still encouraged the distribution of falsified medicines in Nigeria. They said: “We shall continue to engage NAFDAC on its cutting-edge technology drive with special attention on product packs. Our deep conviction remains that dialogue remains a major pre-requisite to assuage feelings of some traumatised pharmacists who have been embarrassed based on what we presently have.” They observed that the seven-star pro-active measure of subjecting NAFDAC to the World Health Organisation (WHO) global benchmarking was certainly a major advancement in the regulatory space in Nigeria as these ultimately places NAFDAC endorsement of any brand on a global pedestal. According to the duo: “We shall continue to engage NAFDAC on its cutting-edge technology drive with special attention on product packs. Our deep conviction remains that dialogue remains a major pre-requisite to assuage feelings of some traumatised pharmacists who have been embarrassed based on what we presently have.” To this end, the ACPN noted that the great reforms under the watch of Prof. Mojisola Christiana Adeyeye, who is the Director General of NAFDAC, would reposition the pharmaceutical industry.  “The ISO certification of laboratory facilities at NAFDAC positions our manufacturers to enjoy greater exports of their products in the months ahead,” they added.  The seven-star pro-active measure of subjecting NAFDAC to the World Health Organisation (WHO) global benchmarking was certainly a major advancement in the regulatory space in Nigeria as these ultimately places NAFDAC endorsement of any brand on a global pedestal, the ACPN noted. •…as 1000 delegates take part in conference     As part of strategies to tackle drug abuse, pharmacists under the auspices of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), have urged the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) to carry out proper audit of all… In “News” The Association of Community Pharmacists in Nigeria (ACPN) has disclosed that it would initiate a pilot project on the proper labelling of medicines dispensed from pharmacies from selected cities next year. The National Chairman of ACPN, Samuel Adekola who made this known yesterday, said the measure would eradicate the… In “Health” The Association of Community Pharmacists in Nigeria (ACPN) has disclosed that it would initiate a pilot project on the proper labelling of medicines dispensed from pharmacies from selected cities next year. The National Chairman of ACPN, Samuel Adekola who made this known yesterday, said the measure would eradicate the… In “Health”