In recognition of its immense contribution towards driving the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC)’s overall reform initiatives in 2018, Nigerian Shippers’ Council has been adjudged winner of the “World Bank 2019 Doing Business Ranking Award” category. The second annual PEBEC Awards took place at the State House Conference Hall (Old Banquet Hall) and was hosted by the PEBEC chaired by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo. In her remarks, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Industry, Trade and Investment/ PEBEC Secretary, Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, said PEBEC awards were aimed at acknowledging and appreciating the efforts of specific arms of government, sub-national governments, ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government. While adding that private sector stakeholders also contributed significantly to the ease of doing business intervention of the administration, she said the collaborative efforts and continuous support of the stakeholders had significantly contributed towards improving Nigeria’s business climate and overall competitiveness in line with a key strategic objective of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). In his address, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo noted the need to recognise stakeholders who implemented the impactful and landmark reforms in the year 2018 as well as recognise members of the private sector who have expressly supported the intervention. Anule Emmanuel Abuja The presidency has said that it would today bring together the Chief Justice of the Federation, Justice Walter Onnoghen and the leadership of the National Assembly to deliberate on new initiatives to business reforms in the country. The programme being organized under the ease of doing business… In “News” The Federal government through the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) and the Credit Bureau Association of Nigeria (CBAN) has said that a well-structured credit reporting system would improve ease of doing business in Nigeria and ultimately lead to quick recovery of the Nigerian economy. This was part of the… In “Business” Failure by shipping lines to transmit electronic manifests of their cargoes, seven days ahead of berthing, may cause them huge losses and berthing rights. BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports   Average turnaround time of vessels has remained high in Nigeria compared to other ports in West and Central African countries because of… In “Business”