Former National Vice Chairman (South-East) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Nyerere Anyim, speaks in this interview with Felix Nwaneri on the outcome of the 2019 general election and the crisis brewing in the party over the leadership of the 9th National Assembly   How would you assess the recent general elections vis-à-vis the performance of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the suit filed by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, challenging the outcome of the presidential election?  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) did a good job compared to what we had in the past. There is no doubt that there was an improvement on our electoral process no matter how you look at the conduct of the polls. On Atiku’s challenge of the outcome of the presidential election, it is his constitutional right to do so, but it is going to be an effort in futility because it is on record that President Muhammadu Buhari won convincingly across the country.  But, Atiku claims that the result he obtained from INEC’s server shows that he defeated the President? The question over this claim is: How many INEC do we have? Do we have another INEC that has a different server from the INEC that declared President Buhari as winner of the election? If it is one INEC and that INEC declared the result of the presidential election as it is empowered by the law, anyone saying that he obtained another result from a server that showed that he won the election should be viewed with some level o suspicion as there is definitely more to that claim. But, there were reports in the media recently in which some INEC’s presiding officers claimed that they transmitted results of the election the commission’s server… We have to really ascertain, who actually these presiding officers are; whether they were actually INEC’s presiding officers because they cannot be saying a different thing from the position of the commission that employed them. Your party lost four of its states – Imo, Bauchi, Adamawa and Oyo – in the governorship elections. What do you think was responsible for the loss? There are no two ways about it; it was as a result of the impunity of some members of the party’s leadership, whose actions did not allow for internal party democracy during the primaries to nominate governorship candidates in those states. It was a situation of things falling apart and the centre unable hold. Leaders of the party in those states were not together, they were factionalised and as a result there was no way they could present formidable candidates to face the opposition. Some people have faulted deployment of the military during the elections, what is your position on the issue? In as much as we know that the military is not constitutionally empowered to be part of the electoral process, we equally know that given the present situation in the country, it would have been catastrophic if the military was not deployed to ensure law and order during the elections. So, it was inevitable for the Federal Government to call in the military to ensure law and order in some violence-prone areas. The battle for the 2023 presidency seems to have started even as President Buhari, who won the recent poll, is yet to be inaugurated. What does this portend for the polity and can the nation afford this distraction? The early race amounts to overzealousness on the part of some politicians. Though we may say that 2023 is close by, but we still have four years to get to that point. So, the question is: Why this early scheming if we still have four years to get to 2023? Though some people may say that is what politics is all about, but I will tell you that the scheming for the 2023 presidency is responsible for the intrigues we are witnessing now. What is playing out now is in anticipation of 2023, but those involved don’t even know whether they will be alive then. How would you react to comments credited to some Northern leaders on the region’s plan to retain power beyond 2023? There are issues that one should not comment on because you must ask yourself who those Northern leaders are. Anyone can come out and say whatever he or she wants to say; but let us get to 2023 and see how events play out. No matter the scheming now, it is the people who will determine, where the pendulum will swing to. No single person or ethnic group has the power to determine what will happen then. Collectively, we will determine the way forward for our country and not one person, a group of persons or ethnic group deciding for the rest of us. Nigeria has gone beyond that, so I will advise the people to ignore such idle talk by people they cannot even hold responsible for their comments. Do you see power shifting to the South given the argument of these Northern leaders that their region has not benefited from the Buhari presidency, and so, should be allowed to be in power for another eight years? Power is not given but taken. If you are not ready to take power, nobody will give it to you. So, the South should be proactive in its quest for power. What is the fate of the South-East in all these permutations? There is an Igbo adage that says that if the first son of a family fails to behave like a mad man; his father will not see the need to get a wife for him. What it means is that the people of the South-East must struggle for power if they want it. They cannot remain docile and expect somebody to hand over power to them. Nobody does that, not even in this 21st century. My position is that the people of the South-East should live up to the challenges of what they are aspiring for as power is not given. So, our people should not fold their arms and wait for when power would be given to them. Given the voting pattern in the 2019 elections, do you see the APC looking towards the South-East for its presidential candidate in 2023? What happened in the last elections may not really play a role in determining the direction of the party in the next general elections, but there is no doubt that we have a lot of work to do towards realizing our ambition. With what is playing out ahead of the June inauguration of the 9th National Assembly over the leadership of both chambers, don’t you foresee a repeat of the 2015 experience in which the party, despite having majority in both houses was opposition to itself even till today? It is a highly sensitive issue and the party is being cautious about it, but I will assure you that it is a family issue that would be resolved soon. The matter is like a family affair which leaders of the party will resolve in-house without washing the dirty linens of members outside. But time seems to running out for the party even as there seems to be no hope in sight, with the way some of the lawmakers-elect are defying the APC national leadership on the matter? You must expect that, but the beauty of democracy is that we disagree to agree. Definitely, the party will put its house in order and come up with something that will be in its overall interest and that of Nigerians. What do you make of the zon ing arrangement by your party, which some people say, shut out some geopolitical zones, particularly the South-East and North Central in distribution of key offices? Most of the things you read in the media are speculative, so disregard them.  But the National Chairman of your party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, made some pronouncements that show that the Senate presidency has been zoned to the North-East, while the position of speaker, House of Representatives, is for the South-West… If you also take a look at the positions of other tendencies within the party, you will find out that it is not yet a settled matter. Don’t you see the PDP cashing in on the crisis like it did in 2015, if it is not a settled given that it is a matter of weeks to the inauguration of 9th National Assembly? The truth is that once beaten, twice shy. So, I don’t see APC allowing a reoccurrence of the 2015 situation. I am assuring you that we will put our house in order before the June inauguration of the National Assembly. Does it not trouble you that a party that has been in government for four years is yet to put its house in order? Most times, it is easier said than done, but issues like this are sensitive because there are nerves to be calmed, there are interests that have to be protected and we have to be cautious to avoid jumping into a conclusion that may turn back to harm the party? Some members of your party in the South-East are clamouring for the speakership of the House of Representatives, having lost out in the battle for the Senate presidency, how feasible is that? Yes, they are doing that and are still clamouring for the position of Senate deputy president as well. As much as we can struggle for these positions and get them, the better for us instead of keeping quiet and expect power to be served on us. What does Buhari’s second term mean for Nigerians? I can remember saying in a previous interview that what President Buhari was doing then is to repair the decayed structures of our nation and laying the foundation for a more economic viable and prosperous Nigeria. Now that the cleansing process has been done, there is a roadmap, which he will build on to take the nation forward.  By writing to both chambers of the National Assembly to express his reservations about the Electoral Act 2010 (Amendment) Bill, President Muhammadu Buhari has withheld his assent and cast doubt on the rationality of the lawmakers to review or amend the contentious provisions of the Act. What this means, in… In “Opinions” AKEEM NAFIU writes that although lawyers were at the weekend unanimous that the National Assembly was constitutionally empowered to make and amend laws for the good of the country, they, however, faulted the assembly’s committee on Electoral Act (amendment) Bill for a reordered sequence of 2019 general elections    … In “Law” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it has begun count down to the 2019 general elections. INEC had fixed February 16, 2019 for the presidential and National Assembly elections while the governorship, state Assembly and Area C‎ouncil elections in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) will hold on March 2. Chairman of the… In “Politics”