 It is exactly one year and 26 days since the Ikeja Bus Terminal was commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari during his first state visit to Lagos State. The President, who practically shut down Lagos during his March 26, 2018 visit, returned to the city on Wednesday to once again commission a bus terminal among other three other landmark projects of Governor Ambode’s administration. A statement on Tuesday by Bashir Ahmad, Personal AkinwumiAssistant to the President Buhari on New Media said: “President @MBuhari will be in Lagos today, to commission a number of projects; incl. the reconstructed Oshodi Inter’l Airport Road, Oshodi Transport Interchange, 820 mass transit buses, an ultra modern 170-bed Obstetrics and Gynaecology specialist hospital located within LASUTH,” he had tweeted. However, speaking to Sunday Telegraph on the projects the State Commissioner of Information and Strategy Kehinde Bamgbetan assured that the Ambode administration will complete the projects before the handover date of May 29. He said the administration’s Bus Reform Initiative has not been suspended or abandoned, saying the Phase 2 of the Ikeja Bus Terminal commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari, during his visit to Lagos State last year, the wing that will house the Shopping Mall had to be completed before the final take off of the programme. “There is a second phase of the project that is already going on day and night. The plan is to activate the Phase 1and 2 at the same time.
“What we are doing with such iconic projects is to make them people centered. We as a government in Lagos believes that such facilities that handle large mass of our people should be made to be of the highest standards, aside that, these facilities when completed will add to the aesthetics of the state,” he said. He also said that the initial 820 environmentally-friendly high capacity buses being imported in the first phase of the bus reform initiative have already arrived and would be deployed once the facility is ready.
The buses were commissioned on Wednesday by President Buhari. During the unveiling of the Ikeja Terminal by President Buhari, the Lagos State Governor, Akinwumi Ambode, had said that the terminal signposts the commitment of his administration to reform public transportation infrastructure and management in the state, adding that the vision remained the provision of a functional, efficient and integrated transport system to support the populace and facilitate commerce. He said: “In the last three years, we have committed to revamping and providing a new integrated transport system to support our growing population. We have initiated and completed the provision of infrastructure that are scalable and would support the daily needs of our people to meet their connectivity and mobility needs. “The Ikeja Bus Terminal is one of our flagship transport infrastructure under the State Bus Reform Initiative. The first phase of this programme will see 13 new bus terminals introduced including major terminals at Oshodi, Yaba, Ojota, Agege and the already completed Tafawa Balewa Bus Terminal. “We have commenced the introduction of 5,000 new buses into the Lagos economy in the next three years. We will inject 820 environmentally-friendly high capacity buses in the first phase of this reform by September 2018, 300 New Bus Stops, three Bus Depots, and Intelligent Transport System which will aid Lagosians to plan their journeys on our public transport system,” he had said last year. In his second commissioning of the project on Wednesday, President Buhari commended Ambode for his developmental strides in the last three years, saying the projects were indeed laudable. He said: “I commend the governor for development and strides he recorded within the first three years of governance. I recognize the push of the state government in reforming public transportation especially the Bus Reform Project which will make modern transport buses that are air-conditioned available to the people. “I acknowledge the vision of Lagos State Government to revamping the railway transportation system. Presently, we have outlined in new-year message of the plan for a Pan-African Railway Transportation. I commend Lagos State for also developing rail infrastructure to cater for movement of its growing population.”