TECH CAMP On March 27th 2019, the American Consulate in Nigeria organised a TechCamp at the Facebook Nig Hub, Yaba, Lagos, bringing together 48 alumni of the young African Leadership Initiative (YALI) Network from 16 African Countries like Nigeria, Ghana, Zambia, Zmbabwe, Botswana, Cotdvoire, Niger etc who had participated in previous TechCamps. Tech Camp is a summer camp which focuses on Technology education, sometimes referred to as a computer camp. The camp includes robotics, game design, and programming. Born from Secretary Hillary Clinton’s Civil Society 2.0 initiative in the state department, TechCamps first launched in 2010. In the past five years, TechCamps have taken place in Western Europe, South America and South East Asia. Also, Yali is a leadership program which provides three types of training namely; Mandela Washington Fellowship, Yali Regional Leadership and Yali Techcamp which is extensively by nomination through application. In his address, Russell Brooks, a representative of the head of Consulate, Consul General John Bray, said the organisers were very pleased that the initiative has brought such huge participants from various countries and walks of life. For them, it is gratifying that the desire of the young minds to advance good governance and accountability on the African continent is a common goal. He also said the 3-days workshop aims to accelerate the development of innovative technology solutions and digital strategies for strengthening democratic governance, transparency and citizen engagement in countries where in need. “It is not an exaggeration to say that each and every day we see evidence of critical need for greater efforts in good governance. In fact, you will not have to go far outside of the doors of this institution to find confirmation of the need for real solutions to some of the most vexing issues facing government in Nigeria and elsewhere,” Brooks, said. He expressed that discovering enduring, long-term solutions to the problems mentioned was truncated by corruption, the presence of misallocation of resources, and effortless mismanagement. “ I am sure it is your hope that your skill and experience, the wisdom of the facilitators, or perhaps your commitment and passion will lead you and your colleagues to share some best practices or identify technological innovations that will help us in our quest to improve governance at all levels and ensure greater transparency and accountability,” Brooks added. The event had in attendance both local and international personalities who were part of the program to show support in one way or the other. Each individual had one or two projects to present for the three days. New Telegraph spoke to some of the participants who expressed joy and excitement for such life changing opportunity to be part of Africa’s solution. Olanrewaju Gideon, a Nigerian participant, told New Telegraph that he is working on PROJECT CALLED Openify. Openify is a mobile app, an online platform that ensures that young people can have their say in the leadership scheme that are selected through elections and the idea is to create a platform that promotes civic engagement, civic education. “We want to enable young people to be able to tell difference between political parties, the ideas that those political parties are selling, their policy priorities and how they think they have the interest of the people at heart,” he said. Another participant Zimona Theldo from Zimbabwe spoke to new Telegraph on his project called open Parliament, which is currently in Zimbabwe and it has been launched in Somalia and Zambia. Theldo said Open Parliament Zimbabwe works on government to aggregate government status. In his words “So we work with the parliament of Zimbabwe to aggregate those acts, parliament proceedings, senators portfolio coming to hearings and make it more accessible to people online, Facebook live stream all the parliament sections, we live tweet all the parliament events and we break down the acts so that people can understand them better, we are working in those countries Somalia, Zimbabwe and Zambia.” He said the TechCamp is basically a Hub or a place, a platform where if someone has a good idea, they give him the resources, expertise, advices to make it happen. “We as trainers are here to help anyone who needs help, all of us trainers we have our profiles and different skills, experience and then it’s just about connecting with those who might need advice and needs help” Also, New Telegraph spoke with the US department of State Techcamp-team, BJ McDuffie who said “we are here in Lagos for Yali Techcamp reconnect, we have brought about 50 participants from different countries across Africa and we are working together for over three days and to discuss issues and work on project that related to elections, good governance and transparency and primarily these are civil society, adviser-workers, people in education, people who are entrepreneurs working to find Tech based solutions and rectify issues and they could be doing a social media campaign on elections and getting people voting, could be doing an E-learning project with youth in the communities, it could be working with the government on good governance and issues with transparency and at the end of this   The main aim and sole objective of the TechCamp according to the US……. is to make participants sustainable in future through doing a big push for pitching which will help them learn how to be confident pitchers and invariably help other pitchers in future.