Some groups opposed to the reelection bid of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, yesterday, protested along Aba Road Port Harcourt, the state capital, calling on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to organise a fresh governorship election in the state instead of concluding the state’s electoral process.  The groups, which claimed to be a coalition of non-governmental organizations in Rivers State, called for an outright cancellation of the March 9 governorship and House of Assembly elections over alleged compromise of the state’s Resident Electoral Commissioner, Obo Effanga.  The protesters, mainly youths of Ijaw extraction, started converging at the Air Force Bus Stop along Aba Road as early as 8.a.m from where they marched to Hotel Presidential, where their leader, Chief Anabs Sara-Igbe, addressed journalists.  The state government had three days ago banned protests, with the Commissioner for Information and Communication, Barr. Emma Okah, complaining that public protests were becoming rampant in the state, and that they were election-related. Those who protested yesterday carried placards with inscriptions like “INEC don’t rape us,” “Ijaw say no to electoral fraud” and “We say no to open day electoral robbery,” among others. Sara-Igbe, who was part of the protest from the beginning to the end, faulted the ban on public protest by Wike, claiming that it was aimed at preventing the people from speaking out the truth. His words: “We are here to protest because INEC has compromised beyond all reasonable doubts. They told us that there were problems and they could not collate results. They subsequently suspended the election. “Suddenly, they told us that they have results of 17 Local government areas. At what point did they collate the results they are announcing. Where did they keep the collated results? Was it at INEC, Central Bank or in government house? These are some of the questions we need answers to.” But as the protesters left the front of Hotel Presidential and moved towards the road that leads to Polo Club in GRA, they were halted by some youths, who formed a human barrier on the road, forcing some of the protesters to flee, when missiles started flying around.  Also, security operatives started shooting into the air as some hoodlums from both sides took advantage of the violence to rob people around the area. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared that the interference of the Nigerian Army in the Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections in the state was unprofessionally, alleging that soldiers of the 6 Division, Port Harcourt caused violence in some council areas while attempting to hijack ballot boxes.   He,… In “News” Several hundreds of women in Rivers State yesterday marched through some major streets of Port Harcourt, the state capital, protesting over the delay by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conclude the collation and announce the results of the governorship election in the state. The women, who said they… In “News” A coalition of nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) in Rivers State has chided the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for altering the results of the March 9 governorship election in the state in favour of Governor Nyesom Wike. This was as the groups claimed that the electoral process was running smoothly across… In “News”