The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) Lagos State Branch, has elected Group Chief Executive Officer of
United Capital Plc, Peter Ashade as its chairman.
Also, the Managing Director of Chen & Eleos Capital, Adeyemo Adeoye was elected as the first vice chairman of CIBN.
Others according to a statement from the institute, are the Chief Executive Officer of NPF Microfinance Bank, Akinwunmi Lawal, who will serve as the second vice chairman, Lawrence Jompe, publicity secretary.
Ashade is an astute investment banker and business leader with 29 years cognate experience in Nigeria’s capital market; 14 years as chief executive.
Prior to his appointment as the Group CEO of United Capital, he was managing director/CEO, Africa Prudential Plc (former UBA Registrars Limited).
Ashade recorded a number of landmark achievements at Africa Prudential Plc, including consistent growth in earnings and payment of dividends and development of the first share registration portal in Nigeria in 2008. Under his leadership, the company according to the statement, also developed GreenPole, the first web-based core registrars operating software in 2016, and the first USSD based product in the Nigerian Capital Market in 2017. An investment banking group, United Capital Plc, has engaged Peter Ashade as its new Group Chief Executive Officer. He succeeded Oluwatoyin Sanni, who will retire as Group CEO from the company effective June 30, 2018. A statement by the company said that Ashade would resume as Group CEO from July… In “Business” ●Oseni now DMD   Wema Bank Plc has announced Ademola Adebise as Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Wema Bank following the retirement of Segun Oloketuyi last September. He was initially appointed the Acting Managing Director in July after Oloketuyi proceeded on terminal leave in July 2018, a statement from… In “Business” First Aluminum Nigeria Plc has appointed Mr. Elias Igbinakenzua as its managing director/ chief executive officer. A statement from the company, said Igbinakenzua had worked as an executive director with Zenith Bank and Access Bank Plc. He is a seasoned banker with over 27 years professional experience, which cuts across… In “Business”