 Arewa Defence League (ADL) yesterday accused the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, of undermining the North and its leaders as part of his strategy for the 2023 presidency. This is as they also threatened to resist any further attack from the former governor of Lagos State, saying “any further attempt, directly or indirectly, to rubbish our political leaders from the North will meet stiff resistance from the youth.” A statement made available to journalists in Kaduna by the group said “ADL has observed with dismay the unfolding politics of intrigues and blackmail which have begun to characterise the polity ahead of the 2023 general elections.” The statement signed by the National President of the League, Muhammad Murtala, disclosed that: “Ordinarily, ADL should’ve remained quiet due to the respect it accord elders from across the divide, but the recent attack by the National Leader of the APC, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, on our illustrious sons, the incumbent Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, would definitely not be left unanswered.” ADL stated further that “such attacks are undoubtedly an attempt to smear the good image of our sons and erode their credibility to the advantage of the 2023 presidential aspirations of national leader of the APC. “We are also aware of his (Tinubu’s) plans to rubbish northern political heavy weights so as to pave way for himself in 2023. “While he is constitutionally empowered to seek any political office, we call on him to do so with decorum and decency as any further attempt, directly or indirectly, to rubbish our political leaders from the north, will meet stiff resistance from the youth.” Part of the statement also said: “It is on record that these two legislative leaders of the 8th national assembly have contributed immensely to the passages of executive and other bills that contributed to the successes recorded by President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. “The general public is hereby called upon to disregard such smearing attempt by a desperate and selfish politician like Senator Ahmed Tinubu who wants to remain at the corridors of powers at all costs and by all means.” The league also said that: “The replacement of Governor Ambode Akinwunmi, a performing governor, with another candidate for selfish reasons for which he (Tinubu) was fingered as mastermind, speaks volumes of his desperation. “We know those from other regions who love us and those who pretend to love us but in real sense do not. We are waiting and watching with keen interest the unfolding events in the polity. ‘‘However, we wish to reiterate that we will not tolerate any attempt to undermine our political leaders from the North.” ...Kicks against adoption of Gbajabiamila   •It depicts corruption, says S’ East group   Youths from the 19 Northern States and Abuja under the aegis of Arewa Youth Awareness Forum (AYAF) yesterday declared that they are opposed to the decision of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to adopt the… In “News” The apex Northern youth group, Arewa Youth Forum (AYF) has accused the National leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of turning himself into a dictator within the party. Reacting to the ongoing National Assembly leadership tussle in a statement in Kaduna, AYF said the move… In “News” A northern youth group, Arewa Youth Forum (AYF), has accused the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, of turning himself into a dictator within the ruling party. AYF, in a statement yesterday, said the move by Tinubu to impose his allies on the members of… In “News”