SIFAX Group has appointed three new staff to man key management positions.
They are Mr. Abiodun Elemide, Group Compliance Coordinator; Mr. OluwakayodeAlonge, Group Head, Human Resources and Mrs. Olubukola Abitoye, General Manager, Financial Services.
A statement by the group’s Corporate Affairs Manager, Muyiwa Akande, described Elemide as a thorough-bred professional with over 14 years experience in risk management, financial management, accounting, internal control, audit and banking services, possesses a Master of Science in finance from the University of Lagos; Bachelor of Science in accounting from the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State.
He is an associate member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) as well as a Certified Information System Auditor (CISA).
He has worked with various organisations like Wapic Insurance Plc, Eta-Zuma Group West Africa Limited and United Bank for Africa.
Alonge is an experienced human resources expert with over ten years’ experience.
He obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in estate management from the Obafemi Awolowo University and is currently undertaking a Master of Business Management (MBA) in strategic management at the University of Lagos, Akoka.
He has also worked with various organisations including Workforce Management and Integrated Corporate Services Limited.
He is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management (CIPM) and member, Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM).
Abitoye obtained a master degree in business administration from Charisma University, Turks and Caicos Island, North America and a bachelor degree e in management and accounting from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife.
She has over 10 years of rich banking experience which cuts across retail, commercial, corporate and public sector banking, branch banking, corporate banking, treasury and funds management in notable financial institutions in Nigeria including Skye Bank Plc, Stanbic IBTC Bank, United Bank for Africa and Keystone Bank Limited.
Speaking on these new appointments, Mr. Adekunle Oyinloye, Group Managing Director, SIFAX Group, described the new hires as tested and experienced hands that will give a big push to the ongoing restructuring in the company.