Keen lovers of tennis in the country wish to see Nigerians in the Grand Slam events of the interesting sport. There are four Grand Slam events namely the Australian Open, French Open, Wimbledon and the US Open. As talented as Nigerians are in the sport, the country’s smashers are nowhere when it comes to Grand Slam events. In the Davis Cup, which is like the World Cup in football, the country is not in the top group of nations in the globe. Nigeria’s best-ever tennis player, Nduka Odizor, made it to the last 16 stage of Wimbledon in the 80s. Looking back, Odizor told me that it was a shame that Nigeria could not raise another player to that level in global tennis. He argued that all stakeholders should share the blame even though it is obvious the government gets huge chunk of it. Today, sponsors are no longer prevalent in the country’s tennis and most of the other sports such that it is tough to raise budding talents in Nigeria. Those who assist in the sport are foreigners who have eyes to spot future talents. Some of them assist just for the love of the game and nothing more. Parents require better education to also make efforts when some of these kids show signs of brilliance in tennis or any other sport. In the 90s, it was a German, Rolf Wadner, who spotted Sule Ladipo and Emmanuel Udozor and decided to help them play in global tennis circuits. Just one year after, the two players took over the national team and they represented the country in the Davis Cup for close to 10 years. For the purpose of this piece, my peg is on the Yakubu Sisters — Oiza and Nene. They have shown huge prospects to excel at the international stage but this has been at a huge cost to their tennis-loving parents. Their mother, Jumoke Ajulo, was a former national player in the late 80s and early 90s. The father, John Yakubu, has shown remarkable understanding such that the family spends an average of N5m on the two budding tennis talents every year. Only last week, Oiza, in the colours of Nigeria, won bronze at the ITF/CAT U-14 tournament that took place in Togo. Her mother went with her. She qualified for the quarter-final of Rainoil Tennis tournament that took place recently in Lagos. Nene, Oiza’s sister, is just 11 years old and she is on top in her class, the national U-12 cadre. She is not taking part in the ITF/CAT tournament yet due to financial constraints. She was in the final of the Chevron tournament. I was thrilled during an interview with the sisters as Oiza stated that the target of the sisters was to become the Serena and Venus Williams of Nigerian tennis. They are thinking big and they have their eyes on the global stage. Aside from the Yakubu sisters, Oyinlomo Quadre is another top prospect for the country. She is currently at the ITF training centre in Morocco on ITF scholarship. I am also aware that Marylove Edwards is in the IMG Academy, Florida USA under the sponsorship of Temple Management. In the boys category, there are great talents as well. In the U-12 boys cadre, Seun Ogunsakin and Idris Mohammed are fantastic talents for the future while in the U-14 category, Suleiman Ibrahim and Gabriel Iyang are future prospects for the country. I recall the impact of some foreign men in Kaduna. They were the brains behind NOCACO Tennis at a time with so much money pumped into it for smashers and all participants. They have left and we no longer have kids developing from that side of the country. The career of a tennis prospect starts at age five or below. There are racquets for young players till they attain the age to use the normal ones. We also need more tennis academies in Nigeria. Apart from the International Tennis Academy owned by Godwin Kienka, I cannot recall any other. The Yakubu sisters have shown huge prospects to feature in the Grand Slams and equal or surpass the feat of Odizor. Same goes for Marylove, Oyinlomo, Ogunsakin, Iyang, Ibrahim and Mohammed. Corporate Nigeria must be provided with the enabling environment to assist tennis and other sports to grow. Government has a role to play by staging one or two events to identify more talents from the schools and grassroots while efforts should be made to invest in these athletes and expose them to be future champions in tennis and other sports disciplines.