 La Campagne Tropicana Beach Resort has never ceased to impress and improve on its facilities and services as it periodically upgrades its offering to the delight of patrons and visitors to the resort. The experience is always turbo charged on visit as you are never too sure of the surprises that awaits you.
This time, just like it did with the introduction of a mud house that bore all the elegance and sophistication of modern and trendy guesthouse, the management of the Ikegun village, Ibeju Lekki, Lagos – based African themed resort has come up with another world beater.
In its familiar style of infusing simple and sometimes commonplace and overlooked traditional arts, crafts, motifs and materials with glamourous and enchanting ambience as well as functional, it has given birth to a new mud house in the mood of the first mud house built by it last year but this time, with an indoor swimming pool.
Such a rare and creative feat that since it opened it attracts viewing by patrons and visitors to the resort who are taken in by the natural appeal and ingenuity of the creator of the mud house that is stylishly fitted and furnished to taste with modern amenities wrapped in luxury for the comfort and relaxation of the guest.
Named Amonsan (Meaning mud is good), the mud house is a four bedroom apartment, featuring quite electrifying and fascinating facilities. The list include: An indoor swimming pool with an inbuilt bar that is richly stocked with wide selection of drinks; Two spacious living areas that are fitted to the hilt exuding opulence; A dining area, with a rich dining set to the bargain that is built around tree trunks; and Tastefully decorated African interiors. Other sections to behold on visit are: Private outdoor sit – out area overlooking the forest; Sitting out on the pouch of the mud house, you get to see a tribe of monkeys as they go around their daily routines and also bird watching and other game viewing for for the delight of the occupants of the mud house.
For the management of the resort, there is no end to its innovative and creative ferment as it is dedicated to enriching and renewing the experience of guests through constant upgrade and introduction of new packages to its facilities and services offer.
Paramount to all of these, is the desire to continue to preserve and propagate the African cultural heritage through intangible and tangible materials that are geared at highlighting the best of African’s culture to patrons and visitors to the resort.
When next you visit, make the mud house your choice living quarters and you are sure to appreciate the experience. Unfortunately, you need to be mind of the fact that children are not into the mud house so as to prevent any untoward incident. If there is anything that has made La Campagne Tropicana Beach Resort one of the best and most sought after African theme resort, it is the creative ferment of the founder of the resort, Otunba Wanle Akinboboye, that is at display at every point and his ability to refresh the… In “Travel and Tourism” ANDREW IRO OKUNGBOWA who was at the resort recently recaps on the new look of the tourist destination that has continued to attract tourists from different parts of the world with its boasting the longest ever swimming pool in the world     La Campagne Tropicana Beach Resort in Ikegun… In “Travel and Tourism” Tourism thrives best when it begins from the grassroots with the people at the various localities taking possessions of the different tourist attractions within their enclaves by identifying with them and placing premium on them as their primary responsibility for the good of their communities and the generality of… In “Travel and Tourism”