Comrade Oladimeji Odeyemi, a security analyst and a counter-terrorism expert is the Convener of the Coalition of Civil Society Groups Against Terrorism in Nigeria. In this interview with WALE ELEGBEDE, the member of Global Agenda Against Terrorism, spoke on the conduct of the military during the just concluded 2019 general elections, among other issues. Excertps…   The Nigerian Army has been in the news over the conduct of its soldiers during the 2019 general elections. What is your assessment of the military before, during and after the elections?
The role of our military, especially the Nigerian Army, before and during the electioneering process can be described as a timely intervention because the military helped to maintain the integrity of the process. The military performed the role of back up to the police and other sister security agencies. They were mostly drafted in times of extreme hostilities. They displayed an apolitical stance throughout the entire process, but for instances where there are exchanges of gunfire between the military and some armed political thugs like in Rivers State. The military indeed conducted themselves professionally, it is therefore instructive to state that the role of the military was invaluable and commendable. Do you think the military as it is presently constituted is non-partisan in the discharge of its duties?
In all honesty, if you study the history of the Nigerian Armed Forces in relation to the present leadership of our military, particularly the army, which remains the bedrock of the military, you will agree with me that the military has done excellently well in being non-partisan, making it possible for us to sustain a responsive army which has continually discharged its constitutional roles built on discipline and obedience to civil authorities. This is commendable and it clearly indicates the type of leadership currently in charge of our Armed Forces at various levels. The army under the leadership of General Tukur Buratai has not only enhanced professionalism, it has also in an unprecedented manner, built confidence with the non-partisan civil populace, who are the majority under our democracy.
The present crop of the military leadership as constituted is the best thing that could have ever happened to this nation at this point in time. The question of the military being partisan does not in any way arise because of the professional display of their attitude before, during and after the 2019 electoral process. They gave the process the credibility needed to adjudged it as a free and fair election. The carnage the nation would have witnessed was curbed by the presence of the military in most states of the federation. There have been reports of the activities of the Boko Haram in parts of the North East. Don’t you think that is a reflection of the position of things?
I can unequivocally say that the Nigerian Army under the leadership of General Tukur Buratai has displayed the most professional attitude and acts in the methods and tactics of handling the gradual progressive decimation of the insurgents in the North East. In your estimation as a security expert, what is the extent by which the Nigerian Army under Buratai has been able to decimate the insurgents in the North East?
It has often times been said by not only our security agencies but also by every other key stakeholders within the security sector and the civil society that winning a war on terror is not a tea party. Counter-terrorism wars are not like football matches which is only played for 90 minutes. The reality in the North East is that since the advent of the current administration, our country has been able to reduce the Boko Haram insurgency to more of a secret cult, a clear difference from what was obtainable in the past when Boko Haram constituted itself as a parallel government within our country.
This was a great gain and a major achievement in the war against terrorism in the northeast. All Nigerians have to do is remember when Boko Haram was operating freely in the nation’s capital, Abuja and also occupying almost 14 Local Government Areas in seven states of the federation; bombing, burning and openly hitting hard targets, mounting untold number of daily attacks. The Boko Haram terror that has now been reduced to occasional suicide attacks. A Boko Haram that does not stand to fight, but only chooses soft targets and resorting to guerilla tactics, only shows the proof of concept that says, Boko Haram does not again have the ability to wage a war, but only to duck. The Nigerian Army under General Buratai has for the past four years been saddled with a three pronged war, in which it has made ground breaking successes and modest progress in tackling the herdsmen / farmers clashes.
The third one which is perhaps the most trying one, the politically sponsored killings, mostly in the Middle-Belt region. And here is where the Chief of Army Staff, Lt General Buratai must be commended in the way he has been handling a totally unconventional war in which communal communication, interactions, community service, community development, youth elevation, provision of amenities to the locals and prompt response have been the hallmark of the new and different approach to handling this peculiar war within. As you are aware, the Nigerian Army has conducted ‘Operation Last Hold’ within the theater of war, meaning we are safely now in the last stages of the War Against Terror. The Army under General Buratai will continue on the path of visible victory until terrorists and terrorism are completely annihilated. This is how it is done anywhere and everywhere there is terror. It is a gradual progressive trajectory rather than a one-time ending to a war. What do you think should be the role of the media and the public in ensuring the success of the military?
The media is a formidable partner in the effort to totally eradicate the remnants of the BHT group and other forms of insecurity in the country. But there is no doubt that over time, these terrorists elements have been extremely proactive with the use of information dissemination and propaganda. This is why, we are worried about the type of publicity they are being given because that’s what keeps them going.
We are of the view that by the time these criminal elements are denied such publicity they are enjoying in a section of our media right now, they will definitely lose strength. One is also taken aback by the reactionary activities of some media organisations, particularly some online medium, in their manner of reportage on the activities of the Boko Haram terrorists. They are deliberately promoting isolated attacks on soft targets in the NorthEast, while denigrating the military, especially the Nigerian Army and it’s leadership in the false representation of some isolated attacks by the sect. This undue patronage being given to the terrorists by some online media and bloggers emboldens them and make them extremely proactive in their deadly operations.
The media should always take into cognisance, our national interest, in their news reportage of military operations, so as not to compromise our gallant men and women fighting day and night in the war front. It is very important to always crosscheck facts with the military authorities before going to the press. The media as the fourth estate of the realm has a whole lot to do in aiding the activities of the military in the course of the discharge of their national duties, by giving objective, accurate and robust reportage that will encourage our gallant troops and put the military in the pride of place in the minds of Nigerians. It is also expected that the media will champion a better and proper funding of the military by the Federal Government. There are calls in some quarters that Buratai should be removed by President Muhammadu Buhari. Do you think such calls are justified?
It is an unpatriotic call by some disgruntled elements within the nation and their foreign collaborators. It is a straight and unstrategic plan to make the nation lose what we have gained due to the gallantry and bravery of our Army in the North East. The insurgent had their flags hoisted in almost 14 Local Government before General Buratai was appointed. Now, Boko Haram cannot lay claim to any territory within the territorial space of Nigeria. Our President is a professional soldier and with his wealth of experience and knowledge, realises that General Buratai is the best man for the job now. With the present situation in the country, the call for removal or replacement of the the Chief of Army Staff is misplaced. General Buratai said recently that the National Assembly should prevail on the Ministry of Budget and National Planning to exempt the Nigerian Army from the existing budget ceiling or envelope allocation system in view of the ongoing structural changes, volatile security environment and massive engagement of troops in virtually all the 36 states of the Federation. Do you agree with the army chief on this?
Sincerely, without adequate and appropriate funding that would boost the morale of the troops at the warfront, arming them with the needed modern military wares and gadgets that would encourage them, the aim to totally eradicate the remnants of the Boko Haram terrorist group and all other forms of insecurity in the country might be a pipe dream. Putting the budget of the military under ceiling or envelope allocation system is a total disservice to the nation and the engagement of the military in virtually all the states of the federation. Comrade Oladimeji Odeyemi, a security analyst and counter-terrorist expert, is the Convener of the Coalition of Civil Society Groups against Terrorism in Nigeria. He is also one of those who mobilised Nigerians across the 17 southern states to re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari. He speaks, in this interview, on the conduct… In “Politics” A Lagos-based lawyer, Malcom Omirhobo, yesterday, dragged the Attorney General of the Federation, Inspector General of Police and three others before the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja over the recent declaration of 'Operation Python Dance', across the nation. The applicant is asking the court to declare as unlawful and… In “News” As part of measures to guarantee a violence- free 2019 election, the Nigerian Army has launched a nationwide operation christened, “Exercise Egwu Eke 3” (Python Dance). It will be recalled that previous operations (Python Dance 1, 2016), and Python Dance 2, 2017), were restricted to the South East region, as… In “News”