A Lagos based medical doctor, Lanre Ayoade has called on Nigerians to give back to the community they are born and bred. Dr. Ayoade stated this during his free medical mission to residents of Apapa Road Community in Ebute- Metta area of Lagos state The free medical mission is held yearly to mark Dr Ayoade birthday. Speaking on the importance of his health mission tagged ” Health is Wealth”,Dr. Ayoade stated that a healthy community is a wealthy one. He said ” I was born and bred in Ebute Metta area in Lagos. When I was growing up, we had alot of medical challenges. I told myself then that when I become a medical doctor, I will give free medical treatment to my community. Three years ago, that dream became a reality and on my birthday , the medical mission has given free treatment to over 1500 residents. We are giving free treatment to over 200 patients this year. We will perform over 15 surgeries. We are giving out free glasses, blood test and others. The iniatiative began at Ago-egba community , we have visited the Oko- Oba community and given free treatment to the community members. Mr. Ademuyiwa Abodurin,the chairman planning committee of OLarry Cares Initiative and advised young persons to make their lives count. ” I have known Dr. Ayoade for more than thirty years. We call him mankind due to his humanitarian heart. Three years ago on his birthday, he began giving free medicals to over 1500 persons. His foundation will soon be launched to reach more people with free medicals. Young people can learn from this and give back to the society. The spirit of giving is not when you have millions, it is about having a giving heart” Mr. Olusegun Williams an elder in the community said free medicals should be provided for the community. “We have seen a situation where people die because they do not have money to pay for card to see a doctor. A young man has taken the initiative to give free drugs and other medicals to the poor in his community. I commend his efforts and urge others to do same” One of the beneficiaries of the free treatment Alhaji Abiodun Mustapha said ” I have stroke and I am diabetic. The doctors conducted the test and I was given drugs. I commend the young man who deemed it fit to remember the poor”. Another beneficiary, Mr Olusesi Ibrahim said “I came for eye treatment and pain in my legs. The doctors attended to me very well and they gave me eye glasses and drugs for my legs”.