Super Eagles will today know their group opponents as the draw for the 2019 African Cup of Nations takes place in the city of Cairo but the team’s coordinator Patrick pascal has said they are not afraid to face any country. Nigeria is a Pot A alongside hosts Egypt, Cameroon, Senegal, Tunisia and Morocco but the Eagle are likely going to face powerhouses like DR Congo Ghana Mali Cote d’Ivoire, Guinea and Algeria who are in Pot B. Pascal said the Eagles were ready to face any side in the competition but at the group stage or at the latter part of the competition. He said his side was regarded as one of the top outfits on the continent and rather than nurse any fears regarding confronting any team, countries should be afraid of meeting with the three-time champions. He said:“No more minnows in African football; all countries that have qualified for this championship are potential winners so we should not be afraid of facing any side. “We know that if we want to be the best we have to face the best, we have to play against Egypt, Senegal, Cameroon and the likes. “We have a team strong enough to challenge for the title; we are not going into this competition rebuilding a squad, we have our team intact and there won’t be surprising to see us go all the way because as a country in Top- Three of the FIFA rankings, we are expected to challenge for the title.” It is the biggest Africa Cup of Nations finals in the history of the competition, due to feature 24 teams, as against three teams that took part in the first edition of the competition in Sudan 62 years ago. Eagles are also likely going to face perennial rivals the Bafana Bafana of South Africa who are in Pot 3 and Tanzania who has Nigeria’s Emmanuel Amunike as the handler. Pascal is relishing the opportunity of meeting with his former national teammate but insisted Amunike would be treated as a stranger if they clash. “It is going to be so interesting to see Eagles face Tanzania because of our own man Amunike; but there won’t be anything like friendly because he belongs to another country now, we won’t show him mercy,” he said. The 32nd Africa Cup of Nations will hold 21st June – 19th July 2019, in six venues: Cairo International Stadium; Borg El-Arab Stadium, Alexandria; Suez Stadium; Air Defence Stadium; Ismailia Stadium and; Al Salam Stadium.