A 35 year-old mechanic, Yemi Igbasan, on Monday appeared before an Okitipupa Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ondo State over alleged N250,000 fraud. The defendant, of no fixed address, is in court on a two-count charge bordering on advance fee fraud and conversion of other people’s property to personal use. The Police Prosecutor, Insp. Zedekiah Orogbemi, told the court that the defendant, on March 13, around 03:00 p.m, at Okitipupa New Garage in Okitipupa magisterial district, obtained N250,000 from one Benson Uwajero on the pretext of helping him to buy a second hand Toyota Camry car engine from Lagos. He said that the defendant failed to buy the engine as promised, and began avoiding the complainant until he was apprehended by the police. Orogbemi said that the offences contravened Sections 419 and 383, Criminal Code, Cap.37, Vol.1, Laws of Ondo State 2006. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges leveled against him The Chief Magistrate, Mr Musa Al-Yunus, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N500,000 and a surety in like sum. He said that the surety must have a landed property within the court’s jurisdiction and show evidence tax clearance for one year. Al-Yunus adjourned the case till May 6 for further hearing. (NAN) A 27-year-old man, Adeoye Olatomide, was on Friday docked in an Okitipupa Magistrates’ Court in Ondo State for alleged attempt to rape a 60-year-old woman. Olatomide is facing a three-count charge of conspiracy, assault and attempted rape. The Prosecutor, Insp. Zedekiah Orogbemi told the court that the defendant committed the… In “Metro and Crime” A 35-year-old filling station attendant, Moses Omobamijo, who allegedly defrauded his employer of N882,000, was on Tuesday charged before an Okitipupa Magistrates’ Court in Ondo State. He was, however, released on N800, 000 bail. Omobamijo, whose address was not provided, is standing trial on a two-count charge of fraud and… In “Metro and Crime” Two men who police accused of being members of the “ Eiye confraternity”, on Friday appeared in an Okitipupa Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ondo State. The police charged , Funmilayo Oluwakomiyo and John Fredrick,with felony and unlawful association. The prosecutor, Insp Ayodeji Omoyeigha, told the court that the defendants and… In “Metro and Crime”