A suspected kidnapper, Ismaila Wakeel, yesterday told policemen how he and members of his gang used to abduct people at Owo, Ikare-Akoko and other parts of Akoko in Ondo North, Ondo State. Wakeel, who claimed to be the second in command to the leader of the gang, said they would divide themselves in twos on the road and waylaid vehicles. He said his gang had kidnapped many victims and had collected millions of naira as ransom. Wakeel was arrested yesterday morning through the combined efforts of policemen and the Myetti Allah Vigilante Group at Akunnu- Akoko in Akoko North East Local Government Area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Femi Joseph, explained that the residents of the area, who noticed a Mercedes Benz with registration EDO Ben 203 PW parked in the area for three days, suspected that the owner might be a victim of the kidnappers. He said the vigilantes called a number found in the car and it was confirmed that the owner was a victim of the kidnappers. They then informed the police of the development. Joseph said the police and the vigilantes combed the forest in the area where they discovered the den of the kidnappers and their victim. He said there was exchange of gunshots between the kidnappers and the police while some of the hoodlums escaped with gunshot wounds. The PPRO, however, said one of the kidnappers, who was shot, was arrested while hiding in the forest while efforts were on to arrest other members of the gang. He said: “You will recall that quite for some time now, we have been having some sleepless nights concerning the issue of kidnappers especially in Akoko axis. “The day before yesterday (Tuesday) around somewhere in Akunnu, we saw an abandoned vehicle. The DPO got there, became suspicious and he had to alert the headquarters. “He suspected that the occupiers of the vehicle could have been victims of kidnapping. With the help of some Miyeti Allah members, they swung into action. “That was after he had gotten a piece of paper where he saw a phone number. He called the phone number asking the receiver whether he knew the owner of the vehicle. “After a while, the man called back and said the occupant had been kidnapped. With the help of the Meyeti Allah, they went into the bush, they saw the rendezvous of these kidnappers, where they used to wine and dine. “After that, they swooped on the kidnappers where they were. They exchanged gun fires. They were so careful that the victim was not touched. They had to run away, some of them with gunshots. “Luckily, our colleagues at Ibilo got hold of this guy. They were able to arrest this man who claims to be the deputy leader of the gang. They have been doing all sorts of kidnappings. We are continuing with the investigation with a view to arresting the other fleeing suspects.” Wakeel explained that the victim was kept in their custody for three days while waiting for his family to pay ransom for his release. The suspect, however, said he had not killed any of his victims but used to feed them for any days they spent in their custody.