The Federal High Court sitting Abuja has ordered the sale of two landed properties belonging to two different companies – Zaibadari Company Limited and Tradecraft Nigeria Limited – over tax evasion to the tune of N35.9 million. The order of the court was premised on an application filed by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) praying the court to allow it sell the landed properties of the two firms to defray the tax liabilities which amounted to N18.8 million against Zaibadari and N17.1 million against Tradecraft. The applicant had approached the court for an order to sell the properties after the two firms failed to honour a series of demand notices issued to pay their outstanding tax liabilities. In his submission, counsel to the applicant, CollinsUgwunebo, argued that Zaibadari was indebted to the FIRS to the tune of N18. 8 million, while Tradecraft owed the Service N17.1 million in 2015. The applicant had earlier issued and served demand notices on the two firms and gave them 30 days within which to pay arrears of taxes to the FIRS. Both firms, however, failed to pay the arrears of taxes within 30 days. Relying on Section 33(2) of the Federal Inland Revenue Service, Establishment Act, 2007, the applicant served Warrants of Distrait on the Respondents, giving them 14 days to pay the tax due or risk the sale of their properties to settle the tax debt. Despite the Warrants of Distrait served on the two companies, both failed to pay the tax arrears. This, however, prompted the applicant to institute the two suits against the defendants. In its affidavit in support, the applicant averred that Zaibadari’s assessment was based on 20 per cent of N62,675,200 which was the “deemed profit of the respondent’s (Zaibadari) landed property located at Plot 551 Wuye B03, FCT Abuja, valued at N313,3376,000.” The trial judge, Justice A.I Chikere, on March 23, held that “despite the service of process on the respondent’s company, it refused, neglected and failed to state its side of the case nor have counsel appear on its behalf to state its case. “It is trite law that an averment in an affidavit, which is not challenged or controverted, is deemed admitted as true. “The court is bound to believe the affidavit in support of application to the effect that the respondent is a tax evader and in default of its tax obligation to the applicant. “Accordingly, an order for the sale of landed property of the respondent located at Plot 551, Wuye B03 FCT is hereby made to satisfy her arrears of tax N18,802,560 only”. The court also ordered the sale of the property at Plot 1151 Wuye B03 FCT, Abuja to satisfy the arrears of tax of N17,150,496 only and after the deduction of the expenses from the sale of the property, refund the amount in excess to the defendant or anybody authorised by her upon request by the defendants’ company.” The application for the sale of the properties was brought under S.33(2) which gave the FIRS the power to apply to court to obtain an order prior to selling a distained property. Reacting on the judgement, the Executive Chairman of FIRS, Mr. Babatunde Fowler, hailed the judiciary for supporting the fight against tax evasion and expressed the hope that this judgement would deter other tax evaders. Director, Legal Services Department of the FIRS, Ike Odume, noted that this was the first time in the history of the FIRS that a court order would be used to sell the properties of tax evaders in Nigeria. Odume urged Nigerians to support the efforts of government in raising revenue to build infrastructure to stimulate the economy and ensure better life for all.