The convicted Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, late last night, filed a notice of appeal against the judgement of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) which earlier in the day convicted him of non-declaration of assets. In the 16 grounds notice of appeal filed through his counsel, Chief Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), Onnoghen prayed the Appeal Court for an order that the lower tribunal lacks jurisdiction to entertain the case in the first place. He also prays the court to make an order that the lower tribunal ought to have recused itself from the proceedings before it. Onnoghen also prays the court for an order that the charge has become an academic exercise and setting aside the conviction of the appellant. He also wants the court to set aside the order of forfeiture of assets made by the tribunal. Onnoghen equally prays the appellate court to discharge and acquit him. In his grounds of appeal, Onnoghen submitted that the lower tribunal erred when it dismissed his application challenging the jurisdiction and thus occasioned a grave miscarriage of justice. In ground two, Onnoghen argued that the tribunal erred in law when it dismissed his application seeking the chairman of the tribunal to recuse himself from further proceedings on the ground of real likelihood of bias and thus occasioned a miscarriage of justice. In the third ground, the appellant submitted that the lower tribunal erred in law when it refused to recuse itself from the proceedings in view of open declaration by the chairman of the tribunal that it is only accountable to the President who appointed him and nobody because he is not a judicial officer and thus occassioned a grave miscarriage of justice. In addition, the appellant contended that the Tribunal erred in law when it held that the appellant confessed to the charges framed by admission and used that as a basis to hold that the appellant did not declare his assets from year 2005 when he became a Justice of the Supreme Court and thus occassioned a miscarriage of justice. He also submitted that the lower tribunal erred in law and acted without jurisdiction when it ordered that the assets of the appellant be confiscated and thus occasioned a miscarriage of Justice. Onnoghen also contended that the Tribunal erred in law when it convicted the defendant /appellant for false declaration of assets when the essential elements of the offence, as defined under Paragraph 11(2) of the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution (1999), had not been proved beyond reasonable doubt. He also submitted that the Tribunal erred in law when it placed on the defendant the burden of proving his innocence in violation of Section 36(5) of the 1999 Constitution, and Section 135(1) of Evidence Act 2011. No date has been fixed for the hearing. Walter Onnoghen has filed a suit against the federal government over his suspension as the chief justice of Nigeria (CJN). Mr Onnoghen who is currently standing trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) was suspended on Friday by President Muhammadu Buhari. He was accused of false assets declaration. Onnoghen… In “News” Tribunal adjourns till March 18   CJN challenges CCT's refusal to deliver ruling on objection   The on-going non-asset declaration trial of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja was yesterday stalled due to toothache and high… In “News” Trouble seems not to be over for the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, as the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division yesterday refused to stay his trial in the false asset declaration charges brought against him by the Federal Government before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT).… In “News”