National Chairman of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Chief Ralph Okey Nwosu is not happy with the conduct of the 2019 general elections. Nwosu in this interview with ONYEKACHI EZE, says there may be no election in 2023 if anomalies in the last polls are not corrected   The elections have come and gone, the dust is yet to settle. From the benefit of hindsight as a critical player in this election, how do you access the exercise?  The elections have come but it is not over. So it may be wrong to say it has come and gone. It is not over because what happened is not election. We will be fooling ourselves if we feel our democracy should degenerate instead of moving forward.  I like to put things in context and I am doing so for the purpose of clarity so that people will see why people like me and other patriots in this country should be very worried. You know since our independence, many civilian rule has not gone beyond, if possibly one tenure. The things that happen mostly at the end of the first tenure, culminate in its disappearance. It happened in the ’60s and that led to war; there was division in the country and we had a war.  By the time we got ourselves together, the military which was in power, worked on different transition and democratization timetable. It was in 1979 that the person of Olusegun Obasanjo who became Head of State by default of death of Murtala Mohammed, insisted that they must end military rule, and followed the timetable set. In 1979, he terminated the military rule. Most of his colleagues in the military were not even pleased with that. They had wanted to continue in power…  But people are saying that the problem we have is that people like Obasanjo that you have mentioned did not institutionalize the democracy that we have. He failed to strengthen our institutions like INEC, military and so on…  You see that is why I say we need to contextualize issues. All the leaders operated at different times. So they all should have different burdens. Maybe, if you put Obasanjo here now and ask him, there were some things you did, what was on his mind when he did them? He will tell you, “I retired some military officers, maybe not the time they were supposed to be retired. But my burning desire was to protect our democracy and not anything personal.” That is being patriotic.  We have not gone from one tenure to the other, so it is not anything personal. Leaders lead under some context, so it is not about blaming somebody because there may be the context at play and the person might say ‘we had to do this, and if we didn’t do that, the democracy you enjoyed for 15 years, you wouldn’t have enjoyed it. If I didn’t take this step, no matter how you look at it, that the jinx we could break since our independence, we could have broken it. I wasn’t taking that step because of me, I took it because of the nation. That’s why I have been contextualising it.’  Secondly, when in 2003, maybe because of his actions, we allowed a system overrun, then it would have just ended like the Second Republic. So at times, leaders should have the burden and you should reflect deeply. I have had people say Obasanjo did this or that.  Obasanjo and Muhammadu Buhari became democratic leaders of Nigeria under different context. Obasanjo had the burden of history. When even some people in the military, including Buhari didn’t want him to handover, he handed over and less than five years later, they were laughing at him. They took over government and brought it back to status quo ante.  Then that first tenure, if you were in his shoes, you will find out that the best military part of you will come out because you want to defend it. More so, when you were even the one that conducted that other election, you, wanting to make sure that it didn’t end up how others ended now that you are also the one midwifing it and you want democracy to flourish, you might see that you may not let everything completely lose. That is why I said that leadership is in context.  What they are saying is that our democratic institutions, for instance, if INEC is completely independent, nobody would interfere in its affairs so that it can conduct credible elections.  Institutional development takes time. If you set up an organisation and you don’t look into it over the years, that organisation can collapse. The important thing that happened to our democracy under President Obasanjo was that we crossed different milestones that we were not able to cross before, and the fact that three tenures were successfully crossed. Our democracy became robust enough that it was also able to carry the burden within the system without collapsing. The issue is, when you became Mr. President, how were you able to give more life to the system? We should put issues in context. From the point you became Mr. President, where were we? We should be looking at the point where Jonathan’s administration ended. You don’t go the context where we were still thinking whether we can cross things that have happened to our country before.  The only way you can interpret what has happened now, no matter how deeply you reflect about it, is by saying that we want to institutionalize; that is whether you like it or not, I am a general, I hold power and no matter how I performed, you cannot take the power away. When you bring such into our democracy, there is no more democracy because what has basically happened now is that people will go back and say Jonathan is stupid and that they told him that an incumbent does not lose election. People will now go back and say, that thing that happened that supposed to have given a lift to our democracy will be looked at in a bad light. When you leave that as a legacy, tomorrow anybody who become president can say “anything can happen. I can sleep in office, carry all the money in the office, the next thing is that I will call the Chief of Army Staff, the Chief of Air Staff, call all of them together and say, write results and nothing will happen.”  That is what we have now created, the death of democracy. So you cannot in anyway contextualize it. First, the person that did something that got you to where you are, people will look at him as a stupid man. Meanwhile that is somebody who had done something to leverage the system. Secondly, assuming the court system allows this perfidy to be, if tomorrow, when somebody takes over from Buhari – eventually somebody will take over from Buhari except he goes and changes the constitution – and the person does not do anything, he will use Buhari as a yardstick for his performance.  So the stage our democracy is today is very deadly and the existence of our country. That is why I said that the election is not over, except if you cannot see what I am seeing. If we have leaders who are interested in the corporate existence of Nigeria, then the election is not over yet.   In your last NWC meeting, you made reference to the need for electoral reforms, what kind of electoral reforms do you mean? I ask because we have had a lot of electoral reforms in this country.  You see, manipulating of institutions, especially the electoral body, INEC must be looked into. INEC must be reconstructed and a good template must be put down to check this culture of impunity where the INEC persons think that they owe the president or the ruling party. Something must be done about that. For me, it can happen in different ways. First of all we should look at the way they are appointed and the way they are financed. That electoral reform will help.  Secondly, we now have come to the era of some staggered election, which was not what we planned initially. It came to us from the system challenge we had where people rig election and the court had to come. That has happened at the state level. It must happen at the federal level sooner or later, especially with what has happened in the last elections. It must happen so that politicians will get disciplined. Otherwise, people can think that they can always manipulate the system and nothing will happen.  Furthermore, we need a reform that gets the elections to hold when we as a country want them to hold. What do I mean? For instance Kogi election is coming in November, other state election will come after that, they now all have to be staggered due to court judgments, it is not that we agreed that these elections should be holding at different times. So we need to have a reform, so that everything is brought together again. This is because one thing that have become apparent is that the people in the presidency start using the isolated election to experiment the type of rigging they will apply in the general election and that is not healthy for the country.  Also from our staggered elections we have too many holidays. There are too many election days. In the United States, even with their bigger population, they conduct all their critical elections in one day. The ones they don’t conduct on the set day is not because of failures but because of their constitutional provisions and the laws of the states. It is not because the court moved the dates of elections.  However, I have seen elections at local government levels; county elections, mayorate elections, governorship elections, state congress election, even senators and congressmen election and other elections take place in one day. If they take place on one day in the US, they can also take place on one day here. Assuming we want to give ourselves public holiday, it should just be one. After the first election in the 2019 general election was moved, I asked, “who gave some of these agencies and government the audacity to feel that they can just wake up and kill our working days, give holidays and deny public and private organisations the time to work; the time to harness their investments and so on, just because you are INEC? Who gave a government agency the audacity to feel that they can just ground the country?” It is wrong. The way we are going now, because of the type of elections we have conducted, elections will start to happen in more than 20 states at different dates by the time they finish the adjudications in this election. So we must design our system to keep our elections when the time that we have designed they should hold. It is very important because the rate with which we give public holidays in the country does not promote any quality economy.  You paint a picture of the opposition supposedly winning this election. Do you think the opposition did enough to win this election? Some people have argued that we had a situation where there was a CUPP arrangement and some parties in the CUPP are also fielding candidates for elections. If you do a proper interview more than 80 per cent of Nigerians will tell you that Atiku Abubakar won the presidential election and I can tell you why. Whether people campaigned or not; whether they did enough or not, at times the work of the failure of the incumbent have done your campaign for you. Benue State had nothing less than three mass burials within the time frame of the Buhari  administration. So if I am running against Buhari, I don’t need to go and do much in Benue. Buhari said he will bring Boko Haram to an end. That was part of the reasons he was elected in the first place, otherwise Jonathan was building Almajiri schools and putting some structures on ground for the northern lower class to come up. But because of the insurgency situation, people felt the situation needed more urgency and at the end of the day, the situation is still there.  Even when they boast that they have defeated Boko Haram, the following day Boko Haram will hit more than they did previously. You campaigned on that but what did you achieve? Then they campaigned on anti-corruption and all we can see, even hearing from them; the National Chairman of the party will come out openly and say, ‘if you want your sins to be forgiven, you come to our party!’ They made mockery of even the anti-corruption crusade that anybody who may be taking over power to really fight corruption will be thinking of how to fight it because he may be misunderstood. Or, is it the people from the South-East, who he said at the time he was taking over that they gave him only five per cent votes, “If you manage to get five per cent of anything I will do, you know it is because of constitutional provision,” and he stuck to that. Is it these people that will now be looking for you to vote for you? So at times the failure of the incumbent can do your campaign for the opposition. Now, do you think that it can be reversed by the judiciary? It is for the judiciary to do that. But when you are taking any decision in these matters you must be firm and ensure justice. I know sometimes when some officials are confronted with a case that is so bad, they will say for national interest so and so should happen. When I look at this case, I say “come, what national interest is that? We have violence, we had mourning everywhere; we had ballot stuffing, we’ve seen it. With this era of ICT, as things are happening everywhere, people are seeing them.” So, does it serve any national interest? These are the things that the judiciary will all look at. However, I am not a judge and I am not a lawyer. I am just a patriotic Nigerian. So it is left to them and their conscience. Loyalists of Governors Rochas Okorocha (Imo) and Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun) have formally dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over the controversial party primaries. While Okorocha’s men moved into Action Alliance (AA) in Imo State, Amosun’s associates, including his commissioners, yesterday pitched tent with Allied People's Movement (APM) in… In “News” Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as posing a threat to democracy for withholding his certificate of return.     Particularly, the governor berated INEC for withholding his Certificate of Return to the Senate, insisting that the electoral umpire lacked requisite powers… In “News” An estimated 7, 000 members of the Kwankwasiyya movement, a faction of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the Grassroot Solidarity Movement (GSM), yesterday declared support for the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma.   This also as Uzodinma alleged that… In “News”