It is those who know, access, acknowledge and fear God that are children of God. Those who do not know and acknowledge God are creations of God stolen by the devil to serve him. So, they are referred to as children of the devil.
The moment they encounter Christ who has already died and paid for their sins with his blood, they are delivered from the enemy’s camp which is the kingdom of darkness, into the marvelous light of God. They are adopted as sons of God.
“If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and will forgive their sins, and heal their land” (2nd Chronicles 7:14).
When a man and woman indulge in sexual activity outside the creator’s instructions and begin to live together as couple without following the expected procedures, they are not God’s people. God does not approve illicit relationships. Let us assume you are a man. You are living with someone you call a spouse, even with children. You have not fulfilled the traditional marriage rites of paying bride price, dowry to bride’s parents, etc (depending on where you come from). You have not wedded at the altar of God. You have not wedded in court. Your relationship is not yet official. It is time to do the needful so that you limit sources of spiritual attack against your relationship.
Maybe years ago, you married someone officially, wedded in church and all that. Today you have abandoned the person with children and you are living with another person, calling the person your spouse. My dear, you have issues with God. You must go back to your first love.
“If my people, who are CALLED BY MY NAME…” What is God’s name? Love.
“He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love” (1st John 4:8).
If you claim to be a Christian couple but insult and disgrace each other in public, bear malice with each other, lie to each other or maltreat each other, you are not yet a people called by God’s name. You need a fresh encounter with Christ and baptism of your hearts. For now, you are a couple in the enemy’s camp.
God’s nature represents peace, patience, forgiveness, holiness and many other godly features. Do you have these features as a couple?
“If my people, who are called by my name, WILL HUMBLE THEMSELVES…”
From research, divine revelation and experience, I can tell you for free that a high percentage of marital conflicts are products of SELF and EGO. Humility does not mean thinking less of yourself but thinking of yourself less. As long as you remain yourself, you can hardly please God.
“If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me” (Matthew 16:24).
Selflessness is one of the major secrets of marital success. Once Christ takes over you, it is no longer you that lives but Christ who lives in you. So, “A whole me” syndrome dies. You begin to forgive your spouse easily and overlook many offences effortlessly. The love of God prevails and you become a couple recognized by God.
A couple made up of people ruled by arrogance and pride can neither please God nor produce marital success.
“If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves AND PRAY AND SEEK MY FACE…”
Many couples do not consult God on any issue. They walk in carnality and take decisions based on worldly standards and approaches. This is why a couple gives bribes and arranges special miracle exam centres for their children out of desperation to have them pass exams and get admitted in a particular school or study a particular course by all means. At the end, the child though a graduate, becomes frustrated because he or she was forced to follow a path contrary to God’s will for the child.
Couples who do not pray and seek God’s face are those who embark on a particular business venture just because it is in vogue. They attend a particular church because it is a happening church and not necessarily because they desire encounter with God.
A husband and wife that do not jointly pray and seek God’s face wake up in the morning and rush out without family prayer sessions. Their children do likewise and tomorrow, those children bring the challenge of peer group and social media influence, culminating in cultism, hard drugs, prostitution and so on. This is because there was no provision for parental feeding on God’s word.
“If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face AND TURN FROM THEIR WICKED WAYS,..”
As you read this piece, examine your relationship with your spouse. Are there wicked ways? Are there lifestyles that contradict God’s expectations? It is time to repent because God is angry with the wicked everyday” (Psalm 7:11).
It is only when you turn from your wicked ways that God will hear from heaven and forgive your sins. All your attendance of vigils and prayer sessions can hardly yield results until you turn from wicked way of defrauding your spouse, committing adultery, holding on to offence and refusing to forgive, etc. Until you turn from wicked ways, God will not hear from heaven and forgive your sins.
The sickness of your marital relationship can only be healed by God if you do what he says. Your heart desire may be granted if you befriend God. Every expectation lacking in your marital relationship can only appear if you run after the creator of marriage himself.
“If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and will forgive their sins, and heal their land”.