…orders disciplinary action against killers of Kolade  President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said his government would not tolerate the brutality of Nigerians by men and officers of the Nigerian Police.  The President stated this in reaction to the killing of one Mr. Kolade Johnson, by operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in the Lagos State police command. The President acknowl edged the genuine outrage regarding the activities of SARS and reassures the public that swift actions have already been taken. He said the police suspects were in custody and an orderly room trial was set to commence immediately, following which indicted officers would be prosecuted in court.  In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, President Buhari commiserated with the family of the deceased. According to President Buhari, “Government will not tolerate in any way the brutalisation of Nigerians or the violation of their rights. Any officer of the law enforcement agencies or any other government functionary caught in this act will certainly be visited with the full weight of the law.”  It will be recalled that following directives from the Presidency in 2018 to overhaul the management and activities of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), steps were taken by the police leadership to restructure and reform SARS.  The President recognised that a lot more remains to be done and this effort must be sustained. He reassured the nation that his administration would continue to ensure that all officers in the police and other law enforcement agencies conduct their operations in strict adherence to the rule of law and with due regard to International Human Rights and Humanitarian Law. Nigerians rose in their thousands yesterday to protest the brutality and other atrocities being committed by policemen attached to the Special Armed Robbery Squad (SARS). This came as a 30-yearold man, Okunola Adebayo, whose mother was killed by SARS in Lagos, yesterday recounted his family’s ordeal. During the protests organised… In “News” IG orders movement of 30 personnel to Abuja Over 30 operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) have been arrested and taken to the Force Headquarters, Abuja, on the orders of the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mr. Ibrahim Idris. The operatives were arrested following petitions written against them by some… In “News” The Senate has become popular for carrying out investigations into issues it feels are not done right or it suspects corruption. CHUKWU DAVID reports that the apex chamber's resolve last week to probe into three worrisome developments in the polity, with a view to proffering solutions   Senate investigates SARS… In “Politics”