Crisis seems to be brewing in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over the Speakership of the House of Representatives as Hon. John Dyegh (APC, Benue) and Hon. Umaru Mohammed Bago (APC, Niger) insisted in going ahead with their bid for the office less than 24 hours after the party zoned the House Speaker to South-West and endorsed Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila.
Dyegh and Bago are both from the North-Central. This is just as one of the contestants for the Speakership, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase (APC, Plateau), allegedly got President Muhammadu Buhari infuriated at the dinner organised for APC members-elect on Tuesday when he accused the leadership of the party of dumping him for the House leader, Gbajabiamila. Bago has warned that the zoning of speakership to South-West and endorsement of Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos) would make the party lose the position.
The lawmaker said he was going ahead with his aspiration despite the endorsement of Gbajabiamila by the leadership of the ruling party. Bago, in a statement by the spokesperson of his campaign organisation, Hon. Afam Ogene, yesterday declared that “there is no retreat, no surrender, in our demand for equity and justice in the zoning arrangement, and the ultimate desire of many members-elect to be allowed to choose their own leaders.” He insisted that “it is our contention that our party is being goaded towards the same ignoble path which led to the 2015 fiasco, which the National Assembly leadership tussle turned out to be.” He said their quest for inclusivity has “rather than being stifled only gained further traction, especially against the realization that the template which our national chairman relied upon in arriving at this curious choice remains hazy.” The Niger lawmaker said: “We, therefore, condemn this obvious attempt to drag our party through the same tortuous path of 2015, all in a bid to sustain a legacy of imposition aimed at entrenching one man’s imperious dynasty.
“Until – and unless – the right thing is done, we reiterate our commitment to the pursuit of equity, justice and the independence of the legislature. “For us in the Hon. Mohammed Umaru Bago Campaign Organization, we view the development as a poorly choreographed political orchestra aimed at using the hallowed precincts of the Presidential Villa to anoint a candidate from the South-West geo-political zone.” He commended President Buhari, whom he said had to reprimand the APC national chairman, Adam’s Oshiomhole “for discussing unnecessary details that were unknown to him,” saying that his understanding of how to proceed was that all zones would meet and discuss zoning. “I do not expect you to come into the open and say this much, Mr. Chairman,” President Buhari reportedly said after Oshiomhole pronounced Gbajamiamila as the anointed candidate of the party. While declaring his ambition to contest for speaker, yesterday, Dyegh, who represents Gboko/Tarka federal constituency of Benue State, said he was loyal to the APC, but was not comfortable with the decision of the party to zone the position to South-West instead of North-Central. “My party, the APC, in her wisdom, zoned the position of speaker to the South-West and even micro-zoned. I am a party man and my loyalty to the APC is 100%, however, the North-Central zone has not been convinced nor given reasons why their votes should not count and why we should not run and we feel very strongly that there is still room for negotiation because we believe ‘it is not over until it is over’. “We are, therefore, appealing to the party to have a rethink and rezone the speakership to the North-Central for justice and fair play. We pray to God Almighty to touch the hearts of our leaders to reconsider us favourably,” he submitted.
The only APC ranking lawmaker from Benue explained that his “ambition is a response to the clarion call by my constituents, honourable colleagues in the Green Chamber across party lines, party faithful and other stakeholders in the North-Central geopolitical zone and Nigeria in general, for me to offer myself for this office.” Citing section 14 (3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which dwells on federal character, Dyegh argued that: “It will only be fair, if the position of speaker is given to the North-Central, having taken away the seat of Senate President to the North-East. It is instructive to note that the North-Central has neither produced speaker nor the deputy speaker since 1999. “We are saying that reward in politics is based on what you bring to the table and the North-Central brought the third highest number of votes in making President Buhari’s second term a reality and enabling the APC to form Federal Government.”
The lawmaker revealed that he intends to initiate and implement a seven-point evidence-based legislative agenda which includes “amendment of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) to ensure leg   islative experience counts by extending the four-year tenure to six-year tenure for the legislature.”  Amongst other things, he promised to sustain and deepen independence of the National Assembly and ensure harmonious interdependent working relationship with the executive arm of government without undermining the principles of separation of powers.”
The entry of Dyegh into the race has brought the number of candidates who have openly declared their intention for the position of speaker to six. Those who had earlier declared include: Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos), Hon. Abdulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa), Hon. Yusuf Yakub (APC, Adamawa), Hon. Nkeiruka Onyeajocha (APC, Abia) and Hon. Chike Okafor (APC, Imo). Meanwhile, New Telegraph was reliably informed that President Buhari was not happy at the dinner he hosted for the Reps-elect, where Wase, representing Wase federal constituency of Plateau, expressed displeasure with the president and leadership of the party for deceiving him. The scenario, our source said, led the president to accuse Hon. Wase of “spoiling” his dinner.  Some members who attended the meeting told New Telegraph in confidence that Wase, while reacting to the endorsement of Gbajabiamila by the party as announced by Adams Oshiomhole, said he was not happy for being left out of the deal as earlier discussed.  According to one of the members, “After the chairman (Oshiomhole addressed us, we were given room to respond. Hon. Hadijat Bukar-Ibrahim spoke; Hon. Nasiru also spoke and when Hon. Wase was called upon to speak, he said ‘he was very disappointed with what transpired at the dinner. He said at the meeting held at the Villa some weeks back, where Governor Nasir el-Rufai also attended, they promised to make him deputy speaker. ‘But today, it was only Gbajabiamila that has been presented to the House’.” The lawmaker disclosed that Wase’s reaction got President Buhari furious and he retorted: “I don’t know you (Wase) before; they brought you to me and what we discussed was in private; so why did you bring it here? Why did you spoil my dinner? You have spoilt my dinner.”  New Telegraph had, a week ago, reported exclusively that Wase, who was running for speaker had agreed to step down and work with Gbajabiamila after being promised the position of deputy speaker. We also reported that the meeting where this took place was brokered by Governor el-Rufai of Kaduna State at the Villa.