Officers of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC), Ibadan zonal office, yesterday arrested 11 suspected internet fraudsters, popularly known as ‘Yahoo- Yahoo Boys’.  This came as the Oyo State special security outfit, ‘Operation Burst,’ handed over two suspected internet fraudsters to the Ibadan zonal office of the commission for prosecution. They are Sanusi Azeez Toba and Osho Olalekun Michael. The outfit also rescued two female victims. Six of the suspects, whose ages range between 17 and 29, were arrested at 2nd Pipeline, Ologun Eru, Ibadan, while the other five were picked up at a location in Ijebu-Remo, Ogun State.  Those arrested in Ibadan are Akinbinu Akinfemi, Wasiu Adeyemi, Idowu Samson, Tijani Usman, Saheed Eniafe and Adeyi Victor. Benson Gospel, Abdulazeez Gafar, Agbumabiwon Abiodun, Abayomi  Awotedu, and Bukayo Abiodun were apprehended at Ijebu-Remo.  Arrests of the alleged fraudsters were made possible by petitions from their neighbours, who had detailed the suspects’ alleged fraudulent activities, including love scam and other forms of internet fraud through which they had allegedly obtained money from unsuspecting victims. Items recovered from them include laptops, mobile phones and several documents containing a series of evidence of false pretences. EFCC said Toba and Michael were arrested on April 3, 2019 at Kolapo Ishola, Akobo area of Ibadan after one of their victims, a lady, escaped by jumping down the two-storey building where she and others were taken hostage. “We met at the club last night and we all went back to their apartment to sleep over. At some point, I noticed some funny movement and saw them with a calabash.  That was when I knew they were ‘ritualists’ with the intention to use me for rituals. So I jumped off the two-storey building, and the fence. I then reported the case to the ‘Operation Burst,” the victim. The EFCC said that preliminary investigations had shown that the suspects had various incriminating documents stored in the laptops and phones recovered from them at the point of arrest.  “All the suspects will be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded,” the commission said.