 A leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Imo State, Hon. Chrislance Onyemechara, who is a pioneer member of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s support groups in the state and Director South-East Support for Buhari, yesterday, said Imo APC is committed to pushing for a leadership position at the National Assembly. Speaking to newsmen at the weekend, Onyemechara who is the National Convener of the APC South-East Renaissance Group said the demand by the South-East for a leadership position at the 9th Assembly is legitimate and popular.  He said, “You may be aware that we have been mobilising support across the geopolitical zones to press home the demand of the Southeast for principal officer position at the National Assembly.  “We are not leaving any stone unturned. Our party has already zoned the Senate President position to the North-East. With the South-West occupying the Vice Presidency of the country, we are demanding the Speakership position of the House of Representatives.  “Already, we have a ranking member in the person of Hon. Chike Okafor, who is an untainted party man who has never been in any other party except the APC and boast of sterling legislative credentials.”  He noted that APC denied the South-East principal-office positions in the National Assembly in 2015, on the ground that it didn’t have a ranking member under the APC.  He continued: “Four years after, we have produced two ranking members and we will negotiate, engage and demand that the goal post is not shifted now that we are positioned for leadership “From established political norms and antecedents, in the spirit of natural justice and equity, what we thought our party would have naturally bequeathed us – the Senate Presidency or the Speakership of the House of Representatives – are now subjects of political contention and controversy.  “However, now that the party, in its wisdom, has decided to zone the Senate President position to the North-East, we strongly believe that the just and equitable thing for our party to do is to zone the Speakership of the House of Representatives to the South-East.  “Instead, what we see seems to offend the essence of justice and distorts the pattern of fair sharing as intended by the Federal Character clause in our constitution.” As the battle for leadership positions in the 9th Senate hosts up, OKEY MADUFORO, in this analysis, looks at the chances of the South-East in the power equation   The travails of late Senate President Chuba Okadigbo; the Oyi of Oyi at the hallowed chambers of the National Assembly and… In “Politics” A pressure group, Ogene Ndigbo Support for Equity and Good Governance, yesterday endorsed a former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu for Deputy Senate President in the 9th National Assembly. The group said that Kalu who was elected to represent Abia North Senatorial District in the upper chamber… In “News” As the jostling for the leadership of the incoming 9th National Assembly gets hotter, KENNETH OFOMA reports that today’s meeting of the South East APC in Enugu may take a final position on the matter.   Barring any last minute change in plans, the South East leadership of the All… In “Politics”