Thirty-four-year-old Kolade Johnson was just a toddler when Mr. Remi Lukmon took over fending for him.
Johnson’s mother was said to have had issues with her husband and both later separated. The woman had since remarried.
It was learnt that after re-marrying, the woman took Kolade to Lukmon, who is her elder brother, to train alongside his own children.
Lukmon had welcomed the young Kolade and trained him from primary to university level. Kolade graduated from the University of Benin, where he studied Economics.
After his graduation, Kolade left Nigeria for South Africa in search of greener pastures. He would later fall in love with a lady in South Africa, who he was said to have married.
It’s unclear the length of time Kolade, fondly called Kolo by friends, spent in South Africa, before he returned to Nigeria towards the end of last year.
He had many dreams and his ‘father,’ Lukmon, also had many yearnings he had hoped would be achieved through Kolade.
All the yearnings and dreams died with Kolade when policemen from Anti-Cultism Unit of the Lagos State Police Command on Sunday evening at Aboderin Street, Onipetesi, Mangoro bus stop, while watching Liverpool and Tottenham match with friends.
Kolade’s death has plunged the community, family and friends into mourning, with many relieving the last moments of the deceased.
On Monday morning, our correspondent moved to Kolade’s home, but met Lukmon (57) at Mangoro bus stop. He was in the midst of Kolade’s friends. His eyes were whirlpool of pains. He looked pale and rough.
The grieving man said that since he heard about the death of his son, he had not been able to eat or bathe.
The bereaved father described Kolade’s death as unfortunate, saying he had “lost a friend.”
According to him, he was coming from Ipaja Estate on Sunday when he saw a crowd at the bus stop leading to Olu Aboderin Street he didn’t know the crowd was mourning his son.
He said: “I was about washing my hands, when someone called and told me that my son had been shot. Initially I did not know he had died; not until I got to the scene. Kolade had been with me since he was an infant. I’m going to miss him. I heard he was not even fighting with the police. Kolade and his friends were trying to pacify the policemen from taking one of their friends, Ismaila, away. Unfortunately, he was shot at close range. I heard that two policemen, who were in mufti, came to bundle Islmaila into their bus. Ismaila’s girlfriend ran to call his friends, who were watching football at Kingstin Jo Eatery, close to the scene of the incident.”
Lukmon said that Kolade and his friends didn’t threaten the policemen, but everyone heard one of the armed policemen shouting, “I’m going to kill! I’m going to kill and then he shot sporadically into the air and shot at the ground and the he released a third shot. The third shot hit Kolade where he was standing. He fell down.”
Rather than take Kolade to hospital after shooting him, the police dragged Ismaila into their bus and drove away.
Ismaila later called friends, begging them to come and pick him. He told them that the policemen gave him a serious beaten, kicked him out of their van and dumped him by the roadside.
He said he couldn’t walk. It is believed that friends went to rescue him.
Lukmon said: “I have also reported the matter to the Officer in Charge (OC) of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad. It was the OC that called the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu. Policemen were immediately deployed to the scene. I want nothing but justice for Kolade.”
The quest for justice has started as the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Muazu, on Tuesday, while on a condolence visit to the family of the slain Liverpool fan, revealed that two of the policemen, Inspector Ogunyemi Olalekan and Sergeant Godwin Orji, who went to arrest Ismaila for sporting dreadlocks, had been arrested.
Kolade’s elder brother, Awakan Johnson, said: “I was coming from Iyana-Ipaja yesterday when I saw a backlog of traffic from Mangoro. When I saw that the traffic was not moving fast, I came down from the bus and started trekking till I got to the scene of the incident. I heard people saying that something happened to Kolade. Before I knew it, my sister had called to say that Kolade was dead. When I got to the mortuary, friends that rushed him to hospital explained that Kolade left home about 4p.m. to watch football at Kinsting Joe Eatery. He was there till Ismaila, who was seeing off his girlfriend, was accosted by some policemen.”
Awakan added: “People around know Islmaila. They came out to prevent the policemen from taking him away. These policemen were not even in uniform. Nobody knew they were policemen. Just like other friends, Kolade also came out, but stood afar. The policemen were trying to scare the crowd. They shot sporadically and a stray bullet got him. The bullet pierced his abdomen and thigh. When I checked his body at the morgue, I discovered that the bullet also pierced his hand and entered his abdomen.”
One of his friends, who gave his name simply as Efosa, said: “I was with Kolade two hours before he was shot dead. We rushed him to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). The doctors didn’t even check him to see if they could do save him. They just told us that we should take him to mortuary; that he was dead on arrival.”
Efosa recalled: “When we got to the mortuary at Yaba, we paid N3,000 for stretcher, N6,000 for body bag and N10,000 for ambulance. We carried him ourselves into the morgue. We were told the workers were not around.”
The Officer in Charge of Police Complaint Response Unit, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Yomi Shogunle, has registered the death of Kolade, describing it as a case of ‘Excessive Use of Force.’ He said that the case would be treated as homicide.
The manager of Kingstin Jo Eatery, where Kolade was watching football match before his death, preferred to be simply called Jide.
He said: “We were all in the hall watching football, when Ismaila’s girlfriend rushed in to call everyone. We went outside to see what was happening. We noticed that policemen were trying to take Ismaila away.
“I and others approached the police, to know what he had done. The two policemen, who were dragging Ismaila, were in mufti, others were waiting in their bus. The policemen refused to listen to our pleas. They dragged Ismaila forcibly into their bus. They were about to move when the policeman that killed Kolade came down from the bus and threatened to kill. Before we knew what was happening, he had shot Kolade to death.
“Everything was like a dream to me. As I speak with you, I still don’t believe Kolade is dead. He was a nice man. I knew when he travelled to South Africa. He married there. We’re still mourning him, because it will take time before we forget about him. We don’t want to take laws into our hands; that’s why we have remained calm.”
Another friend, Mr. Egiosa Kingsley, said: “Kolade only came back to Nigeria to fix some things. As I speak with you, his wife in South Africa is not aware that Kolade has been killed. Kolade’s death was a big loss to me. Two weeks before he died, when he visited me, my girlfriend was cooking ‘ogbono’ soup. Immediately Kolade walked in, he told her to leave the kitchen that he would cook the soup. Some minutes later, he had finished cooking the soup. Everyone who ate the soup didn’t know it was Kolade that prepared it. He was a friendly person. I’m going to miss him. We were always together. I have not been able to sleep since Sunday. Each time I tried to close my eyes, I would see him.”
Kolade’s mother was in the midst of mourners and sympathisers. Attempts made by our correspondent to speak with her were rebuffed.