As Christians in Nigeria join their counterparts all over the world to commemorate the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ today, denominational leaders in the country have charged our leaders to demonstrate selfless in governance and show love for other people particularly the masses. They insisted that every strata of leadership in the country should emulate the virtues, which the saviour of the world exhibited in his life time, even to the point of self-sacrifice just to save humanity from perishing. In their separate Easter messages to Nigeria, the oracles of God did not mince words in pointing out that Easter brought hope and victory to humanity, through the risen Christ. Below are parts of the counsels by Christian leaders across the land:  Show love, be selfless –Rt. Rev Bamishebi Olumakaiye, Anglican Bishop of Lagos, “Nigerian leaders should show love for other people, live a life of sacrifice and be committed to governance in such a way that will make” life better for the masses, in the spirit of Easter. According to him, one of the messages of the resurrection of Jesus Christ is hope that Jesus Christ brought to humanity through just resurrection from the dead. “Nigerians cannot keep over emphasise the various challenges facing Nigeria especially the dwindling economy, insecurity, and poor state of infrastructure s and many others. There is hope for Nigeria through the risen Christ and savior,” he added. Love, tolerance covers all ills – Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Dr. Alfred Martins “Love is the virtue that we all need to practice as Nigerians so that we can together fight against the numerous ills plaguing the land and move towards the path of lasting peace and prosperity.” He urged the newly elected political office holders in the country, to use the opportunity given to them to better the lots of Nigerians through rendering selfless and result-oriented service. Martins, however, frowned at the insecurity and killings pointing out, “it’s so very rampant;” as he called on the security agencies to change their strategies for fighting insecurity which he said are not working. Let Easter fill you with faith – Colonel Victor Leslie, Territorial Commander, of Salvation Army church. “Nigerians should allow the grace of Easter to fill their hearts with faith in the risen Christ. That, he said, is the only way their seeking hearts can find “the prosperity, not disaster and the future we in Nigerian hope for.” He added “We live in a world where people are seeking and even weeping as they seek answers that bring peace, healing and resolution to life’s questions. As the mind becomes saturated with misconceptions and deceits planted by Satan and reinforced by the culture of greed, individualism and prosperity, humanity ends up clinching to fake answers. “But the good news is that, like Mary, we can find real answers, truth answers. The resurrection of Jesus Christ changed everything. The mistaken beliefs are done away with and through our saving faith in Jesus we can now relate to life as a whole in a new way.
Promote peace, love –Muoka converses While the Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Ministry’ two-day power crusade titled a Covenant of Peace and Blessing” is yet ongoing, the church’s General Overseer, Pastor Lazarus Muoka, has charged Nigerian to embrace peace and love. According to the Cleric, Easter is inseparably tied to peace, hope and blessing which said are the intangible chords that help people to get beyond the sad and sordid situations that might bog them down and give them a sense of hopelessness. “Easter therefore brings that optimism that no matter how difficult or how challenging a situation or condition may be, having knowledge of the resurrection will remind you that if Jesus could defeat death, then all things are possible. “It also suggests that as bad as the prevailing situation might appear, there is the expectation that things will get better if we accept Jesus as our Lord and Saviour,” Pastor Muoka said.
Evil can’t triumph –Dr. Kanu Uche, Prelate, Methodist Church of Nigeria “Easter means victory, and Easter means that no condition is permanent. If you have darkness in a tunnel, at the end of the tunnel there will be light. So, Easter shows us that even though evil is going to make noise and be boisterous, evil does not last. What will last is righteousness; righteousness is durable,” he said expressly.