Hon. John Tondu, a former Commissioner for Land and Survey, was one of the governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue State, but lost to the incumbent governor, Samuel Ortom. In this interview with ONYEKACHI EZE, Tondu speaks on many issues including the need for Nigerians not to elect leaders on sentiments  How would you assess the last general elections in terms of security and deployment of materials by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)? Well, election has come and gone and everything went well. Materials were deployed on time. It is basically the role of INEC to ensure that materials get to the venue where everyone is expected to exercise his or her fundamental right. In terms of security in Benue State, I don’t think there were serious issues because the security men were very professional in their duties.  How do you see the outcome of the election? In every contest, there are expectations and there must be a winner and a loser. All we can ask people is that the winners should be magnanimous in victory and the losers should also be able to accept defeat so that together we can move the state forward.  In recent times, we witnessed an improvement in the security situation in Benue particularly in Tiv speaking areas where they were mindless killings almost on a weekly basis. What would you attribute that to? If you say we have witnessed an improvement in terms of security as regards what has been happening, that is not completely true. As we speak today, most of those areas where there were issues, they are living in IDP camps, so nobody is there. The people have actually left the place and because they are no longer there; the land in question has been occupied by herdsmen and that explains why you are not seeing massive killings. So if you say there are no killings, it is because the people are not at home. So there is no improvement in security as it concerns the issue of Benue State. It is a very serious issue.  As I speak with you, nobody is in my village, my people have left the village for over 15 months now. My house in the village had been razed completely and I don’t know when my people will return to my village to carry out their farming activities. So, if you say security has improved it is not true, rather it has worsened because the land has completely been takeover.  What do you think the government, in particular the Federal Government need to do to ensure that this thing is nipped in the bud? Well, we are a nation and no state is isolated from the government at the centre. What we can do is to appeal to both the state and the Federal Government to come together and see how there will be peace in Benue State, and the entire country at large.   Ortom has won second term in office; you have witnessed his first tenure. What target would you set for his second tenure? He is the governor of the state but if he requires my advice, I will give him objectively the way it is because my interest is the development of the state. You cannot set an agenda for a governor who is sitting on the chair, you can only advice, that is what I can do, advisory role.  What would be your advice to all elected leaders? My advice to them is that they should look at it that God has given them the opportunity, and the position they are holding, they are holding it in trust on behalf of Nigerians. What should be paramount is service. This position they are occupying, they are not supposed to lord it over Nigerians, and they are supposed to serve Nigerians. So if they take it that this position is service then they would be able to do what will better the life of the common man.  Do you agree with Ortom that godfatherism is dead in Benue State? I had the privilege of serving my state as a commissioner. What I don’t do and what I will never discuss in life, even at a particular point in time, were issues of conflict between my principal, Gabriel Suswam and his predecessor, George Akume. My advice to them is that Benue is our state and as our state, all the political gladiators should be able to come together to see how we can position Benue State on the map of Nigeria.  You vied for the PDP governorship ticket for Benue State but you lost to Ortom. In the event that he calls you to join hands with him to move the state forward, will you make yourself available? Politics is not a career; it is a means of service. I have what I do for a living, but for others it is a career. If today the governor genuinely extends his hands of fellowship, and it depends on what perspective, I don’t necessarily need to be his appointee to contribute my own quota to the development of Benue State. I am already contributing to the development of Benue State in my own little way.  Some Nigerians have commended PDP for its performance in the last general elections, do you agree that the performance of PDP governors earned the party that victory? Nigerians have become more aware and are more determined in deciding who comes to position. But I am still praying that Nigerians should be very much concerned about the leaders they elect. They shouldn’t be electing leaders based on sentiments and emotions because at the end of the day, after leaders have been elected they go back home and begin to complain. Emotions and sentiments should be put aside in the course of deciding who they should be electing, irrespective of political parties. Now, the election has come and gone; what is the next step for you? Politics to me, is not a career; it is just an avenue where you know the basic things your people need, see if you can add value to make a difference. But once it doesn’t happen, you have to return to the drawing board, and see what you think you can do. I am a professional and I am rendering my professional services for the development of this country, to add value to the country in whatever capacity I am in a position to do. That is what is important to me, that is what is on my mind at the moment. Is there any specific area that you think we still need to work on ahead of 2023 election? If I am in a position, I would advise the National Assembly to send a bill to the president that was returned back to them. The National Assembly would be doing justice to Nigeria if today the president returned that bill on the basis it was too close to the election; now that elections have come and gone, they should be able to forward that bill to the president for his assent so that by 2023 Nigerians will know that their votes will really count. It is actually in the hands of the National Assembly and the leadership of the National Assembly to write their names in gold if they put everything behind and forward that bill to the president again. Now that the president himself has nothing at stake in 2023, if he is able to sign that bill before the end of this administration, not waiting till another National Assembly is constituted and they go back to the drawing board and start working on that bill. What is your take on the position of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, that the party should not share any position with PDP in the leadership of the National Assembly? First of all we are in democracy and the National Assembly has people who have had records of service in different perspectives. Of course it would not be reasonable for PDP to be vying for the position of the Senate president and that of the speaker objectively. But then it is also not right for the ruling party to also begin to think that they can install a leadership of the National Assembly outside the floor of the National Assembly. So my advice objectively, should have been that, the National Assembly members should be allowed to choose their leaders. And in advising the position, parties that are in the minority, should look at the ruling party for somebody they can trust that can bring value to the National Assembly.   Do you have preference for any geo-political zone? In terms of geo-political position of the country, I think that with what has happened in this outgoing leadership of the National Assembly, the Senate President was from the North Central, the speakership was from the North East. Now that the permutations have changed, I have not seen anybody from the North Central who is aspiring to occupy the position of the Senate President. Most of the major contenders in that position are from the North East, and with that permutations I feel strongly that the North East should be given the opportunity of producing the Senate President under the ruling party while that of the speakership is also given to the North Central, for fair play. So if the leadership of the ruling party is working on installing leadership in the National Assembly, they should begin to look at it objectively so that every part of the country will look at it that we are a nation.