The lingering crisis in the polygamous home of Mr. Idam Arua, Ezi Agha Ubam Ugwuegu, Afikpo in Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State has become life-threatening. One of its members, Anabaraonye Idam, is in coma at Accident and Emergency Unit of the Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki (FETHA) following a machete attack by some opposing members of the family. UCHENNA INYA reports from Abakaliki  The two families of Idam have been in serious crisis for years over properties and welfare of some of its members but the crisis took a dangerous dimension on March 10, 2019 when Anabaraonye Idam, 30, was cut severally on the head and other parts of his body during a free-for-all by the two families. The 30-year-old man is in coma at the hospital while his elder brother, Ndubuisi Idam, who was cut on the hand with machete is at Mater Hospital, Afikpo, receiving treatment.  Anabaraonye, who was lying in coma at FETHA when our correspondent visited the hospital was said to have returned home on that fateful day after being out of the village for over a year when he had problems with his step-brothers, leading to the shattering of his head with machete. The machete attack was said to have affected his brain, while Doctors were preparing him for surgery when New Telegraph visited.  Though no reason was given for the problem, it was gathered that the victim’s family and that of his step-brothers and sisters have been having issues ranging from house to landed property. The Anabaraonye family has six children, including their mother while that of his step-brother(s) have eight children including their own mother. They were said to have complained bitterly that only a room out of six rooms and palour built by their father was allocated to them while the remaining five rooms and palour were taken by their stepbrothers and sisters. They demanded for additional room(s) to accommodate them properly.  The victim’s family was also complaining that their own share of a landed property shared by their father to the two families to develop have almost been taken away by the other family. Abaraonye was always confronting their father and step brother over the issues. But his father’s uncle, Godwin Onya Arua, said he was not aware of serious issues in the family.  He accused his uncle and children of using dangerous weapons, including pestle, mortar and iron to inflict serious injuries on Anabaraonye. He said he had to report the matter to Afikpo Police Area command and the suspects were arrested. Arua expressed shock that all the suspects were immediately released by the police, alleging that the matter is treated with kid gloves while the major victim, Anabaraonye was dying in the hospital without any of the suspects asking after him. He said “on Sunday being March 10, I was having a hair cut in front of my house when suddenly one of my brother’s sons, who came from Abakaliki greeted me and my younger brother and told us that he was coming. He moved adjacent of their building. Within 20 minutes I heard noise in the compound.  My younger brother came out while I was still having a hair cut in from of our house and raised an alarm that they were cutting somebody. “With that alarm, they rushed to my younger brother and threatened to cut him if he comes into the matter.  It was at that time that Anabarionye, the second son of the man’s second wife had the opportunity to escape from the attackers in his pool of blood. He carried stone and hit on their louvers and one of the first wife sons came out with a machete and started chasing him and it was now open. He gave him a cut on the back of his head and chased him out of the village to a nearby village where the guy slumped.”  “Eventually, the first son of the first wife by name Christian Arua came and was raising an alarm in the police that Anabaronye had been taken to the hospital. I told policemen men in the station that he was one of those that cut Anabaraonye and he was detained.  “His father came to the station and I told them that he is the father of those children and he was also detained. I told the policemen before the man that I saw mortar, pestle and iron and I cannot lie against him because he is my uncle. On Monday,11th, I was called to come and finalize my statement in the station.  I discovered that all of them have been released.” Arua was later arrested by the same area police command following a complaint against him by Idam Arua after his release. On her part, Mrs. Obila Idam who is Arua Idam’s second wife and Anabaraonye’s mother told New Telegraph that she has been passing through various maltreatments since she married her husband several years ago. She alleged that her husband, Idam Arua has refused to take care of her children and also denied them their entitlements in the two families.  She said: “This crisis started long ago. I wasn’t the one that imposed myself on him for marriage. He was the one that came to me in my parent’s house in Amachi in this Afikpo and married me. He came from Ubam to look for me and he married me after he finished marriage rites on me. He married me legally.  “But immediately I gave birth to my first child, he started hating me and treating me badly. His mother caused it as she was the one that was advising him to be maltreating me. There was nothing I did that he and his mother liked as they kept maltreating me.  “Despite this, I was still bearing children for him. You know, we women are very easy to deceive. He will always come to me whenever I finish nursing my baby and beg me and then I will forgive him. He will then impregnate me and start maltreating me the way he was doing to me before begging me. He is always very close to me whenever I finish nursing my child and I usually conceive immediately he sleeps with me. Immediately I give birth, he will start his troubles.  “We kept on living like that till my children increased in numbers. When Nnenna, one of my daughters wanted to write her WAEC, I met him and asked him to bring money but he vehemently refused, saying that he has no money. It was my younger ones that lived in Cross River State that she met and they gave her the money and her hostel money and she went to Holy Child Secondary School and wrote the examination.  “Why this condition is paining me is that these my two sons have refused to go to school. If you put them in school, they will not stay and learn, they will leave. Because of this, their father and my co-wife will be abusing me and telling me that that my children are useless.  But I am not the one that unilaterally gave birth to them. He impregnated me and I gave birth to them. So, we should be bearing the blame of their characters together, not me alone.”  “When it was the turn of another of my daughter to write her own WAEC, I also met my husband for him to give me money for her WAEC and he also refused. It was one Oko Ukpai, a mechanic that I approached and he gave me the money.”  “Out of seven rooms and palour including store my husband built, only one room was given to my six children; four girls and two boys while the store was given to me to live. The rest belongs to my co-wife and her eight children.  “There is a land belonging to my husband which was shared and a plot given to my children to develop. My co-wife’s son developed his own first and almost took all our own share of the land while developing his own. He left a very small thing for my children to develop and I pleaded with them to remain and work hard so as to buy land somewhere and build house when they get money.”  Ndubuisi Arua Idam, 38, who is nursing a machete injury on his hand narrated the attack thus: “I came back from where I went in the morning. I saw my younger brother, Anabaronye, who has been out of the village for a year and we greeted and embraced ourselves. He demanded for a key to our room which I gave him. He went inside to change his clothes.  I didn’t see him again and I became confused. I didn’t know that he was being beaten by my step brothers, who dragged him to backyard. “I was coming to the backyard when I heard some voices saying, ‘kill him’ and my father was there with a gun.  When I attempted to enter the back yard proper, my father threatened to shoot me. I ran outside and raised an alarm. People who heard my voice came but before then, they have cut my younger brother severally on the head. When I rushed to rescue him, they cut my hand like this with machete.”  When contacted, Idam Arua refused to comment on the matter. He promised to call back our correspondent on the telephone which he did not. However, Arua’s first son from the other wife, Azubuike Idam Arua later called our correspondent on the telephone.  “Go to the state CID and join the investigation and stop calling my father on the telephone. Leave my father alone please. If you report what did not happened, I will sue you”, he said.   The state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP loveth Odah, said she will brief Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Criminal Investigation Department(CID) to transfer the matter to the state police headquarters Abakaliki, as according to her it is a life threatening matter which should be thoroughly investigated.  “The Area Commander Afikpo, who is handling the matter is yet to say something about it and that is why it should be transferred to the state headquarters, Abakaliki.  This type of sensitive matter that has somebody’s life being threatened or serious injuries to the extent of the victim not talking in the hospital, needs sensitive monitoring”