Abuja indigenes under the aegis of Movement of Gbagyi Youths from Tungan Maje area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) yesterday marched on the National Assembly Complex. They were protesting the killing of their kinsmen by the men of the Nigerian Army over land issue. There has been a lingering land dispute between the indigenes and the Nigerian Army. The representative of the FCT in the Senate, Senator Philip Aduda, had during plenary on Tuesday raised a point of order concerning the ongoing violence between the communities and the Nigerian Army, urging members to act fast before the issue degenerated into violence. The Senate had directed its Committee on Defence to investigate the matter urgently and report back to it for lasting solution. However, the protesters said two of their people, Haruna and Hamza, were killed on Wednesday with five others critically injured following a clash with soldiers. One of the leaders, Ezekiel Dallatu, said the Nigerian Army had asked various communities in Gaku Yelwa, Napaku, Ngaku, Nasara, Ido Sarki and other settlements around the Tungan Maje area to relocate. Dallatu also alleged that soldiers destroyed their farm produce in the dispute. He said: “They want us to take the laws into our hands like the bandits in Zamfara, Boko Haram in the North-East and the kidnapers in Kaduna but we won’t do that. “We don’t want to resort to violence. We are here at the National Assembly because we want the government of today to take action and tell the Nigerian Army to leave our farm land.” Dallatu expressed concern that as citizens of Nigeria they could not gain entrance into the parliament as they were locked out from the main entrance by security operatives. He said: “You cannot access your parliament as a citizen of Nigeria and lay your complaint? We are here to register our grievances and we’ve been locked out. But we will not only present our complaints to the Army Headquarters; we will go to the Presidency, European Union (EU), Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and other international organisations that will come to our aid.”