The Supreme Court has affirmed the decision of the Court of Appeal, Abuja that recalled 181 sacked personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Delivering judgement yesterday, the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad struck out the appeal filed by the corps challenging the decision of the lower court. The acting CJN, who led four other justices, held that the apex court lacked that jurisdiction to entertain the matter. He said that Section 248 (4) of the 1999 Constitution as amended placed all legal disputes which emanated from the National Industrial Court (NIC) to terminate at the Court of Appeal. Muhammad further said that that apex court was therefore not vested with the jurisdiction to entertain such appeals. “In the circumstance, the appellant applicant has reached its limit and the appeal is therefore struck out. “The matter has come to its finality,” he said. The lost appeal was filed by NSCDC against the judgement by the NIC, reinstating 182 of its personnel who were wrongly dismissed. NIC had, in a judgement on March 19, 2015, ordered the NSCDC to reinstate the sacked staff with their full emoluments from the time they were illegally dismissed. The trial court also ordered NSCDC to return the employment letters to the affected personnel and pay all arrears of their salaries amounting to about N1.2 billion. The court restrained the NSCDC from further tampering with the employment of the affected personnel. Philip Nyam A former Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on the FCT, Hon. Herman Hembe, has described the judgement that ousted him from the National Assembly as “an accidental slip.” He has since filed a motion on notice, asking the Supreme Court to reverse the judgement. Hembe, the… In “News” The Supreme Court, yesterday, resolved the leadership crisis in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with its judgement declaring Senator Ahmed Makarfi as the national chairman of the party. TUNDE OYESINA reports on how the legal battle was won and lost The lingering leadership crisis in the opposition party, Peoples Democratic… In “Politics” The Court of Appeal, Abuja Division yesterday adjourned till February 12 for the hearing of the various appeals filed against the six-count criminal charge filed against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen by the Federal Government. The three-man Justices of the appellate court led by Justice… In “News”