Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi yesterday advised young entrepreneurs in the State to see failure as one of normal occurrences of life but urged them not to ever give up.
Ajimobi said this at the Ibadan Business School during the opening event of a two- day Vocational, Technical and Entrepreneurship training organized by the Field of Skills and Dreams Academy, supported by the United States Embassy and Consulate in Nigeria. According to the governor, “the way to start better things in life is so tough. There is nothing you are going to do in life that people will not discourage you, but you must move on and don’t allow that to discourage you.” He went on: “Just keep doing it. Do what you know is the right thing. If you want to succeed in life, be ready to sweat, be ready to get dirty. Despite all your efforts, you might still encounter failure but just keep going on and keep doing what you are doing, don’t allow failure to scare you away from pursing your goals, because there is no effort without error and shortcomings in life. However, failure to try harder will not bring success, but when you don’t give up, you will surely succeed at the end.
“As you all know, I have failed many times in my life, but as I remain more committed to my struggle, I later contested and won. Not only that, through hard work and dedication, I become an achiever serving my State as a governor for two consecutive terms in office, and nobody has ever achieved that in the history of Oyo State.” I can tell you that this was possible because of never-give- up attitude of mine. So as a young entrepreneur, don’t allow yourself to be a subject of failure.”
“He who that does not want to fail in life is not ready to be great in life. Successful people are the ones who are ready to face all the shortcomings with courage and steadfastness. As an entrepreneur, you must be a trail blazer, a risk taker, determine to succeed. You must be visionary, be realistic, ready to develop your brain more than your brawn. You must be loyal, disciplined, and do things in moderation.”