The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has advised the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the newly elected legislators against a Muslim-Muslim leadership of the 9th National Assembly. The CAN President, Rev. Dr. Samson Ayokunle gave the advice in a statement made available to the media in Abuja yesterday, through his Special Assistant (Media & Communications), Pastor Adebayo Oladeji. According to CAN, the ruling party, Federal Government and the elected lawmakers should address both the religious and the North and South dichotomies in the interest of equity, justice and fair play. Ayokunle, who congratulated the elected lawmakers, said: “As you prepare for your inauguration, CAN urges you to balance the appointments of your Principal Officers across religious divides to avoid domination and marginalisation of any kind in the interest of equity, justice, and fair play as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution (asamended). “We, from the Christian Association of Nigeria, recognize the importance of the National Assembly to the stability and growth of our polity. It is in this regard that we call for ethnic and religious balance with depth in picking the leadership of that great institution of democracy. To ensure that this happens is to remove any apprehension and suspicion harboured towards the leadership of this country. “Although both the Senate and the House of Representatives have several principal officers, but our focus here are the Senate President, the Deputy Senate President, the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker. As it has been the practice since 1999, whenever the Senate President is a Christian, the Speaker of the House has always been a Muslim and vice versa. And the same thing happens to their deputies. “Our quest becomes imperative due to the existing order in the two other arms of the government. Today, both the President and the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria are Muslims and our appeal is to let either the Senate President or the Speaker be a Christian to address the religious dichotomy. This will give all Nigerians a sense of belonging irrespective of their religious affiliations.” The Christian body noted that there are competent Christians capable of running the affairs of the National Assembly. “We assure our lawmakers of our prayers as they make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Federation. “We also urge both the Presidency and the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to support the position of the Association in its quest to find an enduring peace, unity and development for our Fatherland. Doing this will go a long way in fixing some of the problems confronting our country today that are rooted in religious, tribal suspicion, domination and marginalisation at every level of the government. “In as much as we agree that merit should not be sacrificed in every appointment, but there are Christians who are equally credible and capable of running the affairs of the National Assembly and other key positions in the government if given the opportunity. Those who had and still serving in one office or the other are our living proofs,” the CAN President said. APC, which has the highest number in the Lower and Upper Chambers, last week, said it had zoned the Senate President to the North-East, just as it favours the Senate Leader, Dr. Ahmed Lawan for the position. The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, is being tipped for the post of the Speaker of the 9th Assembly. Both Lawan and Gbajabiamila are Muslims and their interests do not reflect the aspirations of CAN. PDP moves to break APC's ranks, may back Goje Political party lacks power to decide NASS officials –Lawyers     Sequel to the riot act handed down to federal lawmakers elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), by the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the… In “News” BABA NEGEDU examines the controversy trailing Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s preference for a Muslim/ Muslim governorship ticket in Kaduna State and why the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state might have sanctioned the idea   Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai is hoping to re-write history and possibly change the… In “Politics” As the scramble for leadership positions gathers momentum in the National Assembly, the immediate past Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Khadijat Bukar Abba-Ibrahim (APC, Yobe) has joined 10 other returning lawmakers in the race for Speaker of the House of Representatives. Another new entrant into the race for… In “News”