The United States Nigeria Council (USNC), a business organisation, dedicated to deepening commercial ties between the U.S. and Nigeria and creating a platform for leading Nigerian entrepreneurs, has backed the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s monetary policy. USNC Chairman, Ambassador Terence McCulley, made this known on the margins of the World Bank/IMF Spring Meetings. McCulley according to a statement, explained that the Council was satisfied with the positive economic developments taking place in Nigeria and would encouraged investors to take a new look at Nigeria’s economy under the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. He said that the Council supported the apex bank’s monetary policy under the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele, for steering the country’s economy out of recession and sustaining economic growth. He said that U.S companies will be urged to continue to invest in Nigeria’s economy in a bid to strengthen the two countries’ economic ties. “The Council remains the only business group solely focused on Nigeria, and we are pleased to serve as a convener of U.S. and Nigerian entrepreneurs in support of this important bilateral relationship,” McCulley said. Emefiele, in his speech at the dinner meeting, said that Nigeria’s economy has witnessed seven quarters of sustained economic recovery and growth. He urged U.S companies to take a closer look at the new dawn in the Nigerian economy by coming to invest in the country. Also speaking, the U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria W. Stuart echoed the optimism for Nigeria’s progress by assuring the CBN governor of more U.S companies’ presence in Nigeria. In his remarks, the founder of SeamlessHR, Emmanuel Okeleji, explained that the USNC partnership has greatly impacted on Nigeria’s economy, in terms of job creation, food security and ICT development. Partnering with leading Nigerian and US companies can greatly accelerate our growth and thus job creation in Nigeria,” he said. In attendance at the dinner meeting according to the statement, were the host Chairman Ambassador Terence McCulley, Co-Chair John Coumantaros of Flour Mills of Nigeria, Central Bank Governor Godwin Emefiele, Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, Emmanuel Okeleji, founder of SeamlessHR, Sam Immanuel, founder of Semicolon and Kendall Ananyi, founder of Tizeti.