As part of efforts to ensure Justice prevails, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm about plots by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to compromise the Niger state governorship election tribunal. According to a statement made available to the New Telegraph in Minna on Monday, the PDP said. “we know for a fact that the Niger state  APC has made approaches through several fronts including enrolling past judicial officers to link up to the panel members. “While we in the PDP have tremendous confidence in the judiciary, we have no reason yet to suspect that the members have compromised in any way or form. We have absolute confidence they will not” The PDP in a statement signed by the Director of Communications, Umar Nasko Governorship Campaign organisation Yahaya Mohammed Usman said “the suspicion of the PDP had been further reinforced by the persistent claims by some leaders of the APC, who have continued to mouth that nothing will come out of the tribunal, we have power and will do as we want”. He, however, said that the PDP “will continue to build a watertight case that will ensure that our stolen mandate is recovered and given back to the rightful owners “We are very much aware of all the electoral malpractices and electoral frauds perpetrated during the sham governorship election, at the commencement of sitting all the facts will be tendered before their Lordships”. He, therefore, called on the “tribunal members to remain resolute and ensure justice is served so as to write their names in gold”. In a swift response, the All Progressives Congress (APC), dismissed the claim of the PDP with a wave of the hand describing it as the “figment of the imagination of the drowning party”. The APC through the Special Assistant to Governor Abubakar Sani Bello on Media and Communication Mr Jide Orintunsin said: “the PDP was known for fake news and propaganda, we will not join them in the illegal act”. He said however that the APC and in particular governor Abubakar Sani Bello “has no reason to try to compromise the tribunal because we won the election clean and clear”. The governorship election tribunal after its first sitting during which it directed substituted service on governor Abubakar Sani Bello adjourned sitting to May 6, this year. The three-man tribunal has Justice Halilu Yussuf as its chairman.