Against the backdrop of Nigeria Labour Congress and other stakeholder’s opposition to Nigeria signing the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), experts have said that Nigeria cannot afford to miss out on Africa’s historic economic integration. They stated that the country’s eventual ratification of the agreement if it signs will require nothing short of a revolution in its logistics sector if Nigeria wants to become the region’s trading heavyweight. Speaking recently in Lagos, Benedict Oramah, president African Export-Import Bank, said 69 per cent of the country’s businesses believe the free trade agreement is beneficial for the country, and by implication, should be signed by President Muhammadu Buhari.
He said the failure of Nigeria to sign the trade deal may cost her huge foreign direct investment (GDI) funds. Oramah stated this on Tuesday in Lagos at the 2019 Bullion Lecture organised by the Centre for Financial Journalism, regarded as the foremost media training and research centre in Nigeria. “Nigeria stands a great chance of enlarging FDI inflows through the AfCFTA. As the largest economy and the most populous in Africa, it presents an attractive domestic market base for foreign investors interested in manufacturing for exports to the rest of Africa,” he said.
“Today, FDI inflows to Nigeria amount to about US$3billion, 90 per cent of which goes to the oil sector. This can change positively with the AfCFTA.” Oramah said while it is understandable that Nigeria has not yet made a decision to sign the AfCFTA, it is instructive to note that “69 per cent of Nigerian businesses believe AfCFTA would be advantageous to the country”  According to him, the top three advantages identified are better business environment, promotion of local business and business growth and expansion. He said: “Overall, 78 per cent of firms believe that AfCFTA will make a positive impact on local businesses.” Even though he said 56 per cent of the polled respondents believe the country does not have the infrastructure necessary to reap those benefits and gains, “there is an understanding among business leaders that the country should not wait until the infrastructure gap is fully closed before participating in the AfCFTA.” According to the survey, “65 per cent of businesses expect AfCFTA to help them overcome their top challenges which include improvement in the ease of doing business across borders that they expect to accompany the trade agreement; improvement in infrastructure; and enlargement of markets for Nigerian producers”. “Among exporting companies, 84 per cent expect AfCFTA to increase their volume of exports; the enthusiasm is shared by 91per cent of small companies and 100 per cent of agriculture and trade businesses,” he added. The African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), which represents the largest free trade initiative since the formation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), will reduce import duties, simplify customs, and allow for the free movement of goods and people, boosting intra-African trade by 15 per cent.
But, amid ratifying countries, there is a glaring absence: Nigeria, Africa’s largest economy, has withheld its signature. However, Lanre Akinlagun, the Nigeria Country Director of Lori Systems, a tech-enabled logistics company that seamlessly connects cargo owners to transportation; he said one of the obstacles to Nigeria’s fully reaping the benefits, is her broken logistics sector, which is a huge obstacle to trade. He said a stronger logistics sector could catalyse economic growth, slash prices of goods and services and enable Nigeria to evolve into West Africa’s key trade hub, if not the leading intra-African trading hub.
He noted, however, that Nigeria’s logistics sector is highly fragmented, underdeveloped and informal. Its fragmented nature comes from the disjointed relationship between supply, trucks and transporters, and demand, cargo, which results from a chaotic and opaque marketplace.
“The informal nature of the sector leads to a lack of standardisation in pricing and services and creates operational inefficiencies in delivering goods to isolated areas. In addition, concerns regarding quality control and service guarantees are widespread. As the majority of the trucking fleet is old and spare parts can be difficult to obtain, or drivers lack the working capital to buy them, breakdowns are frequent. Moreover, there is no good system to vet truck drivers for reliability,” he said.  Boosting manufacturing, innovation and prosperity As Nigeria’s government continues its consultation, it has been said that the country’s isolationism makes it difficult for local businesses to scale abroad and thus makes them less attractive for foreign direct investment. By giving businesses access to a larger market beyond their home countries, the trade agreement would allow the establishment of industries in Africa that are simply not profitable now, foster the scaling of industries and lead to the development of entirely new industries to take advantage of the growth in inter-African relations. With the country’s rapidly growing population of almost 200 million occupying a territory almost twice the size of France, Nigeria simply has more workers and consumers than anywhere else in Africa. For many businesses, there is no other place in Africa that can offer such scale. This will provide a competitive advantage to Nigeria in firm considerations of where to cite facilities and do business. It was further disclosed that liberalising trade facilitates the sort of knowledge sharing that is crucial for innovation. Multinational firms often have greater expertise than local firms, gained from operating in several countries over long periods. These firms, attracted by the AfCFTA it was further said, will expose local firms to their best practices and technologies often through partnerships and sometimes through competition. This sort of exposure it also said, will challenge entrepreneurs in the country and give them greater access to the skills and partnerships they need to be dynamic in today’s world. Also, sheltering firms from foreign competition, it was disclosed, removes the incentives for these firms to be more competitive and consequently produce better products for consumers at cheaper prices. Oramah adds that it leads to market distortions. For instance, supermarket shelves in Africa’s biggest cities are populated with toothpicks, toilet paper, rice, and chocolate imported from Europe and Asia when these goods can otherwise be sourced cheaply from Nigeria or other neighbouring markets in the absence of tariffs. These manufactured products are sold at a premium and because their production process is not restricted to extraction alone, they are more labour-intensive and consequently create more jobs, Oramah said. These jobs are lost because it is often easier to trade with other continents than it is to carry out intra-Africa trade, he said.  Entrepreneurship There is also the case to be made for entrepreneurship in Nigeria. About 40 per cent of Nigerians aged 18-64 are entrepreneurs, almost three times the global average. As evidenced in Alaba International Market, perhaps the biggest new venture incubator in the world, most of these entrepreneurs work in retail. The AfCFTA would give them more options for sourcing and consequently drive their costs down. Non-retail entrepreneurs would also benefit from the ability to build more sophisticated value chains for improved operations.  Conclusion Perhaps the biggest downside risk associated with AfCFTA rests on the fact that Nigerian businesses are hobbled by inadequate power and transportation infrastructure and may well suffer when exposed to the competition that a free-trade agreement fosters. Government would do well to focus on the root of the problem, not its manifestation. Rejecting the trade agreement in an attempt to the country’s struggling manufacturing industry would be bound to impede economic growth. At the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) stakeholders sensitisation and consultation parley in Lagos recently, searchlight was beamed on the implications of Nigeria’s refusal to sign the trade treaty. Taiwo Hassan reports   Nigeria and South Africa decided to back out of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA)… In “Business” As all is set for the ratification of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement by the Federal Government, following diverse positions of major stakeholders, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has faulted the move. Taiwo Hassan reports   Indeed, the sudden withdrawal by Nigeria and South Africa from… In “Business” President of the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), Benedict Oramah, has highlighted multiple currencies and lack of adequate trade information among African countries as some of the factors impeding trade integration in Africa. He said this during his lecture at the 2019 edition of The Bullion Lecture in Lagos on… In “Business”