Remo Stars of Sagamu’s midfielder, Lanre Runsuwe, is still hopeful of the club escaping relegation as they take on Wikki Tourists away at the Pantami Stadium in Gombe in their next game in the Nigeria Professional Football League.
The Sky Blue Stars are on 12 points in Group A of the NPFL table and they have the chance to turn things around with maximum points against the Giant Elephants. Remo Stars suffered a devastating 1-0 loss to Rivers United at the Gateway International Stadium, Sagamu and have put the Sky Blue Stars swimming in the relegation waters. When both sides last met at the Gateway International Stadium, Sagamu and the Sky Blue Stars came out victorious beating them 2-1 with Victor Mbaoma getting the winning goal on the death of 90 minutes.
In a chat with RSFC Media, Runsuwe said the team was hopeful of beating the drop and he is determined alongside his teammates to ensure they do well on Sunday. “Our game against Wikki Tourist is a difficult game but we are hopeful of getting a result,” he said. “They are a good and composed side with great display on the ball but I think we should outsmart them.
“I look at the table every day, I am quite unhappy because the club isn’t scoring goals at the moment but if we get something against Wikki and go away to Bendel Insurance to pick something, then we will go all the way to escape relegation.” After returning to their home ground this weekend, Remo Stars has set their sight on securing the maximum points in their rescheduled Nigeria Professional Football League MatchDay 2 game against Wikki Tourists. Remo finally return to the Gateway International Stadium, Sagamu for the first time after Match Day Three… In “Sports” Remo Stars Football Club host fellow newly promoted side, Bendel Insurance FC at the Gateway International Stadium on Sunday in their first game of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season, which happens to be the Match Day Three fixtures.   The Sky Blue Stars are in Group A of… In “Sports” Eight clubs in battle for final day survival Defending champions of the Nigeria Professional Football League, Rangers International of Enugu, will this weekend hand over the title to a new winner. It was a turbulent season for the Flying Antelopes and they would be thanking God for escaping the drop… In “Sports”