Recently, the Tractor Owners and Operators Association of Nigeria (TOOAN) said that the process of acquiring government agriculture loans is too cumbersome and time consuming. TAIWO HASSAN examines the role of agric mechanisation in food productivity   In 2016, the Federal Government launched the Green Alternative: Agriculture Promotion Policy (2016-2020) in Abuja. The idea behind the policy was to ensure revolution of Nigeria’s agricultural sector by unlocking the full potential of the sector, through the creation of enhanced opportunities for private sector investment, and ensuring additional steady inflows of foreign direct investment into the sector. Arguably, one of the main pivotal roles of the government’s agric scheme was to ensure the enrichment of mechanized farming in the country in a bid to realise agricultural productivity and food security. Role of mechanised farming No doubt, President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has demonstrated to Nigerians that agriculture was the way out of the country’s economic challenges. Hitherto, Buhari’s administration had emphasised the fact that it was seriously considering increased use of mechanised agriculture to end food shortage in the land. However, a laudable experiment of pocket-friendly assistance between Governments of the Federation, the banking industry and other well meaning bodies and institutions was worked out in a bid to further enhance and implement the laudable agricultural mechanised programme for the nation to improve food production for the nation. Particularly, the Federal Government’s laudable agric programme was freely executed to cushion the suffering of the teeming masses and its numerous job opportunities for its residents in order to promote effective peaceful coexistence and vibrant economy with other pocket-friendly products in food production at all times. FAO’s warning To buttress the importance of agricultural mechanisation, the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations warned that lack of modern farming techniques threaten the continent’s food security. Its Leader of the Mechanisa-Task Team, Josef Kienzle, said that until governments adopt modern technologies of farming, the continent will continue to depend on food aid from abroad. “There is need for a paradigm shift on intensive crop production since the current methods applied cannot meet the challenges of the new millennium,” he said. The FAO official noted that the use of crude implements and limited access to mechanisation and inputs such as quality seeds and fertiliser is affecting agricultural productivity in the continent with high population growth. Kienzle stressed that governments need to allocate funds towards the depraved fertile land, drain ground water, pest upsurges, eroded biodiversity, air, water and soil pollution and sustainable intensification to help boost production in the continent. He explained that the continuous decline in annual crop will result to an increase in undernourished people in the continent if efforts were not taken to revive the malaise. He suggested the application of tools that give minimum mechanical soil disturbance, ensure permanent organic soil cover and diversification of soil crop species grown chronologically. The FAO official lamented and advised that smallholder associations be formed, formalised and later institutionalised and connected to other institutions to help ensure information sharing. “There is need to integrate sustainable mechanisation in collaboration with the private sector to enhance productivity and profitability,” he said. Kienzle disclosed that majority of smallholders in Africa are women as a result of rural-urban migration, which forced youths out of the farms to look for other means of livelihood. He noted that coaching and mentorship programs have been organised by producers in business groups to assist people in the business. Tractor owners’ plights However, in order to key into the FAO’s advice and government’s mechanised agriculture in Nigeria, the Tractor Owners and Operators Association of Nigeria revealed that the process of acquiring government agriculture loans has been too cumbersome and time consuming. The association explained that the current process cannot be sustained as it could fuel food crisis in the country unless government comes to the aid of farmers and others into commercialised farming. National Vice President of the association, Emmanuel Kolade, said it took the association two years to procure 50 tractors for members. Kolade said this known when TOOAN launched its new SONALIKA tractors at the Niji Farms, Ilero, Oyo in Oyo state recently. Particularly, the association’s national vice president said they were able to procure the 50 tractors with the loan accessed from the Bank of Industry in collaboration with First City Monument Bank. “We want to enhance agricultural mechanisation,” Kolade said. “The procedure and time frame to access loan is a little bit long. It took us two years to achieve this. The agricultural institution, which is supposed to be de-risking agricultural loans, is not really coming up to ensure the sustainability of the programme. “The prospect of this is that these 50 tractors will enhance the job creation of over 20,000 capacity. “Each tractor is taking care of about 4,000 people. And multiplying that by 50 is a huge impact on the Nigerian economy. Agric implication In his submission at the occasion, the Chief Executive Officer of Niji Farms, Kola Niji, who assembled the tractor, said that agriculture in Nigeria will never become better if government does not revisit the policies for agriculture loans. According to him, mechanized farming will be a mirage in the country when farmers find it difficult to have access to farm input that will enhance their agricultural productivity. Beneficiary’s ordeal However, one of the beneficiaries of the tractors, Alhaji Aliyu Ismail, said obtaining loan is a necessity for any farmer who intends to be successful. “I am so happy today,” He said: “This programme started two years ago and we’ve been expecting this occasion. All glory to God for giving us long lives to witness this. “We are in Nigeria, we cannot avoid taking loans, or getting help from elsewhere. “The loan is friendly, it has a five-year payment plan and by the Grace of God, I should be able to pay back. We want the government to provide arable lands for Agriculture.” National President of the association, Engr Elesa Bitrus Yakubu, who graced the occasion, commended the effort of Niji Lukas, an indigenous vendor with assembling plant in Nigeria “in getting the tractors delivered on time despite enormous obstacle at our Nigeria port.” Last line Hitherto, this cumbersome challenge in securing mechanised farm inputs with ease by farmers posed risk to Nigeria’s food sufficiency and security, including the present administration’s agric agenda of being a fluke.