Armed men yesterday kidnapped the Board Chairman of Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), Muhammed Mahmood Abubakar, and his daughter on the Kaduna- Abuja Highway. Abubakar and his daughter were abducted while travelling from Kaduna to Abuja yesterday afternoon. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) said hundreds of travellers were “unaccounted for” after the gunmen blocked the road. Abubakar and his daughter were kidnapped around Katari, a village few kilometres from Zuba, an Abuja suburb. Hussaini Danladi, an aide to the chairman, confirmed the abduction last night. “My boss has been kidnapped. I received the information at about 3:30p.m. He was going from Kaduna to Abuja. “Up till now they (the kidnappers) have not reached out and we are still waiting for information,” Danladi told Premium Times on the telephone. The state Police Public Relations Offer (PPRO), Yakubu Sabo, confirmed Abubakar and daughter’s abduction. He said: “Today 29/04/19 we received information through DPO Katari that about 3:30p.m., he got a distress call that armed men in military uniform intercepted a Land Cruiser Jeep with registration number 07E 04 FG and Toyota Sienna with registration number SLJ 465 TN at Kurmin Kare village on Kaduna-Abuja Expressway. “They opened fire on the vehicles in the process the driver of the jeep was shot dead while the occupants; Dr. Muhammad Abubakar, who is the chairman of Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) and his daughter were kidnapped. “The occupants of the Sienna, Alowonle Olalere and Onuka Victor, both of Ibadan Oyo State were injured and rescued to Katari Police Station. They were said to be returning from Kano where they went to shoot a film entitled: “The last step’”. Meanwhile, NAN reported that the kidnappers blocked the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway, forcing several motorists to abandon their vehicles and head for nearby bushes to avoid being abducted. The development left many motorists and passengers unaccounted for just as their belongings were carted away by the kidnappers. A NAN correspondent, who narrowly escaped the attack by the kidnappers, reported that the incident happened a few kilometres to Katari village in Kagarko Local Government Area of Kaduna State, about 3.30p.m. NAN also reported that hundreds of motorists travelling from Kaduna to Abuja as well as those going the other way found themselves stranded for more than 40 minutes as both lanes of the expressway were blocked by cars hastily abandoned by their owners. It was learnt that the bandits left the scene of the incident and moved into the bush with some of their victims before the arrival of some security men, who later cleared the road for the motorists to con-tinue their journeys. Commenting on the incident, owner of the popular Shagalinku Restaurant in Abuja, Alhaji Umar Shagalinku, lauded the prompt intervention of the security personnel. Shagalinku, however, called on relevant security authorities to use modern technology including helicopters to track kidnappers. He said: “I have been hearing about this robbery and kidnapping on Kaduna–Abuja Road but today I witnessed – this is terrible and ungodly. “I sincerely pray that authorities concerned will do something about these criminals so that motorists will feel safe while plying this important road.” The same bandits operated on the same highway Sunday. The PPRO, Sabo, said the combined teams of PMF men, Anti-Kidnapping Unit of the command, Special Forces and Operations Yaki were quickly mobilised to the area with a view to combing the bush for possible rescue of the victims and arresting the criminals. He added: “IGP’s IRT was also contacted for technical support in tracking the hoodlums. At the moment, the two vehicles were recovered to the station. “The Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdur- Rahman, appeals to members of the public to support the police with relevant information that could assist in apprehending the perpetrators of this heinous act. “He said the command will not be deterred in its efforts to bring crime to the barest minimum in the State. Ahmad said the hoodlums are only testing our collective will and we cannot relent.”