The Police on Thursday arraigned two men, Micheal Hastrup, 24, and Bamilare Afolabi, 21, at an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for alleged membership of a cult, known as “Eiye Confraternity.’’ The duo, residing at Slappers area of Ketu in Lagos State, are facing a two-count charge of conspiracy and belonging to an unlawful society. The Prosecutor, Insp. Lucky Ihiehie, told the court that the defendants committed the offences on March 19 at about 4: 30 p.m. at Ferry area of Oworonshoki in Lagos. Ihiehie said that on March 19, a team of policemen on duty, accosted and arrested Hastrup, a cultist, who had been on the wanted list of the DPO of Oworonshoki Division. “Hastrup was sighted along Ferry area of Oworonshoki and upon information the police raided the place and arrested him along with Afolabi with Indian hemp on them,” Ihiehie told the court. The prosecutor said the offences contravened Sections 42(a) and 411 of the Criminal Laws Cap. C17, Vol.3 Laws of Lagos State, 2015. The duo, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them. The Magistrate, Mrs H. B. Morgaji, granted the defendants bail in the sum of N200, 000 each with two sureties each in like sum. Mogaji said that the sureties must be residents within the court’s jurisdiction and should be gainfully employed. The magistrate adjourned the case until Nov. 20 for substantive trial. (NAN) The police on Monday docked a welder and a barber before an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State, over alleged membership of an unlawful society called Diamond Boys. The welder, Musba Adeboye, 22, and the barber, Sodiq Olawole, 23, were also charged with conspiracy, fighting in public, possessing marijuana, and… In “Metro and Crime” Three men, Amechi Dukur, Totimi Johnson and Yusuf Ahmed, were on Monday arraigned before an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, over alleged membership of an unlawful society. Dukur, 25, Johnson, 18 and Ahmed, 21, are facing a three-count charge bordering on conspiracy, membership of unlawful society and breach of peace. The… In “Metro and Crime” Two male doctors, Paul Kahomen (30) and Ettenne Hounsa (20), were yesterday arraigned before an Ogudu Magistrate’s Court, Lagos State for allegedly setting up an unregistered clinic and conducting abortions. Kahomen and Hounsa were arraigned on a three-count charge of conspiracy, unlawful possession of medical instruments/drugs and impersonation. The… In “Metro and Crime”