Researchers in the United States (US) have genetically modified mosquitoes to make humans less attractive to them – a discovery that could dramatically reduce the spread of mosquito-borne diseases, such as dengue, malaria and Zika. The findings of a new study published in the journal ‘Current Biology,’ has shown an acidic component in human sweat plays a key role in attracting the insect. Female mosquitoes have been long known to use an array of sensory information to find people to bite. They can sense exhaled carbon dioxide from as far as 10 metres away, as well as being able to detect body odour, heat and moisture. “We wanted to understand the genetic basis of how the mosquitoes detect their human hosts,” Matthew DeGennaro, a mosquito neurobiology researcher at Florida International University, said. The scientists identified a gene – known as Ir8a – expressed in the mosquito’s antenna.  This gene appears to allow female mosquitoes, the ones that suck blood, to smell lactic acid, a particular acidic vapour in human sweat. Using advanced CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing technology, the researchers were able to disrupt that gene, making the female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes significantly less interested in humans.  “Removing the function of Ir8a removes approximately 50 percent of host-seeking activity,” said DeGennaro. The genetically-modified mosquitoes were less likely to detect and bite humans, making them much less likely to spread mosquito-borne illnesses. For a species such as Aedes aegypti, which lives alongside half of the world’s population – and spreads diseases that kill millions of people each year – this genetic modification has huge potential health benefits. “The transmission of diseases like dengue, yellow fever, Zika, and malaria can be blocked if we stop these mosquitoes from biting us,” said DeGennaro.  While the release of genetically-modified mosquitoes into the wild to combat the spread of dengue fever has been a controversial practice, this latest research is not only focused on the potential of cross-breeding them with wild populations.  The researchers said their work could also offer a more advanced understanding of how mosquitoes hunt and feed on their human targets and will allow them to develop improved mosquito repellents. These could include life-saving perfumes or scents that would disrupt mosquitoes’ sense of smell and protect people from being bitten.