…30 others seriously injured  IG orders speedy, comprehensive investigation  An official of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) at Sabon- Layi area of Gombe metropolis, Gombe State reportedly drove into a procession by youths and killed 11 people. Hospital officials in the state confirmed that 11 persons dead in the incident.  The victims were Christian youths on Easter Sunday procession when the car ran into them, witnesses said.  The Chief Medical Director (CMD), Specialist Hospital, Gombe, Dr. Shuaibu Muazu, said eight bodies were brought in dead to the facility about 1a.m. and later three others were brought in. Muazu, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said the bodies had been deposited at the hospital mortuary, while the injured were receiving treatment at the facility.  He said some of the injured were referred to the Federal Teaching Hospital (FTH), Gombe, and some private hospitals for treatment.  Witnesses said the car was being driven by an NSCDC official. A witness, who pleaded anonymity, said the youth were members of Boys’ Brigade of ECWA Church, Bamusa, Barunde, Madaki, and St Peter’s Anglican Church.  The witness said the youth were at Alheri Junction when the car with registration No. AS 385 GME, ran into them from the rear.  The witness said some angry youths attacked the driver, who was later identified through his identity card as ASC 11 Adamu Abubakar.   The identity of other occupant of the vehicle was not known, the witness added. An official of Boys’ Brigade, Gombe Batallion, Mr. Isaac Kwadam, said he received information that an NSCDC official driving a Honda car had altercation with the youth.  Kwadam said he learnt the NSCDC member later switched off his car light and drove into the procession from behind.  He said after the incident, the youth chased the driver, caught up with him and mobbed him and the other occupant, suspected to be a policeman.  The Sector Commandeer, Federal Road Safety Corps  (FRSC), Dr. Godwin Omiko, confirmed the incident. Omiko said initial information suggested that the youth were attacked while they were conducting their Easter procession and so he immediately alerted the relevant personnel. He said it was when FRSC personnel got to the scene they confirmed it was a crash and thereafter began rescue operations.  The Acting Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, has ordered speedy and comprehensive investigation into the incident. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, said in a statement yesterday in Abuja that 30 other persons seriously injured were currently receiving treatment.  Mba said, according to a witness, the driver lost control before ramming into the crowd. He said the state Commissioner of Police had visited the scene of the accident for an on-the-spot-assessment as well as the hospital to monitor the treatment of the victims.   Meanwhile, the state Deputy Governor, Charles Iliya, and the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), North-East Chapter yesterday appealed to the Christian community to remain calm.  The North-East CAN Chairman, Rev. Abare Kala, made the appeal in an interview with journalists in Gombe yesterday.  He said: “We call on the Christian community in Gombe to take the situation in good faith, be calm and also follow the right channel in seeking redress on the issue on ground.  “Two wrongs cannot make a right. So, I appeal for caution in the process of addressing the issue.  If we apply the wrong approach, it will lead to another issue.” On his part, Iliya said government would take all necessary measures to ensure justice was done at the end.  Iliya noted that it was a painful experience but appealed for calm to allow the relevant authorities carry out their duties. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mary Malum, who confirmed the accident, said that 10 persons died from it. Malum added that 30 others were being treated for various injuries they sustained from the mishap.