  Having been largely defeated in the last 15 years by a waiver clause, reaching the primary objective of the Cabotage Act 2003 which is reserving commercial transportation of goods and services within the Nigerian coastal and inland waters to vessels flying the Nigerian flag owned and crewed by Nigerian citizens and built in Nigeria, remain a daunting task as the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) announces plan to end in five years, the waivers which experts estimate to cost the country over N10 trillion yearly. PAUL OGBUOKIRI reports  Under the Cabotage Act 2003, a vessel qualifies to trade on Nigeria’s territorial waters (which extends to 200 nautical miles south of Nigerian coast), if it meets the following requirements- it is owned, built in Nigeria, manned by Nigerians and also flying Nigerian flag.  But to these requirements, constitutional lawyer, Chief Mike Igbokwe SAN, said the makers of the law in their wisdom, injected the clause which says that where the country does not have the capacity to fulfill any or all the requirements for a ship to qualify to trade on the Nigerian waters, the Minister of Transportation was authorised under Part III of the Act to grant waivers to foreigners.  But 15 years after the law came into force, the application of the waivers according indigenous shipowners and industry experts, has defeated the very essence of the law as the entire gamut of maritime activities on the Nigerian maritime domain has virtually been taken over by foreigners.  This is even as the total worth of the waivers the Federal Government grants to foreigners in a year is put in excess of N10 trillion. Meanwhile, over the years successive administrations at the Nigeria Maritime Admistration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) had paid lip-service to ensuring the full realization of the objective of the Cabotage Act.   Determined to change the story, however, the current management of NIMASA led by Dr Dakuku Peterside, after reportedly refusing to recommend to the minister to grant waivers for certain categories of crewmen and recording successes in filling the positions with qualified Nigerian crew, it on Wednesday announced an ambitious plan to bring to an end the granting of waivers on all categories of Cabotage trade on Nigerian waters in the next five years, precisely in 2023.  Five year timeline to end waivers  According to Dakuku Peterside, Director General of NIMASA, the current management has the will power to end granting of waivers and has consequently set a five    year secession plan on waiver granting for the agency. Speaking on the development, the immediate past president of the Shipowners Association of Nigeria (SOAN) Engr. Greg Ogbeifun, said government should be careful in giving a blanket elimination of Cabotage waivers, which according to him, may not be exactly practicable.   He, however, congratulated the agency for the new zeel, saying the agency must go ahead with the plan, the interfacing with local operators and experts must be held every six month to monitor and evaluate progress made as implementation progresses.  New president of SOAN, Dr Mcgeorge Onyung did not agree less with Engr. Ogbeifun. He further called for extension of the secession period to about 10 years insisting that the objective requires a lot commitment and investment The Assistant Controller General (ACG) Zone ‘A’ of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Kaycee Ekezie, said: “We are always sad about the amount of money that currently goes into waivers. It runs into trillions of naira. So, we are happy now that NIMASA is thinking home.”  Financing for indigenous shipowners  According Dr Dakuku Peterside, NIMASA has rolled out plans to provide funding for indigenous operators to acquire different categories of vessels they will need to fully take over shipping on Nigerian waters.  He said that the agency aside making arrangements to disburse the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund (CVFF) in no distant time, it is also engaging the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to provide a single-digit interest loan to shipowners to acquire vessels.  This came as an official of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), who was among panel of discussants of NIMASAS’s five years waiver secession plan, Ajomaye Silas, who spoke on Wednesday in Lagos, commended NIMASA for taking the step to ensure full implementation of Cabotage and end granting of waivers to foreigner to take over Nigerian territorial waters. He sought stakeholders’ collaboration for the achievement of the agenda.  He disclosed that NCDMB has provided a flexible requirement operators to access the $200 million Nigerian Content Intervention Fund (NCI Fund) it provided for desiring qualified oil and gas service companies. He said that the Board is ready to provide more fund as it has recognised that financing was a major issue in the drive.  He called for deployment of the necessary policy framework for the actualisation of the plan. He further said that training, financial support and technical know-how were equally critical to the realisation of the set objective. According to him, NCDMB and BoI convened a stakeholders’ forum in Lagos recently to address the major challenges applicants face in processing their loan applications.  The forum was chaired by the Executive Secretary of NCDMB, Engr. Simbi Wabote and the Managing Director of BoI, Mr. Olukayode Pitan and it drew the participation of 84 delegates from different companies. Also speaking, Miss Iroghama Ogbeifun of Starzs Group said NCDMB recently announced that the one per cent Nigerian Content Development Fund (NCDF) has accrued $700 million since 2010.  “You can then guess what the CVFF should worth now which two per cent of all contracts on Nigerian maritime domain which 200 nautical miles.” Sunday Telegraph learnt that the amount that have accrued to the CVFF, which was established in 2007, seems to have reported to have stagnated at about $100 million. NIMASA was reported to put the figures at about $124 million in its last public statement on the matter. However, indigenous shipowners who the ones are paying the two per cent surcharge insisted that fund has increased to over $300 million.   Ship building/Crewing  The Director-General of NIMASA, Dakuku Peterside, said after the careful implementation of the roadmap in the next five years, government would have revived the Ajaokuta Steel Mill and the Aluminum Smelter Company of Nigeria (ALSCON) to achieve local production of vessels. Noting the place of technical capacity in the entire project, he disclosed that his agency was vigorously training Nigerian youths to acquire requisite knowledge on ship building and manning. Dakuku said NIMASA had commissioned an audit of shipbuilding yards across the federation and was consulting with the office of the vice president to create incentives for those willing to build vessels in the country.  However, a former Director General of NIMASA, Temisan Omatseye, said instead of taking everything at a go, government can start from ensuring that the country has developed sustainable capacity in ship repair and then gradually move on to ship building. The chair Person of the Shipowners Forum, Mrs. Margret Orakwusi, enjoined government to swiftly revive the steel firm owing to its importance to the national economy,”  But speaking, Irogbama Ogbefiu said that the National Seafarer Development Programme (NSDP) was dead on arrival as the cadets they training abroad can only work on Ocean-going vessels not on service ship, tugs boats that operate on the oil and gas industry. “Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron should be training the needed manpower incountry to work on our vessels.  Incentives/tax rebate  NIMASA is contemplating incentives for prospective investors. According to the DG of NIMASA, arrangements were ongoing to establish a special tax regime for Nigerians to import vessels, adding that his agency was also working with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to create a single digit facility for the maritime industry to aid indigenous participation He said that the agency is also in talks with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to as it is global practice reduce if not totally remove the duties on imported ships or ship building parts.  Last line   Though it feared that it will be possible for granting of waivers to stop completely in the next five years as there extraneous factors beyond the control of NIMASA for the country to be self-reliant in ship building and repair including ship ownership.  However, operators and experts who were excited on Wednesday over the move by NIMASA, said they were confident that if the objective is sincerely pursued, the country will only be on its way to be a strong maritime nation in the nearest feature, there will be abundant jobs for the youths. Also, the Nigerian economy according to Mrs. Orakwusi, will no longer suffer serious shock whenever there is fall in the price of crude oil in the international market.