Sequel to yesterday’s resignation of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, some lawyers have advised the Federal Government to drop all charges against the former CJN, who is standing trial before the Code of Conduct Tribunal over alleged non declaration of assets, and allow him to go into peaceful retirement with all his benefits and entitlements. This is coming as the Presidency kept mum on the matter, as those expected to speak for the president chose to wait for the return of President Muhammadu Buhari, who is outside the country, before making their views public. Senior Special Assistant on media and publicity to President Garba Shehu in a telephone interview said he would not want to preempt the reaction of President Muhammadu Buhari on the resignation of the suspended CJN. “The President will come back. I will not want to preempt the President,” he stressed. ‘Resignation voluntary’ Though there was no official confirmation of the resignation as at press time, some senior lawyers in the legal team of Onnoghen confirmed the resignation. According to one of the lawyers, who prefers anonymity, the former CJN resigned voluntarily. “I have just spoken with him. He confirmed to me that he resigned voluntarily yesterday,” he stated. When Saturday Telegraph contacted the Special Assistant to Onnoghen on Media, Awasam Bassey, for his reaction, he simply sent a message, saying: “I am out of town, and I haven’t been able to confirm anything like that”. Also, when the Director of Information of the Supreme Court, Dr. Festus Akande, was contacted on the phone, he said the apex court had not yet receive any of such letter. Onnoghen had reportedly sent his resignation letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday, barely 24 hours after the National Judicial Council concluded investigating him for various allegations of misconduct. However, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ahmed Raji, said it was a welcome development which would save the image of the Judiciary and indeed the whole country in the Committee of Nations. “While I commend the former CJN for the bold decision, I most sincerely plead with the President to accept the resignation in the interest of all. My humble appeal also goes to the Vice President in this regard being highest political office holder with a sound legal mind. “All pending cases before any court or Tribunal in connection with the ex CJN should abate as well”. Another senior lawyer, Dr. Adams Akamihe, said the resignation of Onnoghen was a right decision, especially at a time like this. “This is the first time this will happen in the judiciary. It is however a right decision, especially as it will go a long way to save our judiciary. This is a dark moment in the judiciary, and for every dark moment, there must be a sacrifice. “My Lord, Justice Walter Onnoghen has eventually paid the price of the sacrifice by voluntarily resigning from his position. I believe this should terminate all the charges against him. The judiciary should be allowed to start on a clean slate”. The NJC had on Wednesday forwarded the outcome of its investigation into corruption allegations against Onnoghen to President Muhammadu Buhari, for action. The Council made this known in a statement that was signed by its Director of Information, Soji Oye, saying it convened an emergency meeting to consider the report of the five-man committee it constituted to investigate allegations of misconduct levelled against Onnoghen and the Acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad. The Council however noted that it decided to refrain from considering the allegation that Justice Onnoghen failed to declare his assets, on ground that it would amount to subjudice since the matter is in court. Also, a member of the inner Bar, Chief Mike Ahamba and the Editor of the Nigerian Weekly Law Report, Mr. Oluwole Kehinde, have described the resignation as unfortunate. In his comment, Chief Mike Ahamba (SAN) said the suspended CJN might have been advised by his counsel to throw in the towel. He said: “It’s unfortunate that all these things are happening in the judiciary. I think he was advised to resign by his counsel. But honestly, it’s quite unfortunate”. In his own submissions, Mr. Oluwole Kehinde was of the view that the overwhelming evidence against the suspended CJN might have been responsible for his resignation. “It’s a complex issue. But I believe he knows best why he chose to resign. He may have been overwhelmed by the evidence against him, which convinced the National Judicial Council (NJC) to recommend him for retirement. “But that is the point many fair minded people made, that the president ought to await the recommendation of the NJC before proceeding against him. “Invariably, the president succeeded in giving the man a bad name in order to hang him, by charging him before CCT and suspending him illegally. “Remember the so-called EFCC evidence was not in view when the CCT and suspension came up. Unfortunately, the NJC didn’t have any input to the determination of allegations on which the CCT proceedings and suspension were founded. “At any rate, the CCT and suspension preceded the NJC panel that heard EFCC petition. Something fundamentally went wrong. I am talking about procedure, not substance of allegations”, he said. Justice Onnoghen was said to have tendered his resignation letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday evening, a day after the National Judicial Council (NJC) recommended that he be compulsorily retired for misconduct. APC: We expect to see a President docked Reacting, the All Progressives Congress (APC) said that it awaits a day the President of Nigeria would be tried for wrongdoing. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who stated this said the arraignment of the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki and former CJN at the CCT were indications that a Nigerian President would be put in the dock one day. According to Onilu, this is the kind of a country that the ruling party envisage for Nigeria, where nobody will be above the law. “Now, you have seen the head of the National Assembly, Senate President Bukola Saraki put in the dock and you have seen the CJN put in the dock. “So, one day, we will see a President that will also misbehave and put in the dock, which now shows that nobody is above the law of this country, that we are all equal before the law. So, anybody who finds himself in any position, should now begin to look closely at his own actions knowing full well that today may protect him but tomorrow may expose him.” Speaking further, the APC spokesperson said: “We knew right from the beginning that what the immediate past CJN did was wrong. The allegations were too serious and we know that the President does not act on frivolities, he must have done his background checks, and he must have gotten good information to have taken the action he took and not just taking that action, that there was basis for the action that can be legally proven. “And those lawyers, socalled senior advocates of Nigeria who had over the years dipped their hands along with some of these judicial officers, in detriment of this country, continued to lampoon the President, lampoon the APC and blaming this government that is doing its best to right several of the wrongs that we have been used to. “They were actually the one trying to kill democracy and this party rose in the defence of the President because we understand that the President, we know he means well, he knows the real purpose that drives his actions. “Now, events have proven the President right. Events have proven the party, APC, right, events have proven those Nigerians who believe Nigeria first and any other things after right. “We all can only be hiding behind one finger, otherwise we knew Nigerians – reasonable Nigerians – knew from the word ‘cooked’ that those allegations were not cooked up and if they were real, the next thing for the CJN to have done was to have stepped aside and the question of, he wouldn’t be the only one, why him? There is nowhere in the world where judgment is passed on every sinner at once. “It is not every armed robber you can catch the same day. And even some you know, the slow wheel of justice may not catch up with them immediately but we must continue to see evidence that we are moving towards that sanity that we are making progressive efforts and sending strong signals to people who think this country must continue as long as they are comfortable and the rest of Nigerians are suffering. We must send that signal to them. It is not going to be business as usual.” Issa-Onilu lampooned the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and some civil society organisation for coming in defence of the CJN or those accused of corruption, as he said. “The issue we have in this country is that, many people, especially those who have been part of the impunity of the past who are struggling badly to adjust to the reality of rule of law. That is the major issue we are facing in this country. There is so much struggle to allow the past that is not good enough for us as a country to allow it go and for all of us to rise and face the future, future of promise, future of change,so that we can move to the ‘Next Level’. Resignation letter submitted to CoS The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that Onnoghen’s resignation letter was submitted to the Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari, by some Justices of the apex court. NAN, however, learnt that the Justices who submitted the letter arrived at the presidential villa a few minutes after President Muhammadu Buhari had left Abuja for Jordan to participate in the World Economic Forum on Thursday. A presidency source confirmed to NAN that President Buhari had, before his departure, received the National Judicial Council’s recommendations on the petition written against Onnoghen and the acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad. The report was submitted to the president by his Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, who was accompanied by the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, at about 2:20 p.m. The Director, Information, NJC, Mr Soji Oye, on Wednesday in a statement, confirmed that the council had sent its report to President Buhari after the conclusion of its investigation into the petitions against Onnoghen and the acting CJN. ‘A replay of Sowemimo’s sack in 1984’ Former President of Aka Ikenga and a lawyer, Chief Goddy Uwazurike, has said the resignation struck him like a thunderbolt. He said Onnoghen had been humiliated in the worst way possible for a judge to be treated in this country since 1984. Speaking with Saturday Telegraph, he said the action was a replay of the 1984 episode when the then Chief Justice of Nigeria, Fatai Sodeinde was removed from office by the then Military Head of State, Major General Muhammadu Buhari! “Ever since, the dignity of the judiciary was never trampled upon by any government, military or civilian. “As a lawyer, I weep for the other members of the judiciary who did not understand that a new benchmark has been set for whipping any independent and courageous judge into line! Truly, the fulcrum of democracy has been damaged! “Whether the third arm of the government, the judiciary, shall recover is a matter of conjecture. But one thing is certain, our judiciary will not be respected all over the world and in Nigeria! ...conceals submissions of investigative panel ●Suspended CJN: I never received car gift, bribe from lawyers The National Judicial Council (NJC), yesterday, said it has forwarded the outcome of its investigation into corruption allegations against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, to President Muhammadu Buhari for action.… In “Politics” The decision by the Federal Government to force the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, to resign four weeks to the general elections and three years before his tenure expiration has naturally raised eyebrows.   Justice Onnoghen, whose confirmation suffered unprecedented delay after he was recommended to President… In “News” The perceived wrong procedure adopted by President Muhammadu Buhari in suspending the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Nkanu Onnoghen, has spawned much controversy. Before his suspension, Onnoghen had been listed for arraignment before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) by the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) over… In “Opinions”