The adoption of Senate Leader, Sen. Ahmad Lawan as the consensus candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Senate Presidency of the 9th Assembly is generating controversy. In this interview, Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Sen. Sabi Abdullahi tells CHUKWU DAVID that the controversy is unnecessary because Lawan was chosen after wide consultations  The adoption of Sen. Ahmed Lawan as the next Senate President appears to be creating tension among senators especially those who wanted the position. Don’t you think this could lead to a similar crisis the APC had in 2015? I want to assure Nigerians that there will be no such crisis of 2015 in the 9th Senate. The vehicle that brought us here is the party; and within the context of our constitutional democracy, my take is that party has a very strong role to play because when we go to contest, it is the party that is on the ballot, not our names. So, we are agents of the party. And if our party has campaigned to Nigerians that it will deliver good governance, and we are here to anchor the legislative component, I think it is fair and just that we should have a meeting point for synergising with what our party stands for. The constitution is very clear; when we get in here as senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, we are expected to act in accordance with our oath of office, in accordance with the constitution. That also presupposes that we have made a promise to Nigerians, and we shall be guided by the constitution in delivering our promise. What Nigerians want to see is whether you have delivered on your promise or not.  Some Nigerians believe that APC has not learnt its lesson with the way it is handling the leadership issue this time. What do you have to say? For me, we have learnt our lessons from whatever happened in 2015. I am the Spokesman of the 8th Senate; and in explaining to Nigerians about what transpired in the Senate, definitely, I am in the forefront of understanding what has happened, and that is what my role is. In many instances, by virtue of my responsibility as the Spokesman, I am duty bound to stand before you here and explain what the Senate has done. I must say that it almost cost me my political career because it’s not everybody that can understand the difference between what the Senate has said as its position and what I say as Senator Sabi Abdullahi. But that is also the risk of the job. And I tried to do it with high sense of responsibility; but I did it to the admiration of some and to the condemnation of others. So, for me, the party is on course.   Are you saying that the APC will get it right even in the midst of the opposition to Lawan’s nomination by party leaders? APC is getting it right; it has gotten it right and it will continue to get it right. You all recall that we had a divided house leading to emergence of leadership, and attempts to get reconciliation failed. But as we speak today, to the best of my knowledge, we have only one APC caucus – both the outgoing caucus and the incoming caucus. But as caucus, we had unity before we went for primaries, and we were united by the party. The party gave us all the necessary support, to understand that as a caucus, we must be united to be able to support the government that was elected on the same platform as those of us in the National Assembly. As a ruling party, we have one mission, and the mission that APC has promised Nigeria is a promise of change along three cardinal points of security, economy and corruption. Within that context, how will you judge an APC caucus that has majority that has failed to help to support the legislative work that will enable and enhance governance along the line of three principal areas that the Executive wants to deliver? That’s the area we should begin to look more seriously.  Nigerians have been telling us to learn from our past mistake, and that is goodwill. So, right now we are enjoying a robust goodwill. Nigerians expect us to do well with the kind of majority we have in the Senate and in the House of Representatives. All of us that are senators-elect, waiting to be inaugurated in the 9th Assembly, as far as I am concerned, we all have a unity of purpose.  Apart from relying on the leadership of the party to give you directives, what else are you doing to sell the candidature of Lawan within and outside the Senate? I must say that I am actually the Spokesman of the Ahmad Lawan for Senate President group. Learning from where we are coming from, we have mobilized ourselves and we have been talking to ourselves including the old ones and those who are senators-elect.  We are also aware that the media have a very strong role to play in enlightening Nigerians on how things are happening and why things happen. We also went to Lagos to meet with the very influential Lagos-Ibadan Press as it is being called, and we had two set of meetings with the various editorial teams and the editors of major newspapers numbering 30. Our mission was very clear: we as senators-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria have a duty on the day we are going to be inaugurated on the floor of the Senate, to say this is who we want. We have made a choice, which is in our right to do so, and our choice is Ahmad Lawan. We have gone round talking to people, mobilizing people to understand why we want it so. It was while we were in Lagos that we got an invitation by our party’s national working committee (NWC) and the President. Are you expecting that Mr. President and the party should abdicate their responsibility of providing direction for us? I don’t think so because they were accused of the same thing last time.  What really transpired at that meeting? When we met Mr. President, he made one profound statement, which I found very touching. He said that this is his last time in government after which he will retire to his village. He said that within the next four years, he wants to leave something for Nigerians. That is what you should get from a leader who is patriotic and nationalistic, who has the feelings of what Nigerians are passing through. He wants to leave something behind, and to do so, he requires the cooperation of the Legislature. And as senators, he requires our cooperation far more because of the constitutional role expected of us. And if you are a loyal party man, that statement alone is enough for you to key in, and to banish whatever self pride you have in you, that ambition you have in you to support the vision that is clearly set by a great leader.  And I and the rest of the team that I know are working on that. As a group, our objective is nothing more than the unity of the party to enable us deliver dividends of democracy. Respect for the constituted authority in the person of the President and the party leadership. The capacity to have peace in the chamber and to have a bipartisan chamber where our colleagues in the PDP will feel confident that there is a leadership that is trusted even by his own people and by the Executive because it is one government. When we have this, these bills that often get returned by the executive will get attention, and when they go for assent they will get assent, and Nigerians will get the benefits the bills. It doesn’t make any sense if the bills don’t get assent. It means our objective is not met. These are very important issues that we must put very clearly on the table.  Some of your members have described the adoption of Lawan as an imposition. Is it true? I must say that it is not good for people to peddle lies. When the Chairman as the arrowhead of the leadership of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, spoke to us, seeking our support, he said that after wide consultation, with governors; and governors of Kaduna, Yobe, Oyo, Kebbi and others were there and the NWC and senators-elect, with Mr. President seated, he appealed to us so that we will get it right and avoid the mistake of the past and have unity. He recommended Senator Ahmad Lawan to us. He said, ‘By the grace of God, on the day of inauguration, God sparing our lives, the Senate President of the 9th National Assembly will be Senator Ahmad Lawan.’  Are you sure that you have the numbers to achieve this goal? I won’t come here and start boasting about number but I want to tell you that on that very day. The party is responsible for zoning and the senate presidency has been zoned to the North-East.  Who are you presenting for the position of Deputy Senate President? I don’t have the idea of what the party is doing on the position of Deputy Senate President. The party will ensure that a senator from each of the geopolitical zone benefits from the leadership positions, that is, two presiding officers and the four principal officers. The majority will have its way while the minority will have its say but the two must co-exist. Let me tell you very clearly that we have been engaging our colleagues in the PDP and I will tell you that majority of them are actually working for us to see that we have a harmonious, rancour-free, non-tumultuous Senate. The government that we are going to form is that of the APC and the chief executive will be running the policy of the party. A parliamentarian want his people to benefit from the dividend of democracy have to work with those who are in government. Our colleagues in the PDP are not interested in any fight. We are engaging them and we are talking. They know the truth and I know that we shall work together and succeed together. Former Senate Leader, Sen. Ali Ndume, (Borno South) has an axe to grind with the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over the adoption of Sen. Ahmad Lawan (Yobe North) as the party’s candidate for the Senate Presidency of the 9th National Assembly. Ndume,… In “News” PDP moves to break APC's ranks, may back Goje Political party lacks power to decide NASS officials –Lawyers     Sequel to the riot act handed down to federal lawmakers elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), by the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the… In “News” The decision by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to unilaterally adopt the serving Senate Leader, Sen. Ahmad Lawan as the next Senate President has not gone down well with some of his colleagues. In this chat with ONWUKA NZESHI, a former Senate Leader and one of the contenders for the… In “Politics”