Leading event company, Bavent Street Live has announced Kids Funderland; a three-day festival of fun for kids of all ages scheduled to take place at Lekki Special Events Centre, Admiralty way, Lekki Phase 1, this Easter Season from April 19th to April 21st 2019. The event, which is designed to bring all kids together to have fun and also learn, has been packed with a lot of exciting activities that will ensure kids find a convenient spot to relax and enjoy maximum fun during this festive season. Kids Funderland will focus on themed activities like Easter egg hunts, electric dance floor, art and crafts, cartoon characters and a special performance by Dream Catchers Dance Academy. These activities are planned not just to keep the kids entertained but also expose them to educational activities created to ignite interests in a wide range of topics such as coding, graphic design, robotics and web design. While speaking about the event, Founder, Bavent Street Live, Hakeem Condotti commented: “Kids Funderland is an event you do not want to miss out on. Aside from the amazing activities, other highlights at the event are the giveaways. Families stand a chance to win special prizes; such as shopping vouchers, a weekend stay in a luxurious hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos and an all-expense paid trip to Disneyland in Paris for a family of four. I bet you do not want to be anywhere else”. The event which is supported by FCMB will welcome more than 7,000 guests for three days and tickets to the event are priced at N5000 per day and available on www.afritickets.com and www.baventstreet.live/kf Get a feel of Ibis Easter City Break Ibis Hotel on Toyin Street, Ikeja, Lagos has on offer savoury package for the delight of its patrons, local residents and visitors to the city seeking a relaxed atmosphere that is laced with rich ambience and exotic fun. It is a… In “Travel and Tourism” With the Yuletide celebration gathering momentum, ANDREW IRO OKUNGBOWA brings you a listing of some of the leisure spots and some of the enthralling activities signposting the season     It is another time of the year when the entertainment muse takes over the nation’s landscape and across the globe,… In “Travel and Tourism” For the promoter of London to Lagos Limited, Jacquelyn Esho, Easter celebration offers another opportunity to treat foreign tourists to the best of Nigeria as the company’s Easter tour package has caught the attention of over a sizeable number of 50 tourists from London and other parts of… In “Travel and Tourism”