Two University of Lagos students, who allegedly attempted to rape their course mate, on Thursday appeared before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos on a five-count charge. Ikedi Okpanlanedu, 21, and Samuel Idongesit, 20, are facing charges of conspiracy, attempted rape, assault, impersonation and threatening violence. Police Sgt. Modupe Olaluwoye, prosecuting the case, told the court that the undergraduates invited the course mate, who was a makeup artiste, to a hotel room and attempted to rape her. Olaluwoye said that the defendants committed the offences at 4.40p.m. on April 1 at Peace Land Hotel, Folagoro, Lagos State. Olaluwoye said that the defendants promised to introduce the makeup artiste to a person who needed her service. She submitted that the defendants attempted to rape the lady on her arrival at the hotel room. “My lord, they strangled her because she was calling for help. It was a hotel staff, Mr Ohaeri Godlove, who heard her screaming and called the hotel security. “Okpanlanedu claimed to be an army personnel, and threatened to stab her with a knife he was holding, if she would not co-operate with them. “The knife was recovered from the crime scene, and we intend to tender it in evidence,” she said. The alleged offences contravene Sections 411, 262, 170 (1), 380 and 56 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that attempted rape attracts 14 years’ imprisonment while impersonation is punishable with three years’ jail term. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges, and were granted bail by Chief Magistrate Peter Ojo in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties each in like sum. Ojo directed that the sureties must be gainfully employed and possess evidence of three years’ tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The case was adjourned until June 26 for mention. (NAN) A 25-year-old woman, Gift Daniel, appeared in an Ebute Meta Magistrates’ Court in Lagos on Thursday for allegedly stabbing a man to death. The deceased, identified as Taofeek Olumoro, 52, a cleric was alleged to have met his fate while trying to rape the lady. Daniel, who resides at No.… In “Metro and Crime” For allegedly attempting to rape a 15 year-old schoolgirl, the police in Ogun state, has arraigned a 42-year-old man, Kamoru Mustapha before an Abeokuta Chief Magistrate’s Court. The accused person, who resided at Jengede village in Abeokuta, is facing a three-count charge of conspiracy, abduction and attempted rape. Prosecutor, Insp.… In “Law” An Ikeja Special Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos, yesterday heard how a former Masters graduate of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka, John Osagie Otema, allegedly raped and assaulted two female students of the institution. Otema completed his undergraduate studies at the Department of Building in UNILAG in 2010… In “Metro and Crime”