Members of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN ) otherwise known as the Shiites yesterday locked down both human and vehicular traffic in the ever busy Central District of the Federal Capital Territory, to mark the 68th birthday anniversary and 1, 224 days of Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky’ s detention.  The group, in their usual fashion of filling according to age grade and sex trooped out in hundreds, chanting their war-like songs as they marched through major roads demanding justice for their detained leaders. The procession, which lasted for hours, forced commuters and workers within the Federal Secretariat to look for alternative routes, as activities were paralysed.  They said Nigerian government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to trample on the rights of the members of IMN, especially E’l Zakzaky and his wife that have been illegally kept behind bars for 1,224 days despite court orders to the effect that they should be released.  Abdullahi Musa, the spokesperson of the group reportedly said that IMN would not relent to demand for justice over the Zaria massacre of their members by Nigerian Army. He allegedly said that,”despite the recommendation made by the report of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCI) of July 2016 for the prosecution of the perpetrators of Zaria massacre, the Nigerian Government under Buhari is yet to prosecute the perpetrators of these great atrocities,” There are strong indications that the diplomatic relations between Nigeria and the Islamic Republic of Iran, might have received a boost, over the decision of the latter to withdraw her support for the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), otherwise known as the Shiites. Sunday Telegraph recalls that clashes between… In “News” On May 2, members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) also known as Shiites defied police ban on their activities in Abuja, embarked on another protest and, in the process, shut down the Wuse and Berger areas of the metropolis. On May 14, the IMN members also protested… In “Editorial” In their sustained effort to secure the release of their leader, Shiekh El- Zakzaky and other Shiite Muslims who are currently in detention , the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) yesterday, warned that it could make Nigeria ungovernable if its members were forced into becoming violent in their agitation. The… In “News”