Six cybercrime fraudsters have been sentenced to six months imprisonment with an option of fine of N100,000 each.
The convicts, Chigozie Bright, Kingsley Anyasor, Osinachi Samdavid, Oyasi Desmond, Benice Anosike and Martins Ekpemadu, were arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and sentenced by Justice S. A. Amobeda of the Federal High Court sitting in Calabar, Cross River State on April 15, for internet fraud. The Head, Media and Publicity, Tony Orilade, said that the six convicts committed the offences at different times and charged separately by the Uyo Zonal Office of EFCC. Bright, who also goes by Abdul Esther on April 5, 2019, falsely presented himself as a Syrian widow to Jose Luis Cruz Diaz through the email, abdulesther7@gmail.com.
Anyasor alias Rasha Ademar on March 3, pretended to be Rasha Ademar of Instanbul, Turkey, using same to obtain money from Jorge Davila. Osinachi alias Maya Ahmed on April 4, also presented himself to Rafiq Dayi as a widowed Syrian refugee, using the email, mayaahmed093@gmail.com, with the sole aim of defrauding Rafiq.
Oyasi alias James Williams, on the other hand, pretended to be a Caucasian male and obtained as much as $226,578.96 from Ribeiro Anthonia, a Hong Kong national, between March 5 and June 19, 2018. Anosike alias Sarah Abdul on April 3, 2019, posed as a foreigner named Keri with the email, sarahabdul309@gmail.com to defraud his unsuspecting victims.
Ekpemadu alias Selda Abu on April 2, 2019, also faked his identity and succeeded in defrauding Ivan Horvat. They pleaded “guilty” to the offence.
Orilade said: “In view of the guilty plea and the plea bargain agreement between the prosecution and the defence, Justice Amobeda convicted them accordingly, and gave each of them an option of N100,000 as fine. They were also ordered to forfeit all the instruments used in committing the said crime, to the Federal Government, including their three bedroom and two bedroom apartments.” In another development, the EFCC, Enugu Zonal Office on Monday secured the conviction of Nwakanma Charles Chukwudi before Justice I. N. Buba of the Federal High Court, sitting in Enugu, the Enugu State capital on a one-count charge bordering on internet fraud to the tune of $26,520. The convict, who had defrauded a Canadian woman, named Donnalynn of the said sum, pleaded guilty to the charge preferred against him by the anti-graft agency.
Investigation into the allegation revealed that he had been perpetrating high level internet fraud while living a flamboyant lifestyle that is not in tandem with his means of livelihood.
Upon his arrest, 29 contacts in his Yahoo mail were discovered to have been used for commission of crime. Investigation further uncovered how the convict impersonated a British national named Barry Bernard, who lived and worked in Manchester, United Kingdom.
The presiding Judge, Justice Buba after reviewing the charge against the convict, found him guilty as charged, convicted and sentenced him to one month imprisonment starting from April 8, which was the date of his arrest. The charge against him reads: “That you, Nwakanma Charles Chukwudi on or about the 10th day of June, 2014 in Enugu, Enugu State, within the jurisdiction of the Federal High Court of Nigeria, with intent to defraud, franked an electronic message, to wit document dated 28th day of November, 2013 titled ‘MONEYGRAM’ and you thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 14(1) (3) cybercrime (prohibition prevention, etc) Act, 2015.”