…as party becomes beautiful bride of APC  •Lawan, Ndume reach out to colleagues  The People Democratic Party (PDP) legislators, especially in the National Assembly (NASS), have become beautiful brides that the various factions of the All Progressives Congress (APC) family are now wooing. It is not unconnected with the tussle for the leadership of the 9th Assembly.   Ahmed Lawan (Yobe North) and Ali Ndume (Borno South), are the two leading contenders for the coveted seat of the President of the Senate, while Femi Gbajabiamila (Lagos) is in the race for the Speaker of the House of Representatives.  Incidentally, despite the leadership of the ruling party throwing their weight behind Lawan, the Senator from Borno South, has refused to tow the line and is insisting he will remain in the race to replace the current occupant of the seat, Dr. Bukola Saraki.  Those who should know who spoke with Sunday Telegraph, said that all the factions in the ruling party are appealing to and wooing the leadership of the PDP through them, both at party and individual levels. “The feelers from the party are that if care is not taken Ndume may nick it,” a former aide to a chieftain of the PDP, who played a pivotal role in the just concluded general election, confided in the weekly.  Our source, who did not want his name in print because of the sensitivity of the matter, also said that Lawan too is leaving no stone unturned as he is also reaching out to the PDP; hinting that he is ready to work with them, which is contrary to the position of the party leadership. “There is a lot of politicking going on, they will consider and concede some very important committees’ leadership to the PDP.  The outgoing leadership of the NASS, especially the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has already publicly said that it is not about party. It is about the independence of the legislature. “Because of that it is resonated between both the PDP and APC members. The APC made a mistake especially in canvassing that it is our person, they have forgotten that it is individuals that will cast their votes, though they are party members. It is secret ballot.  Why should they be talking to them like primary school pupils who want to elect the head boy that nobody can contest? They have also forgotten that certain elements in the North Central feel that in one of the geo political zones, they are yet to field anybody that   the number four man will also be a Yoruba man. Femi Gbajabiamila’s ambition too is under threat. With that there is resurgence in PDP, especially with the mismanagement of APC’s victory, which led to the party’s loss of the leadership of the NASS in 2015.   This has emboldened some elements in the PDP and if care is not taken, APC may have its fingers burnt again, because instead of working behind the scenes, it has come out to breath down on the neck of the legislatures. You do not do things like that.  “The PDP that you thought had died will now play a dominant role in who becomes the president of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives. “Some elements of the APC are angry at the way and manner (Adams) Oshiomhole (APC National Chairman) treated them.  There are speculations that Ibikunle Amosun, outgoing Governor of Ogun State and his Imo counterpart, Rochas Okorocha are saying that they are also factors to reckon with. There are also some of the Class of 2007 Governors who are returning to the Senate – Orji Uzor Kalu, of Abia, Chimaroke Nnamani, Abdullahi Adamu, Danjuma Goje and their like. It is going to be a battle royal. If care is not taken APC will burn its fingers and it will be the beginning of another war.”  But National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, declined to either confirm nor deny the story. When Sunday Telegraph met him he simply said: “We are waiting for them in the floor of the House. Since they (APC) said they are the ones doing the appointment, we have nothing to say.” Indications are rife that the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is set to wield the big stick against Senators Ali Ndume and Danjuma Goje as well as other erring members, who flout it’s directives on the election of the National Assembly leadership. This is coming as a result… In “News” There are strong indications that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may encounter a repeat of the crisis of 2015 in its quest to install the leadership of the 9th National Assembly, which is billed for inauguration in June 2019. One of the top contenders for the office of Senate… In “News” The media have been awash with a potential "second" bumpy ride by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to get its "anointed candidates" elected into the principal offices in the Senate of the National Assembly, where it has a comfortable majority in both Chambers. Considering the 2015 fiasco, can't the… In “Opinions”