BABA NEGEDU reports on the political intrigues that informed the decision by the deputy governor of Kaduna State, Bala Barnabas Bantex, to jettison his position for a senatorial seat, which later turned a costly political gamble, given his defeat at the poll   It came to many as a surprise, when Kaduna State deputy governor, Bala Barnabas Bantex, announced that he was not going to stand as running mate of Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai in the 2019 governorship election. This was because of the obvious robust relationship that exists between Governor el-Rufai and his deputy in running of affairs of government in the state. The governor seized every opportunity to declare how both have come a long way from their days at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. So, it was shocking to many political watchers that both politicians would want to part ways. However, more intriguing was the decision of the deputy governor that he was abandoning the el-Rufai administration to contest for the Southern Kaduna Senatorial District seat. In a statement then, Bantex disclosed that he no longer wants to be deputy to el- Rufai, but a senator to represent his people of Southern Kaduna. Bantex alluded to the fact that many will be taken aback by the decision when he said: “This has been a very difficult decision for me in view of the uncommon goodwill and brotherly relationship that I currently enjoy with Mallam Nasir el-Rufai.” He, however, disclosed that “I am fully prepared to challenge anyone that represents the failures of the past in delivering the best for our people. I am convinced that it is time for our people to firmly reject the poorest senatorial representation Zone 3 has had since 1999. “In making this run for the Senate, I wish to present a clear alternative, clear the cobwebs of prejudice from our political discourse and energise my party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zone 3. It is my firm desire to take this course, persuaded that if we are to save our people from the scourge of poor representation and divisiveness, major steps like this are required.” He concluded by accusing the PDP, which is the dominant party in Kaduna South of not doing anything for the people. “Our campaign will pose the question of what 16 years of PDP rule did in the area, beyond making certain persons ministers, commissioners and the like. We will engage our people on substance, asking questions as to what actual development, if any, PDP brought to our people. The future of the majority of our people is certainly more valuable than the pettiness of entitled elite,” he said. However, close watchers of the politics of Kaduna State, especially that of Southern Kaduna are well aware that it would be easier for the proverbial camel to pass through the eye of the needle than for the APC to win any elective position in Southern Kaduna in the 2019 elections. As predicted, Bantex lost the Kaduna South senatorial election to the incumbent, Senator Danjuma La’ah of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). La’ah polled 268,923 votes against Bantex 133,287 votes. Many stakeholders have been advancing different hypothetical situations of what might have led to the decision of the deputy governor to dump el-Rufai to contest for senatorial seat. While some attributed the decision to ill health, others pondered towards an alleged frosty relationship between the duo. Others said Bantex was forced out of government due to the prevailing circumstances between his people (Southern Kaduna) and the El-Rufai administration due to the killings in the area and the perceived injustice in appointments. Those who said he was forced out of government cited a development few months back, when speculations were rife in the state that the deputy governor was going to be sacked due to the antagonism from the people of Southern Kaduna and his inability to call them to order. The proponents even said a meeting to that effect was held and that a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) under the administration of Patrick Yakowa, Lawal Yakawada, was shortlisted to take over from Bantex. The speculation was so strong that even the state government was then forced to issue a statement denying the move. Spokesman to Governor el-Rufai, Samuel Aruwan, who denied the claim, said an alleged minutes of an Emergency Meeting of the Strategic Committee on Political Developments in the state circulating on social media purportedly aimed at replacing Bantex in 2019 was fake. Aruwan said the meeting allegedly chaired by Governor el-Rufai, and which had some key officials of the Kaduna State government present never took place. The denial, notwithstanding, New Telegraph gathered that the fate of the deputy governor was sealed when a strategic committee put together to fashion out ways the present administration could return to power in 2019 in the midst of swelling opposition mainly from the Southern Kaduna axis, came up with a resolution that only a Muslim/Muslim ticket can salvage the situation. The way out the committee was said to have recommended, was to appeal to the minority Muslim population in the Christian dominated Southern Kaduna, appeal to the Muslim hardliners in the North (even if they are in the Peoples Democratic Party) that Kaduna Muslims are in the majority and can produce the governor without the support of Christians, and lastly, if possible give women a sense of belonging; that one of their own can be deputy governor and can aspire to be governor if given the opportunity.  But a source in the state told New Telegraph that the administration concluded long ago that Bantex kinsmen will not support el-Rufai’s reelection. The source insisted that the governor knew what he was saying, when he disclosed in an interview that even if he picks the Pope as a running mate, majority of Christians from Southern Kaduna will not vote for him. Explaining his decision for a fellow Muslim as running mate, Governor el-Rufai said that Dr. Hadiza Balarabe (now deputy governor-elect) was chosen based on her competence and antecedents not because of her religious affiliation. “Government House is not a place of worship, but a place of work for the people,” he said. The deputy governor also did not help his case as his stand on issues were perceived to be in favour of government and seen as standing against his people. For example, in the heat of the insecurity in Southern Kaduna, many in the area blamed government for not doing enough, while Bantex issued a statement accusing them and even some Christian leaders in the state of fuelling the crisis by “spreading hate, encouraging violence and undermining the security efforts in the state.” In a statement on behalf of those he referred to as “Christian Leaders serving in the Kaduna State Government,” Bantex said: “Criminals have inflicted pains and losses on many of our citizens through kidnapping and banditry. This is a security challenge that the state government has been working to resolve. It is most unfortunate and improper to blame the despicable actions of criminals on religion, or insinuate government involvement.” He further stated that “attempt to paint the Kaduna State government and its leadership in religious garbs must stop. It is a government within which we as Christians proudly serve, and which makes its decisions guided only by the oath of office to which we have all sworn and the constitution. “Enough is enough of this reckless misuse of the apostolic mandate. Pastors have a mission to promote peace, bring people together and motivate them to better follow the example of Jesus Christ. The reckless rhetoric from some pastors reminds decent people of the unfortunate involvement of pastors in the 1994 genocide in Rwanda.” Before now he was chairman of Kaura Local Government Area. He also represented his people of Kaura Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives under the then opposition Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), but may be Bantex tried to re-enact the feat, but the circumstances has changed. However whether the man was forced out or on his own, decided to throw in the towel, only time will tell. El-Rufai buldozers hit APC secretariat   The Kaduna State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been enmeshed in crisis for some time, but the internal wrangling reached a boiling point last week, following the demolition of one of the factions’ secretariat, Baba Negedu reports   The political turmoil… In “Politics” BABA NEGEDU examines the controversy trailing Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s preference for a Muslim/ Muslim governorship ticket in Kaduna State and why the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state might have sanctioned the idea   Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai is hoping to re-write history and possibly change the… In “Politics” BABA NEGEDU reports on Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s preference for a Muslim/Muslim governorship for the 2019 elections and the controversy over his choice and what it portends for ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state     Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai is hoping to re-write history and possibly… In “Politics”