Senior Pastor of Rhema Life Church, Owerri, Dr. Emmanuel Ezeka has called on the Imo state governor-elect, Chief Emeka Ihedioha to hit the ground running and not allow events of the past throw him off track. In a sermon, Ezeka warned that when government resort to buck-passing and blame games, it was the easiest indication that such government may fail, reassuring that the incoming government would not fail recalling that Imo people had had to endure so much. He said: “You do not make progress looking back when you on the driving wheel. Some people were blaming others for wasting 16 years but this new governor in Imo must not spend his tenure blaming the last administration. We know all that happened and we voted him to bring a solution not to teach us history. “She was asked not to look back and she did and turned into a pillar of salt. I have no doubt that this government will succeed. Imo will come alive again but the governor must keep his eyes on the ball and that will minimize chances of distraction.” On May 29, outgoing Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, will hand over to a new helmsman, Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who is a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. In this report, NDUBUISI UGAH, examines the challenges that will confront the governor-elect among sundry… In “Politics” Members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) South-East Elders Council, yesterday, told the Imo governor-elect, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, that his victory was timely intervention by God, as Imo state needs urgent help in virtually all sectors. The group, which was led by former Governor Achike Udenwa on a courtesy… In “News” The Governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, has fired back at his would-be successor in office, Emeka Ihedioha, who allegedly issued a directive to banks and financial institutions not to honour any further dealings with the state government. Okorocha, who frowns at the purported action of the governor-elect, also… In “News”