 Justice Saliu Saidu of a Federal High Court in Lagos has ordered the remand of a businessman, Cajetan Chike Muonagolu in prison for allegedly dealing in adulterated and substandard engine oil.
The order followed his arraignment and his company, Richborn Nigeria Limited by the Standard Organization of Nigeria (SAN) on a four-count charge bordering on the alleged offence. He, however, denied the alleged offence.
Following the defendant’s arraignment, his lawyer, Goke Olagunlehin, holding the brief of Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), drew the court’s attention to his bail motion.
In arguing the motion, the lawyer urged the court to admit his client to bail in liberal terms, saying the offence was bailable.
However, SON’s lawyer, Babatunde Alajogun, while opposing the bail motion alleged that the defendant committed another offence during the pendency of the case.
The lawyer accused Muonagolu of breaking and removing the official seal of SON and evacuating 15, 000 cartons of suspected adulterated/substandard engine oil which SON put on hold.
The businessman was also accused of assaulting and beating up SON’s officials in the course of their lawful duties.
In a Bench ruling, Justice Saidu admitted Muonagolu to bail in the sum of N50million with two sureties in like sum.
According to the judge, one of the sureties must be a civil servant of not less than Grade Level 15 in the employment of the Federal or Lagos State Government while the other must be the defendant’s relation with landed property within the jurisdiction of the court.The court also ordered that both sureties must deposit their passport photographs with the court while the defendant must also deposit his international passport with the court’s registrar.
Justice Saidu also directed that both the prosecution and the court’s registrar must verify the sureties’ addresses.
The judge also ordered the prosecution and defence lawyers to visit the SON’s warehouse to ascertain the veracity of the claims that the defendant broke the organization’s seal.
Justice Saidu while adjourning the matter to 20th May, 2019, for commencement of trial also ordered that the defendant should be remanded in prison pending the time he perfects his bail.
In the charge, the defendants are accused of committing the offences at ASPAMDA Trade Fair Complex, Lagos Badagry Expressway Lagos State between December 12 and 13 2018.
They were accused of being in possession of 15,000 Cartons of adulterated Prime Plasma, Prime ATF and Stanley brand of engine oil which they present as being of quality.
The offences contravened Section 3 (6) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, CAP M17, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and Section 26 of Standards Organization of Nigeria Act, 2015.
Some of the counts reads: “That you Cajetan Chike Muonagolu and Richbon Nigeria Limited of Plot 242, Oshodi Apapa Express Way , Odolowu Bus Stop, Lagos on or about 12/13 December 2019, while at ASPAMDA Trade Fair Complex, Lagos Badagry Expressway Lagos State Lagos State within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court did indulge in dealing in adulterated/substandard engine oil to wit: 15,000 Cartons and 60,00 pieces of Prime Plasma, Prime ATF and Stanley brand of Engine oil which is not of quality, substance nature or efficacy which the seller represented it to be and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 1 (18)(ii) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, CAP M17, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004.
“That you Cajetan Chike Muonagolu and Richbon Nigeria Limited of Plot 242, Oshodi Apapa Express Way , Odolowu Bus Stop, Lagos on or about 12/13 December 2019, while at ASPAMDA Trade Fair Complex, Lagos Badagry Expressway Lagos State Lagos State Lagos State within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court did fail to comply with the Standards Organisation of Nigheria’s Conformity Assessment Programe (MANCAP) to wit; dealing in and having in possession of: 15,000 Cartons of Prime Plasma, Prime ATF and Stanley brand of adulterated/substandard engine oil.”