An officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) attached to the Ogun State Command has been knocked down by a bus driver plying “one-way” at Mowe, along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The officer (name withheld) was enforcing traffic regulations on the highway when the incident happened on Sunday. New Telegraph gathered that the driver of a Mazda bus marked KTU 485 XQ, who drove against traffic, was arrested in connection with the incident. The state FRSC Public Education Officer, Florence Okpe, who confirmed the hit in a statement issued on Monday, said the vehicle of the reckless driver had been impounded. Okpe stated that the suspect attempted to escape from the scene upon hitting the traffic official but was overpowered and arrested. “Although the driver immediately ran away but was overpowered and arrested. The injured officer was taken to the hospital for medical treatment and is in stable condition. The vehicle was also impounded at FRSC Base,” she added. Meanwhile, the FRSC spokesperson said a total of nine vehicles were intercepted on Sunday for route violation and dangerous driving. The vehicles include Mazda bus with registration number KRD 55 XD; Nissan GGE 233 XT; Volkswagen bus FKJ 647 XJ; TYT Previa LND 687 BC; Mazda bus LSR 316 XW; Volkswagen bus KSF 519 XU; Hyundai car KNH 585 AA; TYT Hummer bus KWL 397 NM and Mazda bus LND 366 XQ. The vehicles’ drivers, Okpe said, were also issued notice of offence ticket for dangerous driving with a fine of N50,000 each. She gave the names of the traffic route violators as Babalola Ekundayo, Isamot Idowu Adeniyi, Sholunde Oladapo, Olusegun Adewumi, Godspel Akpodono, Fahintola Adeniyi and Akpobecha David. She, however, said two offenders refused to provide their names upon arrest by FRSC personnel. Okpe also revealed that a total of five road crashes were recorded on highways in Ogun State on Sunday as the command embarked on Easter special patrol operations. The crashes, according to her, involved 38 persons but only two deaths were recorded. The remains of those killed in the accidents, she stated, were deposited at the mortuary of the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu. She quoted the FRSC Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, as advising motorists to drive cautiously, maintain the maximum speed of 50km per hour at construction zones and also resist the attempt to drive against traffic especially at construction zones. END There was pandemonium yesterday in Ago-Iwoye, Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State when a truck laden with granite crushed a middle-aged man with three children. The incident happened at Oru- Ago-Iwoye junction, along the Ijebu- Ode/Ibadan Road when the victims were riding a motorcycle on their way to… In “Metro and Crime” At least nine people lost their lives yesterday in an accident on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The crash, which occurred about 8.40a.m., a few metres after the Sagamu Interchange on the expressway, left one person seriously injured. The incident involved a Mack truck with registration number MUS 740 XN and a… In “Metro and Crime” No fewer than nine persons were killed in a fatal accident on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The crash, which occurred about 8:40 am few metres after the Sagamu Interchange, along the highway, left one person seriously injured. The incident involved a Mack truck with registration number MUS 740 XN and a… In “Metro and Crime”