The affirmation of the new minimum wage bill during the first quarter brought to an end months of confrontation between government and labour. Sunday Ojeme reports   The most significant event that took place in labour circle during the first quarter of the year was the final resolution of the battle between the Federal Government and organised labour, which was engendered by the N30,000 new minimum wage proposal.
As early as December, President Muhammadu Buhari had announced plans to transmit the final document to the National assembly for assent after series of altercation with labour over the amount.
True to its promise, the document, prepared by the Tripartite Committee on New Minimum Wage, was forwarded to the lawmakers on January 23 for perusal and assent.
The House of Representatives, despite the tensed political atmosphere, approved the N30,000 following the earlier adoption of the report.
Passing the bill for the third reading, the lawmakers unanimously approved the recommendation by the committee in consonance with the resolution by the tripartite committee set up by the President.
While passing the bill, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, said: “Today, we passed the new national minimum wage Bill 2019 in keeping with our commitment to improve the welfare of the Nigerian workers.
“The Bill was given speedy and accelerated passage in just two legislative days as a House of the Nigerian people.”
According to the bill, any employer who fails to comply shall be liable to a fine not exceeding five per cent of the offenders’ monthly wage.
Raising a point of order, the House Majority Leader, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, was of the opinion that the bill should take effect from six months after assent.
On the contrary, the lawmakers moved that the bill should take immediate effect as soon as the President signs it into law.
To save the House from further debate, the Chairman House Committee on Rules and Business, Edward Pwajok, moved for an amendment to include that the bill becomes effective from the date it is assented to.
On its part, the Senate after rounding off debates on the 2019 Appropriation Bill, also passed the N30,000 new wage. This was done two months after the lower house endorsed the document.
The passage attracted appreciation from the Nigerian Labour Congress, which gave kudos to the red chamber of the National Assembly.
Commenting on the bill, Senator Barnabas Gemade, stated that state governments had enough money to pay, arguing that “with the kind of money deployed to buy votes, it means the states have so much money to pay workers.”
Senator James Manager also said it had become embarrassing that some states had not paid the N18,000 minimum wage approved several years back.
Recall that the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, and Governor of Zamfara, Alhaji Abdul’aziz Yari, once said that paying N30, 000 wage was impracticable.
Yari said the proposed wage would be paid if labour would agree to downsizing of workforce across the country or Federal Government accedes to the review of the national revenue allocation formula.
He alleged that the tripartite committee did not include governors’ submission of N22, 500 in its proposal to Buhari ‘because it said that the governors’ decision came late.
The situation was so charged that Governor of Kebbi State, Alhaji Atiku Bagudu, called on Nigerians to sympathise with some of his colleagues over their inability to pay the proposed N30,000.
Bagudu, who was part of the Tripartite Committee on New Minimum Wage that recommended N30, 000 new minimum wage, said that in spite of the Committee’s commitment and recommendation, it was also important for stakeholders to sympathise with governors in that category.
“I was part of the tripartite party on the new minimum wage. It came at a time when many states were unable to pay salaries, not including Kebbi State, because we manage better.
“All the arguments about increase in wages and the clamour for a new minimum wage were compelling during the tripartite committee meetings. But I am sure that organised private sector will sympathise with what we are saying about the ability to pay.
“What do we need to do quickly so that workers can earn better and decent living? We are ignoring the most fundamental thing, which is the size of our economy, which leads to wider issue of globalisation.’’
On his part, Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Lawal, said the Buhari administration had fulfilled its promise of wage increase and asked workers to reciprocate because to whom much is given much is expected.
He also advised that government must not wait for strike to do its job. “I believe that 2019 will witness stability in the civil service,” he said.
According to the bill, it seeks to prescribe a national minimum wage for the country and provide a legal framework for ideal review of the national minimum wage in line with the period specified under the bill.
The 18-clause bill provides for the establishment of a Tripartite Committee on National Minimum Wage by Mr. President with equal representation from the federal, state governments, organised labour and organized private sector with the secretariat domiciled in the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission.
The bill provided that the Tripartite Committee shall compose of a chairman, secretary, government representatives (the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Minister of Labour and Employment, Minister of Finance, Minister of Budget, National Salaries, lncome and Wage Commission and state governors from each of the six geo-political zones to be nominated by governors from the zones.
Having been relieved from the month long battle over the issue organised labour had no option than to commend the lawnakers for a job well done.
While applauding the Senate for the hike in the amount to be charged for defaulters, Deputy President, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Mr. Amaechi Asugwuni, challenged state governments to brace up to accommodate the new salary increase once it was signed into law by the president.
The NLC, however, expressed reservation over Senate’s call for a review of the Revenue Sharing formula to give federal government 56 per cent, states 24per cent and local government 20 per cent, arguing that the minimum wage bill was an independent bill, which should not be subjected to adjustments in sharing formula by the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission.
Also reacting to the passage of the bill, the Head of Information Unit in NLC, Mr. Benson Ukpah, said the labour movement was happy with the Senate’s decision.
He said: “We would like to commend the Senate for having the presence of mind to act in concurrency with the House of Representatives. We will still need their support in the days ahead.”
He also said members of organised labour were not expecting anything that will drag the process backwards.
“We do not expect to go back and forth, the process that led to the arrival at the N30,000 new minimum wage remains unimpeachable and cannot be controverted by anybody. We do not envisage any party acting within the precincts of the law to oppose what the National Assembly has approved,” he said.
As a matter of fact, the first quarter of the year was indeed a period of relief and victory for Nigerian workers, especially those on the lowest rung of the ladder as their dream to earn higher income finally came to reality.