A truck driver whose identity is yet to be ascertained has been crushed in Aba, the commercial nerve centre of Abia State by a cargo train. Saturday Telegraph gathered that the tragic incident occurred at a railway crossing located behind the Eziukwu Market, off Cemetery Road by Ogbonna Road around 10pm. It was also gathered from sources within the area where the incident happened that the driver of the truck died on the spot following the impact of the train on him while trying to escape. One of the sources who does not want his name in print said the train which was reportedly returning from Port Harcourt, Rivers State, to Aba late in the night after their usual movement of goods between the two cities, ran into the truck that got trapped at the middle of the rail track unexpectedly. The source told our reporter that the driver who was not inside the trapped truck on sighting the train from where he was, hurriedly went to move the truck off the rail track, but couldn’t do so before thetrain caught up with him. It was gathered that the driver almost escaped before the rampaging train hit his trapped truck which in turn, got at him and dismembered his legs leading to instant death. It was later gathered that the body of the driver was evacuated in the morning hours by the railway authorities in Aba. Another source who gave his name as Kingsley Okoro while narrating the incident, said: “The driver of the truck brought iced Fish to a cold room located near the railway. He said: “He was said to have finished offloading the fish before his truck got trapped at the middle of the rail track. The driver was said to have made frenetic attempts to move away the truck from the rail track. “Luck unfortunately ran out of him when the cargo train coming back from Port Harcourt to Aba suddenly surfaced unexpectedly. “The driver couldn’t escape as the train rammed into the stationary truck while the driver was trying to fix and move it away from the rail. The body of the driver which was trapped under his truck was later taken away in ambulance this morning.”