An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual offences Court, Lagos yesterday sentenced a 30-year-old bricklayer, Idowu Ismaila Gbolahan to life imprisonment for defiling his 7-year-old niece. Gbolahan, who pleaded guilty during his arraignment, was convicted and jailed for life to an offence of child defilement. According to the State Prosecutor, Fehinti Ogbemudia, the convict committed the offence on August 11, 2018 at their residence at No 50 Morocco Road, Shomolu on the 11th of August 2018. Stating the facts before the court, Ogbemudia said that victim was in her grandmother’s house during the holidays when the convict raped her. The prosecutor said that the convict, who is a younger brother to the victim’s mother, sexually molested the girl when she went to drink water in her grandmother’s room. “The victim had gone into the room to drink water but was dragged into another room by her uncle. “He shut the door,  pulled off the victim’s pant and had forceful sexual intercourse with her. “The victim’s cries drew the attention of neighbours who rescued her. One Ufot Esther heard her cry and came to her rescue. “She was thereafter referred to the Lagos State University Teaching hospital (LASUTH), where she was also referred to the Mirabel Center for examination and treatment, ” the Prosecutor said However, delivering her judgement, Justice Abiola Soladoye found Gbolahan guilty of defiling a minor. Justice Soladoye said, “I have reviewed the facts of the case and I hereby find the defendant guilty of a one count charge of defilement. “The defendant violated the chastity of a child, thereby leaving an indelible emotional trauma. “I can not imagine the trauma the child went through. According to section 137 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State the defendant is hereby sentenced to life imprisonment,” the Judge ruled. Meanwhile, earlier in his Allocutus,  the defendant’s counsel,  Kelechi Obi asked the court to temper justice with mercy as the defendant is a first-time offender and has not wasted the judicial time of the court by pleading guilty.