Pensioners operating under Defined Benefit Scheme (BDS) of Pension Transitional Arrangement Department (PTAD) were paid a total of N102.82 billion as pension between January 2018 and March 2019. Executive Secretary, PTAD, Sharon Ikeazor, yesterday, confirmed amount paid out by Federal Government to pensioners in Abuja at the North-Central Stakeholders’ Forum for pensioners. Analysis of amount paid out showed that N59.97 billion was utilised to fund Parastatal Pension Department in the 15 months period. Out of this amount, the sum of N45.05 billion was utilised in 2018 while the balance of N14.92 billion was spent in the first quarter of this year. For Civil Servants Pension Department, the sum of N26.4 billion was released during the period made up of N21.21 billion for 2018 and N5.19 billion for the first three months of this year. PTAD paid out N8.64 billion to Customs, Immigration and Prisons Service, out of which N6.81 billion was for 2018 while the balance of N1.84 billion was utilised in the first quarter of this year. The sum of N7.78 billion was released to police, out of which N6.12 billion was the amount utilised in 2018 while the balance of N1.65 billion was for the first quarter of 2019. PTAD boss said the payment underscores resolve by the Muhammadu Buhari- led administration to prioritise prompt payment of pension benefit to pensioners to make life easier for pensioners. She described year 2018 as eventful, adding that the agency recorded significant mileages in terms of pension payments to pensioners. “2018 was a busy year at PTAD and we dare say a successful one too. Pension payments have been regular and up to date. We concluded the Civil Service Pension Department verification and commenced the verification of the Parastatal Pension Department pensioners, starting with the defunct agencies. “We made significant progress on the payment of the long outstanding 33 per cent arrears, which we are hopeful will soon be a thing of the past. Incidents of pension fraud are on the decline as we continue to create awareness and partner with the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to arrest and prosecute fraudsters,” she said. She said funding is a big challenge to the agency. “Funding to address our obligations to all our pensioners is a recurring challenge. We will continue to forge ahead as we have done in previous years. We are fortunate to have an administration that identifies with our vision to provide innovative and sustainable pension services to our pensioners. It is on this assurance that we have developed our strategic plans for the coming years,” she noted. In a related development, PTAD has concluded arrangements for the parastatals’ verification exercise of 104,133 pensioners and Next of Kins (NoK) of 270 federal funded parastatals,agencies and institutions under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS). The exercise will take place across the six geopolitical zones and Lagos. Pensioners to be verified include defunct/privatized agencies like Nigeria Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO), Assurance Bank, Nigerian National Shipping Line (NNSL) and Aluminium Smelter Company of Nigeria (ALSCON). The exercise is to validate inherited payrolls from the various defunct pension boards and offices which handled payment to pensioners under the DBS and to create a comprehensive digital database of pensioners. Following its resolve to ameliorate the welfare of retirees across the country, the Federal Government has paid out N67.5 billion within the last nine months to pensioners covered by the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS). The amount represents the total sum of N7.5 billion monthly pension paid out by the… In “Business” The quest by Federal Government to meet the 33 per cent increase in pension benefits for retirees has led to an unfunded liability of N255.89 billion. The amount, inherited by Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), forms part the agency’s N388.32 billion 2016 budget. According to industry report, the Federal Government… In “Business” The recent payment of 33 per cent increase arrears to some agencies by the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) may have overshot the N7.5 billion monthly budget for retirees. The directorate disclosed penultimate week that it had paid pensioners under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS) another instalment of 33… In “Business”