A chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Abia State, Hon. Augustine OKezie, has written to President Muhammadu Buhari not to swallow the pill that South-East did not give APC substantial vote in the last election to deserve principal office in the National Assembly but to know that the party did better in the zone than in 2015 and should be considered for the position of Deputy Senate president. In the letter entitled Deputy Senate Presidency of The 9th Senate: Open Letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, Okezie while congratulating the president on the victory, drew his attention to outstanding performance of the party in the zone which he said was championed by former Abia State governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu. He described Kalu as a great mobilizer, a bridge-builder and an advocate of democracy in whom the South-East believed would represent them and the country well. The letter reads: “Of note, the party recorded serious improvement in the 2019 elections compared to that of 2015. In Abia state for instance, APC got just a paltry 13,384 (3%) of the votes cast in 2015, while in 2019 the votes increased to 85,058 representing 29% of votes cast, and a 9 times increase on the 2015 performance. “This is against a background of dominance by the PDP in the region with three sitting governors, over 10 Senators and the Deputy Senate President. “Thus South-East APC needs to be encouraged, not otherwise and it is obvious that if South-East APC gets the DSP this time, it will lead to an increased performance in subsequent elections. “Luckily, the South-East has a capable Senator-elect in the person of His Excellency, Chief, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu. His emergence is simply an indication of God’s divine intervention both for the South-East APC, the South-East region and the country as a whole. With Chief Dr. OUK as the Deputy Senate President, the party is assured of South-East’s full integration into the centre because Dr. Uzor Kalu is a great mobiliser and a bridge-builder that connects people of various divides. Of note, he worked credibly for the party in the last elections, having campaigned vigoursly for APC both within his state Abia and beyond, taking the Next Level crusade to every part of the country, even across party lines. You will hardly find any single person in Nigeria who campaigned for the party in an individual capacity more than His Excellency Chief Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu. “It is equally on record that Chief Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu is a true advocate of democracy as he, as a governor, fought gallantly against the imposition of the 3rd Third agenda on Nigerians.”  He did this against all odds, not minding the consequences. Despite the seeming threat such advocacy posed against his personal interest, he remained resolute, in the interest of true democracy and by extension in the interest of Nigerians general.”