The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has urged the Federal Government to release the detained leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, as well as, the former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) and other Nigerians in captivity. Speaking on behalf of CAN at the ongoing Nigerian Baptist Convention Conference in Ogbomoso, Oyo State, its President, Rev. Dr. Samson Ayokunle, specifically appealed to the Federal Government to ensure negotiation and release of Leah Sharibu and the remaining Chibok girls who have been in captivity of Boko Haram for years. Ayokunle said: “We urge the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR) to put all machineries in motion to squarely address in a better way the issues of insecurity such as kidnapping, insurgency by Boko Haram, herdsmen’s attacks and ethnic militia disturbances in North-East of Nigeria. “All the people in captivity have been there for too long, especially Leah Sharibu and the remaining Chibok girls. “Of course, the leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, and the former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki, who are in the hand of the Federal Government are also due for release.” According to him, freedom of Nigerians in captivity should be the priority of the Federal Government because they did nothing to warrant being in perpetual captivity. He, however, used the occasion to warn men of God against man-mademiracles, saying they will incur the wrath of God, if they refuse to desist from it. “On a serious note, if vioany servant of God is organizing man-made miracles, saying God has done what He has not done, that person will go to hell. He is not of church of Christ. These are people whose bellies are their gods. They are not mindful of the things of the scriptures. “I will admonish those who allowed themselves to be used for man-made miracles to behave better. And if you see any so-called minister of the gospel who is fond of organizing man-made miracles, don’t patronize their churches again. Let their churches be empty, so that they can go and look for a better job,” Ayokunle warned.