The Senate yesterday rejected a bill seeking to phase out petrol vehicles from Nigeria in the year 2035 and introduce electric cars into the country. The sponsor of the bill, which did not receive the blessings of the Senate, was Senator Ben Murray- Bruce, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, representing Bayelsa East senatorial district. While leading debate on the bill seeking to phase out petrol vehicles from the country, Murray-Bruce pointed out the various societal vices caused by the use of petrol vehicles and the need to tackle the menace.  In spite of his persuasive argument to get the support of his colleagues to approve the bill, the lawmakers made several observations on the impossibility of mandating Nigerians to stop the use of petrol vehicles by law or an Act of Parliament. Therefore, the senators, who vehemently opposed the proposal, moved for its rejection, but on a second thought, gave the sponsor a soft-landing by asking him to withdraw it instead  of allowing it to be procedurally killed on the floor of the chamber. Murray-Bruce, who reluctantly succumbed to the pressure, however, raised a point of order, saying that posterity would judge him right for the need to embrace electric vehicles, stressing that those combustible vehicles would be phased out in the near future. According to him, the earlier Nigeria buys into the change, the better.  He said: “I can never quarrel with my leaders and friends, but I want them to close their eyes and know they are in the 21st century. I own an electric car that I have been using for the past five years. It is cheaper to maintain and durable. So, the fears put forward by my colleagues are highly debatable.  “I will withdraw the bill, but I want my colleagues to know that their position on this bill shows that, though they are in the 21st century, they do not belong in the 21st century. Presenting the bill before its rejection, Bruce said one of the major advantages of electric vehicles was that it would help solve the problem of ozone layer depletion, noting that the use of electric vehicles would also be health-friendly, among other things. Contributing, Deputy Senate President, Dr. Ike Ekweremadu, congratulated Murray-Bruce for the bill, but said that there was no need for a law to be passed for Nigerians to switch from the use of petrol vehicles to electric vehicles. He argued that following existing records, people had moved from the use of animals as sole means of transportation to use of bicycles, motorbikes, cars and other advanced means of transportation, without enacting a law to that effect.