 A few days to the commencement of West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), the senior prefect of Ijo Mimo High School in Akure, Ondo State, has fallen to his death from a mango tree.T he tree is located on the school premises. The mysteriously death of senior prefect, Temitayo Oluwole, has thrown his parents, friends and the school management into mourning. A source in the school said this was the fourth time a student would be falling from the mango tree whenever they were sent by their teachers to pluck mango for them. Oluwole was said to have been sent by one of his teachers to pluck a mango after a weekend tutorial class for SS3 students. The school was preparing students for the West African Examination Council (WAEC)-conducted examination that begins on April 11. “We all came for tutorial on Saturday. After the tutorial, one of our teachers asked him to pluck mango. It was while he was on the tree trying to pluck the mango that he fell and died immediately. “This is the fourth time a student has died after falling from that particular tree in this school. Our teachers don’t hesitate to send us to pluck mango for them, despite the danger and our cries that the tree is evil. But we can’t disobey them whenever they send us to climb the tree to pluck mango,” a student said. The father of the deceased, Pastor Bode Adegoke, confirmed that it was one of the teachers who sent the boy to pluck mango for him after the day’s lesson. He said the lesson ended about 1p.m. and the boy fell from the mango tree about 1.30p.m. He said he was taken to a private hospital immediately but was referred to the Trauma Centre for further medical attention. Adegoke, however, said the boy died at the Trauma Centre, Ondo, before he could be attended to. Since the incident occurred on Saturday, the bereaved father said neither the school principal nor the teachers had visited the family. The state Commissioner for Education, Mr. Femi Agagu, said the issue would be investigated and anybody found guilty would be death with.