Senator Ali Ndume seems to be on a familiar path with his declaration for the Senate presidency, given the belief that his aspiration may re-enact the 2015 power-play that saw the All Progressives Congress (APC) playing into the hands of the opposition party, Felix Nwaneri reports  French philosopher and thinker, Francois Marie Arouet, may not have had the Nigerian Senate in mind when he wrote in his book, “Philosophical Dictionary” that ‘‘the pleasure of governing must be certainly exquisite if we may judge from the vast numbers who are eager to be concerned with it,’’ but the array of personalities who on line for the presidency of the upper legislative chamber, compels one to believe that the Nigerian chamber might have been his reference point.  In what could be described as a battle like no other, the struggle for who leads the 9th Senate that is billed to be inaugurated in June, is gathering momentum by the day and living to belief as one to be closely watched given the personalities in the race.  Already, an intriguing battle for the revered position of Senate president has ensued within the All Progressives Congress (APC), which won majority of seats in the upper legislative chamber, and among the leading contenders are Senators Ahmed Lawan and Ali Ndume. Though the ruling party has zoned the position to the North-East geopolitical zone, where the duo hail from, Lawn, who is the incumbent Leader of the Senate, is the party’s preferred candidate for the exalted position.  But, Senator Ndume (APC Borno South) seems not deterred by the party’s preference and has gone ahead to declare his intention to contest for the office of Senate president in the 9th National Assembly.  Ndume, a former Senate leader, in a letter addressed to the National Chairman of APC Adams Oshiomhole, said his resolve to contest for the office was due to his zeal to contribute to Nigeria’s socio-economic development.  He added that he believed that APC as a party would zone the position to the North-East, considering the contributions of the region to the party’s electoral victory during the polls.  “Following the successful conduct of the 2019 general elections and the overwhelming victory of our great party, the APC at all levels, I hereby forward my letter of intent to contest for the office of the President of the Senate in the 9th National Assembly.  “I wish to emphasise that my decision to contest for the Senate presidency is informed by my conviction to contribute my quota to nation building,” the letter read in part. He added that his “vast legislative experience and deep desire to take Nigeria to the next level of development” were some of the reasons for his decision to contest.”  But, the APC, which responded through its spokesperson, Lanre Issa Onilu, said: “In reference to Senator Ali Ndume, who has come out to say he wants to contest, he’s merely expressing his fundamental rights. But those rights are also taken care of the day you have subscribed to a particular political party, in this case, APC. The day he subscribed to be a member of APC, he signed up to obey the position of the party.”  Despite the APC’s leadership position, Ndume is determined not to let go. He told journalists recently in Abuja that he consulted with President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, before declaring his intention to lead the Senate.  His words: “The Senate is supposed to be an institution. Clearly by the constitution, it is supposed to be independent. In the traditional institutions where kings, emirs and chiefs are not appointed, they are elected. If you are a prince; that does not guarantee that you will be the king. They are what they call the kingmakers.  “And the kingmakers in our case are supposed to be the senators. So, now, who owns the loyalty of the beneficiary? Is it the senators or is it the party? Or is it Adams Oshiomhole? It was Adams Oshiomhole that just threw it to us that Ahmed Lawan should be our next Senate president. I don’t believe that that is truly the position of Mr. President. Let me add that before I went into this contest, I consulted with Mr. President and he gave me the go ahead. I consulted with Tinubu, he gave me the go ahead. That was immediately after the primaries.”  Ndume may not just be daring the APC leadership by his move, but some analysts say he may be preparing ground for a repeat of the 2015 experience in which the party won majority seats in both houses of the National Assembly – Senate and House of Representatives, but had no hand in determining the emergence their respective leadership.  It would be recalled that an alleged trade-off by Senator Bukola Saraki and Hon. Yakubu Dogara, who were then elected on the platform of the APC, with the PDP counterparts led to their emergence as Senate president and Speaker, House of Representatives, respectively at the inauguration of the Eight National Assembly on June 9, 2015.  Saraki emerged unopposed through the support of about 59 senators, who were present during the inauguration, while Dogara polled 182 votes against Femi Gbajabiamila’s 174. Ironically, Saraki’s main challenger, Lawan and other 50 APC senators were at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, where they were billed to hold a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, when the election took place in the Red Chamber.  No doubt, the development humbled the leadership of the ruling party, which had opted for Lawan and Gbajabiamiala as heads of the upper and lower legislative chambers respectively, but it offered the opposition PDP the opportunity to clinch the position of Deputy Senate President through Senator Ike Ekweremadu.  The perception about his ambition, notwithstanding, this is not the first time the senator representing Borno South would be daring powers that be. The former Senate leader, was in March 2017, suspended by his colleagues for failing to do due diligence before bringing up two issues before the whole house.  Ndume had then through a Point of Order, brought to the notice of the Senate, an allegation of purchase of a bullet proof Range Rover Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) worth N298 million by the Senate president, Bukola Saraki. He also called the attention of the Senate to the issue of certificate scandal involving Senator Dino Melaye (Kogi West).  Relying on Senate Standing Orders 14 and 15, which deal with the privileges of senators, Ndume urged the Red Chamber to thoroughly investigate the allegations because they had portrayed the apex chamber in bad light as well as subjected it to public ridicule.  He said the allegation over the purchase of the SUV had prompted insinuations that it was the vehicle’s alleged seizure by the Customs Service that led to the perceived persecution of the Comptroller-General of Customs, Colonel Hameed Ali (rtd) by the Senate.  The upper legislative chamber consequently directed its Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions to look into the allegations. However, Saraki and Melaye were cleared of the respective allegations by the Senator Samuel Anyanwu-led committee. Consequently, Ndume was handed six months suspension.  Ndume, who is a ranking senator, was faulted by the committee for his inability to follow laid down rules on investigating a matter before bringing it up on the floor. The drastic resolution of the Senate against him came in spite of pleas by some senators that the chamber should show him mercy as a first offender, but majority overwhelmingly approved his suspension.  But, for the intervention of some senators, who amended the initial recommendation of the committee, the Borno senator would have been suspended for 181 days (a year). Anyanwu, who presented the report of the committee, told the Senate that Saraki’s name was not mentioned anywhere in the bill of lading or any document whatsoever connected with the importation or purchase of the vehicle.  However, some analysts reasoned then that it was obvious from the verdict of the Senate that Ndume was punished for his previous offences against the Red Chamber. They cited the tone of some of his colleagues, who said he had been working against the interest of the Senate before the issues he raised against Saraki and Melaye.  For instance, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (Delta North), particularly pointed out that Ndume was the one, who attacked the Senate on its resolutions on the then Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Engr. Babachir Lawal; Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu and the Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hammed Ali.  No doubt, there could be some substance in the claim, but Ndume’s indifferent position against that of a majority of his colleagues on the respective issues then was understandable given the way he was removed as Senate Leader.  In what many described as a parliamentary coup, he was shown the way out as Senate Leader and Lawan nominated to replace him immediately.  As a contestant for the Senate presidency alongside the incumbent, Saraki , Lawan was recommended by the leadership of the APC for the post of Senate Majority Leader, following his failure to clinch the Senate presidency, but was rejected by the APC North-East caucus.  After the party’s calculation failed, its leadership and the presidency made several desperate attempts to persuade Ndume to step down for Lawan as Senate leader, but the former insisted that God gave him power and only God can take it away from him.  However, the same APC Senate caucus, which backed Ndume’s emergence as majority leader, pulled the rug off his feet over what the lawmakers described as his antagonistic posture against Senate’s decisions on critical issues.  Ndume, however, swallowed the bitter pill and moved on with his legislative duties until his suspension. But, like the cat with nine lives, succour came his way, when Justice Babatunde Quadri, who ruled on the suit he instituted against his suspension on November 10, 2017, held that the 90 legislative days’ suspension is illegal.   Former Senate Leader, Sen. Ali Ndume, (Borno South) has an axe to grind with the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over the adoption of Sen. Ahmad Lawan (Yobe North) as the party’s candidate for the Senate Presidency of the 9th National Assembly. Ndume,… In “News” Dino Melaye, senator representing Kogi west senatorial district, has assured Ali Ndume, his Borno south counterpart, that Senate President Bukola Saraki will reduce his punishment if he tenders an apology. The upper legislative chamber suspended Ndume for six months based on the recommendation of its Ethics and Privileges Committee. The… In “News” The senator representing Kogi west senatorial district, Dino Melaye,  has assured Ali Ndume, his Borno south counterpart, that Senate President Bukola Saraki will reduce his punishment if he tenders an apology. The upper legislative chamber suspended Ndume for six months based on the recommendation of its Ethics and Privileges… In “News”