The Federal Government yesterday said it has concluded arrangement to issue a promissory note worth N195.08 billion to 270 companies to settle part of the Export Expansion Grant liabilities to exporters. When redeemed, the gesture was envisaged to bring relief to the export sector in particular and the economy in general, following series of delays that had plagued the release of the EEG. Executive Director, Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NIPC), Mr. Olusegun Awolowo, made this known yesterday during a stakeholders’ forum on the framework for the issuance of the promissory notes for the settlement of the outstanding EEG. He gave the assurance that the government was now set to clear the EEG arrears to exporters from 2007 to 2016. He said the reactivation of the EEG scheme, after its technical suspension in 2014, and settlement of the outstanding claims owed exporters, was in line with the Federal Government’s focus on diversification of the economy through nonoil exports. “The assent in January 2019 by the National Assembly of the first batch of the request and the subsequent directives by the Minister of Finance to the Debt Management Office (DMO) for the settlement of the EEG covering backlogs of ten years for 270 companies with a total value of N195.08 billion will bring succour to the export sector. “We also have positive signal that the National Assembly will soon pass the second batch of the approval for the remaining 39 com-panies with a total value of about N126 billion only. It is our fervent believe that the settlement of this inherited debt by the Federal Government will pave the way for the revival of the non-oil export sector of the economy. It will in no small measure enable the affected companies settle their debts with banks and other financial institutions, inject funds for further export activities, generate more foreign exchange as well as employment for the teeming youth of our country,” he said. On export earnings of Nigeria, Awolowo said that the country’s export earnings for 2017 and 2018 experienced an upward trend. For instance, he said there was a growth of 48.43 per cent from $1.2 billion in 2016 to $1.78 billion before hitting $2.27 billion in 2018. He expressed optimism that exports earnings for the 2019 fiscal period would grow by about 40 per cent in view of the settlement of the exporters’ debt through promissory note programme.