There is the need to finally put to rest the knotty issue of multiple subscriptions on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to help solve the issue of unclaimed dividend. Chris Ugwu writes  The e-dividend Mandate Management System allows investors accounts to be credited immediately the registrars and the relevant banks mandate them. Within 24 hours, the dividend hits investors’ account and even the backlog that were not paid for years also hits the account. The essence of the system is to eradicate or reduce to the barest minimum the incidence of unclaimed dividend. Unclaimed dividend is an undesirable feature of the Nigerian capital market, which denies investors/shareholders the gains of participating in the capital market. It also does not allow the economy access to the huge amount of money, which should have accrued to shareholders and would have gone into circulation to oil the wheel of the economy. It is a consequence of the bottlenecks, which are inherent in the erstwhile paper dividend warrant regime such as postal system inefficiency, change in investors’ addresses, poor fidelity and human fallibility in dividend payment processes, amongst others. The e–Dividend regime bypasses these limitations by ensuring that dividends, which do not exceed 12 years of issue are credited directly to investors account after declaration by the paying company and within a stipulated payment period through simple interbank transfer. That is why market regulators have continued to implore Nigerian investors to key into the e-Dividend registration exercise by visiting the nearest bank branch or registrar. However, aside from the from the ineptitude of investors to embrace e-dividend system of payment following the stoppage of free registration, the unresolved issue of multiple subscription has continued to impede the regulators’ commitment to finally stem the tide of unclaimed dividend.   Reasons for multiple subscriptions Multiple subscriptions to public offers occurred during the market boom when investors joggled their names in different forms to enable them purchase more than the permitted units of shares in public offers. This contributed a large extent to the rising wave of unclaimed dividends.  The Managing Director, Crane Securities Limited, Mr. Mike Eze, speaking to New Telegraph, traced the genesis of the rising wave of unclaimed dividend to indigenisation era of the administration of General Yakubu Gowon. “During this exercise, those in position of authority who had the wherewithal, acquired shares in the privatised companies with fictitious names of their drivers, cooks, gardeners, dead brothers, dead fathers etc in such a way that when the dividends came, they were not able to claim them why because there is no such persons to claim such,” he explained. Similarly, the Managing Director, Highcap Securities Limited, Mr. David Adnori explained that unclaimed dividends are increasing every year due to several factors. According to him, the problem started several years ago during the indigenisation exercises when several shareholders made multiple subscriptions in fictitious names whose signatures they cannot remember. He noted that the affected shareholders are also unable to open bank accounts in these fictitious names for the purpose of e-dividend collection. He added that most of the unclaimed dividends are statute barred and forfeited to the companies in which case recovery by the affected shareholders may not be possible in the absence of means of identification. The worrying situation became more prevalent because it is believed that the continued rise is detrimental to the growth and development of an emerging market that wants to achieve a world class market and attract direct foreign investment.  How it contribute to unclaimed dividend The Acting Director General of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Ms. Mary Uduk, said: “We are aware that during the banking and insurance sector consolidation of 2005-2007, many investors completed more than one application form for particular companies and they did that by juggling their names and sometimes using fictitious names. What they fail to realize is that the capital market has a way of checkmating such violations. “To be able to claim these shares, they have to be able to identify themselves. For those juggled and fictitious names, they do not have identities that are traceable to these individuals and so they were not able to claim their shares. Therefore they cannot trade and are also unable to claim dividends and other benefits that may accrue to them. We also realized that many of the unclaimed dividend is as a result of this issue because investors cannot claim their shares and are unable to claim their dividends. “A lot of these people bought shares in companies that were doing well and wanted to increase their holdings hence the use of multiple and fictitious names. “We discovered that while dividend is growing and it is increasing unclaimed dividends, the pace is not as satisfactory as when we observe that multiple accounts, which have not been claimed for many years are still being paid dividends. Those people that have multiple accounts can only lay claim on dividends in one account, all the others will keep warehousing dividends as long as they are not regularized. “We want to see how far the registrars can go in regularizing the multiple accounts so that we can have a specific figure for the unclaimed dividends.”  Current efforts of SEC In a bid to ensure more investors regularise their accounts to reduce the volume of unclaimed dividends in the Nigerian capital market, the SEC has extended the forbearance on such accounts to December 31, 2019. This, among others was part of the decisions reached at the end of the 3rd Capital Market Committee, CMC meeting held in Lagos. It would be recalled that the Commission had announced December 31st 2018 as deadline for regularisation of multiple accounts. Briefing newsmen, Acting Director General of the SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, said the committee considered the issue and decided it is best to give investors more time to regularise their multiple accounts in order to derive the benefits from their investments.  She said: “I am delighted to report that on the lingering issue of multiple subscriptions and forbearance for shareholders with multiple accounts, the CMC agreed that the forbearance window should be extended by another year from the December 31, 2018 deadline previously communicated. We expect investors to take advantage of this opportunity to claim their unclaimed dividends and bonuses” Uduk said recently that what the Commission has done now was to go back to the receiving agents to go through their records particularly those paid for and let them to be registered. “Investors are also advised to contact their registrars. I want to stress that there is absolutely no penalty attached to Multiple Accounts Regularization. Investors are enjoined to visit their stockbrokers, registrars, bankers or any other capital market operator through whom the shares were purchased on guidance for the steps to take to regularize them,” she said. “We just want it for the sake of the growth of the market and for their own sake. So that they will be able to take ownership of their shares and also reap the benefits of buying those shares. We are not penalizing them, we just want the market to grow and boost investor’s confidence. “We therefore enjoin the general public to take advantage of this initiative to regularize their shareholding accounts before the December 31, 2019 deadline. We crave the indulgence of the ladies and gentlemen of the press to sensitize the public on this initiative,” she said.  Last line In the light of the lessons learned from these efforts, there is strong requirement to strengthen investor education/awareness, especially for retail investors to enable them adequate knowledge of the nation’s capital market.