 Gunmen suspected to be herdsmen yesterday abducted two Chinese nationals, Sun Zhixin and Wang Quing Hu. This came as abductors of the two wives of Alhaji Babaji Dadinkowa, the permanent secretary in the office of the deputy governor of Taraba State have asked for ransom to free them. The Chinese, both males, are working with Tongyi Construction Company at Ohaozara community in Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Governor David Umahi’s hometown. The victims were kidnapped at a construction site in the area where they were working on a bridge that links some communities in the state with Enugu State. They were whisked away from the construction site about 3.30p.m. by masked armed men. It was learnt that the Chinese were in a ditch at Ivo River when the gunmen invaded the place, forced the workers out of the pit and kidnapped the two Chinese. A worker at the construction site, who did not want his name in print, explained that they were in a pit working when armed men wearing masks invaded the site and forced them out. He said one of the workers, who is an Igbo man, spoke Hausa language to one of the gunmen. According to him, the kidnapper grabbed the worker and snatched his mobile phone. The source said the kidnappers later freed the worker and returned his phone to him because he used Hausa language to plead with them not to kill him. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Loveth Odah, said police had dispatched men to rescue the victims unhurt. Odah said the state Commissioner of Police, Awoshola Awotinde, led a tactical team to the construction site, owned by Tongyi Group of Companies located at Ivo River, at the boundary between Ebonyi and Enugu states where Sun Zhixin and Wang Quing Hu were forcibly taken away. She said: “The area was combed to track down the bandits but no result. A track down rescue team has been dispatched in order to rescue the Chinese nationals unhurt.” The PPRO appealed for adequate information from the general public that would help the police in their investigation. She expressed shock that the company moved to such lonely site without applying for security from the police. Odah said efforts were on to rescue the kidnapped victims but nearby communities and state should help the police with any information at their disposal. The site manager explained that they had worked for five months without security challenge and that was why they never applied for security. He was, however, advised to officially apply for security in the site without further delay. Meanwhile, the Taraba State Permanent Secretary, Dadinkowa, told journalists in Jalingo that his wives were said to be in good condition, according to the person who spoke with him on the phone. Dadinkowa, however, said the abductors were demanding ransom, but did not disclose the amount to journalists. He said: “I received a call from someone who confirmed to me that my wives are with them and also said they are unhurt from where they are keeping them. “They have demanded money, but we are still talking and yet to arrive at a settled point.” Gunmen on Tuesday in Jalingo stormed the house of the permanent secretary who was not at home and whisked away his two wives. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP David Misal, confirmed the incident. He said the police were working on how to rescue the victims and apprehend the abductors.