Two persons, a male and female, were yesterday burnt to death after a petroleum-laden trailer fell and spilled its content at Onipepeye area of the Lagos Ibadan Express way, Oyo State. According to eye witnesses, the accident occured around 2:05 p.m when the tanker driver, coming from Lagos direction, tried to overtake a Nissan Micra car. The tanker, in the process lost control and tumbled. The spilled content caused an explosion. The fire burnt four cars and motorcycles to ashes. The two victims, who hurried out of their cars, were trying to escape the surging inferno, but failed. Another eyewitness, who simply identified himself as Abbey, said: “The incident occurred while the fuel tanker driver, who was coming from Lagos lane, tried to overtake a Nissan Micra car and in the process, the tanker lost its balance and fell. The fire did not start immediately; the spilled content caught fire from a pit under the Onipepeye Bridge. The next thing we heard was a loud explosion. It was so terrifying. There was thick smoke everywhere. Everyone scampered for safety. The two persons were unlucky as the fire caught up with them. “We called the Fire Service people. It took them more than 40 minutes to come. By the time they came, the fire had already burnt the victims to death. The victims were inside their cars, trying to negotiate their way to the main Express way, when hell was let loose. They were coming from Gbagi Market or Gate axis. They were burnt beyond recognition. All their personal belongings were also burnt with them. Assuming the firefighters got here on time, maybe they would have saved the situation.” The Oyo State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), a Superintendent of Police (SP), Olugbenga Fadeyi, while confirming the incident, said that the fire claimed two lives, four cars and two motorcycles. The Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, has commiserated with the family and loved ones of the victims of the fire incident, describing it as depressing. In a condolence statement by his Special Adviser on Communication and Strategy, Mr Bolaji Tunji, the governor said that he received the news of the attendant loss of lives and property with grief and sadness. While the exact cause of the accidents remains sketchy, the governor said he was pained that it consumed lives and gutted houses and vehicles. Ajimobi said, “I received the depressing news of the unfortunate accident with grief and sadness. I am, especially pained that it led to loss of lives and property of innocent citizens who were going about in search of their daily bread. I condole with the family and friends of those that died in the accident and I wish those injured speedy recovery. I’m using this opportunity to appeal to vehicle owners to put their vehicles in good condition before hitting the roads during this festive season.”