Golden Eaglets’ coach Manu Garba says his team still needs to improve in converting their chances to establish dominance over their opponents at the ongoing U-17 AFCON in Tanzania. The Nigerian cadet team, who needed to rally to a 5-4 win over hosts Tanzania in their opening match on Sunday, got their second win which puts them firmly in control of their group and despite admitting that it was yet another error-filled performance, Garba congratulated the team while expressing delight at their winning run in the eightnation tournament. “I need to congratulate my players. Despite making many mistakes today (Wednesday), I congratulate them for the qualification,” he said. Garba, 53, said that both teams created chances but the score was the only difference. “Despite winning the game we recorded a lot of mistakes we still need to address especially in trying to convert some chances we have created. “We will try to work on these aspects in the next training session so that we can perfect it,” he added. With their place nearly confirmed at the FIFA U-17 World Cup slated for Brazil in goal team captain, Samson Tijani, was ecstatic to be named the man-of-thematch which followed his commanding display. “I am happy for being a man of the match today, and my happiness grew higher as we are almost through to the FIFA U-17 World Cup,” he said. Nigeria will face Uganda on Saturday in their final preliminary match. Coach Manu Garba has charged the Golden Eaglets to be a lot more ruthless in front of goal despite spanking Cote d’Ivoire 5-1 in an U17 AFCON qualifier in Niger on Thursday. The Eaglets cruised to a comfortable win to advance to the semifinals of the zonal qualifying tournament for… In “Sports” Golden Eaglets coach, Manu Garba, has harsh words for his players after they survived the scare in the 5-4 victory over Tanzania in their opening match of the CAF U-17 African Cup of Nations on Sunday. The Nigerian side squandered a 3-1 first half lead and had to dig deep… In “Sports” Golden Eaglets' head coach, Manu Garba, is looking to fortify his team ahead of the CAF U-17 African Cup of Nations in Tanzania. Garba said he needed to work more on his goalkeeping and attacking departments of his side. The coach who led the Golden Eaglets to the FIFA U-17… In “Sports”