 Innoson Nigeria Ltd. has instituted contempt proceedings against the Managing Director of Guarantee Trust Bank, Mr. Segun Agbaje and two others at a Federal High Court in Awka over alleged disobedience of court’s order.
In the motion, Agbaje, the bank’s chairman, Mrs. Osaretin Demuren and secretary, Erhi Obebeduo, were accused of “wilful, deliberate, wanton and unlawful violation of the subsisting court orders regarding payment of N8.7 billion judgement debt.” They were accused of interfering with due administration of justice as epitomized by acts of hooliganism, thuggery, extreme lawlessness and condemnable impunity exhibited by them on March 29 and 30, 2019 and on April 1, 2019. Innoson, in the motion filed by its lawyer, Prof McCarthy Mbadugha, accused the bank officials of acts of thuggery, extreme hooliganism and outright lawlessness in breaking into all the property of GTB, which have been distressed and seized by the court bailiffs/sheriffs while executing a writ of fifa issued by the court. Consequently, Innoson is seeking the following reliefs, among others: “An order of this honourable court commanding and or mandating the appearance of the cited parties on a day, date, time and venue as may be deemed fit by this Honourable Court to physically appear and show cause why they should not be committed for contempt and sent to prison for the wilful, deliberate, wanton and unlawful violation of the subsisting orders of this Honourable Court and or interfering with or obstructing the court’s due administration of justice as epitomised by acts of hooliganism, thuggery, extreme lawlessness and condemnable impunity as exhibited on the 29th and 30th of March, 2019 and on the 1st April, 2019. “An order that the acts of thuggery, extreme hooliganism and outright lawlessness of the garnishee/debtor and or the parties cited in this application in breaking into all the property of the garnishee/debtor distressed, attached and seized by the bailiffs/sheriffs of the Honourable Court pursuant to a writ of fifa issued by the Honourable Court for that purpose and retrieved those properties, undistressed as well as released them from attachment and or seizure amounts to a grievous contempt of this Honourable Court of the worst specie.
“An order that the acts of thuggery, extreme hooliganism and outright lawlessness of the cited parties in obstructing and in stopping the Sheriffs/bailiffs of the Honourable Court from attaching, seizing and distressing the properties of the Garnishee/Debtor amounts to wilful and contemptuous violation of the subsisting orders of this Honourable Court as well as obstructing and interfering with the course of justice and due administration of justice.” The Federal Government has concluded plans to press an alleged forgery charge against Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Innoson Nig. Ltd., Innocent Chukwuma and four others following a motion seeking a Lagos Federal High Court’s nod to compel the police to bring Chukwuma before the court. The Federal Government… In “Law” There was a mild drama on Wednesday at an Ikeja Special Offences Court as Innocent Chukwuma, the Chairman of Innoson Motors Nigeria Ltd., failed to make an appearance in court for his arraignment, for the fourth time. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the automobile boss had previously… In “News Around Nigeria” Chukwuma to Judge: You’re just embarrassing me The Chairman of Innoson Motors, Innocent Chukwuma, was yesterday declared wanted for fraud by Justice Mojisola Dada of an Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos following his habitual absence for arraignment.Yesterday's proceedings marked the fifth time – January 17, February 9, March 14 and… In “News”