The warring Jukun and Tiv people of Taraba and Benue States, have finally agreed to cease hostilities and embrace peace in the interest of the development of their communities. The resolution was part of the joint peace agreement reached at end of  the security council meeting of the two states presided over by Benue State Acting Governor, Engr. Benson Abounu and Taraba State Deputy Governor, Engr. Haruna Manu. The meeting, which had in attendance, the paramount ruler of the Tiv nation, and chairman, Benue State Traditional Council, HRM, Prof. James Ayatse, the Aku Uka of Wukari and chairman, Taraba State Council of Chiefs, Dr. Shekarau Angyu Masa Ibi Kuvyon ll, was also graced by former Governor Gabriel Suswam, serving and elected members of the National and State Assembly from Benue and Taraba States, council chairmen and traditional rulers from the border local government areas, as well as the clergy and youth representatives from both sides. The joint security meeting emphasized the need for Tiv and Jukun people who are indigenes of Benue and Taraba States to be loyal to the political and traditional leaderships of the two states and accept the indigineship of the state they belong. In a communique issued at the end of the meeting, stakeholders also undertook inspection visit to Chonku, Vaase and Kente communities for on the spot assessment of the magnitude of destruction caused by the crisis and interacted with members of the communities with a view to finding lasting solutions to the perennial crises. The communique which was signed by Benue State Acting Governor and Taraba Deputy Governor noted that during the inspection visit, the two governors emphasized the need for peaceful co-existence amongst the warring sides at the boundaries of the two states in the interest of development especially now that the rainy season has set in. The two states also urged the youths to sheath their swords and embrace peace, and stressed the need for community and security collaboration to achieve enduring peace. They also resolved to provide relief materials to assuage the hardship of people in the communities affected by the crisis It could be recalled that the crisis started between the Jukun and Tiv youths from a little quarrel and resulted into the killing of several people and destruction of properties worth millions of naira in both Benue and Taraba states.