Fear has gripped residents of Olokonla, Ajah area of Lagos following a protracted cult war which started on Thursday, leaving roads littered with decapitated human heads. The clash is between Eiye and Aiye cult members in the community. It was learnt that four suspected cult members were beheaded by their rival groups and dumped on the road. A resident of the area, who spoke with our correspondent yesterday under the condition of anonymity, said: “We have been indoors since the killings started.” He explained that the mayhem started on Thursday after a land speculator, Alfa Nla, was killed. He said that Alfa Nla was one of the people in the community who had been fighting cultists and cultism. “There are shanties around that community, where many foreigners, including Togolese live. These foreigners are mostly those involved in cultism. It is believed that they killed Alfa Nla. He was killed on Thursday during a minor issue. Since then, there has been no peace. His boys reinforced and had been fighting the other boys. “On Wednesday, three persons were beheaded by rival group from Saudi, a shanti community. In the reprisal that followed, someone was killed at Olokonla. The policemen came on Friday after one of the clashes took place, but left later. Right now, we are begging for police presence. We can’t leave our houses. “Killings have been going on for long. Between yesterday and today, they have killed three people. They cut off two heads and kept them beside their bodies. The third victim was not beheaded. On Thursday evening, Alfa Nla was killed. People are so scared right now, that they are parking out of the community. But as for me, I have nowhere to run. This is the only home I have. They killed three in the community behind Lagos Business School. In that community, every form of crime you can think of, including robbery, takes place there. This morning, we learnt there were five corpses on the roads, but we saw only the three I mentioned earlier,” the source added. When the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) in charge of Operations was alerted about the matter yesterday evening, he immediately radioed Area J Command and other policemen to Olokonla. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said at least four bodies had been recovered. He added: “One of the heads we recovered had machete cuts. The bodies had been deposited at the mortuary and investigation is ongoing.” Elkana said two suspects had been arrested in connection with the killing. The suspects, according to him, identified as Saheed Lateef (21) and Julius Augulere (20). Elkana said they were arrested about 8.45a.m. by policemen attached to Ogombo Division. He said: “On April 14, policemen attached to Ogombo Division received a distress call that rival cult groups had a clash of supremacy at Abraham Adesanya on Lekki-Epe Expressway and four members of Eiye cult gang were killed by Aye members. “Two suspects namely Saheed Lateef (21) and Julius Augulere (20) of Number 13, Obodo Street, Okeira Nla, Langbasa, Ajah and members of Aye confraternity were arrested in connection with the case and they confessed to the commission of the crime. “One Axe with blood stains was recovered from them, while the four corpses were evacuated and deposited at public mortuary for autopsy.” Elkana, however, said all the bodies had machete cuts with one of the corpses’ head severed but not taken away. Investigation is ongoing. The command has launched a manhunt of the other fleeing cult members.” He added: “One of the heads we recovered had machete cuts.”