Suzzie Odeniyi came top five in the Most Beautiful Girl in Ireland. What makes her relevant in the industry is that she wants young girls to look beyond beauty and modeling and focus on acquiring skills that can take them through the rest of their life. She tells FLORA ONWUDIWE that relocating to Nigeria was to help the youths to be independent and other sundry issues  Can we have an insight into your background?
My background is in fashion, beauty and entertainment industry. I have been managing models and beauty queens for about eight years now. Initially, I started in Ireland, where I grew up. I was born in Ibadan but I moved to Dublin, Ireland, when I was five years old. I have been there all my life. My modelling agency is Suzzie D Model Management. I am also the owner of the Most Beautiful Girl in Ireland Beauty Pageant Competition and Most Beautiful Girl in the World Beauty Competition. Every year, we take international winners from all around the world and we organise competitions in countries like Dubai and Korea. I came to Nigeria, because my mum lives here, and she kept on telling me I must come home and do something for my people. If you said to me last year that I will be in Nigeria this year organising this competition, I won’t have believed, because I am always in Europe, Korea and Dubai. However, I had to come to Nigeria to give girls the opportunity, because I want to inspire them and let them know that they can make it here in Nigeria. It is not only about travelling out of the country. If you have a specific plan and the strategy behind it, with the help of God, it can be possible. One of the strategies for this competition, which is Luxury Model Search, Nigeria (LMSN) is to find a female entrepreneur; someone with an entrepreneurship spirit. Looking at all the super models we have today, apart from being models, majority are also business-oriented. This is to give the girls a platform to advance themselves. We are not specifically saying to you that you must become a model. Although modelling is part of it, but after a year of doing modelling, you can decide to go into acting and our job will be to lead you into that; to help you, support you, push you and give you the guidance you require. So, it is open to a lot of people. The reason I am doing this is to really create opportunities for girls and open the doors for them to advance in life.   Going into modeling and beauty pageant is an easy way to fame. Do you agree?
I’m actually very reserved and I prefer my work to speak for itself, I really cherish my private life, there are some things money can’t buy and one of them is peace of mind, though I’m aware that the industry demands for me to be known but fame has never been my priority in my field.   What convinced you to participate in a beauty pageant?
I have also loved fashion; mind you my mum was in the fashion industry also, so it has been part of my life. I was mainly interested in beauty pageant, just to have it on my Curriculum Vitae (CV). You know when you apply to a University or for a Job, they want to see what else you are into outside of academics, I also made good friendship from it. One of my best friends till this day, we met through in a beauty pageant and that was nine years ago, so there are so much benefits all these competition bring aside from winning.   You contested Miss Nigeria and Elite Model Look in Ireland, you never won, yet you remained relevant in the industry, what has been the drive?
Its passion; if you are not passionate about what you do, what is really the point? Business is not also rosy, especially, at the beginning, you will face many challenges, but with passion, you will surely overcome them.   How does Luxury Model Search Nigeria (LMSN), differ from the beauty pageant that we’ve all witnessed in Nigeria?
As I said earlier, we are looking for a female entrepreneur who will make a change in what they believe in, our winner could be the first ever female Nigerian president. 95% of modelling competitions in Nigeria are only enticing these girls in what they will receive now, that is short term and short lived. We are looking at long term goals and strategies with our winner, and mind you, our competition is free to apply. This shows our true intensions.   What is your greatest challenge in nurturing a company that the society has not recognized its relevance?
I feel the Nigerian society is now accepting that fashion and beauty industry is huge. Now most parents will not fight their children if they want to become a fashion designer, a model or a stylist, though their parents may ask why not a doctor or a lawyer? So the generation is changing and most importantly, they understand the economic change.   You conceived the idea in Ireland to establish a company of your own, but your effort was frustrated in Ireland. Why? I’m appreciated in Ireland, but as I said earlier, change is important for continuity and economic improvement in my field in Ireland this need to improve on.  So that was what led to establishing Luxury Model Search Nigeria (LMSN) in Nigeria? It was not in my agenda or plan to come to Nigeria; my mum wanted me to give girls opportunities. At first, I was a bit reluctant because I’m extremely busy with my other projects. I taught about it carefully and felt it vital that Nigerian girls have a different mindset regarding making it in their homeland rather than abroad, that is how Luxury Model Search was born.  You are more of an Irish than a Nigerian, why do you choose to come home?
Yes you can say that, but Nigeria is till my roots; this is where I was born, so it’s important I create opportunities.   How do you co-opt the youth into believing in your vision, can the youth become an entrepreneur without becoming a model /beauty pageant or vice versa? First, it’s about having interest. If they are not interested, they will not be motivated to believe in our vision, but one thing we require is for them to be entrepreneurial, and using our platform to build a career, modelling is part of it, but after a while, if they want to focus on any kind of business, we help establish them, they can go ahead with this.  Because of your background, your growing up was on a platter of gold, and that has made you grow faster considering your age? I disagree with the phrase ‘platter of gold’ because it’s not the case, I have had my own struggles and challenges in life and keep in mind I funded my business myself while in university and working at the same time, I had no financial support from family, friends or banks. I always say to people, you see beautiful models on the runway modelling fabulous garments but you don’t know the chaos that is going on backstage. I have worked extremely hard to get to where I am and I’m still working hard. It’s a process not a quick fix position.   What was your experience like in dating an Irish man; was the Irish man discouraged because of your skin colour or there was no relationship? We were childhood lovers, and we were together for many years, but there comes a stage where you just outgrow each other; colour was never an issue in the relationship. Your parents taking you away at the age five, would you say it was the best they did for you or would you have preferred any other foreign land than Ireland?
I can’t really decide on this one because Nigeria made me, Ireland moulded me, it’s 50/50; both are my homes which I cherish very much.   You manage models and beauty queens, what are the skills you are preparing them to become independent in the society? To become innovative thinkers, I want them to look at the different side of things and analyse it before making a perceptive on it.