Former internationals Garba Lawal and Peter ijeh have warned the Super Eagles against complacency, saying they could be stunned by their African Cup of Nations Group B opponents if they fail to hit right form. Nigeria is in the same group alongside Guinea, Burundi and Madagascar, and many pundits have described the pool as an easy one for the Super Eagles. Lawal said it would be foolhardy to believe the Eagles would run over the Group B opponents, insisting it would have been better for the side to face big African sides in the preliminary stage of the competition. “As a coach, I would have preferred big countries like Ghana, Cameroon and the likes because it is better to face those ones and even lose than getting beaten by Madagascar or Burundi. This thing happens in football that bigger countries lose to so-called minnows in a competition like this. “The Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr is wise enough to have admitted that they are in a tough group; I hope all the players will share his view and approach the games with all seriousness,” he said. He said instead of approaching each group game full of confidence, Eagles must tread cautiously because they could be stunned by determined opponents. “The competition is going to be interesting; I know that there are going to be some upsets but I don’t pray it happens to Nigeria. So, I want us to approach each game with caution, they have to be mentally and psychologically ready,” he said. Ijeh says although the grouping looks so easy, overconfidence could affect the Eagles. “We know that in today’s soccer, no team is a push over. You have to work hard to beat any side; skills are not enough, hard work must complement ability for success to happen. “Other countries in the group won’t be under pressure, Eagle will be under intense pressure to deliver,” he said. He stressed further that the coaches must work on the players’ psychology, saying the dynamism of the technical input will ease the tension. The Super Eagles of Nigeria have been handed a relatively easy draw for the 2019 African Cup of Nations as they are pitched in Group B of the competition alongside Burundi, Madagascar and Guinea. Burundi and Madagascar will be making their debuts at the AFCON finals, and given their inexperience… In “Sports” ...says German coach hasn’t won anything   Ex-international Garba Lawal has slammed the Super Eagles manager, Gernot Rohr, for refusing to work with the technical committee of the Nigeria Football Federation. The powerful committee had worked with successive coaches before Rohr’s arrival but the German tactician told his employers… In “Sports” Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr is not afraid of being in the same group as any country but he is wary of hosts Egypt as the draw for the African Cup of Nations is slated for April. Reports suggested that three-time champions Super Eagles would know their first round… In “Sports”