  In a scenario that could be likened to different strokes for different folks, two former Senate leaders, Victor Ndoma- Egba and Teslim Folarin, suffered varied fortunes in their bid to return to the Senate during the 2019 general elections. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  Politics is dynamic and it has no reference for Arithmetic law; it is simply a game of possible. The very art of politics does not have a singular strategy; attainment of victory in any electoral contest is a combination of many multifaceted tasks, whereby the discountenance of the minutest of the expected undertaking may spell doom for a candidate and by extension his political family.  Two lawmakers, who had a break from the National Assembly, perhaps, understood the concept of the intricacies of politics better after the 2019 general elections. Between Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN), who represented the Central Senatorial District of Cross River State in the Red Chamber and became the Senate Leader during the 7th Senate, which lasted from 2011 to 2015 and the majority leader of the Senate between 2007 and 2011, Senator Teslim Folarin (Oyo Central), the reality of what politics entails has apparently dawned on them. Interestingly, both of them served as Senate leaders on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  They also made their comeback bid in 2019 on the same platform – All Progressives Congress (APC). But proving itself as a game of chance that it is, Folarin was able to return to the upper legislative chamber after winning the Oyo Central election at the February election, while Ndoma-Egba couldn’t make it back to represent Cross River Central. Prior to the election, Ndoma-Egba, who is from the South-South zone of the country, was tipped for the Senate presidency based on the principle of zoning that could have favoured any ranking senator from the zone. But all the permutations have hit the rock with his inability to win the election. Ndoma-Egba: Return bid botched by ex-ally Ndoma Egba’s return to the Senate was stunted by Dr. Sandy Onor, who was once his former ally. Onor was the candidate of the PDP in the February 23 election for Cross River Central District.  Announcing the result, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer, Prof. Eyong Eyo, said Onor scored a total of 80,134 votes to defeat Ndoma-Egba of APC who polled 60,298. However, Ndoma-Egba has filed a petition against the victory of Onor at the Election Petition Tribunal in Cross River State. Onor was born on February 14, 1966 at Ikom. He had his primary and secondary education in Ikom and Obubra and gained admission in 1983 to the University of Calabar to study History. He has both Masters and Ph.D degrees after the first degree. He worked as a lecturer in the Department of History, University of Calabar from 1988 to 1996.  The senator-elect was one-time chairman, Etung Local Government Council; State Chairman, Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Cross River State Chapter and Deputy National President of ALGON from 1999 to 2002. He was also Chairman, Local Government Service Commission; Commissioner for Agriculture and Commissioner for Environment (2012-2013). For Ndoma-Egba, his 12-year sojourn in the Senate, four out of which was as the Leader of the Senate, was a display of capacity and dexterity in lawmaking, legislative advocacy and proficiency in building bi-partisan alliances.  He was first elected as senator to represent Cross River Central district in 2003 on the platform of the PDP. During his first term, he had the privilege of being the first senator to chair the media and publicity committee of the Red Chamber. Expectedly, this saddled him with the responsibility of interfacing the Nigerian Senate with the Fourth Estate of the Realm and by extension the entire nation as the spokesman. Ndoma Egba, who is the immediate past Chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), got re-elected to the Senate in 2007 for his second term and this time, he had his hands around as member of senate committees on Upstream Petro- leum Resources, Human Rights and Legal Matters, and Information and Media, and served as deputy chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the Senate.  Again, he got re-elected to the Senate in 2011 on the platform of PDP, winning 143,537 votes, while the runner-up in the election, Patric Iwara of the now defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), polled 47,656 votes. It was in the Sixth Senate that big responsibility fell on his shoulders.  Being who he is, he quickly stepped in to lead the Red Chamber under the Senate President, David Mark, hence, his style and temper fostered the evolution of the Nigerian Senate into a vibrant regal institution with a cohesive bond; forged by commitment to the common good. However, his fourth term bid for the Senate in 2015 was cut short at the PDP senatorial primaries, following his frosty relationship with then governor of his state, Liyel Imoke. At the end, he was defeated at the PDP primaries by a House of Representatives member, John Owan Enoh, who eventually won the election to succeed him.  Following disagreements in PDP, he left the party and returned to his law practice as Senior Partner in the Law Firm of Ndoma-Egba, Ebri & Co in Abuja. He joined the APC in November 2015. In July 2016, he was appointed Chairman of the NDDC by President Muhammadu Buhari.  Speaking on his tenure as Senate leader, he said: “I was in the Senate for three terms, out of those three terms, I was in leadership position, first as Deputy Senate Leader and then as Senate Leader.  “I was in the leadership under the Senate presidency of Senator David Mark, there wasn’t a scandal, no rancour that became public and at some points, in the history of this country and the Senate, the Senate had to provide the needed stability in the country.”   While it is not clear what the next line of action will be for the erudite lawyer, how the political future of the 63-year-old would turn is dependent on first the outcome of his appeal against the outcome of the election and perhaps, the disposition of President Buhari to nominate him into the federal cabinet.  Ndoma-Egba was born on March 8, 1956 in Ikom, Cross River State. He has an LL.B degree from the University of Lagos and an LLM degree from the University of Calabar. He was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1978 and was elevated to the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) in 2004. He has been Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association, Calabar Branch, and President of the Calabar Chamber of Commerce. He has also been Director of the Cross River Basin and Rural Development Authority, and Honourable Commissioner for Works and Transport.   Folarin: Back from political sabbatical  Less than eight years after he was kicked out of the Senate by Senator Ayoade Adeseun, former Senate Leader, Teslim Folarin, has returned to Red Chamber with a bang. Although he has been on the other side of active politics, especially after losing the 2015 governorship election in Oyo State as the candidate of the PDP, he was able to spring back after defecting to the APC in 2017. He subsequently got the ticket of the ruling party to vie as its candidate for Oyo Central Senatorial District.  After two-terms as senator and serving as majority leader of the Senate between 2007 and 2011, Folarin made his way back to the Senate amidst recognition of being a man of immense diplomatic tact within and outside the walls of the upper legislative chamber.  He secured victory in six local governments, out of 11 local governments of the senatorial district. They are Oluyole, Ona-ara, Egbeda, Surulere, Ogo-Oluwa, and Lagelu. The ex-Senate leader defeated his closest opponent, Oyebisi Ilaka of the PDP with 91,080 votes against 83,600. The APC candidate also defeated both the incumbent senator of the district and two members of the House of Representatives, Monsurat Sunmonu of the African Democratic Congress and Temitope Olatoye (Sugar) of the Action Democratic Party. Declaring him as the winner of the election, Prof Idowu Peter Farai, the Returning Officer of the District, announced his fulfillment of the election requirements as the one with the absolute votes out of the total votes cast of 286,995 in the district.  “Teslim Folarin of APC, having certified the requirement of the law, is hereby declared the winner of the Oyo Central Senatorial Elections,” the Returning Officer proclaimed. Folarin, a godson of late strong man of Ibadan politics, Chief Lamidi Adedibu, failed in a third term bid in 2011. In 2015, he secured the governorship ticket of the PDP, but came a distant fourth.  Folarin hails from Baale House in Oja Igbo area of Ibadan North-East Local Government area of Oyo State. He is the Mogaji (head) of his family house and a ranked traditional chief in Ibadanland. He is the Laguna Olubadan of Ibadanland.
The former Senate leader attended primary school in Lagos; his secondary education was completed at Methodist Boys High School. He holds a B.Sc in Political Science from the University of Ibadan and a diploma from Harvard University, United State.  He spent some years gathering valuable civil service experience in the UK, including management roles at the Department of Trade in London before returning to Nigeria in 2002. Folarin performed his obligatory NYSC tenure in Kaduna and joined politics thereafter.  From all measures of assessment, Folarin has epitomized the age-long lesson that says it does not matter how many times a man falls, what is important is the number of times he is able to rise. But, whether the former Senate Leader has mastered how to stand and not fall out of political reckoning is a different kettle of fish.  