The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) has disclosed that human organs sell for as much as $538,000 in Middle East, warning Nigerians to be aware of fake job promises overseas. According to press statement signed by National Protocol Officer, IOM-Nigeria, Mr. Ikechukwu Attah, body parts, black market business was booming in Middle East.  He added: “One kidney now costs for $262,000, heart goes for $119,000 and liver costs $157,000. Let Nigerians, our children and grandchildren be aware of these evil devices.” He advised prospective migrants to always go through proper channels when travelling overseas in order to avoid falling victim to organ traffickers. Attah further explained that fake travel agencies promise their victims work abroad and help with their travel documents, only to put them in harm’s way.  Attah added: “Beware of fake foreign agencies that promise you job abroad. They process your papers, pay your ticket fees and then take you abroad under the pretence that they want to get you a job there. Instead, they end up killing their victims and harvesting all the valuable body parts. A lot of people were offered jobs in the Middle East but up to now.” Nigerians tricked, lost renal organs in Indian hospital   In this second part of the investigative report on the frightening dimension that trafficking in persons across the world has taken, JULIANA FRANCIS dwells on the way it affects Nigerians and how NAPTIP is battling to create ample awareness and… In “Investigation” The ways humans are exploited differ significantly. Those involved in trafficking started with sex within escort services and soon moved to labour trading of farmworkers. Today, they have gradually but steadily roamed to human organs harvesting, which now appears to be more lucrative. In this report JULIANA FRANCIS reveals that… In “Investigation” The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) has repatriated 1,496 Nigerians who were stranded in Libya from January to May this year. According to IOM, in May alone, the organisation operated three chartered flights from Libya, bringing back illegal migrants that were stranded in the North African nation. While the first… In “News”