Detectives attached to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, Lagos, have launched investigation into the death of a six-year-old boy, Treasure Akinsohun. Treasure’s body was allegedly found inside a freezer at Ketu, Alapere area of Lagos. The victim and his mother were said to have gone to Ketu from Ikorodu to celebrate Easter with the woman’s younger sister when the unfortunate incident occurred last week. It was learnt that what baffled the victim’s parents and residents of the area was that Treasure was declared missing at Oyedele Street, but his body was later found inside a freezer at Orisigun Street, about five streets from where his mother’s younger sister resides. Treasure and other children in the compound were playing when he suddenly disappeared on Tuesday, about 5:30p.m. The bereaved mother, Mrs. Eunice Akinsohun, said she immediately went to Alapare Police Station to report her missing son. Eunice said after she had a made the report at the police station, she and her sister went in search of Treasure in the neighbourhood. She said: “I also called my husband on the phone to inform him of the development. “Before I got back home, a crowd had gathered at my sister’s house at Alapere to help in the search for my son. Throughout that day we couldn’t locate the exact place where he was. “When my husband eventually arrived, he also tried his best with my sister’s husband and some elders in the community. He was still not found. That was how we went to back to Ikorodu that night with tears and anguish.” Eunice said she and her husband were on their way back to Alapere from Ikorodu when they received a phone call that her son had been found in a woman’s freezer at Orisigun Street. She said: “Immediately I saw the corpse of my son, I fainted. I was later revived at the hospital. “What surprised me was how my son got into a freezer at another Lagos CP, Mu’azu street. I still don’t understand how he got into the freezer as I speak with you. But it is left for the police to investigate.” The distraught father, Mr. Ojo Akinsohun, said he was preparing to go out when he received a phone call from his wife that their son was missing. He said: “That was how I rushed down to Alapere.” Ojo said before he got to Ayodele Street where they went to celebrate Easter, at his sister-in-law’s house, a crowd had gathered searching for the boy throughout the day. He said: “I heard that the night my son was missing, the daughter of the freezer’s owner was sent to bring sachet water from the freezer, but she didn’t find the boy inside. “I am surprised how the boy got into the freezer. I want police to investigate it and get to the root of the matter. I can’t sit down and allow my son to die in vain.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said about 5:30p.m. Eunice Akinsohun reported that her son, Treasure Akinsohun, six-year-old, was missing. He said: “About 9a.m. the following day, the corpse of the boy was found inside a freezer in her neighbour’s shop, Patience Odowo, at Orisigun Street.” Elkana, however, said Odowo, had been arrested. The PPRO disclosed that the boy’s body had been deposited at the mortuary while investigation was ongoing.