An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual offences Court, Lagos yesterday, sentenced a 30-year-old bricklayer, Idowu Ismaila Gbolahan, to life imprisonment for defiling his seven-year-old niece.  Gbolahan, who pleaded guilty during his arraignment, was convicted and jailed for life. The Prosecutor, Fehinti Ogbemudia, said that the convict committed the offence on August 11, 2018 at No 50 Morocco Road, Shomolu, on 11th August, 2018.  Ogbemudia said that the victim was in her grandmother’s house during the holidays when the convict defiled her. The prosecutor added that the convict, who is a younger brother to the victim’s mother, sexually molested the girl when she went to drink water in her grandmother’s room.  The prosecutor said: “The victim had gone into the room to drink water, but was dragged into another room by her uncle. He shut the door, pulled off the victim’s pant and had sexual intercourse with her.  The victim’s cries drew the attention of neighbours, who rescued her.  Ufot Esther heard her cry and came to her rescue. She was thereafter referred to the Lagos State University Teaching hospital (LASUTH), from where she was referred to the Mirabel Center for examination and treatment.”  In his Allocutus, the defendant’s counsel, Kelechi Obi, asked the court to temper justice with mercy as the defendant was a first time offender and has not wasted the judicial time of the court by pleading guilty. Delivering her judgement, Justice Abiola Soladoye found Gbolahan guilty of defiling a minor. Justice Soladoye added: “I have reviewed the facts of the case and I hereby find the defendant guilty of a one count charge of defilement.  The defendant violated the chastity of a child, thereby leaving an indelible emotional trauma. I cannot imagine the trauma the child went through. According to section 137 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, the defendant is hereby sentenced to life imprisonment.” An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual offences Court, Lagos yesterday sentenced a 30-year-old bricklayer, Idowu Ismaila Gbolahan to life imprisonment for defiling his 7-year-old niece. Gbolahan, who pleaded guilty during his arraignment, was convicted and jailed for life to an offence of child defilement. According to the State Prosecutor, Fehinti… In “National news” Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos, yesterday sentenced a 58-year-old tailor, Cobina Iziejen, to 60 years imprisonment for defiling a 12-year-old girl (name withheld).   The court commissioned on February 1 by the Lagos State Chief Judge, Justice Opeyemi Oke, convicted the Iziejen after he confessed to have… In “Metro and Crime” A 28-year-old bus driver, Olayemi Oyewunmi, facing trial for allegedly defiling a 10-year-old girl, was on Monday remanded at Kirikiri Prisons by an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court. The Magistrate, Mrs B.O. Osunsanmi, refused to take the plea of the accused and said that the defendant should remain behind bars pending advice… In “Metro and Crime”