The Nigerian Navy has announced the redeployment of a total of thirty-two Rear Admirals. Director of Information, Commodore Suleman Dahun, who made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, said the redeployment was approved by the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas. According to Dahun, the latest reorganisation affected Rear Admiral Begroy Enyinna Ibe-Enwo,who was appointed Chief of Policy and Plans Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral Apochi Suleiman, formerly Commander Joint Task Force Operation Delta Safe, moves to Defence Headquarters as Chief of Defence Administration. He said: “Rear Admiral Tariworio Dick, formerly deputy Commandant Armed Forces Command and Staff College Jaji, has been appointed Chief of Training and Operations Naval Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Obi Ofodile has been appointed Director of Plans Defence Headquarters.” “Also Rear Admiral Ifeola Mohammed, formerly Chief of Naval Standards and Safety, is the new Chief of Naval Transformation Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Akinjide Akinrinade, formerly Director of Training Defence Headquarters has been appointed Commander Joint Task Force Operation Delta Safe. Rear Admiral Matthew Emuekpere, formerly Chief of Administration Naval Headquarters moves to Armed Forces Command and Staff College Jaji as Deputy Commandant. ” Rear Admiral Tanko Dakwat, formerly Director of Development Defence Headquarters moves to Naval Headquarters as Chief of Naval Standards and Safety, while Rear Admiral Saleh Usman is the new Chief of Administration Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Ahamefule Eluwa, formerly Moderator at National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies resumes at Defence Headquarters as Director of Project Monitoring. “Others affected by the reshuffling are Rear Admiral Dolapo Kolawole who has been reappointed Director of Training Defence Headquarters. Rear Admiral Mike Okonkwo, formerly Director of Research and Development Naval Headquarters, resumes at Defence Headquarters as Director of Transformation. “Rear Admiral Shuwa Mohammed, formerly Managing Director Nigerian Navy Hotel and Suites Limited is now the Director of Logistics Defence Intelligence Agency, while Rear Admiral Obed Ngalabak, formerly Flag Officer Commanding Western Naval Command, moves to Defence Headquarters as Chief of Defence Civil-Military Cooperation.” He continued: “Rear Admiral Magaji Danladi, formerly Admiral Superintendent Naval Dockyard Limited, resumes at the Naval Headquarters as Chief of Naval Engineering, while Rear Admiral Abubakar Al-hassan, has been reappointed Defence Headquarters as Director of Development. “Rear Admiral Mackson Kadiri is the new Commandant National Defence College Nigeria, while Rear Admiral Oladele Daji, formerly Director of Plans Naval Headquarters is now the new Flag Officer Commanding Western Naval Command. Rear Admiral Williams Kayoda has been reappointed Director of Logistics Defence Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Christian Ezekobe, moves to Naval Headquarters as Director of Plans.” The Nigerian Navy has carried out a major shake-up within the upper echelon, with the posting of 21 Rear Admirals to new commands and other responsibilities. The Navy, in a statement yesterday by the Acting Director of Information, Captain Suleman Dahun, said the major re-organisation was approved by the Chief… In “News” The Nigerian Navy has carried out a major shake-up within the upper echelon, with the posting of 21 Rear Admirals to new commands and other responsibilities. The Navy, in a statement Thursday by the Acting Director of Information, Captain Suleman Dahun, said the major re-organisation was approved by the Chief… In “News” The Nigerian Navy has announced a major re-organisation, which saw the appointments of 30 Rear Admirals, and 95 Commodores to new command and management positions. In an unsigned statement sent to Telegraph, the Navy said Rear Admiral Akinjide Akinrinade, Rear Admiral Matthew Emuekpere, as well as Rear Admiral Saleh Usman, were… In “News”