…to pass 2019 budget next week The Senate, yesterday, passed the 2019-2021 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper (MTEF/FSP) as it warms up to pass the N8.83 trillion 2019 budget by Tuesday next week.
The apex legislative chamber passed the MTEF/FSP, five months after President Muhammadu Buhari forwarded the request to the National Assembly. Also, in preparation for the passage of the budget next week, the Red Chamber gave its various standing committees up till tomorrow, to complete and forward their reports to the Committee on Appropriations.
The MTEF/FSP is an annual, rolling three-year expenditure planning, which set out the medium-term expenditure priorities and provides the basis for the preparation of annual national budget.
President Buhari had, in making the request in November last year, provided the parameters upon which the N8.83 trillion 2019 budget was based. Adopting the report of its Finance Committee, the legislators approved all the critical assumptions and projections proposed by the President in the MTEF/FSP.
The lawmakers approved 2.3 million barrel per day (mbpd) as daily crude oil production; oil price benchmark of USD$60 per barrel; exchange rate of N305/USD; GDP growth rate of 3.0%; and inflation growth rate of 9.98%.
Others are total federally collectable revenue of N14.89 trillion; net oil and gas revenue after costs, deductions and derivations amounting to N7.60 trillion; net non-oil revenue after costs, deductions and derivation of N2.38 trillion; and Federal Government retained revenue of N7. 92 trillion. Other Executive proposals for 2019 adopted by the Senate in the MTEF include: proposed expenditure of N8.83 trillion, fiscal deficit N1.86 trillion, new borrowings N1.65 trillion, statutory transfers N492.4 billion, debt service N2.14 trillion, Sinking Fund N120 billion, total recurrent (non-debt) N4.72trillion, personnel costs (MDAs) N2.29 trillion, capital expenditure N2.86 trillion, and Special Intervention N500 billion, among others.
Although the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, John Enoh (APC Cross River Central), admitted that crude oil production output stood at 2.0 million barrels as at December 2018, he said that the 2.3 million daily target was achievable due to the continuous efforts of all stakeholders in checkmating the issues of oil facilities vandalism and other vices associated with such regard. While recommending an exchange rate of N305/$1, the committee encouraged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to continue to adopt strategies that would aid the strengthening of the naira and bridging the gap between the official and parallel market rate of the foreign exchange.
In his comments, the Vice Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Sonni Ogbuoji (APC, Ebonyi Central), disclosed that only 24 out of 61 sub-committees had submitted their reports.
But the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki insisted that the budget report must be presented on Thursday, April 11 ahead of the April 16 proposed passage.
According to him, the Appropriations Committee will be forced to use Executive submissions if the sub-committees fail to submit their reports to the Appropriations Committee by Wednesday this week.