A  businesswoman, Mrs Komolafe Adenike Sussanah, has cried out to the Inspector General of Police, AIG Abubakar Mohammed Adamu for protection following incessant attacks on her and her family by some unidentified persons. Mrs Sussanah, a mother of three, lamented that her family have been constantly harassed and attacked by some men, who claim they are against some matters her husband, who is a legal practitioner, is handling in court. According to the businesswoman, these masked men have assaulted and battered her on several occasions in bid to send a warning signal to her husband. The businesswoman, who owns a business center in Mushin area of Lagos State, said, “My family has come under physical attacks by some persons I don’t who they are. “I’ve been thoroughly beaten on different occasions. They would beat me up and threaten to deal with my husband if he still continues with the case his handling in court. “Sometime in January this year, a week after our arrival in Nigeria, around 5pm, I was beaten to stupor by unknown individuals, who were riding on a commercial motorcycle, on my way home from my shop. “And just recently, in this month of April, i was attacked again. These men bounced on me as though attacks i stole from them, and inflicted severe injuries on my mouth. This time, it happened close to my shop when two people on ‘okada’ came down while I was waiting for somebody, and gave me a blow again on my mouth and told me to tell my husband to steer clear off them. Since then, I and my family have been living in fear,” she said. According to her, the incident has made her relocate her children to different schools for safety. Sussanah also said that she had reported the incident at the Olosan Police Station, Mushin, with the police promising to investigate the matter, but no one has been arrested till date. She has now called on the Inspector General of Police, AIG Abubakar Mohammed Adamu to come to her aid and help rescue her family. Also reacting on the issue of incessant attacks, Sussanah’s husband, Mr Richard Adekanmi Komolafe, who is a human rights activist, added that his wife was attacked shortly after he won a court case against the Nigeria police and a notorious land grabber in Bariga Mr Komolafe added that his family has come under both physical and spiritual attacks from unknown people as a result of his activism and numerous court cases he had won against some prominent members in the society, thereby putting the life of his wife and children in danger.