 The Federal Government has warned former Vice President and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, not to instigate a political crisis in Nigeria in his bid to upturn the results of the 2019 presidential election. It said there are dire consequences for Atiku by resorting to self-help, as he seems to be doing now, in his bid for the presidency. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who gave the warning at a media chat in Abuja yesterday, accused Abubakar of desperation and resorting to self-help rather than sticking to the laid down procedures of challenging an election result at the court. He alleged that following the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as the winner of the last presidential election, Atiku had been engaged in certain actions that portrayed him as someone desperately seeking to discredit the election and cause a breach of law and order. Mohammed accused Atiku of deploying subterfuge tactics and trying to get from the backdoor what he lost at the polls. The minister condemned the recent emergence of some posters bearing Abubakar’s portrait with the inscription: ”THE PUKKA, H.E.ATIKU ABUBAKAR, THE REAL AND THE RIGHT”, on major streets in Abuja. He described as worrisome, reports that the former vice president had hired a lobby firm to convince the United States not to recognize the re-election of President Buhari until the Supreme Court has ruled on the suit. Atiku had distanced himself from the posters. The PDP Presidential candidate also denied hiring a U.S. lobby firm. The minister, who was joined at the media parley by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media, Mallam Garba Shehu, said that though Atiku had distanced himself from the posters and the lobby firm, the Federal Government cannot wave them off as mere coincidences because of their grave implications on the polity. According to him, the posters and the hiring of U.S. lobbyists have triggered questions about whether Atiku was starting a fresh campaign after the elections have been won and lost or rescinded his decision to challenge the results of the presidential election in court. “As a self-avowed democrat, he (Atiku) should realize that the only lawful channel for challenging the result of an election is through the courts. Resorting to self-help, as he seems to be doing now, is an act of desperation and the consequences are dire. “There is no doubt that the PDP presidential candidate, out of desperation, is thinking of replicating the Venezuelan model right here in Nigeria. But he should realize that Nigeria is not Venezuela, and that the situations in both countries are not the same. “However, he should not give the impression that he does not have confidence in the judicial process, which is what resorting to selfhelp implies. He should stop overheating the polity and quit trying to instigate a political crisis in Nigeria. No citizen, no matter how highly placed, is above the laws of the land,” he said. The minister said that President Buhari did not only win the February 23rd, 2019 presidential elections fair and square, but with a margin of 3,928,869 votes. According to him, the credibility of that election was attested to by local and foreign observers, adding that Buhari’s victory was well deserved giving his pro-poor economic policies that won the hearts of the ordinary Nigerians. “Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has the right to do whatever is lawful to challenge the outcome of that election. But he cannot get through the backdoor what he couldn’t get through the front door. That will be a pipe dream. If he believes hiring a foreign lobbying firm will advance his quest, we wish him the best of luck. But seeking U.S. recognition as the winner of an election that he lost by almost four million votes is unconscionable,” he said. Mohammed reminded the PDP Presidential candidate that losing an election was not the end of the world and advised him to stick to the legal process of challenging the outcome of the election in court. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Buhari as the winner of the February 23 election, having polled 15,191,847 votes to defeat his closest challenger, Atiku, who polled 11,262,978. Not satisfied, Atiku had, through his team of counsel, approached the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, sitting in Abuja to challenge the validity of Buhari’s victory. Atiku, in his 139-page petition before the tribunal, stated that from the data in INEC’s server, the true, actual and correct results showed that he (Atiku) secured a total of 18,356,732 votes against Buhari’s 16,741,430 votes. The PDP presidential candidate stated the results were from 35 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as there was “no report on server” about the election results from Rivers State.