Any moment from now, 23 Nigerians who are on death row in Saudi Arabia may be executed, if the Federal Government does not pull the right diplomatic string to stop the planned execution. The case of the 23 people has once again brought to the fore, the issue of Nigerians facing death penalty outside the shores of this country.
The rate at which our compatriots are being placed on the death row in foreign lands is increasingly becoming alarming, just as the reactions of the concerned countries are becoming more of hostility. In recent times, there had been no week that stories will not make the rounds of Nigerians that would be put to death abroad. This is a sad occurrence.
No doubt, the Federal Government has done a lot to improve the image of the country, but despite the efforts of the Muhammadu Buhari administration, it had not been able to curtail the criminal exodus of these elements, who are being convicted for different reasons in foreign counties.
Just few days ago, Nigerians again woke up to the news of another set of our compatriots, who are to be killed for different offences in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). These people are not among those earlier convicted in China.
On April 20, eight Nigerians were again sentenced to death in Sharjah area of the UAE, for a string of robberies at a Bureau de Change and cash machines across the UAE in December 2016. The sentence came less than three weeks after five Nigerians were arrested in the same area for allegedly robbing a bureau de change. They were arrested for robbing a Bureau De Change operator of Dh2.3 million (N225.4 million) in the same Sharjah. The suspects identified as Chimuanya Emmanuel Ozoh, Benjamin Nwachukwu Ajah, Kingsley Ikenna Ngoka, Tochukwu Leonard Alisi and Chile Micah Ndunagu were accused ßof barging into the Bureau De Change to steal money in multiple currencies.
In another case, a Nigerian woman, Kudirat Adeshola Afolabi, was found guilty of drug trafficking and executed in Saudi Arabia. Following Afolabi’s execution, it was revealed that another Nigerian, Saheed Sobade, was facing death in Saudi Arabia after being nabbed with 1,183 grams of cocaine powder in Jeddah. The list of cases is endless.
The Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia in Nigeria responded to widespread criticism of Afolabi’s execution, insisting that all legal and judicial procedures were observed in the case.
The case of the 23 Nigerians set for death in Saudi Arabia has further exposed Nigerians to the reality of the situation. As such, it has become imperative for the government to increase awareness and orientation and also for people travelling to be extra careful when they are going abroad.
Apart from the allegation raised by some of the affected Nigerians that some airlines staff are wickedly putting drugs and contraband in the luggage of their passengers, it is also observed that some of the victims were not properly tutored in line with travelling arrangements, to the extent that they were framed.
As one of the passengers of a particular airline recently put it, she thought she was helping a fellow citizen when a stranger handed her a bag to hold in trust while pretending to be pressed for nature and heading to the lavatory.
In her case, she claimed she was framed and that her innocence has cost her dearly. If this is the case, it shows a clear case of man’s inhumanity to man. As such, the Federal Government through its agencies, especially the National Orientation Agency (NOA) and some of its mass media, need to put up a campaign against this nefarious acts of some unscrupulous Nigerians.
Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on Diaspora, Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, while disclosing that 20 others were still on death row in Saudi Arabia, besides 12 more already sentenced to prison, said the Federal Government was saddened that some of the unfortunate Nigerians were victims of drug cartels working with some airline staff.
She argued that in some cases, drugs were surreptitiously put in the bags of unsuspecting Nigerian pilgrims by the cartels, only for them to be picked up on arrival in Saudi Arabia.
Despite the explanation by the Federal Government, there should also be a special enlightenment programme by the administration in order to save many innocent Nigerians the trauma of falling into traps. The government should also, in collaboration with other countries, take a step further to investigate the allegation raised of drug cartels working with some airlines staff.
In the same vein, it should be noted clearly with warning signs at all exit points in Nigeria, that those aiming to violate the laws of the countries they are visiting, should be ready to face the consequences, including maximum punishment, while noting that countries like China, Saudi Arabia and the UAE do not take crime lightly, their laws are very stringent, and in some cases carries the death penalty.
We call on the Federal Government of Nigeria to explore its diplomatic ties with Saudi Arabia in saving the 23 Nigerians on death row.