Rising from its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting yesterday, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) berated the governors of the region over their attitude towards the growing number of out of school children in the zone. A statement from the Northern apex body disclosed as unfortunate their behavior towards the issue of education in the north, asking them to buckle up.  The statement signed by Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, ACF National Publicity Secretary, also called on the Federal Government to work out an appropriate measure to tackle the growing insecurity in the  country. Part of the statement said: “On the issue of more than 10 million children that are out of school in the North, the Council noted with concern the increase in the number of Almajiris and children roaming the streets and the unfortunate attitude of our state governors towards the development of education.  “Recently, the Emirs and Chiefs in the North organized a conference on this burning issue where it discussed and issued a communiqué on how the Northern States should tackle the situation. Unfortunately, very few states attended the Conference or even sent representatives. “Furthermore, the Minister of Education recently lamented the attitude of states government to access funds at the Universal Basic Education Commission for primary education development by paying their counterpart funding.”  According to ACF: “This is an unfortunate development. Council therefore appealed to the Northern state governments to seriously address this out-of-school children menace to avoid further escalation of insecurity and other vices that have bedeviled the North; Illiteracy, poverty and drug abuses are a result of poor education and nonchalant attitude of our leaders to good governance.”  On the security situation, ACF said: “The meeting discussed exhaustively security challenges especially the high way banditry involving kidnappings and killings of innocent people on the highways and frequent attacks on communities giving rise to growing death toll in States of Zamfara, Kat- sina, Sokoto, Kaduna, Taraba, etc. “It however, noted that the underlying causes of insecurities differ from one geopolitical zone to another, hence the need for government to consciously develop appropriate measures to contain the situation.  “The Council noted the effort of the security agencies and urged them to do more and take the war to the criminals that have continued to make life unbearable to our people. “The Council calls upon Federal Government to take drastic measures that will restore normalcy, peace and harmony in the affected states in order to assuage the fears of the people in particular Zamfara state where the bandit’s activities have been most cruel and devastating to the socioeconomic and political life of the people. “The Council also notes with concern the most recent communal clashes between the Tiv and Jukun communities in Benue and Taraba states respectively with attendant loss of lives and destruction of properties on both sides Demands inquiry into Boko Haram attacks   The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) yesterday refused to endorse any presidential candidate ahead of the 2019 elections. The apex northern group, which rose from its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting, said it will study the proposed policies and programmes of various political parties… In “News” Governors of the 19 northern states have disowned a group of northern youths under the aegis of Coalition of Northern Youths (CNY) who had, on Tuesday in Kaduna, given a three-month ultimatum to the Igbo in the North to quit. The governors also called on security agencies to arrest the… In “News” The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), says Nigeria is losing out on a literate and skilled workforce it needs to grow economically due to huge number of out of school children. Pernille Ironside, Deputy Representative, UNICEF Nigeria, stated this on Wednesday in Kaduna, at the opening of a two-day Northern… In “News Around Nigeria”