With the presentation of Certificate of Return to Lagos State Governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, not a few have started counting down to what the new All Progressives Congress (APC) government in the state will bring to the table from May 29, TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes  Lagos State is regarded as the Centre of Excellence and on this prism rest lots of expectations from whoever is at the helms of affair of the state. Lagos as the economic capital is crucial to the survival of Nigeria and this is the main reason there is a focus on the state during general elections. The battle for Lagos State since the return of democratic governance on May 29, 1999 has always been a tough battle between the leadership of the ruling party and the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  Prior to the March 9 gubernatorial election in Lagos State, there was tough contest for the number one citizen in Lagos State as 45 candidates battled to take over from incumbent Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, who is expected to bow out of office come May 29. The candidate of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu won the governorship poll and was declared Governor-elect by the Independent National Electoral Commission on Monday March 11.  Sanwo -Olu polled 739,445 votes to defeat his closet opponent, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, who scored 206,141 votes.  Having been declared Governor-elect, INEC last Friday presented certificates of return to Sanwo-Olu and his deputy Dr. Obafemi Hamzat at a ceremony held at the headquarters of the commission in Yaba, Lagos. The presentation of certificate of returns which was carried out by the National Commissioner of INEC in charge of Ogun, Ondo and Lagos states, Dr. Adekunle Ogunmola in company of the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Lagos State, Mr . Sam Olumekun, was attended by leaders of security agencies, religious leaders and politicians, among whom were Lagos APC chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun; deputy leader of Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), Prince Tajudeen Olusi; former Minister of State for Defense, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro; Lagos APC Women Leader, Hon. Jumoke Okoya-Thomas and the party’s spokesman, Engr. Joe Igbokwe, member of House of Representatives, representing Kosofe Constituency, Hon. Rotimi Agunsoye .  Sanwo -Olu and Hamzat were also accompanied to the ceremony by their wives, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu and Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat, who were very active during the campaigns that took the APC candidates to all the nooks and crannies of the state to woo electorate to vote for Sanwo-Olu and his running mate.  Speaking after receiving the Certificate of Return, Sanwo-Olu said better times are ahead for Lagos residents with good things in the offing for them when he comes on board.  He said his administration will run an inclusive government, adding that the door is open to all Lagosians, including the 44 governorship candidates who contested against him to contribute meaningfully to the progress of Lagos State.  “We are taking up this leadership and we are telling you that the confidence that you have put in us will not be put to shame. We will not misuse the confidence that you have given to us and we are using this opportunity to assure Lagosians that better time are out for us. God will spare our lives and give us good health to do it because we know that Lagosians really deserve the best and by extension if we get it right in Lagos, you are getting it right in Nigeria because Lagos is where everything happen,” he said.  The Governor-elect also called on his opponents that lost during the March 9 election to support him in making the state enviable, assuring them of his resolve to run an inclusive government. His words: “I want to extend congratulations to all the other 44 candidates that were not so successful, but I dare say that victory to one is a victory to all. It is victory to all of us; it is a victory for the entire Lagosians. It is a call to order, it is a call that there is no victor, no vanquished. All of us are on the same pedestal, that is, to make life a lot better for our people.  “That is why, on the campaign train, we said we are going to run an inclusive government, we will bring about strategies that will take Lagos to greater heights. We are using this unique opportunity to open our doors; we don’t even have a door again, the doors are open for all our other colleagues in the other parties that we are one and the same. “Let us build the schools, the hospitals, traffic management, the public transportation, the environment to make Lagos a cynosure of the entire African race. It is not about Femi and I , it is not about my own family; it is about reenacting and recharging a true Lagos that all of us have stood for. We are using this opportunity to tell our colleagues in other parties the doors are open, that we are one and the same.”  Also speaking during the ceremony, Ogunmola described the victory of Sanwo-Olu as an opportunity given by God to serve. He told Sanwo-Olu that, by his election, he was coming on board as governor of Lagos State and not of his party. “ Lagosians expect you to discharge your responsibility in honesty and integrity, and dedication to duty. I have no doubt in my mind that you have the qualities to do all these. Lagosians are discerning people; when they make choice , they know what they are doing,” he said. Earlier in his address, Lagos REC, Olumekun said that the March 9 gubernatorial election that produced Sanwo-Olu was keenly contested by 45 contestants.  Olumekun , who noted that the governorship election was free of rancour and adjudged credible, peaceful, transparent, free and fair by the election observers, thanked all stakeholders for their cooperation, support and synergy during the process.
The REC advised Sanwo-Olu to avoid blaming the outgoing administration, noting that “The journey to a better Lagos is laid squarely in your (Sanwo-Olu) court.” With the presentation of the Certificate of Return to the governor-elect, work has already started for Sanwo-Olu, who is expected to be sworn into office on May 29 to become the fourth elected governor in the present Fourth Republic and sixth civilian governor since the creation of Lagos State. Alhaji Lateef Jakande, the first executive governor of Lagos State was at the helms of affairs on the platform of Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) from 1979 to 1983 before the Second Republic was disrupted by the military in December 31, 1983. Late Sir Michael Otedola was elected governor against all odds on the platform of the National Republican Convention (NRC) and he governed the state during the aborted Third Republic between 1992 and 1993.  At the birth of the present political dispensation in 1999, Senator Bola Tinubu was elected on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD) and after governing for eight years of two terms he passed the baton to his then Chief of Staff, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, who is now Minister of Power, Works and Housing, on May 29, 2007. Like his predecessor, Fashola also served two terms and handed over to former Lagos State Accountant -General, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode on May 29, 2015. But due to politicking in the ruling APC, Ambode lost the party’s gubernatorial ticket to Sanwo-Olu during the party’s primaries.  While Sanwo-Olu is expected to be sworn in as sixth elected governor of Lagos State, Hamzat on May 29 after his swearing in will be the ninth deputy governor in the state. In the last 40 years eight people have served as deputy governors. They were late Rafiu Jafojo (1979 – 1983), Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu (1992 – 1993), Senator Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele (1999 – 2002), Otunba Femi Pedro (2002 to 2007), Prince Abiodun Ogunleye (2007), Princess Sarah Sosan (2007 – 2011), Hon. Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire (2011 – 2015) and incumbent Dr. Idiat Adebule.  All the above governors and deputy governors without any iota of doubt offered their best service for Lagos State and till date the achievements of the past and present administration is still visible in different parts of the state in term of provision of dividends of democracy through capital projects, roads, environment and infrastructures, among others.  As Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat takes over the mantle of leadership on May 29, there are lots of expectations from people of Lagos State from the incoming administrations. The expectations are based on the campaign promises of Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat, which is encapsulated in a five-pillar programme tagged “T.H.E.M.E,” which are; Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology, Making Lagos a 21 st Century Economy, and Entertainment and Tourism.  Speaking on Friday, January 17 during the unveiling of “A Vision for a Greater Lagos,” in Ikeja, Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat said they are convinced that in spite of what have been achieved in Lagos, there is still much to be done to fully realise the potential of the state. They therefore promised to address various issues on transportation, traffic management, health, environment, education, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), tourism and sports, among others, with well articulated plans which were clearly stated in the “T.H.E.M.E” master plan.  Lagos, being a cosmopolitan city with about 18million Nigeria who comes from all walks of life to live and do business in the state, it is expected that Sanwo-Olu and his team must be up to the task and know what it takes to bring about good governance in the state. There is no doubt that Lagos State in the last few years has witnessed some remarkable progress, therefore, it is expected that the state should progress under Sanwo-Olu.  Sanwo -Olu has already promised to constitute his cabinet within his first 100 days in office and many people will be looking forward to who and who will be part of the state executive council, which is expected to drive some of the campaign promises of the incoming administration. One of the positions, which seem to be generating keen interest, is the woman who is going to occupy the position of the Secretary to the Lagos State Government (SSG), which is expected to be a woman.  In less than 60 days, Sanwo-Olu will take over the driver‘s seat of Lagos State and the saying, ‘To whom much is given, much is expected’ may be apt for the governor-elect and his team.   TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on how last Saturday’s governorship election was won and lost in Lagos State   Lagos State was one of the states that generated a lot of attraction, not only in the state but entire Nigeria in last Saturday governorship election where the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship… In “Politics” TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the just concluded All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries in Lagos State   The just concluded primary elections of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) shook the party in Lagos State, following controversies that marred the shadow polls used by the party to elect its candidates for… In “Politics” TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the three-day visit of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to the party’s senatorial leaders, where various issues were raised ahead of 2019 general elections   Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the battle for who occupy various public… In “Politics”