Candidates express dismay over conduct Mixed reactions have continued to trail the three-day Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) conducted by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). Over 1.8 million candidates sat for the qualifying examination into higher institutions (universities, polytechnics/monotechnics and colleges of education), which commenced on Thursday across the country. Several candidates, who sat for the examination, have continued to express displeasure and disappointment with the conduct of this year’s examination, which was bedevilled by computer glitches, as many of the aspirants could not write the examination due to finger print failure and malfunctioning computer system. At some of the centres visited in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) the candidates were recounting their ordeals as there were problems of computer shutdowns, computer monitors going blank, which resulted to cancellation of examinations and total shut down of some Computer Based Test (CBT) centres. This was as the examinations earlier planned for three sessions expected to commence by 7am to 2 pm daily were disrupted as some centres were forced to close the examination at 3:30 pm. For instance, on Thursday, the commencement of the examination, candidates, who were billed to sit for the UTME at the Government Secondary School Karu, were still at the examination centre by 12:30 a.m. Friday, waiting to write their examination. One of the candidates, Josiah Alachenu, who came from Benue to write the examination at the G.S.S. Karu CBT centre, however, accused the government and JAMB of toying with the future of the younger generation. According to him, the failure of the computer was unacceptable as the MOCK UTME was conducted to avert such disappointment. “JAMB gave us exam date April 12; we printed our slips to write by 7am. Some of us left our home by 5:30am, others left by 6am or 6:30 am but getting to the examination centre they are asking us to reprint our slips by 4pm that it has been postponed,” he said. Also, yesterday some centres in FCT were still experiencing hiccups, especially at the Global Distance Centre at Central Business District, where some of the candidates who sat for the first and second session complained of monitors going blank.
However, JAMB Senior Administrative Officer, Mr. Adeola Adeniyi, who was assigned to the centre, insisted that the Global Distance Centre is the best in the FCT as it had not recorded any computer malfunction. According to him, the centre had been assigned the task of running four sessions instead of three, in order to accommodate candidates whose centres had been shut down for various reasons. In Oyo State several candidates could not write the examination following the failure of the thumb-printing machine to recognise their fingers in several Computer Based (CBT) Centres. The examination is being conducted in the 32 approved CBT centres in state. Specifically, a female candidate, who registered for the examination at the University of Ibadan CBT Centre, located at Awo Hall and was to write the examination at the Esther Oshikoya CBT Centre, located along the Sango-Eleyele Road, Ibadan could not write the examination because the thumb-printing machine failed to recognise her finger and refusal of the Centre Coordinators to allow her into the examination hall. Speaking with Sunday Telegraph amidst sobs, the candidate said: “I registered for the examination at UI CBT Centre at Awo Hall. The machine recognised my finger, but now it did not. I don’t know what caused it. JAMB should consider my case because now I don’t know what to do.” However, a JAMB official, Dr. O. Ezekiel identified server failure as one of the challenges militating against the conduct of the examination in the centre, saying that all efforts by the centre coordinators and officials to ensure that the machine recognised her finger proved abortive. He said: “All I know is that for each session, we have 250 students. We have three sessions per day. We have 750 candidates per day. No power failure, but in the morning session, we have server failure. Later, it was resolved by the technical man.” At Akure, the Ondo State capital, some candidates, who are also writing the on-going West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) missed two of their subjects due to clash in the timetable of the two examination bodies. The subjects missed, according to the students, who spoke with Sunday Telegraph, are Animal Husbandry and Garment Making. However, many CBT Centres visited by our Correspondent to monitor the UTME, the examination was conducted without hitches as the computers worked well with Internet connectivity undisrupted. The only problem was that many students, who registered in Akure, the state capital, were posted to neighbouring Edo State and outside Akure for their examination. It is the same story of woe in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, where candidates complained of malfunctioning computers, which were said to trip off. Many of the candidates blamed their plight on the CBT centres. For instance, John Finedays said he had a challenge of bad computer system that went off as he was writing his papers. Speaking to Sunday Telegraph at the Igbogene centre in Yenagoa Local Government Area, he noted: “I have finished my own examination but there were some issues, as I was writing my examination the computer suddenly switched off and thus I was unable to complete the questions.” When Sunday Telegraph visited one of the centres at Igbogene in Yenagoa Local Government Area, the examination went on without any hitches, as the computers functioned well with internet connectivity. In Lagos, candidates arrived at the JKK CBT Centre on Ikorodu Road, Anthony, as early as 6a.m. At the Centre, Mrs. Ebere Margret, JKK Centre Manager, however, told Sunday Telegraph that the candidates were asked to choose centres close to their residential areas, saying there was significant improvement on the computer systems and conduct of the examination this year. As the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), conducted by the Joints Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) commenced nationwide yesterday at several designated Computer Based (CBT) Centres in country, many candidates in Oyo State could not write the examination following the failure of the thumb-printing machine to recognise their fingers.… In “News” Three individuals including a candidate, a graduate and a computer- based examination centre operator have been arrested in Abuja by security operatives over alleged examination malpractices in the on-going Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). Those arrested, according to the Director of Press of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB),… In “News” As the 2018 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) commenced across the country yesterday, some of the candidates who sat for the exam at the Federal College of Education (Technical), Bichi, Kano, experienced difficulties over technical faults developed by some of the computer systems. The candidates, left distraught by the development,… In “News”