Scientists from United Kingdom (UK) and Germany said sugar does not improve mood and that it could make people less alert and more tired. The researchers found that sugar consumption has virtually no effect on mood, regardless of how much sugar was consumed or whether people engage in demanding activities after taking it. Similarly, the study also found that people who consumed sugar felt more tired and less alert than those who had not. Professor Elizabeth Maylor, from the University of Warwick, said the findings would go a long way to dispel the myth of the ‘sugar rush,’ which is based on the premise that sugar could put consumers in a better mood. He also expected that the findings could inform public health policies to decrease sugar consumption. According to a report on the ‘Sciencedaily,’ the research team had set out to examine the myth of the ‘sugar rush’: can sugar really put you in a better mood? They also considered how factors such as the quantity and type of sugar consumed might affect mood, and whether engaging in demanding mental and physical activities made any difference. Sugar is the generic name for sweet-tasting, soluble carbohydrates, many of which are used in food. The various types of sugar are derived from different sources. Simple sugars are called monosaccharides and include glucose, fructose, and galactose. The heavy marketing of sugars and their consumption have been blamed for some medical conditions including diabetes, tooth decay, among others. Using data collected from 31 published studies involving almost 1300 adults, Dr Konstantinos Mantantzis at Humboldt University of Berlin, Dr. Sandra Sünram-Lead at Lancaster University, and Dr. Friederike Schlaghecken and Professor Elizabeth Maylor in the University of Warwick’s Department of Psychology investigated the effect of sugar on various aspects of mood, including anger, alertness, depression, and fatigue. On his part, Dr. Konstantinos Mantantzis, from Humboldt University of Berlin, who led the study, said: “The idea that sugar can improve mood has been widely influential in popular culture, so much so that people all over the world consume sugary drinks to become more alert or combat fatigue. “Our findings very clearly indicate that such claims are not substantiated — if anything, sugar will probably make you feel worse.” Dr. Sandra Sünram-Lead study researcher added: “The rise in obesity, diabetes and metabolic syndrome in recent years highlights the need for evidence-based dietary strategies to promote healthy lifestyle across the lifespan. Our findings indicate that sugary drinks or snacks do not provide a quick ‘fuel refill’ to make us feel more alert.”