Director General of Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON), Mr Osita Aboloma, has revealed that fake and substandard products worth over N300 billion have been confiscated by the agency across the country in the last few months. He made the revelation in his remarks at a stakeholders’ sensitization workshop on SON Act 2015 which was held in Lagos.
Aboloma, who was represented at the occasion by Mr. Yaya Burka, Head, Ports and Border, SON, indicated that adulterated lubricants, electric cables and cylinders topped the list of confiscated items. He added that the SON Act enacted into law by the 7th National Assembly was a revolutionary document being used by the agency in ridding Nigerian market of unwholesome products. According to him, the theme of the workshop, “SON Act 2015: Enhancing quality, harnessing opportunities” is indeed germane and quite in tune with the current efforts by the Federal Government to turn around the nation’s economy. “Let me inform you that the big hauls of seizures which the agency made recently is a testimonial that we mean business by harnessing to the fullest the enormous powers which the Act has accorded us. “Within the last few months,  we have confiscated fake and substandard products worth over N300 billion across the country. “We have since embarked on arraignment and trial at various courts of some of the suspects linked with the impounded goods.  We are not resting on our oars. “We decided to conduct nationwide sensitisation workshops on the Act not only to enlighten people on the provisions of the Act but equally to strengthen stakeholders’ engagement and collaboration. The positive outcomes and impact of the sensitization exercises in places where they have been conducted so far have been so encouraging”, he said. In his lecture, the Guest Speaker at the event, Mr. Wahab Shittu, noted that the SON Act, which he believed were enacted in line with international best practices, has sufficient and all-embracing provisions for the agency to deliver on its mandate. Shittu, a teacher at the Faculty of Law, University of Lagos, urged SON’s management to live up to the agency’s mandate of combating adulterated products. “To enhance quality of the products to be consumed by all, the SON must live up to its creation. Execute its mandate under the statute and in doing this, it is necessary to deploy fit and proper persons into the organization. The idea of political jobbers cannot work here. Intellectuals with qualifications in the required fields are needed to execute the powers, duties and authorities imposed under the Act”, Shittu said.