Plans are in the pipeline to pitch Super Eagles against Nigeria U- 23, Olympic squad before the Africa Cup of Nations AFCON final. The plan of the Super Eagles handler, Gernot Rohr, is to see both teams play against each other and see how many more U-23 players can break into the senior national team for AFCON. The permutation according to our source is also to help the U-23 be in top shape before their last qualifying round against their Sudanese counterparts. Rohr, we learnt, was also more concerned about the qualification of the U-23 national team for AFCON, a reason why he planned for both teams to play together in June like both teams did in Asaba before the Olympic Eagles destroyed visiting Libya 4-0. “I think it will very good come June 5 and 9 (2019) when our U-23 national team are playing against Sudan in the last round of the Africa Cup of Nations’ qualifiers that we should be around also, I mean the Super Eagles team so that they size each other up again like they did when the team defeated Libya in the last match in Asaba,” Rohr said. The U-23 national team Coach Imama Amapakabo, our source said, had been briefed about it and the two teams would use the tie as test match after the other friendly matches. ...as Aremu targets eight title   Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, currently in Niamey, the Niger capital for the ongoing U-20 Africa Cup of Nations, has said he was yet to take a decision on any player that might join the Super Eagles ahead of the AFCON qualifier against Seychelles… In “Sports” The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), last week, released a list of 23 players for the last Nations Cup qualifier against Seychelles and the international friendly match against the Pharaohs of Egypt.   The two games are billed for the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba, Delta State. There were many issues… In “Editorial” Super Eagles Vice Captain, Ahmed Musa, has lifted the spirit of Nigeria's U-23 Eagles with a pledge of one million naira (N1m) for each goal scored against Libya on Monday (today) in the the reverse leg of the U-23 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in Asaba. Musa made the promise… In “Sports”