Executives of Plateau State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday suspended its state Chairman, Hon. Damishi Sango and his Deputy, Hon. Amos Gombi, over an alleged misappropriation of presidential campaign funds as well as funds meant for internally displaced persons in the state. Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Hon. John Akans, while reading the resolution of the executive members during a press conference at the party’s secretariat in Jos, alleged that the chairman and his deputy allegedly diverted N9.8 million meant for internally displaced persons and the retreat of party officials.  Akans said the 27-member executive, including three vice-chairmen, legal adviser, state organising secretary, women leader, among others, passed a vote of no confidence in the chairman and his deputy.  He said: “In a bid to save PDP in Plateau State, the following resolutions have been reached; that the party Chairman, Hon. Damishi Sango and his deputy, Hon. Amos Gombi, stands suspended. “About N5 million raised and saved by the party to help Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) to help relieve their pains were also not accounted for up till this moment. No mention has been made of the said funds and it is worthy to note that the deputy chairman is the chairman committee on IDPs for the party. “Also, about N4.8 million meant for PDP Plateau State retreat was equally not accounted for by the chairman and the deputy chairman.  “That the resources sent to the state for the presidential elections were not accounted for by the chairman aided by the deputy chairman concealed the amount sent by the presidential campaign committee and created a fraudulent unseen template used as “a sharing formula unknown to the state party structure and up till date no disclosure has been made by the chairman and the deputy.”  Akans said the party was plunged into confusion during the general election due to what he called the highhandedness of the chairman and deputy chairman, who disregarded advice from party elders and other critical stakeholders. He said the state PDP Campaign Council had also been dissolved with immediate effect, and urged the chairman and other campaign council members to return party properties in their possession. However, an acting chairman had been appointed by the state to take over the affairs of the PDP according to the state executive committee of the party.  “Vice-Chairman, Northern Senatorial District, Hon. Chris Hassan, shall take over the leadership of the party as acting state chairman. “That the state campaign council is hereby dissolved with immediate effect, all party properties by whatever description that is in their possession should be returned to the state party secretariat within 48 hours.” But in a swift reaction yesterday, Sango said he was not aware of all the allegations raised against him by the party, expressing surprised that he was ‘betrayed’ by party confidantes. “I am not aware that I have been suspended, I have not seen any letter to that effect. I am surprised that I was betrayed by people I consider close to me in the party. There was a state campaign council, which the governorship candidate, Senator Jeremiah Useni, was part of it; all money was disbursed by the campaign council.”