Ole Gunnar Solskjær and Maurizio Sarri, two managers under pressure to deliver a Champions League ticket for their clubs, go head-to-head today, knowing that defeat could cost them a place in the elite European competition next season, writes Tunde Sulaiman  Since being confirmed full time manager of Manchester United on March 28, Ole Gunnar Solskjær has overseen a stunning downward reversal in the fortunes of the English giants. So much so that many are now wondering if Ed Woodward, United’s Executive Vice-Chairman, has not made another wrong error of judgement in putting the fate of the three-time European champions in the hands of the 46-year-old former Norwegian international – especially in the wake of the disastrous experiment with the now departed Jose Mourinho. Seen by the former accountant and investment banker as the man to revive the fortunes of the 13-time Premier League winners, Woodward against the better judgement of a number of keen football watchers opted to go for the former Real Madrid manager despite the considerable negative baggage that he carried around with him.  Undeniably one of the foremost managers of his generation, with titles won in England (with Chelsea), Italy (Inter Milan), Portugal (Porto) and Spain (Real Madrid) to justify this appellation, however, the 56-year-old Portuguese had often left some of his previous clubs in controversial circumstances. After announcing himself to the English media as the ‘Special One’ on his unveiling at his first stint as manager of the Blues, the former Porto helmsman then proceeded to end Chelsea’s 50-year wait to mount the podium as the best team in the league by being crowned Premier League champions. The Blues may not have done it in swashbuckling style, but this of course cut no ice with millions of long-suffering Chelsea fans who were just delighted to bask in the euphoria of finally being able to call themselves champions. The brash Portuguese tactician then followed this triumph up by becoming only the second manager after Sir Alex Ferguson to successfully retain the Premier League crown. However, the wheels fell off in his third season and following a poor run was relieved of his duties midway into the campaign, with the champions languishing in mid table. But a man with such pedigree is always in demand and Mourinho then popped up in Italy where he made history by becoming the first manager to do the treble winning Serie A, Coppa Italia and Champions League in 2010 with Inter. The allure of handling Spanish giants, Real Madrid was just too good to pass on and rather staying to attempt to replicate the feat, Mourinho left Italy without any dark cloud following him. After a first season of disappointment, he was finally able to end Barcelona’s dominance of La Liga with the title in 2012; but not too long afterwards his inner demons once again caught up with him and after a number of high profile controversial actions, including the infamous poking of the eye of the then Barcelona assistant coach, Tito Vilanova, Madrid dispensed with his services. He then made a surprise return to Stamford Bridge where he was able to once again make the Blues the kings of the Premier League in 2015 before he was again sacked after four months of the following season, with the club having lost nine of their first 16 games and sitting only one point above the relegation zone. This was the man in whom Woodward decided to turn to after sacking now retired Dutchman, Louis van Gaal just 48 hours after he ended United’s three-year wait for a trophy of any colour – the FA Cup. Mourinho began his Old Trafford reign in good stead matching eventual champions and cross town rivals, City in the first 10 weeks of the 2017 campaign before being left in their wake by the team from the blue half of Manchester. But he was still able to beat his chest and say that he was able to get United to finish second (albeit 19 points behind City), the team’s best showing since the departure of Sir Alex, he was also able to land the FA Cup and Europa League titles to his collection. Nonetheless, this season things decidedly went pear shaped for the Special One as he oversaw one of the worst starts in United’s history following a traditional pattern of falling out with the players and fighting the media. On December 18, Woodward finally decided to pull the plug on Mourinho’s stay at Old Trafford two days after watching the Red Devils fall meekly to Liverpool to leave them languishing in sixth place, 19 points behind league leaders Liverpool and 11 points outside the Champions League places. After failing with his two previous big name coaches, the former investment banker then surprised all by turning to the hero of United’s 1999 Champions League triumph in an effort to sanitise the club till the end of the campaign. However, it appeared that the former United striker, dubbed the “Baby Faced Assassin” during his playing days, had not read the script and got a stunning lift from the players who then embarked on an 11-match unbeaten run including 10 straight victories.
In fact Ole only lost one of his first 17 games in charge of the Red Devils!  This amazing turn around then played a big part in forcing Woodward to deviate from his original plan of naming a substantive coach at the end of the season and gave the Norwegian the job on March 28. But rather than the appointment serving as a stepping stone to further progression of the ailing giants the opposite has happened and since his confirmation the Red Devils have slipped back to the disjointed team seen during the last days of Mourinho. In fact the stats are even worse than during the tenure of the Special One with only two wins in their last nine games in all competitions and the 50 goals conceded is the worst in 40 years. Although his side did show more commitment in Wednesday’s game against City they still ended up losing 2-0 meaning that United will have to win their three remaining games to have any chance of grabbing a Champions League ticket. And things do not get any easier for the ‘Baby Faced Assassin’ as today he goes up against another under pressure manager also desperate to save his season in the person of Chelsea’s Maurizio Sarri. So much was expected of the Italian when he arrived at Stamford Bridge last summer fresh from his exploits with Napoli, with whom he had turned into genuine title contenders. Although he was ultimately never able to knock Juventus of their perch as perpetual Serie A winners, he was able to make the team from Naples one of the best of the rest.  Although his own start was not as startling as Ole’s, Sarri was still able to ensure the Blues kept early pace with pre-season title favourites, Manchester City and Liverpool until they hit a rough patch which saw them slip off the pace.  Currently fourth the Italian’s rigid belief in his ‘Sarriball’ philosophy has come under fire especially after suffering heavy defeats to Manchester City (6-0 the club’s worst in 26 years) and Bournemouth (4-0), effectively ended Chelsea’s title ambitions. Now struggling for one of the two remaining Champions League tickets by finishing either third or fourth on the Premier League table, Sarri knows there is no room for errors in the quest for European passage with only three matches left to play. His case was not help on Monday night when he failed to consolidate on a Champions League spot when his Blues could only muster a solitary point in a 2-2 home draw against 15th-placed Burnley.  Already many in the English media have been speculating that his job is on the line and the Burnley result would not have done much to dispel the notion. Speaking after the game, in which he was sent to the stands in the dying minutes by referee Kevin Friend, a chastened Sarri swerved his post-match media briefings, with his assistant, Gianfranco Zola, confirming his compatriot had been incensed by comments allegedly flung his way throughout the game. “He’s very frustrated. He’s been sent off and I think he’s been offended as well, so he didn’t feel it was the right thing to speak [publicly],” said Zola. “He’s frustrated at the game, frustrated at being sent off, and the other thing,” explained Zola, himself a former Chelsea star. Incidentally although the home side is also not in the best of forms, when both sides met in the first leg last October the Red Devils put on one of the best displays under Mourinho and were unlucky not to have left Stamford Bridge with all three points after Ross Barkley’s 96th-minute equaliser rescued Chelsea’s unbeaten Premier League start at Stamford Bridge. Chelsea’s record at Old Trafford is not that impressive having only managed to win there 54 times in 182 visits. One has to go back to May 5, 2013 for the last time the Blues left the Theatre of Dreams victorious courtesy of an 87th minute Juan Mata strike. Since then the best the Blues have managed have been three draws and two defeats. The fact that neither man can afford not to collect all three points this evening should make for an enthralling spectacle for the neutrals and a tension-soaked afternoon for both sets of fans. In other games today, Arsenal will be hoping to bounce back from their shock 3-1 midweek away loss to Wolves when they travel to King Power to face ninth-placed Leicester City, who got a credible 2-2 draw against West Ham last weekend. Unai Emery cut a very frustrated figure after the Wolves match knowing the setback has jeopardised their top four chances as the defeat cost them the chance to leapfrog fourth-placed Chelsea. The Gunners remain fifth on the log, one point behind the Blues. Another defeat today may be fatalistic to their Champions League dreams which mean that Emery’s side just has to go for the broke against the Foxes. In the final tie, Burnley will be hoping to follow up on their impressive performance at Chelsea when they host Manchester City at home.