CAJETAN MMUTA in this report examines some of the issues in the crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress in Edo State as camps loyal to the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshimhole and those of his political godson, Governor Godwin Obaseki flex muscles to swirl the terrain ahead of the 2020 governorship election in the state  True to the philosophical saying that power is transient, it has become an irony that the immediate past governor of Edo State, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is gradually losing control in a state where he once served as the executive governor.  In the unfolding silent power game between Oshiomhole, the present National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) who invariably is the political godfather of Edo politics and by extension South-South geo political zone of the country and his political godson Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki has been very disturbing to many.  Although, all appears to be peaceful within the state, the ominous signs of the portending dangerous and grueling battle lie ahead of both two. Sources said the ever ready camps are oiling their machineries and war arsenals preparatory for the mother of all battles which will herald or characterize the eventful year 2020 governorship election.  Interestingly, both political godfather and his godson had held tightly together in determining who got what in the scheme of things for the greater part of eight years of the eventful administration of the Comrade Oshiomhole’s government as governor. But today, at the center of the raging but silent war is the second term ticket for Governor Obaseki to enable him occupy the seat at the Government House in Benin.  While the intense schemes go on unabatedly, both Oshiomhole and his successor have kept mum over the cold war but their supporters are not leaving anything to chance at making sure that the center does not hold. The offence is said to have been sparked by the alleged many infractions of Obaseki which rightly or wrongly have left those who assisted his predecessor to labor hard to ensure his emergence as governor.  This is in spite of obvious and stern resistance against Oshiomhole’s bent to choose Obaseki as his successor even against the advice of key party leaders. But Oshiomhole with his strong power of conviction had his way, having worked with Obaseki the technocrat in handling sensitive areas to make the state work. Obaseki while working with Oshiomhole in Osadebay Avenue was the chairman Edo State Economic Team and serving as the engine room and hardware of trust for the Iyamho-born maverick politician and master of many wars.  The tidal wave and dark cloud of likely political uncertainty is swirling roughly and the wind is not blowing anybody good except a few but generally hot from what observers and those close to the corridors of power are sensing from the radar. Already, analysts are of the opinion that there is no cause for alarm, hence Oshiomhole from the Northern senatorial district with six local government areas had had his way as governor and therefore should allow Obaseki, a true Bini blood, from the dominant and populous Southern senatorial district with seven councils, to have his full eight-year shot at the top seat.  The Central senatorial zone, with five local government areas, is not relenting in their quest too to have a cut from the cake in the entire game plans. This has manifested undeniable underground political alignment and realignment. While sellouts, bootlickers and compromisers wait in the wings ahead of the epic battle, the Obaseki henchmen in government are working round the clock to ensure that the odds favour both their master and themselves.  On the other side, top political leaders averse with the unfolding power game in the state but based in Abuja are not resting to ensure that they give Obaseki the needed heat and to also stop him in the process from clinching the party’s ticket during the primaries. Pointedly, Obaseki had moved quickly on assumption of office to galvanise his followers that paved way for him to build a strong political structure across the three senatorial zones of the state. This is aimed at checkmating Oshiomhole, his men and perceived opponents from both other political parties and within the APC. He is said to be battle ready for any possibility towards making his ambition come true.  Already huge funds are, no doubt, being mopped up for proper execution of the 2020 tussle while trusted men of political war are also being lined up for the singular project. It is no wonder why deadly measures are being schemed and churned out to frighten and put others with intentions for the plum job, at check, especially those who may be shored up by Oshiomhole as his preferred candidates.  Airhiavbere, Shaibu’s angles Among those said to be waiting in wings to do Oshiomhole’s bidding for the number one job are former deputy governor, Hon. Pius Odubu, General Charles Airhiavbere, ex-Minister of State for Works, Dr. Chris Ogiemwonyi while a serving APC lawmaker representing Etsako Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Hon Johnson Oghuma and Hon Gani Audu, are rumoured to serve as Obaseki’s deputy governor come 2020 as against the position of the incumbent Deputy Governor Rt. Hon. Phillip Shaibu. Oshiomhole is said to have fallen apart with his close brother Shaibu, who hails from the same Auchi, headquarters of Etsako West Council Area with him, over some knotty but unnamed political issues. The APC National Chairman is also said to have positioned Shaibu as Deputy Governor in Obaseki’s government to be his eye having found his brother a worthy confidant and loyalist. But the cookie seems to have  crumbled as the former President of the National Association of Nigerian Students and Majority Leader has tasted the juicy part of power and can no longer let go. He is believed to have consolidated his hold to Obaseki and is working hard to consolidate on the Obaseki/Shaibu 2020 return ticket and structure to realise the dream project.  This is targeted at dismantling Oshiomhiole’s structures and his men, a move the diminutive fiery APC national helmsman and former resident of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) will not live to witness nor be confronted with, not even by his boy whom he raised from nothing to something.  In addition, miffed by alleged attempt by Obaseki’s government to discredit all his legacies and political support base as well as incite politicians against him. This is targeted at switching loyalty towards the side of the governor. However, Oshiomhole is said to be poised to wage a relentless war against those out to whittle down his credibility.  Observers note that the unfolding political disaffection between Obaseki and his godfather is trickling down from the ruling party to the royal institutions across the state. Worse still, ethnic dimension is advanced to making sure that the incumbent retains his hold to power.
According to source close to the Obaseki camp, “a non-Bini man will not dictate who leads the state, especially now that it is the turn of the South senatorial district of the state. Besides, Oshiomhole had his way when it was his time and therefore, he cannot be seen to absolutely determine what goes on in the Obaseki’s government. The earlier we understand that the better.”  Sunday Telegraph learnt that Oshiomhole’s real grouse stems from Governor Obaseki’s uncompromising resolve to push away all his men some of who were caged for months while others who were schemed out of the system of the present government and left in the streets after they had worked to install the administration. Also, contractors charged with revenue collection were booted out of the way while usual political patronages for leaders and elders of the party are now history as against what is popularly referred to as ‘stomach infrastructure’.  Most of the party leaders now attain to party issues with divided loyalty as they have been stripped with powers at various levels while the young ones lord it over them. Again, there are alleged discreet moves by the government to puncture some of the binding understandings and foundational achievements laid by the Oshiomhole’s government.  Saddening among the numerous misgivings of the Obaseki’s hard political knocks is the plot to privatise the multi billion naira Accident and Emergency Annex of the Central Hospital Benin, which many believed was never equipped as promised by Oshiomhole due to the posturing of the Obaseki-led government under the guise of bringing investors to run the hospital, in order to rubbish his feat.  President Muhammadu Buhari had during his two-day official visit to the state on November 7, 2016 commissioned the new wing at the hospital. The hospital built in 1902 witnessed unprecedented rot until Oshiomhole to power. As at today, over N8 billion worth of new medical equipment meant for the hospital risks rotting away except they are put into use.  Findings showed that new equipment installed in the hospital include mammography for diagnosing breast cancer, scanners, eye testing machine and other basic laboratory and theatre equipment but the doors are yet to be flung open almost three and half years after it was built. In addition, the state is said to have witnessed gross capital flight as government contracts are now in the hands of non-indigenes from Lagos and other parts of the country, a move the APC leader in the state feel has made them strangers in their own lands and slaves of the party rather than major stakeholders. The consequence of this was a deep row within the party hierarchy and the emergence establishment men who are loyal to the Governor Obaseki and Oshiomhole. Activities of the two camps almost led to giving the party away to the opposition during the October 20, 2018 APC primaries in the state. Today, the party and its leadership are licking their wounds over the contentious stir caused by that singular action.  Following the negative impact created by loyalists of the governor to carve a structure for him, aggrieved leaders of the party are ever determined to take a pound of flesh except the right thing is done to assuage their pains. Part of their action was evident during the brouhaha that trailed the recently conducted Presidential/National Assembly elections in which the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) almost took the shine off the APC particularly in the South senatorial district of the state.  Accordingly, the party leadership in some of the local government areas resorted to self-help to save their faces from the shame that befell them at the polls. For instance, in ward one of Oredo Local Government Area, a former governorship aspirant, Major General Charles Airhiavhere (rtd), was axed by the party with suspension after a committee found him guilty of alleged anti-party activities. Chairman of the ward, Mr. Felix Ehiguegbe, and Edward Oviawe, the ward secretary, in a statement jointly signed by others in Benin, suspended Airhiavbere and it was endorsed by APC state leadership of the party over alleged support of the opposition party’s candidates against the ruling party at the polls.  The investigative panel set up by the party noted that Gen. Airhiavbere, on the election day, deliberately withheld tags and other party tools meant for agents and APC members, thus, obstructing their movement on the field.  The statement said: “Retired Gen. Arhiavbere canvassed for votes for PDP and thereby worked against our candidates, President Muhammadu Buhari and National Assembly candidates.” Airhiavhere had under the PDP contested against Comrade Oshiomhole in 2012 and Obaseki in 2016. The retired General is believed to be stumbling block to Obaseki as he wants to contest again for the APC governorship ticket in 2020. He had since dismissed his alleged suspension and described as illegal and one not unconnected with his desire to contest against Obaseki next year. As it stands, Obaseki is all out to crush anyone who stands on his way now that he has gotten the power he yearned for and it determined to use it to the fullest. It was partly for this reason that he recently handed over the reins of power to his Deputy Shaibu as Acting Governor while he went on a one month vacation. Political pundits say this is deliberate to bring closely and on board Shaibu to further solidify his relationship with him and to strengthen his loyalty ahead of next year. Endorsements As a follow up, there has been a gale of endorsements in support of the second project of Obaseki. This is in appreciation of the laudable achievements recorded in diverse areas since his first term in office. This in the areas of current reconstruction of 460 primary schools across the state, over 300 link roads to open the rural communities and urban areas; training, retraining and equipping of 12, 000 with computers to teach pupils for global competiveness, payment of pensions and debts owed by past PDP-led governments which is currently at batch 47; payment of salaries of civil servants and creation of 200, 000 jobs. These are in addition to the establishment of Information Communication Technology centers, building of industrial parts and Gelele Seaport as well as several others.  Leading the pack are the leadership and members of the APC in Oredo Local Government Area recently met at an enlarged made up of the 12 wards in the area, unanimously endorsed the governor as the sole candidate for the second term bid come 2020. According to the people, the governor has made Edo proud because among states in the federation, it stands out in all areas of development above states that are far more privileged in terms of federal allocation and Internally Generated Revenue (IGR).  They said: “We leaders of Oredo resolved to congratulate our National Chairman and Leader, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole on his effective leadership and victory at the presidential election and to pass a vote of implicit confidence on his leadership.  “Considering the pace of development in different sectors of Edo State from infrastructure to education, industrialisation, civil service and judicial reforms, enterprise development, prompt payment to pensioners and civil servants, among other, we are convinced beyond doubt that the only way to sustain the current rapid growth trajectory is to ensure that Governor Obaseki continues as governor of the state after the expiration of his first four-year tenure.”  The APC leaders therefore called on Obaseki to run for second term and hereby adopted him as the sole candidate for the 2020 governorship election in the state. Also, Senator Domingo Obende who represented Edo North between 2011 and 2015 urged the party in the state to ensure Obaseki gets a second term to enable him complete the work he has started.  As the governorship election year in Edo State draws closer, all eyes are watching to see how the drama will meet the expectations and aspirations of political actors and their supporters in their poise to assert their will and whims even as Nigerians turns and the world turn focus on the Heart Beat state in the Niger Delta region.