Death toll in the alleged sex romp involving undergraduates believed to be studying at the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO), Imo State, has risen to three. Initially, two of the students were found dead at an off-campus hostel, Sunshine Castle Lodge, Umuchima at Ihiagwa community in Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State on Tuesday, during an alleged group sex romp with one female, also a student. But yesterday, the authorities of FUTO said they could not confirm that the victims of the tragic sex romp were students of the university until investigations were concluded. The female student, who was earlier said to be on life support, was rumoured to have died at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Owerri. The four students were reported to have taken Tramadol, Codeine, Vodka and India hemp in the course of the sexual adventure. Two reportedly died instantly while the third male died in the hospital with the lady taken to FMC, Owerri and placed on life support. According to reports, all four of them were found unclad, one was with a bathing soap in his hand, the other lying on top of the lady. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Orlando Ikeokwu, told journalists that the police recovered two male corpses, Tramadol tablets and Indian hemp from the scene of what appeared to be a group sex at a students’ lodge. He said preliminary investigations showed that the deceased collapsed and died allegedly while having group sex with a female student. Ikeokwu, who gave the names of the dead students as Ugochukwu and Uche (surnames withheld), said the incident occurred at Sunshine Lodge located at Ihiagwa, near FUTO and that the students were suspected to have used sex-enhancing drugs for the exercise. According to him, the police operatives, who evacuated the bodies and took two others to hospital, also recovered substances suspected to be Indian hemp and Tramadol from the scene of the incident. He said: “On April 2, information was received from the caretaker of Sunshine Lodge in Ihiagwa, Owerri, that students at Federal University of Technology, Owerri — Ugochukwu, Richard, and Uche — were engaged in a ‘fatal sex romp’ with Onyinyechi (surname withheld), also a student at the same university. “Police detectives from Nekede Division promptly mobilised to the scene and found the four individuals completely naked and unconscious. “The victims were immediately conveyed to the police clinic and two of them, namely Ugochukwu and Uche, were certified dead by the medical doctor on duty. “The corpses have been deposited at the Federal Medical Centre, Owerri, for an autopsy, while Richard and Onyinyechi, whose condition is yet to be stabilised, have been referred to the emergency and casualty ward of the FMC, Owerri, for further medical attention. “The families of the deceased have been contacted, while the condition of the surviving persons is still being closely monitored.” However, FUTO Public Relations Officer (PRO), Mrs. Uche Nwelue, said the university was aware of the incident but that it was still investigating to confirm if the victims were students of the institution. According to Nwelue, the university, at the moment, cannot state categorically that the deceased were its students. She said: “Our internal investigation is ongoing. For instance, now we have got their names and we are looking to get their registration numbers and if that match with their names, we can certify their status and will then make official statement. “Remember that in the lodge where the students lived, there are students of other institutions. That is why we need to find out if they are actually FUTO students before making any official statement to the press.”