Acting Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the immediate arrest and prosecution of suspects involved in the “gruesome attack” on four policemen. The officers, attached to the IG Intelligence Response Team (IRT), were on the trail of suspected armed robbers, said to be in possession of a stolen car at Ogoja in Cross River State, when they came under attack. The policemen sustained varying degrees of injury in the attack.
The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, disclosed this in a statement yesterday.
Mba said immediately the detectives arrested the suspected buyer of the stolen car, identified as Ikenga, he raised the alarm which attracted his “gang members”. He said: “The Inspector General of Police, M. A. Adamu, has ordered the immediate arrest and prosecution of all persons involved in the unprovoked and gruesome attack on police officers who were on a legitimate mission to arrest some suspected armed robbers and receivers of a stolen vehicle in a community in Cross River State.
“The attack, which occurred on the 17th April, 2019, at Ogoja community, was masterminded and executed by one Ikenga, a notorious receiver of stolen property, and his gang members.” The FPRO disclosed that four officers attached to IGP Intelligence Response Team (IRT) unit were seriously and grievously wounded, with deep machete cuts on their heads and other parts of their bodies. He added: “The detectives are investigating a case of a stolen Toyota Sienna bus earlier reported by the Master Chapel Church, a Pentecostal church based in Lagos. The detectives had, after a painstaking investigation, arrested four male suspects – Peter, Ben, Ebuka and Johnson. “The suspects, who were positively implicated in the crime by police investigation, confessed to indeed stealing the vehicle. They stated further that they had sold the vehicle to another criminal in Benue State. Hence, detectives moved to Benue State with one of the suspects. On arrest of the suspect in Benue State, he stated that he had sold the vehicle to another notorious receiver of stolen goods based in Ogoja for N250,000. With this discovery, the detectives proceeded straight to Cross River State, where the notorious receiver, Ikenga, was apprehended and the stolen vehicle recovered.” But in a bizarre twist, shortly after his arrest, the suspect raised the alarm in his native language which attracted his gang members.
“Subsequently, the policemen came under serious physical attack from weapon-wielding hoodlums. The officers were savagely butchered by these armed gang members. Consequently, Ikenga, the notorious crook, escaped with the stolen vehicle,” Mba said.
Meanwhile, the IG, according to the FPRO, has declared zero tolerance for attacks on officers by criminal elements. He said: “The IG, while condemning the attack in very strong terms, warned that the police under his watch will not tolerate criminal attacks and assault on its personnel or facilities. He enjoined traditional rulers and community leaders not to allow such attacks to take place in their domain as they may be called to account. “The IG has therefore ordered for the immediate manhunt and arrest of Mr Ikenga and other members of his gang. He also urged members of the public to avail the police with credible and useful information that will lead to the apprehension of all persons involved in these unwholesome and illegal acts.”