Beautiful Oreoluwa Olugboji is a bridal hair stylist and a budding entrepreneur. She decided to make a career of styling bride’s hair right after her National Youth Service and has made a growing business out of it. Oreoluwa, who’s now training undergraduates on bridal hair styling, speaks with VANESSA OKWARA on how lucrative bridal hair styling is and the kind of man she wants  Tell us briefly about yourself. My name is Oreoluwa Olugboji; I was born on May 26, 1994 I am the Creative Director of Ayinke Oge. I am from Ekiti State. I’ll like to consider myself as a smart and witty person. I’m a fun loving person too.   What was growing up like and education background? I’m the second out of four kids. Growing up was fun filled! Regardless of the fact that I was the most rebellious one, I was still raised with love. I lost my dad at 12. I’ve lived in Lagos almost all my Life, and my primary and secondary education was in Lagos, Ikorodu. I studied Psychology from Ekiti State University.  When did you develop love for hairstyling? Hairstyling for me was an inbuilt talent. Just the same way some people know how to sing or dance naturally is the same way I’ve always known how to make hair. So I’ve always loved hairstyling. I used to make hair for my friends back in the university knowing this will be my full time business.  Why are you interested in bridal hair styling in particular? I decided to settle for bridal hairstyling because I love weddings; I love the idea of dressing up the bride, putting a smile on another woman’s face on one of her most important days. I remember one time I attended one of my friend’s wedding, and she made no plans concerning styling her hair, she was confused and stranded, I decided to step in and this was even before I had any prior knowledge in bridal hairstyling, I made the hair with so much confidence and right there I knew this was it!  Where did you learn it? I learnt bridal hairstyling right after my NYSC. I learnt it somewhere in Ikeja Lagos. I barely attended the classes because I was still very unsure of what I wanted to do, but now I can boldly say it was one of my best decisions ever.   Who are your clients? I have clients all over Lagos; I’ve even gone out of Lagos a couple of times for my brides. I also cater for every woman that wants to look good to any event (not just brides). This method of hairstyling requires a certain level of expertise. Whether it’s a big wedding or just a birthday shoot, and you want your hair styled, I’m available.  Is bridal hair styling a lucrative business? Oh yes, extremely lucrative; it gives me enough time to work on other things, considering the fact that most weekends are when weddings happen. I work and get paid almost every weekend! In a good month, I make well more than a BSC holder working in a bank.  Is it a competitive business? Oh well, I’m not the only one doing this business but I see no competition. There’s enough bride to go round to everyone. A lot of weddings happen in Lagos every weekend. I just try my best to make my services affordable and reliable.  Do you have employees? Yes, I have an assistant and a couple of students I’m training.  How important is the hair style to a bride on her wedding day? What’s a queen without a crown? Hairstyling is as important as any other wedding preparation. It completes the bride’s look. My brides get more excited about their looks once I finish styling their hair.  Do you encounter stubborn brides and how do you handle them? Oh yes, I’ve met a couple of stubborn brides; we call them ‘bridezilla’! But God’s grace and wisdom is what I call upon. I just calmly ask them whatever they want, get them a chair in front of the mirror, and we sort out whatever issue it is together and everyone ends up smiling.  Describe your fashion style? My fashion style is spontaneous. I might be in a casual t-shirt and jeans today and tomorrow I’m looking like Cinderella all dressed up and looking pretty but generally, I like to go simple on whatever I wear, nothing outrageous.  What are the qualities you look out for in a man? I like tall, dark and handsome men. A God fearing man is very essential. I like a man that’s ambitious, patient and caring! Intelligence is a big turn on. He should also be nice enough to laugh at my dry jokes.  What’s your take on sex before marriage? God should just forgive all of us. I’m not one to judge people on whatever they decide to do with their body.  When did you first fall in love? Thinking about it now, I’m not sure if it was love or lust. This was back in secondary school; innocent and holy love.  What is the craziest thing you have ever done for love? I’m not sure I’ve ever done anything crazy for love, regardless of how I feel; I still carry my brain along with me.  What’s your favourite food and music? I love Amala, Gbegiri and Ewedu. I listen to all genre of music but Nigerian hip hop makes me happy.  What’s your vision for the next five years? By God’s grace in the next five years, I see myself owning my own beauty salon with everything included; hair, nails and Spa! Everything beauty related and oh, somebody’s wife and mother too somewhere in that five years.