The recently concluded governorship and state assembly elections in Akwa Ibom state has been adjudged “peaceful, free, fair and credible.” This was contained in a report submitted to the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of the Department of Operations by then commissioner of police, Akwa Ibom police command, Ibrahim S. Kaoje. Kaoje stated emphatically in the concluding part of the 12 page report, without any equivocation that the “governorship and state House of Assembly election held on 9th March, 2019 in Akwa Ibom state was relatively peaceful, free, fair and credible.” “The security agencies led by the Nigerian police provided conducive security environment for the peaceful conduct of this election,” he added. Before the elections, CP Kaoje was accused by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, of being the arrow- head of the federal might of the AAll Progressives Congress (APC) had promised to unleash in the state. He was alleged to have been sent specifically to ensure the APC ‘capture’ Akwa Ibom by all means. He was also accused of holding several open and nocturnal meetings with key opposition stakeholders on how to thwart the peoples’ will and ensure victory for the APC. The report, however, shows CP Kaoje simply carried out his job like a professional police officer  without any hassles. The election was adjudged by international foreign observers as well as the media as the freest, fairest and most credible election of the entire 2019 elections. The Akwa Ibom Liberation Movement has described Senator Godswill Akpabio as a man allergic to free, fair and credible elections. This was the position of the group in a press statement sent to journalists by its leader, Prince Emmanuel Sam on Monday, February 25. Prince Sam said, despite Akpabio’s unceasing… In “News Around Nigeria” The Akwa Ibom State Police Command has been warned against supporting the All Progressives Congress, APC, to subvert the will of the masses, by rigging the APC Governorship candidate, Mr. Nsima Ekere into power. The warning came on the heels of allegation in some quarters that the state police command… In “News Around Nigeria” Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel and the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Obong Nsima Ekere, have agreed that no drop of blood would be spilled in the March 2 governorship election in the state. The two top contenders for the governorship seat spoke as invitees… In “News”