JOHN CHIKEZIE chats up Tomiwa Ogunwale, an alumnus of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State on his post-call experience, pupillage, practice, remuneration and varied issues   Background
My name is Tomiwa Ogunwale and I hail from Iree Town, Boripe Local government Area, Osun State. I attended Krisbethel College in Lagos and thereafter obtained my Law degree from the prestigious Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State. I was called to the Nigerian Bar in 2013. I also hold an LLM degree from Obafemi Awolowo University and a Certification in Copyright from Harvard Law School. Choice of career
I have always been an expressive person from a very young age and always admired the personality of lawyers and the constructive roles they play in the society. More particularly, I was inspired to study law because of the inherent nature in me towards defending and enforcing people’s rights; stories of people like Mahatma Ghandi and Nelson Mandela were also propelling forces towards the choice of my career. Social life
The legal profession has taken a serious swipe on my social life as the demands of the profession steals one way or the other into my leisure time. Since people always have one legal issue or the other and I have a fiduciary relationship with my clients, I usually have to oblige them when necessary, especially, when they make odd calls or make herculean demands.
However, I have redesigned my social life in a way that it fits into my career and I create time for it. I enjoy intellectual discussions, Christian meetings and listening or watching business related information – these activities now define what I will call my social life. The journey so far
To say the journey has been very easy would be an irony. I started my legal sojourn in the firm of Thompson Okpoko (SAN) & Partners before joining Legal Point Professional Publishers Ltd. as a Law Reporter where I rose to become the Head of the Law Reporting Team. I later worked with Women Empowerment and Legal Aid (WELA) as Project Manager and also handled some court files for Falana and Falana Chambers. Currently, I am the Managing Partner of Ogunwale and Associates (Grace Law Chambers), a fast growing law firm situated in the heart of Ikeja, Lagos.
As it relates to my experience with the Nigerian Legal System, I will say that the knowledge I had in law school was different from the realities encountered in practice. For example, despite the provision of the law that bail is free, some unscrupulous police officers still tend to disregard this sacrosanct position of the law.
The judiciary also needs to be strengthened, especially in the area of manpower. Take for instance in Lagos where I practice, the number of cases an average Magistrate or Judge is saddled with clearly outnumbers his human capacity. More infrastructure and machineries need to be put in place to ensure that the dispensation of justice is speedy and seamless. Challenges, poor remuneration and young lawyers
Just like any other business, the greatest seeming challenge to any young lawyer starting a law firm is likely to be capital. So, I usually suggest to young lawyers with intention to start their firm to undergo some tutelage in their early years; this will enable them to garner some savings and start from where they are – Rome was not built in a day, but bricks are being laid every day. Let me say emphatically that starting a law firm is not automatically going to solve the problem associated with poor remuneration of young lawyers.
Starting a law firm may be more challenging than working with an already established law office which will give you specific sums at the end of the month. To solve the challenge of capital, a young lawyer starting a law firm must be able to leverage on relationships to produce what he may not be able to produce by himself for the start-up of law firm. Another alternative is to enter into partnership with other young lawyers.
Secondly is the lack of business skills by most young lawyers. I have always said it that there is the legal profession and there is the business of law. The legal profession consists of the requisite knowledge required to excel either as a Solicitor or a Barrister while the business of law is having the requisite business skills needed to run a lucrative law firm. Issues such as location, targeted clientele, areas of practice, positioning, among others, are some of the challenges that stir a young lawyer desirous of starting a law firm.
Essentially, it is important for a young lawyer to acquire business skills before starting his/her law firm. Recurring canning of students or pupils
In law, it is a trite principle that the sins, errors or mistakes of a counsel should not be visited on the litigants. In the same vein, why should the failure or inability of a parent/guardian to pay for tuition fees be visited on the pupil/child/ward in the most carnal and unconscionable manner? It is adverse to logic and very anti-thetical. Legally, caning a child in extreme circumstances can constitute assault and an abuse on the right of the child; and in some circumstances constitute domestic violence. What do you envision for yourself?
A Senior Advocate and Professor of Law and this is because I am caught between education and advocacy. A Senior Advocate because it is natural for every litigation lawyer to aspire to get to the peak of his career; not also forgetting the perks that come with this rank. I would also love to become a Professor because teaching and impartation of knowledge is one area that resonates within me. This was why I pursued a Master’s Degree in law. I don’t burn out while teaching. I currently sit as a Partner in a Nursery and Primary School and I prepare law students and prospective and aspiring Masters’ students for their examinations.