…disagree on FG’s involvement •Say investors should be subsidised  •‘Govt must give equal, adequate attention to all sectors in the value chain’  Against the backdrop of the rebuttal of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola’s claim that some states in Nigeria are already enjoying 24-hour power supply and the recent revelation by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo that Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) could not take up 2000 megawatts of power for distribution, because challenges in tariff system, operators have reiterated their call for efficient cost recovery system. PAUL OGBUOKIRI reports Need for efficient market tariff system Though to the ordinary Nigerian consumer, the solution to epileptic power supply in the country lies in tackling the inefficiency of the Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos), operators in the sector, however, say government’s inability to implement market tariff to ensure full cost recovery and return on investment is critical to the survival of the sector. According to them, this has been a major limitation to the entry of foreign investors into the critical sector of the economy. They said without efficient cost recovery, it will be practically impossible for operators to access finance to improve operations and ensure smooth distribution of power to the ultimate consumers and boost business activities in the economy. Speaking, Prof. Wumi Iledare, Director, Emerald Energy Institute, University of Lagos, said: “As the consumers are not willing to pay the appropriate tariff for the electricity they consume, the power distribution companies are not able to pay the transmission company which discharges the responsibility of evacuating the electricity generated by the upstream players or the generators. And if the generators are not paid, they can’t pay the gas suppliers. This means that along the value chain, we must ensure that there is a balance. One sector cannot be making all the sacrifice all the time for the others to reap. The government must give equal or adequate attention to all the sectors in the value chain. “If the government is just paying attention to the power distribution companies without considering those who generate power and there is nobody to evacuate, then there will be a problem. That, to me, is the issue affecting the power sector. “We must also have enough investment in the transmission sector so as to be able to evacuate the power that is generated by the generation companies. These are the issues government must pay attention to. I will continue to say that the government must look for the best players in the energy business,” he said. Also Speaking, Emmanuel Abidoye, Chief Executive Officer, Femtech Infotech, said the entire power system in Nigeria, from the generation to transmission and distribution, needs urgent attention. He said: “Our energy requirement is very far from what the current system can deliver and it will practically take some time for us to meet up. Government must ensure that the distribution companies meter all consumers as fast as possible. Government can consider reducing or waiving tariffs on inverters and solar products. With more homes and businesses off the grid, there will be less pressure on it. I have seen many homes that are run efficiently on renewable energy system. “A special loan scheme can also be provided for people to secure loans to finance their own solar project due to the initial cost. This will reduce the pressure on the current power system. Government also needs to see to the disruption of gas supply to power station. Many require stable gas supply to generate power. We may also explore the nuclear power option to reduce dependence on water and gas. 100% private sector or PPP Meanwhile, it has been suggested that for efficiency to be achieved in the sector, government has to hands-off the sector and allow the private sector run the business one hundred per cent. Speaking, Adekunle Sofunde, Chairman, Solatek Engineering Ltd, says government needs to hands-off operations of the sector to private investors for more business competitive drive. Shofunde said such decision would allow Nigeria’s power sector to compete favourably with other countries. He said government should only regulate and not be involved in running power operations, adding that the sector could perform better if solely managed by private sector.  According to him, it is disappointing that an economy of over 190 million generates less than 10,000mw and distributes even less. The Director-General, Textile Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Mr. Kwajaffa Hamma, said business competitiveness could only be driven when the power sector is being 100 per cent managed by private investors. He urged government to ensure that the power sector tariffs become competitive like in other countries such as Egypt Ethiopia and South Africa. “That is the only way to move the sector forward; we cannot export our products (energy) outside the countries because it’s not competitive. Mr. Muda Yusuf, Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), said: “Power sector is critical to the development of the country. “Most often, there is conflict between development objectives and commercial objectives. “I believe the government still needs to provide some resource support and generous fiscal incentives for investors in the sector. “What should be avoided is public sector management of such enterprise. We do not have a record of good corporate governance in most public enterprises. “A strictly private sector driven power sector, however, poses the risk of exclusion of some segments of the population. “Many locations and communities may not be served because of the commercial viability of such provision. “There should, therefore, be a model that would cater for the economically vulnerable segments of the society. “This is the scenario currently playing out in private sector provision of education and health services. “Private schools and private hospitals are not affordable by majority of the citizens,’’ NAN quoted Yusuf as saying.  Government can take-over or regulate Mr. Biodun Ogunleye, Managing Director, PowerCap Ltd, who also totally opposed total hand over of the sector to the private sector, said such could result in abuse of power. He said that government has a vital role to play in the power sector, adding that there is no country in the world that hands-off power sector totally to private investors without regulating and controlling the sector. He said: “I am not aware of countries that essential services like power are not regulated. I’m also not aware that there is no regulator like NERC within the structure. “Between NERC and CBN, there will also be a bulk buyer so that there would be a bulk market, but government should not involve in retail but plan on how much capacity as a nation should aspire to have. “Government should point the direction the private sector would go, because if you allow the private sector, they will only do certain things that would only favour them. Also speaking, Managing Director of SMPIS, Saheed Akinloye, said for the country to develop industrially, socially, economically and otherwise, power is actually a strategic aspect of the economy. It should, therefore, not be left in the hands of the private sector.
He said the energy sector requires a lot of funds to establish and maintain. He added that it does not yield profit in a short run. “Most private sector investors will be very reluctant to go into that venture. Government should take over the power sector, invest massively in it and undertake energy mix. “This will entail less dependence on fired power plants. We should also develop hydro-energy which is part of our renewable energy. The Mambilla Power Plant should be completed,” he said. Akinloye further said that the country should also begin to look at investments in renewable energy, especially solar power. He added that although there are environmental concerns with the use of coal, which the country still has in abundance, “I don’t think we have attained the economic and industrial development level, where this is an issue. We should be able to develop the requisite manpower to drive the power sector. “The problem in the sector ranges from inadequate supply of transformers, shortage of manpower to manage the weak assets and financial incapacitation due to lack of access to fresh capital from commercial banks and their inability to recover cost of power supply to consumers,” he said.  Reversing power sector privatisation Though there have been calls on government to review the power sector privatisation and take them over from the private sector operators, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has advised against such action. The acting Chairman, Dr. Anthony Akah, said the Federal Government may not have money to buy back the utilities and may be acting in contravention of the agreement entered with the new owners. Any attempt to reverse sales of the utilities, he added, will send a wrong signal to potential investors. Rather, Dr. Akah advised the Senate Committee on Privatisation to consider lifting the ban it placed on the bond being proposed for the industry, to make cheap funds available for investors and that the Federal Government should consider subsidy option for power sector, considering that some other sectors of the economy are still being subsidised.  Last line Nigeria currently has the installed capacity to generate more than 10,000 MW of electricity, according to data from the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission. Mr. Fashola recently said on Channel TV’s Sun Rise programme that there was an increase in the transmission capacity to about 8,100 MW as of December 2018 and that the country now achieved over 7,000 MW transmission capacity Meanwhile, while the minimum capacity requirement for Nigeria is put at 50,000 MW, the country’s distribution capacity is less than 5,000 MW. The Minister said 7000MW. Also, not less than eight in 10 Nigerians are reported to rely on the alternative source of power supply as erratic power supply persists.