Armed men believed to be kidnappers abducted four senior officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and shot another on Tuesday evening in River State.
The incident, according to PRNigeria, occurred in Abua-Odua Local Government Area while the officials were on official duty. The NEMA officials were in the state to conduct an enumeration exercise to determine the number of farmers who were either affected by flood or conflicts to benefit from the National Emergency Agricultural Intervention Fund.
The fund, which is under the National Food Security Programme of the Federal Government, is to cover 18 states of the federation. Those abducted were a woman and three men who had successfully completed the enumeration exercise they were carrying out in some parts of Rivers State.
Security sources told PRNigeria that the officers were returning from the assignment when they were attacked. “I can authoritatively tell you that four emergency workers with NEMA are presently in captivity. They were kidnapped at Abua Odua near Ahoada in Rivers State yesterday (Tuesday) in the evening after undertaken an official assignment. “However, one of the NEMA staff, who was shot in the leg, escaped being kidnapped as he pretended to be dead. He has been admitted at an undisclosed health centre for medical attention. “The abducted officers travelled in a NEMA Hilux van, which was not in good condition and even broke down several times on their way. It was a personal car of one of the NEMA staff that came to their rescue to continue the journey before the incident. “They were neither paid the travelling allowances nor provided with adequate security or accommodation before they were mandated by NEMA management in Abuja to travel on that emergency assignment. But thank God, they have friends and relations in the states they were deployed to. So, they temporarily stayed and lodged themselves with their relations and friends,” the source said. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Omoni Nnamdi, said he was yet to be officially briefed on the incident.
However, the Director-General of NEMA, Mustapha Maihaja, could not be reached on the phone to speak on the incident, as he was said to be out of the country.