After months of protracted confrontation between organised labour and the Federal Government, President Muhammadu Buhari finally did the needful last Thursday by signing the National Minimum Wage Amendment Bill 2019 into law, a gesture that is reflective of the fact that the least Nigerian worker would earn a minimum monthly income of N30,000. To clear all doubts, the law only excludes persons who are employing less than 25 workers, persons who work in a ship, which sails out of jurisdiction, and other persons, who are in other kinds of regulated employment which are accepted by the Act. This, indeed, is commendable as the delivery also came with a directive that the payment should commence immediately, a rare expectation, even contrary to that of organised labour that had expected commencement of payment in May. To further consolidate the position of government is the right of workers so affected to sue their employer(s) in the event of not getting what the law stipulates. What, however, might come out baffling in the next few months is the fact that although it is now a law, there are grey areas to be contended with as everyone appears to be in doubt as to the willingness of some governors to pay, especially since they still owe months of arrears even with the N18,000 minimum wage. Even while that is being anticipated, the opinion in the public domain, which must not be faulted, is that with the document sealed and delivered at last, President Buhari has demonstrated his administration’s willingness to end incessant friction with labour as far as minimum wage issue is concerned. More alluring in the current development is the President’s genial disposition of surprising those who had thought that his transmission of the report to the National Assembly shortly before the presidential election in February was merely a ploy to curry political favour from Nigerian workers. Before now, the Federal Government did not in any way prove to be trusted as labour always feared that it (Federal Government) would renege not only in paying the recommended wage, but also failing as it really did in implementing it in the third quarter of last year as earlier promised. Since the bill was signed last week, prominent labour centres, especially the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC), have proven not to be ungrateful as they separately commended the President for the understanding and gesture. Pragmatically, N18,000 had actually become out of tune with current realities. Even when it was introduced more than five years ago, Nigerians had condemned it based on the fact that economic indices then far outweighed the figure. Even with recent statistical drop in inflation from as high as 18 per cent to a little over 11 per cent, it still takes a miracle for the ordinary Nigerian to meet his needs, which expectedly enlarge on a daily basis. Although labour has commended the President for the step taken so far, it should be made clear that inflation had to a large extent eroded the value of the new minimum wage as Nigerians would still have to contend with difficulties in spreading the income round relatives. Irrespective of the fact that Nigeria is yet to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with some of its African counterparts paying living wages to their workers, the step taken so far is a good one that can be improved upon as the years unfold. In trying to make sense out of the new wage, certain things must, however, not be overlooked as they remain very germane, not just to its full implementation, but also in ensuring other unfriendly policies that would make the income worthless are not introduced. Again, for some state governors whose position still remains unclear as they have not collectively agreed to being able to pay the N30,000, there should not be any sympathy for them considering how much they waste on government programmes bordering on inanities. Their excuse is not only selfish but also smacks of laziness as all states have resources to meet the new wage if only they are creative enough to boost their internally generated revenue as well as cut down on unnecessary overheads and other financial recklessness. It is even more appalling that they still owe after receiving huge bailouts as well as Paris Club refunds from the Federal Government. For the records, President Buhari had lamented that besides the statutory allocations from the Federation Account, his government, as part of measures to stabilise the polity, released N1.64 trillion to states and local governments between 2015 and 2017. As it is, currently, the Federal Government has played its part and, nonetheless, we advise that the leadership of labour unions should compel workers to prove themselves as deserving of the new wage. While those in public and private employment have been appeased, we also believe in the need to work aggressively on infrastructure, especially roads and power in order to give a sense of belonging to the self-employed, who struggle daily with government failure in this regard.  Moreover, the opening of a new chapter of understanding between labour and the Federal Government is not only worth commending but should be improved upon to further deliberate on other issues bordering on all Nigerians’ welfare as a way of guarding against industrial actions and distraction. Organised labour will not guarantee industrial peace and harmony if, after the 31st of December 2018, the Draft Bill is not transmitted to the National Assembly. This serves as a statutory notice for organised labour to recall our suspended members nationwide industrial action – NLC, TUC, ULC   Following attempt… In “News” Nigerian workers’ expectation to earn an improved minimum wage this year may have to tarry a while, as current development defines contrary agenda by government. Sunday Ojeme   An end to the minimum wage crisis between Nigerian workers and the Federal Government appears not to be in sight, as unfolding… In “Business” The issue of minimum wage in Nigeria is both contentious and vexatious. Over the years, the dispute had pitched the government with the organised labour. ISIOMA MADIKE in this story attempts to find a balance in the arguments by looking at what other African countries pay as their minimum wages… In “Features”