Chris Ugwu writes on knotty issues delaying e-dividend enrolment by investors in quoted companies  Renewed efforts by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) through the launch of e-dividend portal and other modifications by market regulators and the on-going awareness campaign across the country seem to be a mixed grill.  Though it has recorded considerable impact to help in war against this monster, some market operators, especially retail investors, have not been able to key into the initiative. Market operators had believed the current efforts might finally stem the tide of unclaimed dividend in the country if the vigour is sustained but the ineptitude of investors to embrace e-dividend system of payment following the stoppage of free registration is casting a damp on regulators’ intention to drastically reduce unclaimed dividend to the barest minimum.  Reasons for slow pace SEC has continuously lamented the slow pace in enrolment by investors despite massive awareness campaign being embarked on to educate the public. According to the Acting Director-General of the SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, about one year ago, SEC stopped the free registration exercise, specifically March 31, 2018. “At that time, 2.2m investors had mandated. It is interesting to observe that just because the free registration stopped, members of the pubic appear not to come forward again. As at the CMC Meeting held recently only about 2.7m investors had mandated their accounts. “There is a strategy that is going to be reviewed and developed by the market in concert with the banks and registrars to entice investors. The fee for every approved mandate is N150 but investors are not going to be asked to pay the amount before they are registered. If you have 120 accounts, you just mandate them company by company and the only thing you will pay per company is N150 even if you have dividend of up to N200, 000. It is just a processing fee for maintaining the portal and investors are not to be asked to pay at the point. Please encourage them to proceed to their banks and register. We believe that by the time we are giving report next, we would have improved,” Uduk said. Uduk noted that the issue unclaimed dividend in the market was being tackled in minimum of two solid approaches. “One of them is e-dividend. For every account that is mandated all accrued dividends is automatically paid. Then there is the use of regularization of multiple accounts. We discovered that while dividend is growing and it is increasing unclaimed dividends, the pace is not as satisfactory as when we observe that multiple accounts which have not been claimed for many years are still being paid dividends. Those people that have multiple accounts can only lay claim on dividends in one account, all the others will keep warehousing dividends as long as they are not regularised. “We want to see how far the registrars can go in regularising the multiple accounts so that we can have a specific figure for the unclaimed dividends,” she said.  Extension Following the slow pace of compliance, SEC has extended the deadline for the discontinuance of the issuance of dividend warrants to 31st December 2019. This, SEC said, is to enable relevant stakeholders deliberate on and address all outstanding issues. According to a circular on the commission’s website, the decision of the commission is in furtherance of its overriding mandate to ensure that all categories of shareholders and investors are adequately protected. However, SEC stated that the e-dividend initiative remained critical to the complete elimination of unclaimed dividend issue and that management of the commission encourages all shareholders, who are yet to do so, to get mandated on the e-DMMS platform before 31st December 2019. The commission said that the SEC recently conducted a strategic assessment of the implementation of the e-dividend initiative across the country and reviewed feedback/observations received from stakeholders and the general public. “The assessment revealed that while remarkable progress has been recorded in concerted efforts through robust enlightenment campaigns to mobilize more shareholders to get mandated on the e-DMMS platform, there remain a few pertinent issue that need to be resolved as a precursor to the total discontinuance of the issuance of dividend warrants by Registrars” the Circular added.  Investors enjoined to key into platform The regulators enjoined investors to take advantage of the ongoing e-dividend registration in a bid to reduce the unclaimed dividends profile as well as increase liquidity in the capital market and the economy. Uduk also urged investors not to entertain any fears of prosecution but take steps to regularise their multiple subscription accounts in order to obtain the benefits of their investments in the capital market. She said such investors should not entertain any fears of prosecution as the Commission is only interested in ensuring investors have the benefits of their investments.  According to her, “they are not going to be prosecuted, we just want them to come forward and take back their shares and register them properly with CSCS so that the trading float in the market will increase “The forbearance window for shareholders with multiple subscriptions has been extended by another year from the December 31, 2018 deadline previously communicated. Consequently, we enjoin those who have not come forward for the regularization of shares purchased with multiple identities, to do so. “The essence of the E-Dividend Mandate Management System is to eradicate or reduce to the barest minimum the incidence of unclaimed dividend. Unclaimed dividend is an undesirable feature of the Nigerian capital market which denies investors/shareholders the gains of participating in the capital market. It denies the economy access to the huge amount of money which should have accrued to shareholders and would have gone into circulation to oil the wheel of the economy.  “It is a consequence of the bottlenecks which are inherent in the erstwhile paper dividend warrant regime such as postal system inefficiency, change in investors’ addresses, poor fidelity and human fallibility in dividend payment processes, amongst others,” she said. She stated that the e–dividend regime bypassed these limitations by ensuring that dividends, which do not exceed 12 years of issue, are credited directly to an investors account after declaration by the paying company and within a stipulated payment period through simple interbank transfer.  Shareholders’ perspective The founder and former National Coordinator, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), Sir Sunny Nwosu, said for the objective of e-dividend to be achieved, “there is a lot of jobs to be done, that has been compounded by Know Your Customer (KYC) of banks. “Many people in those days used shares as gifts to relatives and friends which included rural dwellers and up till now many of them have no bank accounts. All these ought to be taken into consideration and addressed; it is definitely going to be a problem getting the rural dwellers to key into the system. “It is estimated that we have about 10 million retail shareholders and only some few ones have complied, this means that they need to do a lot of work and that it will take many years to achieve 80 per cent compliance.” According to the President, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN), Mr. Boniface Okezie, the aim might not be feasible unless given a legal backing. “SEC needs to continue to lobby the National Assembly to expunge the issue of dividend warrants certificates in CAMA. The arrangement is an understanding but it is not yet a law. SEC, first of all needs to do the needful by increasing awareness for e-dividend and seek the amendment of the law. They can’t make it mandatory unless the law is amended. The only thing they need to do now is to keep on its enlightenment campaign to persuade investors to key into the system,” he said.  Last line Investor protection and the restoration and sustenance of investor confidence in the market are key to attaining world class capital market; hence it is expedient for the regulators to continue to pursue initiatives that would boost the market especially the retail investors. With the slow pace being recorded in e-dividend enrolments by investors, some shareholders of quoted companies listed on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange ( NSE) have expressed doubts over the reality of December 31,  2017 deadline to end issuance of dividend warrants to investors. CHRIS UGWU writes It… In “Business” There is need for market regulators to improve investor education in the bid to finally rest the knotty issues of e-dividend in the local bourse. Chris Ugwu writes   E-dividend system of payment was introduced by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in a bid to address the delay associated… In “Business” Some shareholders of quoted firms have expressed concerns over the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)’s directive to end issuance of dividend warrants to investors. CHRIS UGWU reports   It is glaring that the unclaimed dividend and the hues and cries for solution have reached an alarming rate as institutional and… In “Business”