The incoming Flag Officer Commanding (FOC), Western Naval Command (WNC), Nigerian Navy (NN), Rear Admiral Oladele Bamidele Daji, has vowed to flush out kidnappers, who are staging a comeback into the riverine areas of Lagos and Ondo states. Daji gave the warning during the handover/takeover ceremony between himself and the outgoing FOC, WNC, Rear Admiral Obed Ngalabak, in Apapa. Daji said information at the headquarters in Abuja, revealed that the command made remarkable successes in clearing the kidnappers, adding that during his tenure, he will go to the source, where they live to flush them out. He said: “The data we have at the Naval headquarters showed that kidnapping in these riverine areas have reduced. Perhaps, there could be one or two isolated cases which may be given prominence, but it is actually on the decline.” Daji, whose command oversees Lagos and Ondo states, added: “But now we are going to the source , we will rout them out at the source, because they don’t live perpetually at sea, they have somewhere they live.” On his plan, as the new FOC of the command, he said: “We are so lucky in the military, in the sense that, our rules and task are well defined and cut out for us. And for the Nigerian Navy in particular, we are guided by the vision and mission of the Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Ibok Ette Ibas, as well as the Chief of the Naval staff strategic director. “Just as the out gone FOC mentioned, the command has strived over the past years to accomplish its task, what we are only coming to do, is to build upon what has already being done; may be, to bring fresh ideas into some of the challenges we have out there at the maritime expanse.” He, however, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for acquiring more boats to enable them to operate optimally at sea. “The Federal Government of Nigeria, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, has been able to acquire more boats for us. This is not to say that we have enough boats, because of the vast maritime expanse , what we have is the strategy, maritime domain awareness, intelligence, operations that have been the assets that have been provided for us to accomplish our task .” On his part, Ngalabak, who was redeployed as the Chief of Defence Civil Military Relations, headquarters, Abuja, reeled out his successes within seven months in office. He advised the officers, ratings and civilian staff to extend same gesture to his successor to excel in office. He said: “I will advise my successor to remain focused on the job, always consult his principal officers and make sure that he is in tune with the directives of the Nigerian Navy, and once he focuses on that, it will not be too difficult for him.”