 A 37-year old private driver, Adeyemi Morenikeji, yesterday confessed to the murder of wife of his former employer, Mrs. Rachael Oyewumi Ayanwale (51), by strangling her till she died. Speaking with journalists at the Oyo State Police Command Headquarters Eleyele, Ibadan, while being paraded along other suspected criminals that were arrested across the state for various offences, the suspect admitted to having led her innocent victim to a road side bush along Awe, Oyo/ Ibadan Expressway, where he perpetrated the dastardly act. Confessing, Morenikeji said that, “I used trick to get madam out of her office that day. I told her that I have a spiritual praying center that I can take her to, as she had once told me that she needed a spiritual prayer centre and that she needed more prayers concerning her personal life. So, I used that avenue to gain access to her and I deceived her that we should go for one at Awe along Oyo. It was on our way that I said I wanted to urinate and she also came down to ease herself as well. It was on that spot that I used my hands to turn her face forcefully around and she died in the process. I left her there because it was beside a stream. Asked how the police were able to apprehend him after the murder, he said, “I was tracked through the madam’s car that I intended to sell here in Ibadan. I left the car with one of my wife’s brothers to help me get a buyer for it. I was later arrested in Sango Ota”, he said. Speaking on why he killed her former employer, Morenikeji said: “I have been working with the family for long and they do give me money. I mean both husband and wife do give me money separately, but all of a sudden they sacked me and I begged them but they refused to re-employ me. In the process, my wife who was very heavy with pregnancy, was delivered of a baby. After her delivery, I still went back to beg them but they refused and my baby developed an ailment that eventually led to her death. So, since then, I decided to revenge the loss of all my issues from the family and that is what led to my thinking of killing the woman and selling her valuables to make money so I can start a new life”, he said. While addressing journalists, the State Commissioner of Police Mr. Olushina Olukolu, said: “The suspect was arrested on 18th April, 2019, at Sango Ota, where he had relocated to, after he had since he had confessed to the crime, he will soon be charged to court for proper prosecution”, Olukolu said. The CP used the occasion to advise the public “to be cautious of who they move with, hire or do business with, as most young people these days are very prone to crime. I however use this medium to address our Muslim brothers and sisters that they should be very careful as Ramadan fasting period is approaching and because mostly they wake up in the night and go for early morning prayers. They should make sure that they always lock their doors and be very careful with their environment”, the CP said.