Chief Lanre Rasak, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), spoke with ADEWALE AJAYI on sundry issues. Excerpts…  Before the presidential election, some Nigerians were of the impression that President Muhammadu Buhari would not be re-elected but he was re-elected. Do you think that was an indication that Nigerians have hope in him?
Those who never wanted him for second term are those who could not properly evaluate the quantum of the good work he has done. He has laid a very solid foundation for good governance and democracy. Those who appreciated what he did, and knew that he is still the best option, we want to thank them, and even thank those that did not vote him, that means he need to improve on what he has done. What are your expectations in his second term?
Our expectations are his cardinal programs, which are; fighting corruption, developing our economy, ensuring there is food on the table of every Nigerian, that Nigeria remains a better place, and security of lives and property. These are the main issues the president has volunteered to work seriously on, and those are the areas we are concentrating on. We will be watching and see how he develops Nigeria through instrumentality of government. If you are to evaluate what the president did in his first term in office, how will you rate him?
Those who claimed the President has not done well, what must have informed their impression? May be what the president did was not given the publicity it deserved? I need to re- emphasize that 16 years of destruction of the economy and infrastructures, he cannot fix them overnight, you can’t feed fat a person who had been hungry for 16 years in just one day, he is not a magician, he can’t just fix everything overnight, so far, the president has done very well. Some have argued that Buhari has done well, judging by his first term performance. Don’t you agree?
You see, it is only a sleeping person you can wake up, those who says he has not done well, they pretend to be sleeping when they are not sleeping, and you cannot wake them up, you can’t tell them this is what he has done, when they have chosen to close their eyes and shut their ears and do not want to see what he has done.
Those who appreciate what he has done would confirm to you that Buhari did wonderfully well. Despite the problem of the National Assembly, despite the fact that members of the National Assembly are mainly members of the same party with the president and the executive arm, they put up such antagonistic posture. , it is very painful that the National Assembly never helped matters; it passed the budget of 2018 in June/July, it is very painful. Don’t you envisage the same antagonistic posture from the 9th assembly?
We are lucky the APC members are in the majority in the 9th Assembly, and we envisage we would not have the kind of experience we had with the 8th Assembly. What we need to do now is to move the nation forward. Buhari has told us he is taking the nation to the next level; next level of greatness, provision of foods and security in the country, good health, education, infrastructural development throughout the country and employment opportunities for the teeming youths. Nigerians should rest assured that we are in safe hands this time around, Buhari will deliver the goods and ensure that Nigerians get dividend of democracy. Though your party is in clear majority in the House of Representatives, but not so in the Senate, can’t you see that you still need the support of members of the opposition party?
The total number of Senators at the Senate is 109, out of it we have 62 members that means we have almost two-third. Even if we do not have two-third, with commitment to national ethos of the government, we envisage that membership of the National Assembly were elected to provide good governance and support the government. I am not saying they should be a rubber stamp assembly, but they should appreciate good things and that is in the best interest of the country.
We don’t nurse any fear this time around, passing a bill into law does not require two-third, the National Assembly will not have problem in getting things done. Passing of budget does not require two-third members, it is only when you want to impeach or move out an elected officer that requires two-third. APC members will not go to the assembly to impeach the president or anybody, so we are in a comfortable position to run the affairs of the 9th Assembly, to the best interest of Nigeria and Nigerians. When you notified of your intention to go to the Senate, you said matured minds like you are needed at the National Assembly, to put an end to incessant faceoff between the lawmakers and the executive arm. Do you see those elected as matured minds?
I still maintain that position, and you can see that the caliber of people elected into the National Assembly this time around, are not the same caliber of people in the 8th Assembly. Now we have matured and committed Nigerians and that is the best Nigerians look up to, and they are expected to exhibit high quality. Some people have interpreted APC’s Next Level to mean more poverty and more killings in the land. With recent happenings, don’t you think they are justified?
You cannot stop the mischievous ones from turning the slogan to anything, we knew the situation of things when Buhari came on board, and we know that he has moved the country from bad situation to a better situation. Can you cite examples of a better situation?
The example is that the security situation was bad before Buhari came on board, but now there is an improvement. In the agricultural sector, we realized huge amount of money through exportation. Now, we don’t import rice for consumption, we make do with the rice produced locally, soon we will be exporting rice to other countries, that will earn us foreign exchange on exportation of rice and food items. It is better that we are making money and not depleting our foreign reserve. How much has he done in terms of providing employment opportunities?
You can see that all the abandoned projects had been completed, and those who worked on the projects are human beings. Through that, employment opportunities are created, though we might not have met the expectations of the people, but more jobs would be created. The President has assured Nigerians of the willingness to create more employment opportunities, and he is a man that walk his talk. Whenever he promises anything, he will do it. Nigerians should be patient with the government in power, Buhari will not let Nigerians down. What are the qualities you think the president should look for in those that will constitute his cabinet?
The president should look out for committed people, who are really committed to the welfare of the country, not just being committed to the government in power. People are complaining that he did not reshuffle his cabinet.
It is not compulsory he must reshuffle. If members of his cabinet are doing well, he may retain them. What should be paramount to Nigerians is to give suggestions on how to move the country forward. The President knew why he appointed those in his cabinet and why he is retaining them. Buhari has been given the mandate, he knows those that can assist him to deliver on the mandate. What lessons do you think the APC should learn from the last governorship elections in Ogun and Imo states, where Governors Ibikunle Amosun and Rochas Okorocha encouraged their anointed candidates to contest on the platform of another party?
That means nobody should play God, do your best and leave the rest for others, life is turn by turn, you can’t say you will impose yourself or surrogate on the people all the time. The people have expressed their feelings through the ballot, and their votes counted, that is the end of the game. Is that not anti-party activity?
The Constitution of Nigeria supersedes any party law or rule. Freedom of association is guaranteed, freedom to join and freedom to leave. The party cannot tell them not to leave, they have chosen a wrong lane and the party has done what was expected of it. Those involved have been suspended from the party, that is a way of instilling discipline on members of the party. What are your expectations of Babajide Sanwo Olu as the elected governor of Lagos State?
Sanwo Olu and his deputy are known performers, they will give their best. I don’t have doubt about their capability, more so, they have been in the corridors of power in the last 16 years, so no cause for alarm. As someone from Epe, what are the views of your people from that part of the state concerning the denial of a second term for your kinsman, Akinwunmi Ambode? Aren’t you aggrieved? The issue is this; Epe is part of Lagos State, we had an opportunity to rule the state when Pa Michael Otedola came on board. He was from Epe and he was opportune to govern the state. The other parts of Lagos did not jump into the Lagoon because they did not produce the state governor. We had opportunity again when Ambode became the governor, and he performed creditably well. In life, changes will come and changes will be accepted when they do come. We had the opportunity, Ambode served, he served very well and he did not bring shame to us, he served very well, but the party decided to effect a change in the governance of Lagos State with a new set of equally good people coming to saddle of power. We have nothing to quarrel about, we have nothing to regret. We have behaved as good party men and women, we know that the leadership of the party will consider Epe for other things. At 73, when you look back, are you pleased with the development that has taken place in the state? One should thank God for the development that has taken place in the state, when you compare it with other states in Nigeria, and even being the sixth largest economy in Africa, that we have made this progress, I am happy with those who have governed the state so far, especially those who have governed the state in the last 20 years, they have done tremendous work, and I do not say there is no room for improvement. As the governors come, they build on development they met on ground, they gain and learn from our leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He started the jerking up of the state IGR from N600 million per month to what it is today, about N30 billion per month. I know Sanwo-Olu and his team will move the IGR further, Lagos will continue to move forward, and I am happy to be around to appreciate and see the growth of Lagos. I appreciate because I have been around, and I have seen progress and development, I only pray that I will still be around when Lagos will have effective public transportation, where we can coordinate, and see that the road transport, water transport and railway are all working well. If these three are synchronised into one, I will appreciate, and it will happen very soon. While Nigerians wait for the finality of the outcome of the presidential election since Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has chosen to go to court to challenge the result, we have to take a bite of reality sandwich that President Muhammadu Buhari has been re-elected as the president for another four years.… In “Opinions” The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) has resolved not to back the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari on account of poor performance characterised by slow pace in decision making, poor judgement and refusal to heed wise counsel. The Forum, an influential political pressure group, said that whereas it worked for… In “News” President Muhammadu Buhari's declaration to seek re-election in 2019 pitches him against former Nigerian leaders who advised him to quit at the end of his tenure or face disgrace. Will he be able to survive their threat? Asks ONYEKACHI EZE     It is no longer in the realm of… In “Politics”