CHUKWU DAVID reports on how the Senate, last week, killed two bills, sponsored by Senator Ben Murray-Bruce, which he claimed, were designed to revolutionise Nigeria and place her on the path to socio-economic and technological development  The Senate, on Wednesday, April 17, threw out a bill sponsored by the senator representing Bayelsa East Senatorial District, Ben Murray- Bruce, seeking to phase out petrol vehicles from Nigeria in the year 2035 and introduce electric cars into the country, and another seeking to amend the 1999 Constitution to allow persons of African origin to acquire Nigerian citizenship for purposes of re-integration and development.   When he was called to lead debate on the bill, Murray-Bruce noted that virtually all the countries of the world have come to realise the various societal vices caused by the use of petrol vehicles within human environment and the need to tackle the menace.  He told his colleagues that other countries of the world had begun a process of phasing out the petrol vehicles from their environments, and that in a matter of years, companies producing petrol vehicles would no longer do so, neither would there manufacture spare parts for such brand of cars in the whole world. The lawmaker also said that Nigeria will save a whooping sum of N1 trillion annually if she phases out petrol vehicles and introduces electric cars.  He further urged the Federal Government to invest heavily in technology to be able to develop and measure up with the global developmental trend because technology is what drives the contemporary world to enviable heights.  He stressed that the earlier Nigerians embraced the global trend in technological development the better for the country, warning that resisting introduction of electric cars in the country on the ground that the country would lose its market for crude oil would only tantamount to postponing the evil day.  The lawmaker noted that Nigerians had been paying 70 per cent duty on every single vehicle imported into the country, while electric cars attract zero per cent custom duty. He said that electric car is cheap and easy to maintain, and could move on any Nigerian road like the petrol vehicles irrespective of the deplorable state of the roads.  Murray-Bruce told Nigerians to brace up and accept the realities of the evolving technological changes in the world or be left behind by other countries of the world the global technological evolution.  His words: “It is cheaper to use electric cars than petrol cars. It is not complex but our leaders don’t understand what I am talking about. For every car you drive, you pay 70 per cent duty in Nigeria. You are spending N1 trillion buying petrol every year.  “Nigerian economy will save N1 trillion if we stop importing petrol for consumption that we have to do. So, what economic argument can you present for Nigerians not to be the first country in Africa to drive electric cars? Electric cars are very fast and attract zero per cent duty.  The lawmaker noted that one of the major advantages of use of electric vehicles is that it would help solve the problem of ozone layer depletion, noting that the use of electric vehicles would also be health friendly among other things.  However, his persuasive arguments to get the support of his colleagues to approve the bill notwithstanding, the lawmakers made several observations on the impossibility of mandating Nigerians to stop the use of petrol vehicles by law or an act of Parliament.  Consequently, the senators vehe mently opposed the proposal, and eventually moved for its rejection. But in the spirit of comradeship, they gave Murray-Bruce a soft-landing by asking him to withdraw it instead of allowing it to be killed on the floor of the chamber.  For instance, the Deputy President of the Senate, Dr. Ike Ekweremadu, while contributing, congratulated Murray-Bruce for the bill but however, said that there was no need for a law to be passed for Nigerians to switch from the use of petrol vehicles to electric vehicles.  He argued that, following existing records, people had moved from the use of animals as sole means of transportation to use of bicycles, motor bikes, cars and other advanced means of transportation without enacting a law to that effect. He said: “I congratulate Ben Murray- Bruce for his uncommon common sense and brilliant ideas in the lead debate but what is not common is the need to introduce a law to mandate the use of electric cars.  Also contributing, Senator Barau Jibrin (APC-Kano North), said that while electric vehicles would no doubt  be more friendly to the environment and health, making its use mandatory would not be feasible.  Angered by the failure of his colleagues to buy into his proposal and argument, Muray-Bruce raised a Point of Order, telling the chamber that posterity would judge him right for making effort to convince the country on the need to embrace electric vehicles, stressing that combustible vehicles would be phased out in the near future all over the world, and that any nation that failed to plan towards the change would be in serious fix.  He mocked his colleagues for not being in tune with demands of the contemporary world, saying that even though the senators were operating in the 21st century, their opposition to his proposal was an indication that they did not belong to the 21st century.  He said: “I can never quarrel with my leaders and friends but I want them to close their eyes and know they are in the 21st century. I own an electric car that I have been using for the past five years. It is cheaper to maintain and durable. So, the fears put forward by my colleagues are highly debatable.   “I will withdraw the bill, but I want my colleagues to know that their position on this bill shows that, though they are in the 21st century, they do not belong in the 21st century.  In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, simply acknowledged that the Point of Order raised by Murray-Bruce before withdrawing the bill was noted.  Similarly, immediately after the bill on phasing out petrol vehicles from the country was defeated on the floor of the Senate, Murray-Bruce was also called up to present his second bill seeking to amend the 1999 Constitution to allow persons of African origin to acquire Nigerian citizenship for purposes of re-integration and development.  He noted that his proposal only concerned other Africans of Nigerian descent, who had been tested and proven to be men and women of integrity and great potentials, who  could contribute meaningfully to the development of the country.  As if there was a conspiracy among senators to deal with the Bayelsa Senator, the bill was also killed, when he was not able to convince his colleagues beyond doubts that opening the borders of Nigeria to other African nationals to acquire citizenship would be in the best interest of the country.  Other senators who contributed to the debate expressed serious reservations and opposition to the bill, warning that the socio-economic malady it would bring upon Nigeria would far outweigh the benefits being canvassed by the sponsor.  The Deputy Leader of the Senate, Bala Ibn Na’Allah, observed that what the bill sought to provide, had been adequately provided for in sections 25, 26, 27 and 28 of the 1999 Constitution.  He said: “Sections 25, 26, 27 and 28 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria adequately provided for citizenship. Section 25 provides for citizenship by birth; Section 26 provides for citizenship by registration while Section 27 provides for citizenship by naturalization.  “Then the 7th schedule prescribes what it is. In the end, it gave power to the President of the nation to make regulation which shall be laid before the National Assembly as it relates to taking citizens of other nations as citizens of Nigeria. It is very exhaustive. And we cannot by law coerce people to become citizens of Nigeria. First of all you must apply and signify your intension to remain in Nigeria.  Also, kicking against the bill, Senator Dino Melaye (PDP, Kogi West), warned that passing such proposal would jeopardize the entire well-being of the country, as the population of the country would become uncontrollable.  He argued that Nigeria was grappling to fund her annual budgets based on borrowed funds, stressing that the situation would become worse because the population of the country would have been tripled. After Melaye’s argument, the President of the Senate, Saraki, asked the sponsor to make his final comment on the bill and see if he could withdraw it as he did with the first one.  However, Murray-Bruce, who was obviously embittered, having withdrawn his first bill, refused to withdraw it, daring his colleagues to kill the proposal themselves. Saraki immediately put the bill to voice vote and it was only Bruce that shouted in the affirmative to support the passage of the bill for second reading but his voice was drowned by a reverberating shout of nay from his colleagues, leading to the death of the bill.  