…projects stability for country’s budget benchmark  The World Bank has downgraded the 2019 crude oil price forecast for Nigeria to $66 a barrel, a downward revision from the October forecast. The commodity sold for $70 a barrel in March. Though the latest forecast projects stability for $60 per barrel Nigeria’s 2019 budget benchmark, the global lender noted in its April Outlook that the country and other oil producers should expect less prosperity from the commodity in 2019 due to the weaker-than-expected global growth outlook and greater-than-anticipated U.S. production. Before the latest outlook, there had been concerns by stakeholders that the 60-dollars-per-barrel projection was too ambitious considering the volatility of the international crude market. “Crude oil prices are expected to average $66 a barrel in 2019 and $65 a barrel in 2020,” the World Bank said in a projection on its website. Nigeria, Africa’s biggest crude exporter, depends largely on oil proceeds to service over 85 per cent of her budget. The country, which projects to make N8.83 trillion revenue on $2.3 million barrels of oil production per day, benchmarks price at $60 per barrel in its 2019 budget. “The outlook for commodity prices is sensitive to policy-related risks, especially for oil,” Director of the World Bank’s Prospects Group, Ayhan Kose, said. “The outlook for oil could be swayed by a range of policy outcomes, including whether the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and partners extend production cuts, the impact of the removal of waivers to the U.S. sanctions on Iran, and looming changes in marine fuel emissions regulations,” he added, according to the April Outlook. After a drop in late 2018, oil prices have risen steadily since the start of the year, as Nigeria and other members of OPEC and their partners have cut production, and output has declined in Venezuela and Iran. United States (U.S.) shale production is expected to remain robust after surging in 2018. Energy prices overall – which also include natural gas and coal are expected to average 5.4 per cent lower in 2019 than in 2018. There have been concerns by stakeholders that the $60-per-barrel projection was too ambitious considering the volatility of the international crude market. But Udoma told a National Assembly joint committee hearing on the 2019 Appropriation Bill that there was no cause for alarm. “I know that when the budget was submitted, and we had an assumption of oil price of $60, there were concerns raised as to whether that projection was not too ambitious,” he had said. “Indeed, at that time, oil prices were trending down to even below $60. “…So far, it looks as if we are correct. Because oil prices now hover between $65 and $66, so it looks like the $60 is a fair projection.” Meanwhile, a special focus section of the Outlook also shows that when countries intervene to dampen the effect of food price fluctuations on their citizens, the collective intervention of many countries can produce the opposite of the intended effect and amplify movements in world prices – to the detriment of the most vulnerable populations. Metal prices are expect ed to continue a recovery in 2019 that follows a sharp drop in the second half of 2018, the World Bank said in its April Commodity Markets Outlook. The recovery has been spurred by stabilization of activity in China after weakness around the turn of the year, as well as various supply shortfalls. “It has become clear that the commodity price cycle has come to an end, which is causing strains for exporters, but may offer opportunities for importers,” World Bank Equitable Growth, Finance & Institutions Vice President, Ceyla Pazarbasioglu. “Exporters may have to adapt to slower gains in commodity revenues with economic diversification, while importers could take advantage of lower commodity prices for increased investment,” he added. Agriculture prices are projected to fall 2.6 per cent this year, but rebound in 2020 due to lower crop production and higher costs for energy and fertilizers. An escalation of trade tensions would likely push prices lower, but higherthan- expected energy costs could lift prices more than expected.