…TASUED student survives  One person lost her life while another sustained injuries on Sunday after a Lexus jeep plunged into a river on the Ijebu-Ode-Benin Expressway. The lone accident, which occurred about 2.45p.m., involved an unidentified woman and her daughter who is a student of Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun. They were said to be on their way to TASUED when their vehicle, with registration number JJJ 930 FL, plunged into the river. While the woman, who drove the vehicle, died in the mishap,her daughter survived and was taken to hospital. The Public Relations Officer of Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the accident in a statement yesterday. Akinbiyi, who attributed the accident to over-speeding, said the vehicle had been recovered from river by rescue operatives. He said: “I learnt the vehicle was coming from Lekki in Lagos to Ijebu-Ode when the accident occurred. “There were two occupants in the vehicle; the driver who is a woman and her daughter, who is a student of TASUED. The woman was taking her daughter back to school. “As a result of overspeeding, the woman lost control of the vehicle and plunged the vehicle into the river. “The driver, who is the woman and mother of the lady, lost her life, while the daughter is receiving treatment at the Ijebu-Ode General Hospital. “The vehicle has been removed from the river and deposited at the Motor Traffic Division (MTD), Odogbolu.” Akinbiyi added that the remains of the woman had been deposited at the morgue of the hospital. Four persons were killed on Sunday while five others were seriously injured in an auto crash that occurred along the Ijebu Ode-Benin Expressway. The victims were travelling in a Toyota Sienna commercial vehicle with registration number Lagos LND 708 AH. New Telegraph learnt that the accident occurred when the vehicle… In “Metro and Crime” Four persons were killed yesterday while five others were seriously injured in an auto crash which occurred on Ijebu-Ode-Benin Expressway. The victims were travelling in a Toyota Sienna commercial vehicle with registration number Lagos LND 708 AH. It was learnt that the accident occurred when the vehicle rammed into a… In “Metro and Crime” Two persons lost their lives while 10 others sustained injuries after an unregistered Toyota Corolla car plunged into the Ososa River at Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. Apart from the accident which occurred at the weekend, two other people died while 15 others were injured in two separate accidents involving five vehicles.… In “Metro and Crime”