The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said that the running of the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) is transparent and in line with global best practices. The Fund also lauded the agency’s management, saying it is doing a great job. IMF Director, African Department, Abebe Selassie, who stated this on Friday, on the sidelines of the World Bank/IMF Spring Meetings in Washington D.C., said: “I want to be precise on this issue because I have heard a lot of noise concerning it. There has been two Sovereign Wealth Funds in Nigeria. There has been the Excess Crude Account (ECA), and the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). The NSIA has been run transparently and based on standard best practices and it has been doing a good job.” Selassie said the IMF is only concerned about the implementation of the ECA by government and not the NSIA. “The concern that we have is about the ECA, because if you recall that the ECA economically was set up to save resources when oil prices are high and to be drawn on when oil prices are low. We do not think that the ECA has been doing effectively well enough job that way. Because you see, when oil prices fell, the economy was very hard in the last couple of years, we feel like much better job could have been done, saving enough more in the ECA when oil prices were at $100 and $120 per barrel,” Selassie said. There were reports last Thursday that the IMF, in its latest Fiscal Monitor, ranked Nigeria second lowest among 33 countries using the sovereign wealth fund from their natural resources. Nigeria was ranked only better than Qatar in the report. The report, however, drew a sharp reaction from the NSIA, which faulted the Fund’s ranking on the grounds that it did not make a distinction between the NSIA’s SWF and the ECA kept by the Federal Government. In a statement issued at the weekend, the IMF’s Senior Resident Representative and Mission Chief for Nigeria, Amine Mati, also clarified the Fund’s ranking of Nigeria’s use of the SWF, saying that the Bretton Woods institution was not referring to the NSIA. The statement read: “In view of recent local media reports, I would like to clarify that the reference to the SWF included in Figure 2.16 of the IMF’s Fiscal Monitor showing a low ranking for Nigeria, does not refer to the NSIA. The NSIA is a Sovereign Wealth Fund that has worked extensively with development partners to ensure it is applying transparency practices that are aligned with the Santiago Principles of transparency, good governance, accountability and prudent investment practices. “The figure in the IMF’s Fiscal Monitor reports a score prepared by the Natural Resource Governance Institute (NRGI), which assesses the corporate governance and transparency of SWFs around the world using a methodology outlined in the referenced NRGI publication. For Nigeria, that SWF reference focuses on the Excess Crude Oil account, which requires greater transparency on the rules governing deposits, withdrawals, and investment,” it added. The Managing Director, NSIA, Mr.Uche Orji, said the NSIA Act mandates the organisation under his leadership to run three ring-fenced funds-stabilisation fund, future generations fund and Nigeria infrastructure fund with asset allocation of 20:30:50 respectively. The first two funds invest globally and the last fund is focused on Nigeria domestic infrastructure needs, he said. “Whilst we understand the theory of ‘Dutch disease’ and its effect on domestic investment, we believe that investing in commercially viable domestic infrastructure should be the focus of funds such as the NSIA. There is no real value added in a sovereign wealth fund keeping all its funds in its foreign reserve accounts if it can use portions of the said fund to address commercially viable infrastructure projects at home,” he said. According to him, the philosophy of domestic infrastructure development underpins the operations of the infrastructure fund of the NSIA.