Scientists in the United States (US) have raised the alarm over the negative impact a common food additive, propionate, saying it could alter metabolism in ways that could increase the risk of diabetes. According to the findings of a new study published in the journal ‘Science Translational Medicine,’ when people received propionate, they experienced an increase in hormone levels similar to those seen in the mouse studies. Similarly, the propionatereceiving participants also showed increased levels of insulin and insulin resistance, compared with when they didn’t receive the additive. Both groups however, had similar peaks blood sugar levels after their meal, but those in the propionate group took slightly longer for their levels to return to baseline. The study, which involved research in humans and mice, investigated a food additive called propionate, which prevents mold growth and is widely used as a preservative in cheeses, baked goods (including bread) and artificial flavourings. A preservative is a substance or a chemical that is added to products such as food, beverages, pharmaceutical drugs, paints, biological samples, cosmetics, wood, and many other products to prevent decomposition by microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes. It has now been shown that propionate might trigger metabolic responses that were linked to obesity and diabetes, the ‘Life Sciences’ reported. The study found that, in mice, consumption of propionate led to high blood sugar levels in the short term and weight gain and insulin resistance in the long term. (Insulin resistance means the body doesn’t respond well to the hormone insulin, which helps cells take in sugar, or glucose. Such resistance can lead to the high blood sugar levels seen in people with diabetes.) The study showed that people who consumed propionate experienced temporary increases in insulin resistance, over the space of a few hours, compared with those who didn’t consume the additive. The researchers however, noted that larger studies conducted over longer periods were needed to better understand whether propionate contributes to diabetes in people and consequently called for more research into the potential metabolic effects of food components like propionate. According to the study senior author Dr. Gökhan Hotamisligil, “Understanding how ingredients in food affect the body’s metabolism at the molecular and cellular level could help us develop simple but effective measures to tackle the dual epidemics of obesity and diabetes.” Hotamisligil is a professor of genetics and metabolism at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.