To mark the 2019 World Malaria Day today, APPOLONIA ADEYEMI writes that the advocacy on the treatment of malaria in the country must be heightened, as a strategy to reduce infection of the plasmodium parasite so as to eliminate the disease  The last 11 months were traumatic for 14-year-old Tade Oladehinde (not real name) who had been in and out of hospital admission for three consecutive times. Two weeks before his death, the once vibrant Junior Secondary School (JSS) 3 student had developed a gaunt frame and sunken eyes. He became a shadow of his former self. Going by his protracted illness, news of his death was not surprising. What was, however, shocking was that he was diagnosed with malaria and subsequently died from the ailment.  His body had hardly been deposited at the morgue in the nearest hospital to his home, Akute, Lagos, when the cause of his death spread like bush fire in the harmattan. “It is a lie! Don’t say it again. Do you mean that ordinary malaria killed Tade?” a close friend of his mother asked. “That is what the doctors that cared for him told us,” replied the bereaved mother, Mrs. Aina Oladehinde spite the care provided to save Tade and the huge money expended on the treatment,” she exclaimed. “If this is true, it is time one took ma laria, its preventive measures and effective treatment seriously. Wonders shall never end,” said another sympathiser, who was in the late Tade’s home to pay condolences to Mr. and Mrs Oladehinde. The death of Tade and numerous Nigerians cut down in their prime, occasioned by malaria, is one of the issues to be addressed during the World Malaria Day, being marked globally today, April 25. The theme for this year’s celebration is: ‘Zero Malaria Starts With Me’. The theme suggests that everyone has a role to play in eliminating malaria in the world.  Malaria is a life-threatening blood dis-ease caused by a parasite that is transmit-ted to humans by the anopheles mosquito. Although malaria is a preventable and treatable disease, if diagnosed and treated early, the duration of the infection can be considerably reduced which, in turn, lowers the risk of complications and death.  Actually, Tade was diagnosed with malaria, which involved high fever, shaking chills, flu-like symptoms, and anaemia, headache, tiredness (fatigue), nausea, vomiting, dry cough, back pain, among others.  According to the World Malaria Report 2018, there were 219 million cases of malaria globally in 2017 and 435 000 malaria deaths. The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that Nigeria contributes 80 per cent of those deaths. Similarly, of all the people that die from malaria disease in the country, over 90 per cent are children.  In spite of this development, the WHO) recently alerted the world community over the rise in the number of new malaria infections being recorded globally, saying the development was happening in 10 high burden countries. Details from the annual World Malaria Report shows that in 2017 there were an estimated 219 million cases of malaria globally, with around 435,000 deaths.  Reacting to the development, the Director of the WHO’s global malaria programme, Pedro Alonso said he was particularly concerned about the report’s finding that, in 2017, there were an estimated 3.5 million more cases of malaria in the 10 highest burden African countries over the previous year.  The 10 malaria high burden countries are Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Ghana, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Uganda and Tanzania. There were an estimated 151 million malaria cases and 275,000 malaria deaths in these countries in 2017, the report shows. On his part, the Director-General WHO, Tedros Ghebreyesus, warned that as progress in the fight against malaria stagnated, the global community was at risk of squandering years of toil, investment and success in reducing the number of people suffering from the disease.  “The fact that every two minutes a child dies from this preventable and curable disease is unacceptable,” he wrote in the report.  African countries account for 92 per cent of all infections from the mosquito-borne parasite, which causes the potentially lethal fever disease.  Highlighting some of the factors responsible for the rise, the report stated that infections increased in the hardest-hit countries following low use of insecticide-treated bed nets; a falling rate of indoor spraying; and a lack of preventive therapies for pregnant women and children.  In addition, international donations to fight the disease have levelled off. The WHO not only urged wealthy donor countries to increase spending, but also asked the hardest-hit countries to secure domestic funding.  The money should be spent more efficiently in a targeted manner, the UN agency added.  Highlighting other challenges facing the fight against malaria in the country, a Professor of Paediatrics, Olugbenga Mokuolu lamented that although, several factors were responsible for why the number of new malaria cases continue to rise, especially in malaria high-burden nations. Out of all the challenges, Mokuolu highlighted the negative attitude of Nigerians towards the efforts to tackle the disease. According to the paediatrics, although, people collected insecticide-treated bed nets that had been distributed free by the Federal and state governments, but use them for fishing, farming projects such as protecting their crops on farms, but fail to use them for purposes for which they were meant. While some Nigerians have poor attitude to using bed nets, the Insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs) are a form of personal protection that has been shown to reduce malaria illness, severe disease, and death due to malaria in endemic regions.  According to the United States (US) Centre for Disease Control (CDC), in community-wide trials in several African settings, ITNs were shown to reduce the death of children under-five years from all causes by about 20 per cent. Yet, getting some Nigerians to use the net is akin an uphill task. While some use them for other purposes that are not connected with preventing mosquito bites, some Nigerians refused to use them on the excuse that sleeping under the net meant sleeping under heated environment.  However, he noted that using ITNs could prevent malaria for both children and adults, preventing unnecessary deaths and ultimately helping in eliminating malaria at the 2030 target date. Other factors that could help end malaria in this clime, according to Mokuolu is confirming through rapid diagnostic testing that malaria was present before commencing treatment. This, he noted would track drug resistance.  A former National President of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), Olufemi Ismail Adebayo, said “it does not take time to do the Rapid Diagnostic Test (RDT)”. Adebayo urged patients to seek care from appropriate healthcare providers and not because they have headache, begin to treat malaria.  He said: “Headache could be a symptom of so many other ailments. People should get drugs dispensed from a pharmacist so as to get appropriate counselling. When seeking treatment, do not go to quarks.  “Also, ensure that you do not default in taking your medication. If you take prescribed drugs half-way and do not complete it, it may lead to drug resistance. “When this happens, when next you take the drug, it will not work. You have to seek a more effective drug.”  Speaking further on strategies to end malaria in the country, Mokuolu stressed that it was important for those who were diagnosed with malaria to ensure that they were effectively treated for the disease, adding that the presence of malaria parasite in anyone meant that when the anopheles mosquito bites the persons, they will take the person’s blood that is infected with malaria parasite and transmit same to another victim through mosquito bite, thereby making them susceptible to develop malaria.  To this end, he stressed that the effective treatment of malaria patients would ultimately help to eliminate the disease from this environment. Responding to questions on whether it was possible to eliminate malaria given the set target, he said if everyone played their role, it was achievable in Nigeria.   It would be recalled that the WHO in December 2018, said Uzbekistan’s success in becoming recognised as a malaria-free country was an “extraordinary outcome”. Although, that country had a long and deadly history of malaria, that trend has been reversed in recent years, with the Global Fund and WHO helping Uzbekistan to combat malaria, using an innovative results-based approach that put the country on the path to finally eliminating the disease in 2018.”  Reacting to this development, the Executive Director of the Global Fund, a UN-backed partnership to end malaria epidemics, Peter Sands said: “We have achieved remarkable progress against malaria in Central Asia. It’s a great example of commitment and a sustainable approach.  Consequently, if it was possible to make Uzbekistan malaria-free, it could as well be achieved in Nigeria, if citizens in Nigeria adopted behaviour change as well as test before treating the disease. Similarly, if the Federal and state governments closed current funding gaps militating against the fight to end malaria, Nigeria could also be made to be malaria-free.  