An opportunity, it is said, comes but once; at least that was a cliché I grew up hearing. But over time, I’ve had cause not to dispute it.  What it means is that anyone presented with an opportunity should make the most of it before it goes.   However, it takes wisdom to recognize an opportunity when it comes. However, again, recognizing it and taking advantage of it are different ball games entirely.  Indeed, it is not often that one is blessed with the luck of recognizing and taking full advantage of an opportunity. But for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), such luck has landed and is resting on their lap.  What is that luck? Orji Uzor Kalu! Yes, Kalu, former governor of Abia State, indefatigable politician, earth shaker, public influencer, astute businessman, sports promoter and enthusiast, as well as a bridge builder, is presenting himself to serve his nation as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  Not just that, he is jostling for the position of the Senate Deputy President.  Since after the 2019 general election, overt and subterranean plots are being made by those interested in that position and by those who are in a position to choose who becomes what.  Amid this jostling and power game is the argument of whether or not the South-East should produce the Deputy Senate President.  Those opposed to the South-East zone producing it readily argue that the ruling party has been getting poor electoral returns from that zone.  Thus, to them, why give such a plum position to such a zone?  However, such an argument fails to take into cognizance why the said zone has not been forthcoming with the expected support compared to some other zones in the country.  The major complaint or grudge of the zone, has been the lack of a sense of belonging.  They believe, and rightly too, perhaps, that despite giving their all to Nigeria, all they have been getting is rejection and relegation to the back seat in the scheme of things. However, all this zone needs is a little convincing that they belong.  Once this is done in a genuine way, their change of attitude will be the Eighth Wonder of the World. Now, the 2019 elections have come and gone and the zone again showed their resentment by ‘rejecting’ their symbol of ‘oppression’ which is the Federal Government.  But even amid this show of anger, was the silent but significant development in one of the states in the zone. That state is Abia where Orji Kalu comes from.  The South-East for the first time gave PMB impressive votes in 2019 as against 2015.   For instance, in Abia State, President Muhammadu Buhari scored over 85,058 votes in 2019 as against 13,384 scored in 2015. This feat is attributed to the hard work of Kalu in the region in which the PDP controls three out of the five states.  Yet again, APC with Kalu’s hard work, secured two seats in the House of Representatives in addition to seats in the Abia State House of Assembly.  The question now is: if Kalu could achieve this big and difficult feat in one state without being in a vantage position, what happens when he is better positioned to do that? Again, it wasn’t in doubt that the people voted APC that much because of Kalu.  This shows that the people of the zone can do more if they have reason to. And this is exactly where the APC hierarchy has to come in.  In Orji Kalu, APC has a man whom they can leverage upon to make great inroads into what has been a difficult zone for them. Kalu is not just any other politician. He is what can be called a bulldozer, a gogetter, and the catalyst badly needed by the ruling party to conquer fresh territories.  Kalu presents this opportunity to APC on a platter through democratic means, rather than through coercion. Orji’s antecedents show him to be ready for whatever he is given and in this case, the Deputy Senate Presidency.  Kalu was a member of the House of Representatives on the platform of the National Republican Party (NRC) from 1992 to 1993.  He served diligently in various committees. In 1999, he became Governor of Abia State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In 2007, Kalu contested for Nigeria’s Presidency on the platform of Progressive People’s Alliance (PPA).  In 2019, Kalu was elected Senator on the APC platform. What all these show is that Kalu has seen it all in politics, with an enviable grassroots base/machinery which he has at his disposal; the machinery he used to give Buhari, what to date remains his greatest performance in the South-East enclave.  Kalu is such a man that once he stands by anyone, that person will rest assured that he has a solid ally who will weather the storm to deliver for him, just as he proved in the last general election in Abia.   Kalu is such a staunch supporter of PMB to the extent that he visited all the 36 states in Nigeria to canvass votes for the President before the campaign flag off, a feat not many of the known supporters of Mr. President, if any, did during the said period. Already an accomplished man, he did that with his personal resources.  But while the personality, antecedents and capacity of Kalu are not in doubt, another argument being advanced by the naysayers against his suitability for the Senate Deputy Presidency is that he is not a ranking senator.   But they seem to forget the fact that he (Kalu) was a one-time member of the House of Representatives (1992-1993).  They also forget that former Governor Godswill Akpabio was a first time senator when he was elected as Minority Leader in the 8th National Assembly.   So between an Orji Kalu who has had experience at the National Assembly and a Godswill Akpabio who never had any such previous experience, who is better suited for the position in question?  But to me, this is a situation that demands political sagacity and expediency above all else for the ruling party who should see it as an all-time chance to warm their way into the hearts of a people who feel marginalized.  APC should look beyond partisan politics and build an indivisible and united Nigeria whereby all the three predominant tribes are given a fair share in government positions.   Above all, as the only APC Senator from the South- East, the ranking position due to the region should logically be Kalu’s.  Considering section 50 (3) of the Nigerian Constitution which stipulates federal character in government appointments, the South-East deserves the seat so as to meet with the constitutional provision. And once this becomes the case, there is no one who better fits the bill than Orji Kalu, a mobiliser per excellence.   This will provide the ruling APC the opportunity to kill two birds with one stone as they say; they will be having a trusted ally in a sensitive position and they will be showing the South-East that they are a part of the country’s scheme of things.  In Kalu, the APC has a golden chance to make forays into the South-East.  It is too good to pass up.