 Amidst increasing complaints of transaction failures, Nigerians spent N808.8 billion over Point of Sales (PoS) channel in the last three months, New Telegraph has learnt. The first quarter figure represents 28 per cent increase when compared with transactions value of N580.9 billion recorded in the same period of 2018.
Data released by the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) revealed that the value was realised from 83.7 million deals carried out across the country from January to March.
Monthly analysis of the data showed that N222.9 billion was spent over the electronic payment channel in January. By February, N193.4 billion was spent via the platform while March transactions value stood at N217.4 billion.
However, the NIBSS statistics showed a decline in the number of deployed PoS terminals. This may not be unconnected with inactivity on some of the registered terminals. NIBSS had in a recent report expressed concerns that banks’ investment in the machines was becoming a waste due to inactivity of some of the terminals.
“Banks invest a lot of funds to acquire POS terminals and necessary accessories to make them usable by merchants/salespersons, some of who end up abandoning the terminals after collecting same from their banks,” Managing Director of NIBSS, Mr Niyi Ajao, had said in a review of the payment system’s 2018 performance.
According to him, inactive terminals constituted about 40 per cent of installed PoS terminals in Nigeria presently.
In March this year, the number of actively deployed terminals stood at 221,056, compared with 225,924 recorded in February. This means that 4,868 terminals went inactive in the space of one month. In a similar trend, number of registered terminals also declined from 272,272 in February to 270,111 in March.
Meanwhile, users of the electronic payment channel have continued to express concerns over recurrent failure of transactions on the platform. Findings showed that in most cases when the transactions on PoS terminals failed, bank customers were debited and the transactions were not reverted.
Bank customers are also worried that getting a refund after failed transactions were tedious as complaints did not yield positive response. In some cases, the customers have had to forego their savings in situations where their banks did not reverse the transaction.
Affirming that there is indeed a challenge in the payment system, NIBSS MD noted that the issue of PoS transaction failure is threatening the growth.
“The failure rate of card transactions on PoS terminals range between 13 per cent and 15 per cent, that is, in every 100 attempts to process card payment on PoS terminals, 13 to 15 would fail, compared with 0.7 per cent failure rate of the NIBSS Instant Payments (NIP) service,” the NIBSS MD said.
According to him, studies have revealed that while about half of the card payment failures are attributable to system glitches and GPRS signal problems in the POS processing system, the other half is largely caused by the Account Selection feature which is peculiar to PoS terminal operation in Nigeria.
“Studies have shown that often times, the cardholder will choose current account, but the salesperson would go ahead and select savings account option in error or vice versa, so where the cardholder does not have funds in the savings account, the transaction would be declined. Also, two to three seconds are wasted in every POS payment process to confirm cardholders’ preferred account. This accounts for to up to 800 hours cumulative time wasted daily given the current 1,000,000 average daily POS transaction volume,” he said.
However, to address the challenge, he said all banks had resolved that as from January this year, salespersons should desist from asking cardholders about current/savings account.
“Rather, the salesperson should just select the default account option on the POS terminal during card payment processing. In like manner, cardholders are required to tell the salesperson to use the default account whenever they are confronted with current/savings account question,” he said.