Experts in the health sector have called on religious leaders to make use of their churches and mosques to pass down information on health to the people especially those in the rural areas. An American-based medical expert, Dr Chukwuocha Uzoma, made this known during an ongoing free medical and surgical services in Tungan Kwasou, Bwari Area Council in the Federal Capital Territory, organised by the Association of the Nigerian Physicians in Americas (ANPA), National Business and Professional Woman Nigeria (BPW) in partnership with the Federal Government. According to him, lack of health education, poor access to healthcare services and lack of awareness were among the major factors militating against the growth of Nigeria’s health sector Dr. Uzoma who is a member of ANPA in California, said he said he had discovered within the past few days of the outreach, that that most people in the country do not know the importance of carrying out medical checkups even when they were not down with an ailment.  “The common issues basically is lack of healthcare awareness. People don’t know how to seek care before they get sick. You see a man that is coming with a very high blood pressure but he doesn’t even know that he is hypertensive. You can see someone who is diabetic coming with blood sugar over 400 and does not even know that he is diabetic. The bottom line is that we can give them education ahead of time,” he said. Uzoma who commended the the federal government’s efforts in revitalizing Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) across the geopolitical zones, noted that equipping the PHCs was the best thing to do. “If we can make primary healthcare (PHC) services accessible, we would solve a huge of the problem. Most of the patience are very sick but they don’t have the money to buy care, some of them have had infection for a long time and it is there growing because there is no access to care.”  “With this medical mission, they were able to get antibiotics and all the care they needed,” he added. Uzoma maintained that the nation’s healthcare system could be better, as it was on a journey. He however called for more partnership between the government and the medical professionals in the Diaspora for the benefit of the country.  One of the beneficiaries, the Dakacin Dakwa 1, Malam Yahaya Ajiya, urged government to fashion out a programme that would investigate the root causes of non communicable diseases afflicting many citizens in the country in an effort to halt them.  Ajiya was at the medical outreach to get treated of knees pain and eye disease which he had been suffering from for the past six months. “When I came here, they tested me and gave me some drugs. This outreach programme is good and should be sustained. The federal government needs to dig deep and find out the causes of various diseases coming up among the population in the country.
“When the government takes this step and get to know what exactly is the cause(s) of these diseases, it can then can find lasting solution to them.”