…five more people murdered …govt imposes curfew  Scores of students and some lecturers of the College of Education (COE) Katsina-Ala in Katsina- Ala Local Government Area of Benue State yesterday continued to flee the area following the outbreak of hostilities by suspected armed militants.  The militants have visited mayhem on communities in the area leading to the displacement of many people, including the elderly, women and children mostly of school age. The situation has forced Governor Samuel Ortom to cut short his annual leave. It also made government to announce a 24 hour-curfew in Katsina-Ala town. At least, 11 people were reported to have been killed by the militia group in separate attacks, with many others wounded during last week’s attack on Ngibo village and Tse-Aye all in Ikyurav Tiev 1 in the local government. A victim of the attack, who did not want his name in print, said the militants carried out sporadic shootings on Sunday which spilled over to yesterday.   This resulted in the killing of five more people while a middle-aged woman was reportedly injured in the process. Reports said areas affected in the latest attack included Across and Abaver/ Tse-Jabi settlements near the college where the victims were killed and many houses set ablaze. A source from the school said most students, who were staying off campus, had moved into the college, while others had returned to their homes to stay with their parents.  The source said: “When the shooting started last night (on Sunday), students, lecturers and the entire community, including nonindigenes, ran to take refuge at the Bishop House where they started shooting till this morning (yesterday).”  A victim said the security situation in Katsina-Ala now was tense. He said: “I have no option than to leave with my people. I tell you, the killing and burning of houses here is too much. Most Igbo traders are leaving this place.  The economy of the local government will crash and you can guess what this ugly situation portends.” Meanwhile, Ortom yesterday said he had cut short his annual leave to join hands with major stakeholders to address the ongoing crisis in some border and other communities in the state. The governor said in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Terver Akase, that the decision became imperative “following renewed killings of innocent people and destruction of property by gunmen especially in the Sankera area of the state.”  Ortom appealed for calm and assured the people of the affected areas that government would do everything lawfully possible to ensure the end of the crisis and to guarantee their safety.  “It was part of the peace efforts that his Deputy, Benson Abounu, recently led a state delegation to Taraba State to meet with key stakeholders in that state where they engaged on the best approach to end the lingering crisis between the people of border communities in the two states,” the statement read in part.  Ortom stated that even while on leave, he had been in constant touch with heads of security agencies in the state and was optimistic that sooner than later, peace would return to the areas. He appealed to those taking advantage of the crisis to whip up sentiments to remember that “Benue is the only state they have and if they allow politics to destroy it, the impact of such destruction will affect everyone irrespective of political affiliation.”   In the meantime, government has imposed a 24 hourcurfew on Katsina-Ala town with effect from yesterday as part of measures to restore peace and ensure the security of lives and property in that part of the state. According to government, the curfew shall be reviewed as the situation demands. Abounu, who announced the curfew in a statement by his CPS, Ogaba Ede, urged the people of Katsina-Ala to cooperate with security operatives by obeying the curfew.