Women leaders in Edo State have pledged support for the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration’s drive to enhance access to education for women, especially through the Adult Education and Non-Formal Learning Centres established by the state government to bridge the gender gap in the state.  However, the women leaders commended Governor Obaseki during the campaign to drive enrollment of females into the education centres in Ovia North East and Egor Local Government Areas, for implementing the initiative to redefine the role of women in the state.  Special Adviser to the Governor on Gender Issues, Ms. Efosa Uyigue, said the Governor Obaseki-led administration would continue to support the education of the girl-child, noting: “Education is fundamental in building the character of individual and social relationship skills that elevates society and that is what we aim to achieve.”  Uyigue added: “I encourage women to enroll young women under their care, who dropped out of school in the adult education programme, which is free. This is an opportunity for them to acquire education, which will enable them to seek better job opportunities or become better employers of labour.”  At the awareness campaign in Egor LGA, the Chairman of the council, Eghe Ogbemudia, said efforts would be made to support the effort of the state government in re-opening adult education centres for more females to avail them the opportunity to be educated. Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki has urged planners of the nation’s education curricular to replace the existing education philosophy with emphasis on skills acquisition. Obaseki made the call when he received members of the Nigerian Academy of Education (NAE), led by Prof.Abigail Imogie, who visited the governor in his office… In “Education” Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, yesterday urged designers of the country’s education curricular to replace the existing philosophy with skills acquisition. Obaseki made the call when he received members of the Nigerian Academy of Education (NAE), led by Prof. Abigail Imogie, who paid him a courtesy visit in Benin… In “News” Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday said that empowerment of the girl-child would mitigate her vulnerability in the society. Obaseki spoke at a ceremony to commemorate the United Nations International Day for the Girl-Child held in Benin, the state capital. He said: “Comprehensive education covering formal, informal and non-formal modes… In “News”