If you couldn’t watch a live match, you can still watch its highlights to catch up. If you couldn’t graduate at 21, you can still graduate at 31. If you couldn’t ride your first car at 18 (as you initially planned), riding it at 28 won’t make you become less-human. If you couldn’t get married at 24, you can still have the best marriage even at 34. There is nothing like a ‘write-off’ life; let no one put unnecessary pressure on you. Whatever you are unable to do or achieve now, you can do and achieve later – in a bigger and better way. Life is not ‘how far’, it is about ‘how well’. Whilst it is awesome to achieve great heights early in life, it is also of importance we don’t rush things in life. Lack of patience, peer pressure and inability to look away from ‘what people will say’ has caused many to make some grave mistakes in life. Never be in a rush to achieve anything in life, allow time and process. Abidemi, a young graduate from one of the popular universities in Nigeria, wasn’t only a beautiful lady; her level of intelligent was what every young guy would ‘die’ for. She was one of such one would consider ‘a very promising lady’. Young, vibrant and very smart.
She met some friends in her finals, none of whom had any other songs in their mouth other than “marriage, marriage and marriage” Suddenly, Abidemi began to put the pressure of marriage on herself, at 22. Her level of desperation for marriage became a do or die affair; all she wanted ‘any man’, as long as marriage is involved. She finally got married, but her marriage didn’t last up to four months. The rest is now history. Whatever you rush into, you will rush out from. One of my mentors once said – when you appear when you ought not to appear, you will disappear when you are supposed to appear. Wait for your time. Wait for your turn. For the singles, please avoid the ‘go and marry’ kind of talks. This has made many to end up in mess. Yeah, I am not suggesting you become 82 years of age before planning to settle down for marriage. I am of the opinion that you shouldn’t ‘rush’ into whatever you want to do in life. As a lady, there are persons you ought to just greet and move on. But lack of patience will make you start seeing every man as your husband. I have met some ladies who got married not because they were ready for it but because they wanted to bear the title ‘Mrs’. Talking about marriage, you need to understand the purpose before going into it. Sincerely, as wonderful as it (marriage) is, it is not meant for babies or people who do not understand its purpose. I once asked Chinenye, one of my teenage friends, why she wants to become a doctor. She said because she likes the white robe they usually put on. I took time to explain the job of a doctor to my young friend, who later understood that being a doctor is more than putting on a white robe. So, getting married because you just love it when a man and a woman hold hands, walking on the street or because you want bear the title ‘mrs’, is like that my young friend who wants to become a doctor because she loves the concept of the white robe they (doctors) usually put on. Lastly, never feel threatened or intimidated when some persons around you are having what you earnestly desire. Be patience enough to know about timing. And most times, when some blessings show up late, they show up bigger and better. When it is not your time, it is not. And when it is not your turn, it is not. Celebrate those who gets there before you, believing that someday, it will be your time and turn. Reactions: 1. God bless you Femi. Your weekly digest is one of the things I look forward to every Sunday. It is not only spiritual, it is as well educating. More grace. 080323153XX 2. Happy Sunday Mr. Femi. I just finished reading your weekly digest. I wish some of my friends will read your column every Sunday. It has really blessed me. I have also learnt a lot from it. God bless you sir. 080696917XX