Hon. Bisi Yusuff represents Alimosho state constituency I in the Lagos State House of Assembly. In this interview with WALE ELEGBEDE, he speaks on the 2019 general election, the race for leadership in the National Assembly and his programme for his constituents in his third term   How would you assess the just concluded general election and what lessons are there to be learnt all through the electoral process? The last election was a tedious project, in fact I am afraid for Nigeria the way we are going. A period will come in this country that if we are not careful we won’t find intelligent people, people with integrity or people that know what to do and when to do it venturing into politics. I must confess that people do not even know what one has contributed towards the development of a system, it is what they can get, forgetting that it is what you put down in sustaining the system that matters than what you get from the system.
We thank God that in Lagos State we have a very focused leader in Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who, no matter how poor you are, if he discovers you and put you in the system, scans around to ensure that you are retained. It is not an easy task becoming something in Nigeria today; you need money and that is the true position. I think we should do something about money politics.  But can we really say that the ravaging poverty in the land is due to money politics? To a certain extent, that is true. But even you that you are doing everything possible to make the system work, when election comes, they forget about what you have done in the past, that is just the blunt truth. When it comes to election, people you have even done it for will ask you, what have you done? In essence, I am advocating for the retraining and rebuilding of our mindset to ensure that what is obtainable today is redefined so as to justify our continued existence and integrity that we are preaching today. How would poverty not come? Out of the little I am supposed to invest in projects the electorate will demand for money, the system won’t thrive without money, it is not the best. I just returned from Chicago, the Speaker of the House over there had been in the house for 50 years.  You recently brandished your CV to prove a point on the social media. What role do you feel adequate sensitization can play in toning down money politics? There is one particular candidate of a different political party, that man committed what a journalist or social scientist would call class suicide by derailing from the ruling party and decamp to another party to contest with me, saying imagine Bisi Yusuff who cannot even express himself and I regarded him as a novice. He could be said to be suffering from political schizophrenia, they are living in illusion and more like in a mirage due to their vested interest which is conflicting with their sense of reasoning that informed what they are saying. Before many of them were born I have graduated from the university. After being a graduate, I have spent eight years here. I am aware I would have gotten several additional degrees within this period and you can’t buy experience with money, just forget about that. In essence I feel I need to thank my constituents for all the qualities they have seen in me despite the character assassination and the deliberate heating of the polity. The people stood and they helped, I have the highest vote, 45,000 plus and again, Mr. Honourable contested against me with all the degrees and intimidating resume, the people now call him Honourable 2004 because he scored 2004 votes, you can see the wide margin of difference.  Does that shows that aside the money some people still remember your efforts? Clearly without that there is no way I would have emerged victorious. Especially my health program alone suffice, when I now came out with my compendium people were asking if I was going for governorship and I said no and this is because it is only a governor that can dabble into such a thing and this is just because I am not a sleeping or docile honourable and I don’t run away from my constituents. I have a functional constituency office running from time to time even when I am not around, I have a team of media people who are on ground, they are now putting heads together, making researches and more, because you can’t afford not to be informed so that you are not deformed, a reader is a leader they say.  What is your take on the leadership scramble in the National Assembly? There is nowhere in the world that you would do anything outside the party so the party hierarchy should know who is going for what, that is what stabilize the polity of a country. We all knew how Saraki dramatically became the Senate President and we saw the result. Why should we go through that trend again? We should not, because experience will guide us. If you obtained your certificate by fraud, definitely you would secure a fraudulent job and the end, it would be shameless exit from the system like Saraki’s defeat. So I will advise the National Assembly that whatever they want to do, we have a National Leader and other high ranking leaders of the party, they should sit together and constitute a very formidable team that would have the interest of the nation at heart, not individual ambition. It is highly important.  Won’t that amount to external influence in the affairs of the National Assembly? There is internal democracy, what it means is for you to subject yourself to party discipline and know that maintaining party discipline is very supreme, the party supported them to the heights they are. Those faulting that are really not discipline members. If the party is supporting somebody you will know. Are you implying that those supporting Ali Ndume should be considered as non-disciplined members of the party? Oh yes, do you just contest for a position without identifying with the party? The terminology that the party is supreme must hold sway, it is applicable anywhere even in the United States and the UK. The party must have an internal mechanism by which they determine who gets what, the leadership anywhere comes out of a gradual progression, you cannot just come from the blues and say you want to be anything or contesting for something, those is position must have been in the party, the party supported them to become what they are today and as a result, they must do everything in line with what the party is saying. But I know that those who are not toeing the party line will fail, definitely that is what is going to happen.  What should Babajide Sanwoolu be mindful of as he selects members of his executive cabinet? Sanwoolu should not do it alone, he should consult with leaders very widely, that is my own candid opinion and I said I would not shy away from saying it. He should not arrogate the selective power to himself alone. It is when you do that, that people view it as a team work and they will have confidence in you. Gone are those days when such subsist, Asiwaju will not even do that to anybody, if you know him like I do, the Jagaban of Borgu would never select alone, he would ensure he consult with every leader in each local government before concluding or coming up with it and the era of saying somebody is imported from somewhere is not tenable here. I trust him, he has trained thousands of his foot soldiers today in Lagos, nationwide and even outside the shores of Nigeria.  How do you view the reduction in the number of women especially in the coming 9th assembly? Giving women soft landing in political space means you are reducing their status. In the university exam, the score that secure your admission is not gender sensitive. Consider Hon Tejuosho, whose stance is more than a man, they should join the struggle, if they keep lamenting, men would continue to dominate them in the political space. Hon. Kolawole Taiwo, a former Deputy Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, is the House of Representatives candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency. In this interview, he speaks on 2019 general elections and recent State House of Assembly crises, among others. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports… In “Politics” Following last weekend’s presidential and National Assembly elections where President Muhammadu Buhari was returned for a second term, National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) Dr. Eddy Olafeso, in this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, says the elections were allegedly fraught with irregularities and massive rigging aided by security… In “Sunday Extra” Hon. Kolawole Taiwo, a former Deputy Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly is the All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives candidate for Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency. In this interview, he speaks on the inconclusiveness of the election in his constituency, among other issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports      … In “Politics”