Accommodation, poor drainage and refuse will continue to be some of the major challenges bedeviling many communities in Nigeria, and Lagos State in particular. One of such communities suffering from these three challenges is Hausa quarter, located at Ojota Old Garage after Ojota Bus Stop. The community, hidden from many eyes, is known as Ojota Gidan Kwali. The community is sandwiched between a bridge linking Maryland and Ojota. The community, which has over 5000 residents, has 80 percent Hausas, 10 percent Igbo and 10 percent Yoruba, says one of the community leaders. The community has issue of poor drainage, accommodation and refuse. These three are the harbingers of mosquitoes and malaria in any community and Gidan Kwali is not an exception. To checkmate mosquito bites and malaria ravaging the community, Ikeja Electric Plc had recently visited the community to show concern and render help. To mark World Malaria Day, which took place on Thursday, the company, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), visited Gidan Kwali. Over 2000 specially prepared mosquito nets were distributed to the residents. The community members were ecstatic about this kind gesture displayed by the company. Not only were they eager to get their hands on the nets, many fought to get it. The Chief Technical Coordinator, Ikeja Electric, Engineer Sunday Oyewole, who led Ikeja Electric Plc staff to the community, said: “Our primary duty in Ikeja Electric Plc is to supply power, but we also have our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), which our customers benefits from. One of such responsibilities is why we are in this community. We are here to mark the World Malaria Day with them.” Oyewole further said: “Part of the reason we are here is to educate members of the community on the hazards of malaria, which is caused by mosquito bites. People usually fall sick because of malaria. These nets are specially prepared to vanquish mosquitoes. Once mosquitoes come in contact with them, they die instantly. Malaria is one sickness that can kill millions of people. These nets are meant to stop mosquito bites and check malaria. Our hope is that these beneficiaries will not go and keep them under their beds. We hope they put it to good use. It will help to stamp out malaria from the community.” The community leader, Alhaji Attahiru Hassan, beaming a smile, said: “I personally appreciate the Ikeja Electric for this gesture. At least they remembered this community and came here to help. We are glad they chose to use our community to mark the World Malaria Day. Believe me, these nets will help. Most of our struggling young men, who used to sleep outside, will now have nets to protect them from mosquito bites and malaria. It will save lives.” Adanze Osomonika, Head, Wellness and Communication, Hygeia HMO, said: “Our coming to this community is to let people know how far they can go in prevention of malaria. Children are the most vulnerable when it comes to malaria. Malaria is a sickness many takes for granted, but it is really dangerous. We want to engage the community and we want them to know that they are part of the prevention programme.”