Residents of Gudu in the Abuja Municipal Area Council have urged the FCT authorities to install traffic lights at major junctions in the area to curb accidents and gridlocks. The residents who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in separate interviews on Saturday said the issue had become a big source of concern to in the area. The Oladipo Diya Way which has estates such as Gaduwa, Adisa and Prince and Princess as well as the Gudu market has no traffic lights at its major junctions. Mrs Omonigho Okaro, a public servant and resident of Gaduwa Estate, said the authorities should focus on installing traffic lights especially at Gaduwa and Gudu market junctions. “We need the FCT minister to look into the issue of traffic lights in this area.  “When you go around town you will see them installing traffic lights very close to each other, everywhere in places like Maitama, Asokoro and Gwarinpa meanwhile in Gudu here we are lacking traffic lights at major junctions. “And when you come here sometimes especially during rush hour and you see the kind of accidents that happen especially at the Gaduwa and Gudu market junction, they are very fatal. “Sometimes people are seriously injured and the cars are also a write-off. “So I believe if there are traffic lights installed it will drastically reduce accidents in this our area.” Another residents of Gaduwa Estate, Mr Sunday Christian, a businessman, blamed the spate of accidents in the area on the recklessness of “Keke Napep” and “Okada” riders. “The need for a traffic light at Gaduwa junction cannot be overemphasized as we have been recording fatal accidents for sometime now. “Worthy of note is the accidents caused particularly by the Okada riders and kekenapep drivers. “It is important that they are regulated, they drive so recklessly and carelessly and they cause a lot of accidents on that junction. “I call on the authorities that is in charge of regulating this sector, the Okada riders and the kekenapep to do the needful so that lives are saved and property are protected. “Another point to be noted is that the road connecting Lokogoma to Gaduwa through Durumi 3 that has just been opened, has increased the traffic flow from the people coming from Lokogoma .”