Felix Nwaneri reports on the courage of character displayed by the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode in handling the outcome of the governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which threw up Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who is now the Governor-elect of the state   In the build up to the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primaries in October last year, there were intense political activities, which hitherto created palpable tension in Lagos State, but immediately after the said primaries and twists that followed, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, in a statewide broadcast did not only congratulate the winner, Babajide Sanwo-Olu (now Governor-elect), but also pledged to work for the victory of the party, a shrewd sacrifice that drastically brought down the tension in the political firmament of the state.
His words then: “Fellow Lagosians, the last few days have witnessed intense political activities that have gripped the attention of the nation and created palpable tension in the polity. I strongly believe that the time has now come for the state to move forward in order that the gains of the last three and half years are not lost.
“APC is a great party and the interests of our beloved state must always supersede that of any person or group. It is in this regard that I wholeheartedly congratulate the winner of the Lagos State APC Primaries, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and urge all Lagosians to immediately support our party’s gubernatorial candidate in the 2019 elections and work for the success of our dear party.”
To many then, those words were not only instructive, the governor led by example as he commenced another move to galvanize all the critical stakeholders in the party to ensure that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) did not take advantage of the fallout in the primaries to clinch power in the state.
During the first weekly Exco meeting after the primaries, Ambode specifically told cabinet members to forgive and forget the past and team up with the candidate of the party to ensure victory, which would in turn, according to him, foster the consolidation of the massive gains recorded in the last four years.
While also walking the talk, the governor ordered that his campaign structure, Ambode Mandate Support Group (AMSG), be collapsed into the Sanwo-Olu Campaign Council, which later transformed into Independent Support Group (ICG) to work for the victory of all APC candidates in the state as well as the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.
From the political front, several other moves were initiated to ensure victory for APC across board, including directing his supporters across the 20 local government areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) to begin grassroots campaign for the APC governorship candidate, while preaching message of forgiveness and unity.
Speaking to journalists at the Presidential Wing of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport shortly after he accompanied President Buhari to perform the official commissioning of the new Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Border Posts at Seme-Krake joint border post in Badagry, Ambode publicly assured all that he would lead a strong campaign to ensure victory for the President and Sanwo-Olu.
“I want to, again, use this opportunity to let Lagosians know that we are heavily committed to the re-election of Mr. President and you can see that his continuous visit to Lagos reiterates the fact that he is actually a lover of Lagos State and I am committed to ensuring his re-election,” he said.
At another event during the unveiling of an ultra-modern lecture theater donated to the Lagos State University (LASU) by businessman and philanthropist, Chief Remi Makanjuola, on November 22, 2018, Ambode assured that Sanwo-Olu would not abandon ongoing projects in the state, but will rather complete and build on the enduring legacies already put in place by his administration.
Aside hosting Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, on a number of occasions at Lagos House together with members of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), and visiting some markets in Lagos with the Vice President to launch the TraderMoni initiative, Governor Ambode also continued with his message of assurance to Lagosians that the APC government remains the best option in 2019.
This assurance was restated by the governor during the presentation of cheques to over 2,000 beneficiaries of the loan programme of the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) held at LTV Blue Roof, Agidingbi, Ikeja, on November 26, 2018; and during the 12th Annual Town Hall on Security organised by the Lagos State Security Trust Fund on November 28, 2018, at Civic Centre, Ozumba Mbadiwe Avenue, Victoria Island, Lagos.
Yet on December 4, 2018, in Abuja during the National Consultative Forum of the National Committee of Buhari Support Groups, Ambode vigorously campaigned for the party’s presidential and governorship candidates. At another meeting in Epe few days after, held at the instance of the governor with APC leaders from the division comprising Epe Local Government, Eredo Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Ikosi-Ejirin LCDA and the entire Lagos East Senatorial District, the governor continued his message of unity and specifically urged voters in the division to vote massively for the APC at all levels.
Also, as a member of the National Peace and Reconciliation Committee set up by the APC to pacify aspirants and members aggrieved with the outcome of the primaries conducted by the party to elect candidates for 2019 general elections, Ambode was visibly involved in trying to pacify aggrieved members of the party in the South West region to queue behind Buhari and Osinbajo, as well as all the candidates of the party.
At one of the peace meetings held in Lagos, the governor stated unequivocally that “I can declare here that we do not have any issue in Lagos State and that we are one family. But again that is not to say that there is no platform for reconciliation; we do not know whether there are some aspirants who are aggrieved but we can say affirmatively as a party that we are one family in Lagos State.”
Also, at a stakeholders’ meeting of APC held at the State secretariat of the party on Acme Road in Ogba on December 17, 2018, Ambode further demonstrated his acceptance of the party’s position with regards to emergence of the governorship candidate when he officially endorsed Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat by raising their hands before scores of party leaders and faithful and wished them well in the general elections.
Interestingly, however, the governor’s sacrifice and efforts to unite the party had not gone unnoticed. In fact he has earned accolades from within and outside the state. Chairman, APC National Peace and Reconciliation Committee for South-West, Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State, described Ambode as the politician of the year for displaying uncommon courage and spirit after the party’s primaries in Lagos.
Another member of the Committee, Senator Sa’ida Sa’ad Bugaje, said Ambode’s actions after the primaries had resonated beyond the state as a learning curve in leadership and sportsmanship for future leaders.
“I was at a youth forum recently where young people were dissecting Governor Ambode’s leadership story as a perfect example. They said they had never seen such in the history of Nigeria since 1999. They said they look up to Governor Ambode as a role model in terms of peace and good leadership,” she said.
Also, the deputy governorship candidate of APC in Lagos State (now Deputy governor-elect), Hamzat, said Ambode deserved commendations for displaying unusual maturity and character, which eloquently confirmed him as a man with large heart.
Even the presidency noticed the sacrifice made by the governor for the unity of the party, with President Muhammadu Buhari commending Ambode for his rare loyalty to the party.
“In every competition, someone has to win and someone has to lose, but those who lost should not abandon the party or lose their enthusiasm for the advancement of the party,” Buhari said, urging other Nigerian politicians to learn from the Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, “who despite his loss didn’t abandon the APC for another party because he was angry over the outcome of the governorship primaries.”
Activities of the governor, however, paid off during the presidential election, with President Buhari winning the state. The President, according to result announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), polled 580,825 votes to beat his closest rival in the race, who polled 448, 015, culminating in a win margin of 132, 810 votes.
Still not satisfied with the margin of victory for APC at the presidential election in the state, Governor Ambode, again, moved to town especially with Sanwo-Olu and Hamzat, canvassing for votes in the stronghold of the opposition.
This also turned out positive for the APC, as the party won the governorship election with a wide margin. In the final result, Sanwo-Olu scored 739,445 votes, while Jimi Agbaje of the PDP polled 206,141 votes. The APC also won all the 40 seats in the State House of Assembly.
Before the elections, APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who is believed to be the brain behind the denial of Governor Ambode’s second term, had publicly commended the courage of the governor and others in accepting the outcome of the primaries of the party.
Addressing the gathering which was attended by key leaders of the party in the State, Tinubu said: “I want to say thank you to all of you and God bless you. I thank all of you for respecting the party, particularly the present Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode and his deputy, Idiat Adebule. May God continue to bless you and guide you and you will live long with everlasting progress.
No doubt, Ambode has demonstrated an unusual courage, character and commitment that is uncommon in this part of the world with the way he managed the fallouts of the party primaries in the state. The governor placed the unity of the party and the development of the State and the country as a whole beyond his personal interest. Nigerian politics and the democratic process would be on a solid trajectory if politicians can emulate the governor. The tension that has dominated the Lagos political space in the past weeks was put to rest yesterday as Governor Akinwunmi Ambode conceded defeat and accepted the controversial results of the governorship primaries conducted by the All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor, who made the declaration in a live… In “News” TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the just concluded All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries in Lagos State   The just concluded primary elections of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) shook the party in Lagos State, following controversies that marred the shadow polls used by the party to elect its candidates for… In “Politics” Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode’s re-election may have finally hit the rocks as he was facing pressures from party leaders, asking him to not only drop his ambition but support his main challenger, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu.   The pressure, however, followed his face-off with the All Progressives Congress… In “News”