In 2013, the Federal Government launched a pilot project designed to harness Nigeria’s potentials in solar power technology to extend electricity to the rural areas. Six years later, the beneficiary community is living in darkness and fear. CALEB ONWE reports  Durumi-Mpape, a remote community, is about 15 kilometers from the popular Mpape in Abuja. The road to Durumi -Mpape is undulating and dusty, particularly during the dry season. It is a surbub located in a valley and surrounded by humongous rocky mountains.   The regular means of transport on that route is the motorcycle, popularly known as okada. Their only competitors for right of way are the heavy duty trucks, conveying granites, stone chippings and stone dust from the various quarries located in the area to the city.   Durumi-Mpape is host to one of the Chinese companies that runs a functional quarry where it crushes rocks and sells both granite chipping and stone dust to builders and construction companies. Inside Abuja’s searchlight was beamed on this community as a way of assessing the situation of things there many years after it benefitted from Federal Government’s pilot solar powered rural electrification project in 2013.   Durumi-Mpape, has not produced any influential politician with the wit and capacity to attract such a project but it became the envy of its neighbours when the electrification project was launched there with fanfare andDurumi-Mpape, a remote community, is about 15 kilometers from the popular Mpape in Abuja. The road to Durumi -Mpape is undulating and dusty, particularly during the dry season. It is a surbub located in a valley and surrounded by humongous rocky mountains.  The regular means of transport on that route is the motorcycle, popularly known as okada. Their only competitors for right of way are the heavy duty trucks, conveying granites, stone chippings and stone dust from the various quarries located in the area to the city.   Durumi-Mpape is host to one of the Chinese companies that runs a functional quarry where it crushes rocks and sells both granite chipping and stone dust to builders and construction companies.  Inside Abuja’s searchlight was beamed on this community as a way of assessing the situation of things there many years after it benefitted from Federal Government’s pilot solar powered rural electrification project in 2013. Durumi-Mpape, has not produced any influential politician with the wit and capacity to attract such a project but it became the envy of its neighbours when the electrification project was launched there with fanfare and    attention from the global community.  It seemed that the gods were angry that such community was existing within an arm’s length of the nation’s seat of power, but yet was having an undesirable romance with darkness, and divine providence catapulted the people to limelight. It was during the regime of President Goodluck Jonathan when the Federal Ministry of Power conceived the project in collaboration with some foreign partners and donor agencies.  They chose Durumi-Mpape community, in Bwari Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT ) for the “Light up Nigeria ” pilot project. The solar-powered electricity project was said have been executed in partnership with some foreign firms, Philips and Snieder of Netherlands and Germany. It was also said to have been built to provide 24-hour uninterrupted electricity to this community. The day the project was inaugurated may have come as the most superlative ‘  Christmas ‘ in the anals of their history, as many important government functionaries and members of the diplomatic community were on hand to share in the glory. The then Minister of Power, Prof. Chinedu Nebo, who inaugurated the project as part of the transformation agenda for the power sector was reported to have remarked that: “We are here today to inaugurate a special initiative of the Federal Ministry of Power called “Operation light up rural Nigeria.”   “This is part of President Goodluck Jonathan’s transformation agenda for the sector, which is aimed at taking light to every part of Nigeria, including the remotest villages”. However, the jubilation was shortlived as the euphoria soon gave way to the challenges of maintaining the solar energy facilities installed in the community.  Spokesperson of the community, Mr. Daudu Yusuf, lamented that the solar-powered light project which came to their community as answers to years of perseverance in prayers had gone   the way of so many celebrated government initiatives in Nigeria. He recalled that when the project was inaugurated in 2013, there were few houses and manageable population in Durumi -Mpape.  According to him, the solar panels, batteries and other components of the electricity project were in perfect condition.  However, the project resulted in an instant population explosion as many families relocated to the community to enjoy the electricity. Soon afterwards, the facilities became overstretched and some of its components began to break down one after the other. Inside Abuja learnt that since the inauguration of this project, the Ministry of Power had disappeared and left no formal plan for the maintenance of the facilities to ensure the sustenance of the initiative.   “The solar-powered electricity served us very well when it was newly inaugurated, but old age has affected it. The thing is weak. In fact, majority of the parts are weak.   On our own, we have even changed some panels and batteries but they did not work. Even the panel installed in the primary school to power the clinic and the street lights are weak and not working. No company, not even officials from Ministry of Power is coming around to check on it and to maintain them,” Yusuf said. On whether the community paid to get the solar-powered electricity, he said that everything given to them was free of charge. He explained that the community knowing that they have the re-   sponsibility to take ownership of the project, tried to maintain it but that their efforts appeared to have reached a limit.  He alleged that the collapse of the project might not be unconnected with the huge population which it attracted to the community, but noted that they were like amateur swimmers left in the middle of the river to find their way without a compass and life jackets.
Instead of lighting up the community, the  collapsed solar power project has made darkness the their daily companion of these rural dwellers.  Inside Abuja’s investigation revealed that most of the streets lights mounted in selected locations in the community have long stopped functioning. Those who still have the panels installed on their roof top, are not enjoying the light. It was discovered that some residents receive some electricity which they use to power some minor home appliances. It was also discovered that most of the panels and batteries are still standing as mere fancy without any value. In a bid to ameliorate the situation, Yusuf disclosed that the residents have decided to take responsibility for their welfare and progress and have initiated a communal light project that has seen the community connected to the national grid. Yusuf said that with the collaboration of the Rural Electrification Project of the Federal Government, the community has gotten just one 300 kv transformer, which he said is inadequate for a place that has more than 5, 000 inhabitants.
Inside Abuja confirmed the said efforts when it inspected the concrete and wooden electricity poles and wires already in place. The said 300 kv transformer was also sighted mounted in front of the chief’s palace.  It was learnt that the community had started receiving electricity once in a while from the National grid, but as at the time of this fact finding mission, there was no light anywhere, apart from those who were using generators. Yusuf expressed regrets that a community that was able to give politicians up to 5,000 votes during the just concluded general elections, Mpape- Durumi deserved better welfare than what it is getting. Similarly, one of the residents who simply identified himself as Roland, said that residents have even been tasked to contribute N3,000 each, yet there is no hope that the light will come soon. Roland, who lives in one of the developing areas of the community, claimed that the levy of N3,000, which many of the residents are struggling to pay is for the purpose of buying poles to extend electricity connections to some of the remote corners. Even as the issue of perpetual darkness is yet to be resolved, the community is in pains over the living conditions of people there. They complained that once the rains begin to come down heavily, the community and other communities along that axis used to be cut off from the rest part of the FCT, due to uncontrollable flood. The spokesperson of the community said that the little culvert bridge across the stream which separates them from the neighbouring villages was still manageable courtesy of a Chinese company that operates a quarry there. He said: “The road and the bridge are still manageable because the Chinese company is making efforts. We want the government to come and help us. That bridge is our major concern because once the rains come fully, we can be cut off.” Another challenge confronting the residents, is the lack of portable water. It was gathered that those who cannot afford to buy water from the few privileged individuals who own boreholes there, still have to go and fetch from a nearby stream where humans compete with animals for drinking rights. As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility, the Chinese company was said to have donated one solar-powered borehole to the community. Investigations however revealed that it is not functioning as expected, and therefore, subjecting the residents to patronize private boreholes. Security concerns are also contributing to the headache of the community. For a village that has more than five thousand residents, it was discovered that there is no presence of the Nigeria Police there. This was even as the residents complained that there have been pockets of criminal activities. Joy Andoaka, a bar operator in the community, said that some criminal elements have infiltrated the community and used to break into homes to dispossess people of their valuables. Residents were also said to be living in fear given the heavy presence of herdsmen who graze their cattle around the community. “We are already talking to Mpape Police Station on the possibility of getting a Police Post here. We already have some cases of criminal activities. We have heard about people’s houses being broken into by criminals. We have also had cases of herdsmen destroying farms, but the clashes have not resulted into any death yet,” the spokesman of the community said.  The usual hustling and bustling in Mpape, a suburb of Abuja, was paused for a while last week following strange sounds and vibrations that shook the ground and the buildings on it. CALEB ONWE reports     Last Wednesday, residents of Mpape, a suburb of the Federal Capital Territory( FCT)… In “Inside Abuja” The Presidential Committee on Earth Tremor has lifted partially, total suspension order previously slammed on blasting and mining activities in Mpape area of the Federal Capital Territory of Abuja. Total ban of blasting was enforced by the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development to enable the team of experts constituted… In “News” There is palpable fears in Mpape community, over a strange fire said to have erupted from beneath the ground in some parts of the densely populated community. This development is coming on the heels of the recent earth tremor that occurred in the community, threatening the socioeconomic lives of the… In “Inside Abuja”