 From various records available since the latest round of attacks and reprisal attacks began in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State early this year, not less than 10, 000 persons mainly women and children have been displaced from their communities.  Among this figure are over 2,000 children many of them orphaned by the circle of violence mainly between the Adara Natives and the Hausa Fulani, who all reside in Kajuru Local Government in the southern part of Kaduna State. Presently, there are not less than five IDP camps scattered within Kajuru and neighboring Chikun and Kachia local government areas. However, these camps lack the basic amenities for human habitation like water, light and other conveniences. Also, there are reports of exploitation and illegal adoption of some of the children for the purpose of house helps by those allegedly trying to assist some of them. Addressing newsmen who were at the camp recently, the Chairman of Mararaban Kajuru IDPs Camp, Mr Alipiri Ado, disclosed that the IDPs, including about 300 children, were crowded in a two-bedroom apartment with only two mobile toilets with no water facility, endangering them to diseases due to poor sanitation and hygiene.  Ado, who confirmed the absence of water supply in the camp, however, said that there was a dry well in the camp, adding that the only source of water is from neighbouring houses. He lamented that, “we need water supply because we don’t know for how long the neighbours will allow the IDPs to be fetching water in their houses. “Not only that. The space is too small and no sleeping materials. Only a few sleep on available mattresses while the majority sleep on bare floor, including the children”. He also disclosed that some women had given birth in the camp in spite of the state of affairs, adding that one of the women gave birth to triplets while another was delivered of twins. Ado also said that two other women gave birth to one child each. Apart from the new born, there are about 100 pregnant women across the six camps in the area, with more than 2,000 under-five children,” Ado disclosed.  Meanwhile, speaking recently when some Non Governmental Organizations visited some of the camps with a view to assisting the IDPs, the Vice Chairman of Kajuru Local Government, Mr James Jagjum, stated that there were about 8,000 IDPs in eight camps across Chikun, Kajuru and Kachia LGAs. His words: “We have a camp at Sabon Tasha, Chikun LGA, a camp at Kasuwan Magani, Iburu, Mararaban Kajuru, Kufana, Makyali and Idon, all in Kajuru LGA and another one at Crossing, Kachia LGA. “What we are planning to do is to collapse all the five camps within Kajuru LGA into a single camp to be sited at Mararaban Kajuru, so we can adequately take good care of them.  “We are expecting assistance from the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) in the form of building materials. “What we want to do is to accommodate only those that their houses were burnt down or destroyed because there are others whose houses were not destroyed, but in the camp out of fear of being attack,” Jagjum said. However, worried by the fast approaching rainy season, the IDPs are calling for assistance to enable them rebuild and return to the communities. While extending appreciation for support received so far, the Chairman of IDPs in Kajuru, Ado had also appealled to government, corporate organisations, non governmental organisations and well meaning individuals to come to their aid by donating building materials for rebuilding of their homes. Alipiri Ado, said: “The basic needs of humans are food, clothing and shelter.  Two of those needs are being met through generous donations from Kaduna Government, through SEMA and non governmental organizations and faith based organisations. “The two met are food and clothing but the third, which is shelter is very important and requires urgent attention. We appeal for building materials for shelter,” he said.  He explained that soon, the rains will come and they are hoping to return to their communities, where the bandits that attacked, burnt down their homes. “Some of the buildings would be requiring only wood and roofing sheets, while some that were pulled down would be requiring bricks, cement and roofing sheets,” he appealed. He said that four villages were completely destroyed by the hoodlums and they have no rooms to sleep. Speaking in the same vain, Chairman of Adara Development Association (ADA) Kajuru Local Government Area, Mr Mumini Madugu, said 545 houses were destroyed in Adara communities following the crisis, adding that they now require about N50 million to rebuild the houses so that the people can leave the IDP camps.  According to him, attacks launched between February 11 and March 26, left 148 people dead and 545 houses destroyed and thousands of his people homeless, with some in the IDP camps and others now residing with relatives.  In the breakdown of the attacks, Madugu said: “The attackers in their   hundreds first invaded Unguwan Barde, killed 35 people and destroyed 90 houses and proceeded to Karamai village on February 2, killed 42 people and destroyed 196 houses. “On March 11, Dogon Noma community was also attacked; 71 people were killed, and 259 houses destroyed, making a total of 148 people killed and 545 houses destroyed.  “In all the attacks, 65 people were seriously injured and currently in hospitals receiving treatment, while about N28 million worth of grains and other food stuff were also burnt.  “These attacks have displaced thousands of our people including 2,000 children who are currently taking shelter in eight camps across three LGAs of Chikun, Kajuru and Kachia,” he said. The chairman also called on government at all levels and well to do individuals across the country to come to their aid and assist them rebuild their houses so their people can return home. Also speaking on the issue, an elder in Kajuru, Mr Usman Stingo, noted that the area has a history of peaceful coexistence with settlers including the Hausa and Fulani. Stingo, a retired civil servant described the relationship between the Adara people and the Fulani as a symbiotic one dating far back to the days of their fore fathers.  He, however, said that the relationship began to deteriorate in 2017 over a relationship between a Hausa boy and an Adara girl which led to a communal clash resulting in loss of lives and properties. On their part, the Kaduna State government is not leaving any stone unturned, as it has promised to put in place measures that would help assuage the plight of the IDPs. A government statement by State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and the Kajuru Local Government lambasted those they said were using the IDPs to undermine government efforts in tackling the menace. Part of the statement said: “Our attention has been drawn to attempts by some individuals and groups smearing the name of the government of Kaduna State about the state of the IDPs in Kajuru LG.  We will like to set the record straight and inform the public that the LG and the state government through the state emergency management agency has provided relief materials to the IDPs in identified locations around Kajuru local government. “Some of the displaced persons have been absorbed by their host communities and the government is working assiduously to begin the reconstruction of the destroyed settlements to enable the communities return to their homes.”  The statement jointly signed by Hon. Cafra Caino, Chairman Kajuru LG and Hon. Ben Kure, Executive Secretary, SEMA said,”When the attacks happened, there were various camps but currently the local government has collapsed the camps into one camp at KADP building in Maraban Kajuru which will be the only approved camp. This is due to reports of possible child labour or child trafficking and to avoid the politicization of the humanitarian situation through propaganda, as some individuals have been reported to picking children as domestic workers.  “Henceforth the government will no longer tolerate it and anyone caught doing that will be arrested and handed to the appropriate authorities.”  They also said: “We will like to inform the public and all groups or organization that will like to support the efforts of the government must contact the local government chairman or the Director Education and Social Development in the absence of the chairman to get clearance to render any support to the IDPs.”    At the last count not less than 200 persons had been killed and another 10, 000 mainly women and children had been displaced from their homes. Many of these people even have their houses burnt and demolished by attackers that the state government said were bandits and the survivors on… In “Features” There was palpable tension in the southern part of Kaduna metropolis yesterday following reports of killings and attacks in neighbouring Kajuru Local Government Area of the state.   Our correspondent gathered that no fewer than 100 people were killed and more than 100 houses razed by gunmen suspected to be… In “News” Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen on Saturday attacked Nandu-Gbok village in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State, killing at least 10 persons. No less than 30 houses were either burnt or destroyed during the onslaught. Similar attacks on a number of communities in Kajuru Local Government Area… In “News”