Most academics before now avoided politics like leprosy given their belief that it is not only a deleterious profession, but a game of interest masquerading as a contest of principle as well as the conduct of public affairs for private advantage.  These convictions now belong to the past as there is an exodus of lecturers from institutions of higher learning to politics, apparently in search of the proverbial greener pasture. However, the rush for politics is not peculiar to Nigeria. It is an emerging trend even in the developed world.  In Nigeria, the list is a long one. There are many presently serving as governors, deputy governors, members of parliament, ministers, commissioners, Secretary to State Governments (SSGs), advisers and even in other lesser positions. More are expected to join the fray in the incoming government.  Some, who served in the above listed positions and others in the past, did not return to their primary constituencies – universities, polytechnics, colleges of education and research institutions, which are facing acute manpower shortage after having a taste of the juicy package that comes with politics.  The questions against this backdrop are: Why are many academics venturing into politics at a time, when tertiary institutions are in dire need of them. What does this sort of brain drain portend for the country’s education sector and the future? Why is it that most academics hardly return to the classrooms after serving in government? Must academics actively participate in politics before they can contribute to nation building? Have those who ventured into politics or took up appointments really justified their participation in governance?  Answers to these puzzles are not farfetched. A school of thought is of the view that academics are turning to politics because it is the highest paying job in Nigeria at the moment. Those who saw nothing wrong with the trend, queried why professors should remain in the classrooms when they consider themselves more knowledgeable and hard working than politicians? For instance, the salary of a less educated local government councilor is far higher than that of a university don. While there is nothing wrong with academics getting involved in politics on the basis that it is their constitutional right, there is no doubt that the brain drain over the rising number of academics involved in politics, is part of reasons why Nigerian universities are losing their global competitive edge.  But, the gloomy future for the country’s education sector and development over this trend, notwithstanding, more academics are set to join the fray as there is a geometric progression in the number of lecturers involved in politics since the Nigeria’s return to civil rule in 1999, given the fact their compatriots, who left the citadels of learning are enjoying their new found love.