After much threat and lobby on trapped containers at ports in Lagos, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has finally bowed to importers’ demand, BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports  At last, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has acceded to the appeal for amnesty on trapped third party containers at the ports. The service has directed that customs area controllers in all commands should resume their clearing procedures. It was further gathered that the compliance team deployed by the Comptroller General, Col Hammed Ali (rtd), from Abuja to superintendent over the issue has been withdrawn. However, the service slammed a penalty of 25 per cent duty on 5,000 third party containers at Lagos and Tincan Island ports since last year. Fraud Trouble started early this year when the service discovered series of discrepancies and fraud in names of importers and other information provided in clearing documents. It was gathered that customs agents had been clearing goods with Form M, Bill of Laden and Pre- Arrival Assessment Report (PAAR), which carry different names from that of the consignees. The discovery led to detention of 5,000 containers at the ports in Lagos and Tincan Island at the instance of the comptroller general’s directive since January, 2019.  Circular Subsequently, NSC issued a circular signed by the service’s Deputy Comptroller General in charge of Tariff and Trade, Isa Mairo Talatu, in order to halt the malpractice. In the circular, Ali also directed all area controllers to suspend the release of any cargoes with discrepancies in their documentation. To further frustrate the importers and their agents, who have severally appealed to the comptroller general for an amnesty over the trapped containers, the customs boss also deployed multiple units of ad-hoc task force teams, whose operations were said to be duplication of duties.  Some aggrieved customs brokers under the aegis of Concerned Freight Forwarders (CFF) in the western zone were not happy over the issue as they threatened to go on strike if the task forces such as comptroller general strike force, compliance team, customs police, surveillance team, information team and other ad-hoc teams sent from the headquarters to the ports were not withdrawn within the 72-hours.  Fear Lamenting the frustration of freight forwarders over the development, the Vice President, Western Zone of National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Alhaji Tanko Ibrahim, explained that out of 5,000 containers, 2,000 in Apapa were currently trapped inside the ports because of the third party clearance problem. Tanko, who noted that even though customs was in order on its proclamation and action against intermediary clearance, however, explained that clearing agents had pleaded that a stay of execution be given to containers, which were in this category before the ban order. He added that the disruption in clearance procedures caused by the customs proclamation would have multiple effects on port operations and cost of goods. According to him, if the action is not reversed to allow those trapped containers to go, it would lead to congestion, accumulation of overtime cargo and huge demurrage at shipping companies and terminal operators. Also, the vice president said that it would lead to high cost of goods in the market as the final costs will be transferred to the consumers. He said: “Except customs grants amnesty for this category of containers and allow them to go, they will rot away at the port because it is not possible to issue another PAAR on them.
Similarly, the Tin Can chapter Chairman of ANLCA, Prince Segun Oduntan, said that comptroller general’s committee recently sent to Apapa port under the guise of inspecting some third party containers had taken over the job of resident customs officers. He noted that the 24 hours cargo clearance was now a mirage, stressing that agents were made to pay exorbitant demurrage to terminal operators.  Demand Tanko said: “We are pleading for clemency. We know that the freight forwarders involved in this practice are wrong, while the customs is right on its decision. However, the instant enforcement of this directive has paralysed port activities. The vibrancy of the port has slowed down and grounded to a standstill.” Tanko urged customs to give time to stop this unwholesome practice. The customs agents also appealed to the customs authority to create a window that will enable the erring importers and their agents take delivery of their consignments which came before the customs order, within a particular time frame before reverting to full implementation of Nigerian Integrated Customs Information System (NICIS)II.  Intervention Worried by the plight of importers at the port, the Governing board of the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria(CRFFN) interfaced with the customs headquarters to resolve the matter, which later yielded reprieve.  Reprieve The reprieve finally came last week when the service agreed to resume the clearing procedures of over 5,000 third party containers trapped in the ports in the wake of the controversial suspension order.  Tanko lauded the comptroller-general and deputy comptroller general in charge of trade and tariff, Issa Talatu, for what he described as their timely intervention to bring succour to the freight forwarders.  Last line Government should impose stiffer penalty in order to curb sharp practices in all the ports.