The Nigeria Basketball Federation will organise its Annual General Meeting on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The AGM which will have in attendance two representatives from the 36 basketball state associations and the Federal Capital Territory, representatives of referees, coaches, technical commissioners and the para military will take place at the National Institute for Sports located inside the Abuja National Stadium. This was contained in a letter addressed to various Commissioners/ Directors of Sports and Chairmen of State Basketball Associations and other relevant bodies by the NBBF Secretary General, Chimezie Asiegbu. According to the letter, all state associations and relevant bodies must ensure that 2019 affiliation fees and arrears are fully settled before the AGM which will serve as accreditation and access to the event. Chimezie directed that all state representatives must collect an official letter from either their Commissioners or Directors of Sports which should be addressed to the Secretary General of the Nigeria Basketball Federation for easy identification. FIBA ready to oversee polls Body maintains communication with Kida   The two warring factions in the Nigeria Basketball Federation, have agreed to a fresh election after the Federation of International Basketball Associations ordered such in its recent letter to the country. There were two elections into the NBBF with… In “Sports” The board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation has disassociated itself from a purported national Division 1 and 2 Championships slated for Kaduna from January 5. This was contained in a communiqué to clubs and State Basketball Associations after the board got wind of plans by some people to organise and… In “Sports” The Federation of International Basketball Associations has stated that the Nigeria Basketball Federation is the only recognised body in Nigeria empowered to organise all aspects of basketball international representation. In a letter dated May 28th, 2018 signed by FIBA Secretary General, Patrick Baumann and addressed to NBBF president, Engineer Musa… In “Sports”