The Lagos State government, yesterday, said that it has detected 283 distressed buildings across the state, calling on the owners of such buildings to urgently come for the demolition approval before the structures cave in. That was even as the Ad-hoc committee, set up by the government to investigate the cause of the school/residential building which collapsed at 63 Massey Street, Ita-Faji area of Lagos Island, also submitted its report. Speaking shortly before receiving the report of the collapse that claimed 20 lives, including pupils of Ohen Nursery and Primary School, the Lagos State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Prince Rotimi Ogunleye, said that more distressed buildings had been detected across the state divisions by the Lagos State Building Control Agency, LASBCA. He urged residents to alert the government on suspected weak buildings. Giving details of the distressed buildings across the divisions, Ogunleye said that 136 buildings were identified as distressed in Lagos division alone, while 60 weak structures were detected in Ikeja division. He added that the agency also discovered 33 distressed buildings in Badagry division and 29 in Ikorodu division, while 25 buildings were identified as weak in Epe division. The commissioner, however, added that not all the buildings might have to be demolished after they undergo non-destructive structural integrity test, adding that some might only require structural re-engineering works. Presenting the report, the Committee Chairman, Wasiu Olokuonla, an engineer, said that contrary to the reports in the media, the collapsed building on Ita- Faji was not three or two-storey but a five storey building. Olokunola, who refused to disclose the committee’s findings and recommendations publicly, added that forensic evidences were also carried out in the course of the investigations into the cause of the building collapse tragedy. The commissioner said that Ambode-led administration would ensure the report was carefully studied and recommendation implemented.