An Ibadan-based legal luminary, Prince Lateef Fagbemi, has counselled Chief Judges of Oyo, Osun, Ekiti and Ondo states to emulate the Lagos State Government by making it mandatory for lawyers to explore the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanism in the process of handling their clients’ cases. He added that the move would help check excessive litigations and congestions of case lists, which were capable of being resolved outside the courts. Fagbemi, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), gave the advice yesterday during an event organised by the Chattered Institute of Arbitrators, Ibadan chapter The chapter, which is the third in the country, aside Abuja and Port Harcourt, was inaugurated by the Chairman of the Nigeria branch of the Institute, Mrs. Adedoyin Rhodes-Vivour, who is a Chattered Arbitrator. In attendance were many dignitaries, including lawyers, magistrates, judges, engineers, architects, medical doctors, and professors. Among them were: the first female SAN in Nigeria Chief Mrs. Folake Solanke, Chief Adeniyi Akintola (SAN), Professor Oluyemisi Bamgbose (SAN), Mr. Seun Abimbola (Oyo State Attorney General and Justice Commissioner, who represented Governor Abiola Ajimobi). Others included: Mr. Olatunde Busari (SAN) and First Vice Chairman in Nigeria, who delivered the inauguration lecture), Mrs. Funke Aboyade (SAN), Mr. Olalekan Ojo (SAN), Prof. Alero Akeredolu, Mr. Adebayo Adenipekun (SAN), Mr. Hakeem Afolabi (SAN), Mrs. Funmi Roberts, Dr. Oluwole Akintayo (Chairman, Ibadan branch of NBA), Mr. Adedamola Falade, Justice Ayodeji Daramola, Justice Esan, the Oyo Police Commissioner, and Mr. Shina Olukolu, who was represented by Ojomo Francis (ASP). Speaking further, Fagbemi saaid: Lagos State Judiciary, “has raised the bar with the new High Court Civil Procedure Rules (2019) which in its Pre-Action Protocol, Practice Direction Number 2, makes it mandatory to attempt resolution of the disputes by ADR (Alternative Dispute Resolution) means before a cause of action is instituted in court.