Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode has carried out pre-launch of a $50million manufacturing plant in Lekki Free Zone, assuring investors that the state would continue to support prospective investors. Speaking at the prelaunch of the factory belonging to Longrich, a Chinese firm, Ambode said the facility was another success story of the effort of the state government in its determination to make the state attractive to investors as well as an eloquent confirmation of the strategic importance of the free trade zone to the State’s economy. He expressed optimism that the facility would go a long way to create jobs and boost the nation’s foreign exchange earnings. He said a total of 25 companies were presently setting up manufacturing plants within the zone, saying it was indeed gratifying that the effort to drive investments were yielding positive results. He said the most important thing to him is that whether in government or outside of government, factories were springing up in the zone, thereby creating job opportunities for the people and improving the economy of the State. Ambode said: “One of the most fulfilling feelings in life is to see one’s efforts yield positive results. It gives me immense satisfaction to be here today to witness this Pre-Launching Ceremony of Longrich Nigeria Manufacturing Plant to be located in the Lekki Free Zone in Lagos State, Nigeria. “At the inception of this administration, one of our core focus areas was attracting investments to our State; to create employment for our people and wealth for our investors. Today’s event is one of those crowning moments that confirm that our efforts have been rewarded. “I have been informed that this Lekki Longrich facility, upon completion, would not only be the hub for the distribution of the products to the African sub-region but would provide employment for at least 1,000 new workers in our State and boost the nation’s foreign exchange earnings from exportation of manufactured products to other African countries.” Governor Akinwumi Ambode of Lagos state has launched a 1000-hectare modern satellite city in Epe, Ibeju Lekki axis. The project named ‘Alaro Satellite City’ is expected to create over 200,000 jobs and serve as housing schemes for all the major projects coming on board within the Lekki Free Trade Zone.… In “News” Efforts to reorder escalating population and continuous pressure on Lagos are in top gear as developers explore more fringe communities. DAYO AYEYEMI reports   The United Nations projects that Nigeria’s population will exceed 250 million mark by 2030. About 10th of this figure will live and work in Lagos in… In “Business” Lagos State Governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday inspected ongoing projects in the Lekki Free Trade Zone, saying the massive investments being jointly owned in the axis by government and the private sector was targeted at making Lagos emerge as the next destination for business in Africa. Ambode, who inspected progress… In “News”