Force Headquarters has announced the arrest of the suspected killer of the traditional ruler of Adara chiefdom in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State, Dr. Maiwada Galadima. The traditional ruler was killed in October 2018 by his abductors, who were said to have seized him, his wife and driver. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, who made the disclosure in a statement yesterday, said the suspected killer of the Kaduna monarch, Abubakar Ibrahim alias Dan Habu, was arrested alongside 17 others by police detectives attached to Operation Puff Adder. He said the suspects were arrested following “actionable intelligence” obtained from the suspected “spiritual father” of kidnappers and bandits terrorising the northern part of the country, Mallam Salisu Abubakar. Mba said 22 AK-47 rifles, five locally-fabricated pistols, as well as ammunition were recovered during the operation. Operation Puff Adder was specifically launched by the Acting Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Abubakar, to deal with the rising kidnapping and other violent crimes in parts of the country. Mba said: “Sequel to the arrest of the ‘Spiritual Father’ of kidnappers and bandits operating in the northern part of the country, Mallam Salisu Abubakar, police detectives attached to Operation Puff Adder, through a series of detailed, intensive and sustained investigative operations, successfully arrested 18 more notorious kidnappers and armed robbers at different times and places across the country. “Specifically, for example, Abubakar Ibrahim alias Dan Habu, aged 37 years and a native of Kabam in Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State, who was arrested on the 15th April 2019 at Rigachikun in Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State, confessed to the kidnapping and gruesome murder of HRH King Agom Adara of Kajuru LGA and many other kidnappings and murders. “A total of 22 AK47 rifles, five locally-fabricated pistols and a cache of live ammunition were recovered from the bandits.” On how the feat was achieved, the FPRO disclosed that operatives depended on “actionable intelligence” obtained from the said leader, and other sources. He added: “The combined team of crack detectives from IRT, TIU and other operatives, using actionable intelligence obtained from the spiritual god father of the kidnappers and other multiple sources, tactically ‘smoked out’ the kidnappers and bandits from their hideouts in Birnin Gwari, Rijana, Katari, Mai Daro and Buruku Forests in Kaduna State before they were eventually arrested at different locations and times in Kaduna, Katsina, Niger and Kogi states respectively.” According to the FPRO, investigations have so far established links between the suspects arrested, and cases of kidnapping and banditry in Kaduna State and its environs. He said: “Police investigations have positively linked the arrested suspects to some of the most heinous crimes committed in Kaduna State and its environs in recent times.” The Force Headquarters has announced the arrest of the suspected killer of the traditional ruler of Adara chiefdom in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State, Dr. Maiwada Galadima. The traditional ruler was killed in October 2018 by his abductors, who were said to have seized him, wife, and driver.… In “News” Policemen attached to the newly-established Operation Puff Adder have arrested three suspected kidnappers of Channels Television’s Abuja reporter, Mr. Friday Okeregbe. Okeregbe was abducted on March 22, at Lugbe, a suburb of Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Unconfirmed reports said he was released upon the payment of ransom. Force… In “Metro and Crime” Police yesterday announced the killing of nine suspected kidnappers operating on the everbusy Abuja-Kaduna Highway. The suspects, according to a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, were killed in a fierce gun battle with special forces attached to the recently-launched Operation Puff Adder. Mba, however,… In “Metro and Crime”