EMMANUEL MASHA reports that relative peace has returned to Rivers State after the intrigues and violence that characterised the recent general elections in the oil-rich state   A few days before the 2019 general elections in Rivers State, some political observers had predicted that the election would be bloody and that no matter measures put in place to make it free, fair and credible, there were forces that were hell bent on creating problems.
The boldness in the prediction forced some to label them “doom prophets,” countering that people have learnt their lessons and stand to gain nothing by embracing violence.
But, there were others, who argued that there won’t be violence during the 2019 elections because the state’s main opposition party, All Progressives Congress (APC) will not be on the ballot. A Supreme Court judgement had nullified the primary that gave birth to the emergence of its governorship candidate, Tonye Cole as well as candidates for the national and state Assembly elections.
A faction of the APC in the state led by Senator Magnus Abe had challenged the outcome of the party’s congresses at the State High Court, which accepted his prayers. The Supreme Court eventually upheld the court’s ruling after the Court of Appeal had done the same thing.
The initial silence in the camp of the two APC factions and the adoption of Engr. Biomakpabo Awara of the African Action Congress (AAC) by the immediate past governor of the state and current Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, two days before the governorship election, though appeared unusual to some observers, real followers of Rivers politics concluded that a high drama would unfold during the polls.
Those who were afraid insisted that there would be violence cited the national and state Assemblies rerun elections of 2016, in which security operatives became deeply involved in the process and forgot their original role of ensuring a level playing field to make the process smooth and orderly. This fear was confirmed on Election Day as soldiers and operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) of the Nigeria Police Force moved to some polling units and collation centres to hijack electoral materials.
In Khana area of the state, one Dr. Ferry Gberegbe, a returning officer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and lecturer at the Ken Saro Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori, was shot by an FSARS operative in the stomach and he died a few days later. In Chokocho and Elele communities in Etchie and Ikwerre local government areas, respectively, soldiers in patrol vehicles boldly interfered in the electoral process.
When the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), later investigated the role played by security operatives during the election, it faulted the manner the Nigeria Army acted in the March 9 governorship/state Assembly elections in Rivers State.
INEC in a statement by its National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, regretted that collation centres were invaded by some soldiers and armed gangs resulting in the intimidation and unlawful arrest of election officials, thereby disrupting the collation process.
“Consequent upon the foregoing, the commission expresses its displeasure with the role played by some soldiers and armed gangs in Rivers State disrupting the collation process and attempting to subvert the will of the people,” the statement added.
The APC, however, disagreed with INEC, through its national spokesman, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who in a statement, argued that the use of the army during the Rivers State governorship election was a proactive action to protect the citizens.
The APC said: “We are dismayed that some sponsored stakeholders including those who witnessed the killing of over 40 persons on the 2015 governorship election day alone due to someone’s quest to become governor by all means, appear to be hoodwinked by the very same character to believe that security agents especially the Army should have stayed away to allow a repetition of what happened in 2015.
“As a party that was solely at the receiving end of the killings in Rivers State, the APC believes that the proactive steps taken by security agents to checkmate a repeat of the 2015 killings and destructions, is commendable and should be applauded by all peace-loving people.”
The long wait for the announcement of the governorship result was another tension-socked moment for Rivers residents as the state was practically on a standstill.
When INEC eventually announced Governor Nyesom Wike as the winner of the governorship election, the jubilation that took place in some streets of Port Harcourt and across Rivers State was not just because he won. It turned out that the tension that characterised the state before the election doubled or quadrupled in the days that followed after the election.
People were fed up with the siege by military before, during and after the elections. And because it was no longer true, but mere rumour that INEC would conduct a governorship rerun election, which some residents didn’t want, the feeling among residents was “at last, the election season has ended.”
For Johnson Ihunwo, a member of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in the state, who claimed to have witnessed soldiers and FSARS officers carting away ballot boxes in Ikwerre Local Government Area during the governorship and House of Assembly election, “another election would have been bloody.”
He argued that some highly placed people were hell bent on creating an atmosphere of war and violence for their own selfish interest. “I have witnessed elections since 1979, but what I witnessed in the last elections was nothing other than war against the people of Rivers State,” he said.
The politicians, who won and lost in the last election, had it not been for the delay, would have adjusted to the election’s outcome. Their supporters would have returned to their normal lives. It turned out that the tension that characterised the state before the elections doubled or quadrupled after the polls.
While the waiting game lasted, INEC had made it clear that the governorship contest was strictly between Wike of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Awara of AAC.
Trouble started during collation of results, when some soldiers made an audacious, but failed attempt to enter the collation centre at INEC headquarters on Aba road, Port Harcourt, the state capital.
The policemen on duty, who were already on ground to protect INEC staff and sensitive electoral materials, resisted the soldiers, telling them clearly that they have no business inside the collation room. When the soldiers felt offended and insisted on forcing their way in, the policeman formed a shield, held on tight to their rifles and waited for the worst to happen. It was at that point that reality dawned that nobody, no matter how well trained or armed is immune to a bullet.
For a little over one month that security operatives barricaded the ever-busy Aba road, some motorists and pedestrians, who were fed up with the unavoidable delays and sufferings on that road resorted to prayers. The road is one of the city’s busiest in the state capital and when residents woke up on March 10, a day after the election, they thought that before noon, INEC would officially announce the winner of the governorship election.
A week after the commission declared result of the governorship election, Aba road has returned to its busy and bustling nature, while the INEC headquarters has very few policemen around it.
Meanwhile, Governor Wike has thanked the people of the state for expressing their love for him. The governor, who dedicated his victory to God, thanked members of the PDP for their show of courage, despite intimidation by security operatives, who illegally wanted to change the will of Rivers people.
Wike, who polled 886,264 votes ahead of Awara’s 173,859 votes, said he was overwhelmed by the total support and love the people of the state displayed during and after the general elections.
His words: “I want to thank the people of Rivers State for showing the kind of love we have never seen before. Those who died did not die not because they were criminals, but because they wanted to defend their votes.”
He dedicated this victory to God and those who were killed and prayed God to grant their families the strength to bear the losses. “We shall continue to support the families,” he said.
Wike promised to run an inclusive government, which will accommodate all shades of interest. “We have no other state. You may have mansions elsewhere, but there is no place like home. We must come together and build our state.
“We must make the state move forward. We must not continue to de-market the state. I cannot stay beyond 2023, but Rivers State will continue to be. If you believe you are from Rivers State, end this now,” he said.
For Awara, who addressed journalists in the state, INEC allegedly rigged for Wike, and he has vowed to reclaim his mandate.
He said: “I have the unit by unit results of the March 9, 2019 elections in Rivers State. When they observed that I was leading and they saw the danger coming, they quickly moved on March 10 to save Wike, by suspending the collation of the results, which they resumed on April 1. As at the time the collation was suspended, I had 281,000 votes, as against Wike’s 79,000 votes. So, they (INEC officials) quickly came to his rescue.
“We have written a petition on the electoral fraud in Rivers State to the INEC chairman, stating the actual results, but Professor Yakubu will not take action.
“I want Rivers people to be calm. We are going to reclaim the stolen mandate. We should not be troubled and we should never opt for violence.”