Bulldozers belonging to the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) yesterday pulled down a gate house and fence at Kpaduma Hills, premises of Daar Communications, owners of Africa Independent Television (AIT) and RayPower stations.  The demolition ended speculations over the land dispute which has lingered between the authorities of the FCT and the media organisations. The Coordinator, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC), Mallam Umar Shuaibu, said “the demolition was due to the illegal encroachment into plots of land belonging to many Nigerians and the refusal by the management of DAAR Communications to abide by the mutual agreement reached between it and the FCT Administration.  “Officials from the Department of Development Control of the Abuja Metropolitan Management Council led by the director, today (yesterday) removed a portion of the fence around the premises of the Africa Independent Television (AIT) in the Asokoro District of Abuja.  “It is important to let the public know that this removal was not intended to inflict any pain on the owners of the property but rather to enable other citizens to have access to their legitimate properties. It is also a culmination of series of meetings between the management of DAAR Communications, owners of AIT and the Federal Capital Territory Administration, to end many years of misunderstanding”. Shuaibu said in November last year, the management of DAAR Communications led by High Chief Raymond Dokpesi paid a courtesy visit to the FCT Minister and they were received on his behalf by Chief of Staff to the FCT Minister, Bashir Mai- Borno who led the FCTA team made up of relevant directors and others in the discussions.  He said: “The purpose of the discussions was to resolve the protracted dispute regarding the actual size of land legally allocated to DAAR Communications as against the area covered by their perimeter fence.  The whole idea was for both parties to mutually agree to reach a settlement that would bring about permanent solution and forge ahead for the development of the FCT and the nation at large.  “After very fruitful deliberations on the areas of contention, each side expressed satisfaction over the new reconciliatory approach and the sincerity in reaching a logical and peaceful conclusion. “Thereafter, both parties agreed to visit the site for an on-the-spot investigation of the area where surveyors from both parties were able to identify the problematic areas on a satellite image map, leading to a common agreement on the necessity to remove the portions of the fence that has encroached into adjoining plots of land belonging to other Nigerians.”  The Daar Group GMD, Mr. Tony Akiotu said the position of the Daar group would be made known soon.