•It will enhance environmental cleanliness –Environmentalist  Respite is fast coming to students schooling in Ajegunle, a slum in Ajeromi – Ifelodun Local Government Area of Lagos State whose parents struggle to pay their school fees as RecyclesPay Education Project now collects waste plastic bottles in place of school fees. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports   In two parts of Lagos, many parents are now breathing a sigh of relief following a novel solution to the age-old struggle of paying their children’s school fees – their ability to now meet the obligation in kind!
In Ajegunle and Ikota, Ajah, both suburbs of the metropolis, parents and many of their wards can now be seen diligently picking up discarded plastic bottles not only because they have suddenly become environmental conscious, but more importantly because the bottles have become a source of generating more income, which will help them offset bills – including school fees. Some of them keep their own on the roof of their houses for lack of space even as others live with the bottles in their rooms and living space. This project is a three-pronged tool in the sense that it helps to mitigate financial burden of the parents/guardians, teaches the students impact of waste management as well as ensuring environmental cleanliness. PET waste bottles project currently being executed at Morit International School, is an eco-innovation initiated by the African Clean Up Initiative (ACI), an environmental Non-governmental organisation in Nigeria and carried out under RecyclesPay Educational Project. With this project, many of these parents who reside in slums and low income areas in Lagos, can now take advantage of the PET bottles and cans’ waste littered indiscriminately in the environment to pay their children’s school fees.
The RecyclesPay Educational Project is billed to assist parents keep their children in school and to support 10,000 children from not dropping out of school by the year 2025. A parent whose child benefited from the project, Mrs. Agnes Frances, said they had been struggling to pay school fees but with this PET bottle project, it will reduce the stress to go through to pay their child’s school fee. According to the Chief Environmental Officer of ACI, Mr. Alex Akhigbe, the target of the project, is an answer to the cries of many parents who face difficulties keeping their children in school due to the economic situation in the country. He said: “An agreement has been reached between parents of students of Morit International School, Ajegunle, Lagos, and the school management to pay their wards’ fees with waste plastic bottles.
“This became possible after the school adopted the RecyclesPay Education Project, an initiative of African Clean Up Initiative (ACI), an environmental non-governmental organisational in Lagos. “The school’s management embraced the initiative to ease the burden of parents finding it hard to pay their wards’ fees. Over 25 parents of the low-income school have reportedly embraced the initiative whereby parents bring plastic wastes on designated days. “Wecyclers, the recycling company attached to the project, comes to collect the plastic bottles after getting a substantial amount of the plastic wastes, especially twice a month. This is to ensure that the school premises are not littered with waste plastic bottles.”
The amount given to parents is determined after weighing what each of them has brought. The Proprietor of Morit International School, Partrick Mbamara, who described the effort as a welcome initiative, said it is helps to mitigate the financial burden of many parents.
He said: “It is helping to cushion the financial burden of parents in the school. We have a history of parents finding it difficult to pay each term school fees.” Mbamarah noted that inability of parents to pay the school fees of their children also affected timely payment of teachers’ salaries, expressing optimism that the project would help to address the situation in the school as well as help maintain a clean environment. He said: “The money from the PET bottles is not much but it balances for what the parents can pay. My staff and I are happy with this initiative. It has improved parents’ payment of school fees and it teaches the children how to manage their waste and promote a cleaner environment.”
Also, ACI Communications Manager, Miss Blessing Martins said the first set of accumulated recyclables was collected in the month of January. She added that ACI will be organising the Lagos Beat Plastic Carnival; as an avenue to sensitise the community members to shun indiscriminate disposal of recyclables and embrace recycling. The Lagos Beat Plastic Carnival is an event that will give instant rewards to community members for remitting accumulate recyclables on the day of the event. This event, she said is in line with the vision of the organisation to raise environmentally responsible citizens in Africa. Wecyclers Ltd, an ACI official recycling partner responsible for the collection of recyclables from Morit International School is also committed to the task. Meanwhile, the management of the Miss Earth Nigeria surprised 20 of the parents with active participation in the project by awarding their wards scholarships during the ‘Pick that plastic and stay in school’ project, held in the school. The scholarships serves as part payment of the school fees. The gathered recyclable brought by the parents will be used to complete the school fees for the term. Explaining the reason for the ‘Pick a Plastic and stay in school’ project, Maristella Okpala, Miss Earth Nigeria 2018, said Nigeria is a consuming nation and some people are not aware they can benefit from the littered PET bottles, hence the need for the sensitisation. Stressing the significance of the initiative, Akhigbe, further noted that the money realised by each parent might look small but it is of value too. He stated that a kilo of the sorted plastics goes for N20 to N25, adding that little drops of money realised helps make up for the balance of the school fees. According to him, PET bottles in the past were seen as waste but they are not waste anymore as parents can raise money from collecting them and making them available to recyclers, while the recyclers in turn, convert them to other usable products. Sunday Telegraph learnt that there will a person on the ground as the recyclers weigh the plastic bottles, he pens down the kilogramme each parent brought. A kilogramme goes for N20 to N25, depending on the recycler. If a parent comes with 10kilo, he or she will get N200 to N250, which appears small but a huge effort is required to make much from it. However, it’s valuable to the environment as the parents struggling to pay their children’s fees by picking waste littering the environment and causing nuisance to the environment. The recyclers come two times a week to collect the sorted waste from the parents. This is to encourage parents who do not have space in their homes to be storing the waste. The project, which started last year, was first introduced to Morit International School, Agege, but more schools across the country will soon embrace it. Alex Akhigbe said: “We need logistics problem. We would have spread more than where we are now. Many schools are calling us and by the time of school resumption, we will be having more schools. We need things like pick up vans to collect the waste from the schools. “This is very important because we depend on the recycling company to come and pick up the waste bottles at all their own time. This is why we have not had more schools because we don’t have vans to pick them up. We can’t also tell the parents to bring the waste everyday because they will litter the schools.  “To this, most parents keep the bottles in their houses waiting they will bring it to the school. That’s why we give them two days in a week to bring them to school. We also need weighing scale because any school we take the project to, we will give them weighing scales so that they can weigh and record each quantity which each parents will bring in.  “Again, another important logistics we need now is open space where the parents can bring in the PET waste bottles. With this, they can be bringing them on daily basis and with the vans we can move them to the recycling centres without depending on them coming to carry them. “We need partnership with individuals, government and other organisation that will help us achieve this noble dream. We need open space even if is in one of the public schools in Ajegunle. “We also need funding from any partner. We want partnerships from well meaning Nigerians and corporate organisations.” 