A lawyer,  A. A Uzokwu, has accused alleged kidnap kingpin,  Chikwudumeme Onwiamadike,  alias Evans of playing deliberate delay tactics in bid to stall his trial which has suffered several adjournments due to the absence of his counsel. Uzokwu, a counsel to one of the defendants standing trial with Evans, told an Ikeja High Court, Lagos that the kidnap kingpin was deliberately coming to court without a lawyer in order to stall his trial. Evans was docked alongside four others: Uche Amadi, Ogechi Uchechukwu, Chilaka Ifeanyi, Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu, on charges bothering on conspiracy, kidnapping and murder. Although Evans had no legal representation, other defendants, except the fifth (Nwachukwu), who had also appeared in court without any lawyer claimed they had no communication with their Counsels. Addressing the court, Uzokwu (Counsel to Nwachukwu, the fifth defendant) said, “the first defendant is playing games.  This same scenario played out before your learned brother Akinlade J on Wednesday.  The 1st defendant also appeared in court without any legal representation.  That was the third adjouurnment granted in the instance of the 1st defendant “I don’t know why they don’t have any legal representation. “They are playing games and My Lord has to assist us. We urge the court to invoke sections 233 on the defendants which allows the court to appoiint counsels for the defendants in this circumstance, so that they would stop playing this kind of games.  If they also wish,  they also have the option of representing themselves. “My Lord at this stage,  we are like stuck behind a stationary vehicle,” Uzokwu said. Uzokwu however suggested to the court about the option of severing the charges between his client and the other accused persons. “My Lord we are ready to proceed with the trial, ” Uzokwu said. The Lagos State Prosecutor,  Y. G Oshoala also accused the kidnap Kingpin of playing games which they do not understand. The Prosecutor,  Oshoala also informed the court of their willingness to proceed. “My Lord,  we are ready to proceed,  as we have our witness in court,” he said. However, when the court pointedly asked Evans about his counsel’s whereabout was, the alleged kidnap kingpin said,  “I don’t know.  There is no communication between us.” Justice Hakeem Oshodi thereafter threatened to invoke Sections 233 against the defendants. “It is not that easy to serve charges.  Once you serve charges,  you have to amend the charges and pleas would have to be taken all over again. “I feel your pain. The truth is,  if you are stuck behind a stationary vehicle,  you can alight and ask the driver what the problem is,  then you take it from there,” the Judge said. “I know that there is a section of the constitution that mandates the counsel that started a matter to conclude it,  but I am not ready to invoke that section. In a short ruling,  Justice Oshodi said,  “if the defendants are not represented at the next adjourned date,  the court would have to appoint counsels for them, or they would have to represent themselves. “The Prosecution is to notify the Office of the Public Defender at the next adjourned date,  should the defendants decide to play another game.” Meanwhile, Evans was accused of kidnapping Donatus Dunu the Chairman of Maydon Pharmaceuticals. Evans reportedly collected 223,000 Euros as ransom for Dunu’s release. The matter was thereafter adjourned till May 14 for continuation of trial. The alleged kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, alias Evans, who is standing trial for kidnapping before an Ikeja High Court, Lagos, yesterday accepted the legal representation of a new defence counsel, Mr. Noel Brown. Evans’ former lawyer, Olukoya Ogungbeje, had earlier withdrawn his services of defending the alleged kingpin over claims… In “News” Lagos State Director of Public Prosecution, Ms Titilayo Shitta-Bey, yesterday accused counsel to the suspected kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike alias Evans, of attempting to frustrate the proposed trial of his client. Shitta-Bey, who made the submission while responding to counsel to Evans, Olukoya Ogungbeje’s application asking the court to quash… In “Metro and Crime” The ongoing trial of an alleged kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike (alias Evans) before an Ikeja, Special Offences Court, Lagos has continued to suffer several setbacks, following the continued absence of lawyers defending him. The trial of the alleged kidnap kingpin was again stalled yesterday following the absence of his lawyer,… In “News”