Armed men yesterday invaded the office of the Bishop of Akure Diocese of Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion and killed the Bursar, Mr. Gabriel Kola Abiodun, after robbing him of N500,000. The Bishop of the Diocese, Rev Simeon Borokini, had just stepped out of the office when the gunmen, who had reportedly trailed the bursar from the bank, struck. This development came as a Paymaster attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, identified simply as Mr. Abiodun, was attacked and N500,000 was collected from him. Unlike the bursar, who did not survive the attack, Abiodun of the Agriculture Ministry was lucky. A source in the ministry said the paymaster was trailed from the bank and was attacked while coming down from his car with the money. The armed men dispossessed him of the cash and drove out of the premises. The Administrative Secretary of the church, Blessing Aregbesola, who spoke on behalf of the bishop, said the diocese headquarters was attacked by gunmen about noon. He said the gunmen suspected to be ‘armed robbers’ followed the bursar after leaving the bank premises. A witness, who was at the scene of the incident, said three gunmen trailed Gabriel from the bank to the church where they rained bullets on him. She said: “The bursar had just returned from one of the new generation banks where he went to withdraw money which we learnt was probably meant for retirees. “It was that money which is about N500,000 that the three gun-men took from him. He was shot in the tights. “I think he struggled with the armed robbers before they collected it and then ran away from the premises. “By the time we came out of the building, there were already blood stains everywhere on the floor.” The Diocesan Public Relations Officer, Mr. Bodunde Aladejimokun, confirmed the attack on the bursar. Aladejimokun said the church authorities had invited police to the scene for investigations. He said: “It is true, the man in charge of the church’s finance was shot dead this morning (yesterday) about 9.30 on the premises of the diocese. “The church has invited the police to the premises and they have taken his corpse away. It was a sad incident for us.” Aladejimokun also called on the police to ensure the perpetrators are brought to book. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, confirmed the incident. He said: “It is true. The man was shot and his body has been evacuated. But we are now investigating the case.” Joseph said the gunmen, who were three and rode in a Toyota Corolla car (2002 model) would soon be arrested and prosecuted. The PPRO warned people against going to bank to cash huge sum of money without police escort.