A new chapter of cooperation within the All Progressives Congress (APC) has begun as two frontline leaders of the party from the South- South region, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and the former Governor of Akwa Ibom State and ex-minority leader of the Senate, Godswill Akpabio, have agreed to iron out their perceived political differences. It was the first time the duo were meeting in a friendly atmosphere, after nearly six years of separation and working on different sides of the political spectrum. The meeting was brokered by two chieftains of the ruling party, Alhaji Nasiru Danu (the Dan Amarna of Dutse) and Mr. Festus Keyamo. Danu was one of the Directors of Logistics of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and a longtime ally of President Muhammadu Buhari while Keyamo was the Director of Strategic Communications of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and also a chieftain of the party from the South-South region. The parley, which took place at the residence of Danu in the Asokoro District of Abuja, lasted several hours. It was an opportunity for the leaders to discuss frankly and honestly about their various disagreements from their days as governors in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and in the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF). They also discussed and analysed the performance of the party in the South- South in the just-concluded elections and identified areas where things went wrong and how to improve those areas in future. At the end, both leaders agreed to close ranks and work in unison for the overall interest of the party in the country. They promised to put behind them all previous perceived misgivings between them and to give a positive direction to the teeming supporters of the party across the country. The two political gladiators fell out in February 2013 when Amaechi was edged out as the Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum and Akpabio installed in his place. The move, believed to have been masterminded by the leadership of the PDP at that time, was meant to whittle down Amaechi’s influence as the Chairman of the NGF and the PDP Governors’ Forum, at the same time. Amaechi, who was then the Governor of Rivers State, had become highly antagonistic with President Goodluck Jonathan and the PDP, but was warming up to return for a second term as chairman of NGF, a position, many believed, he was using to launch attacks against the government of the day. Akpabio was elected to upstage Amaechi after a four-hour meeting which held at the Presidential Villa. Although the meeting was attended by Amaechi and other PDP governors, but the then Rivers governor left the venue of the meeting when he realized that the game was up. The plot to remove Amaechi was remotely connected to speculations that he was using his position to advance his alleged ambition as a possible presidential running mate to the then Governor Sule Lamido of Jigawa State in the 2015 election. This perceived ambition put him at loggerheads with President Jonathan, who was then gunning for a second term. The ultimate coup came weeks later when Amaechi lost his bid to retain his seat as Chairman of NGF to the then Governor of Plateau State, Jonah Jang in controversial circumstances. In an unprecedented electoral intrigue, Jang who scored 16 votes was declared winner over Amaechi who scored 19 votes. It could be recalled that as the Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, Akpabio played a prominent role in these intrigues that frustrated Amaechi’s ambition to lead the NGF for another term. Akpabio once referred to him as a Judas, in apparent allusion to the perception among PDP faithful the he had become a betrayer within the fold. This was part of the power play that eventually led to the exit of Amaechi from the PDP alongside other four governors who defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) months later. …Otedola, Dangote also on the list   Africa‘s richest man, Aliko Dangote and oil magnate, Femi Otedola, have been appointed to serve as members of an advisory committee for the 2019 presidential campaigns to re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari for another term of four years. The Special Adviser on Media and… In “News” President Muhammadu Buhari will tomorrow officially inaugurate the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council for the February 16 election at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. In a release signed by the Council’s spokesman, Festus Keyamo (SAN), said the event would start at 10: 00 in the morning. Those expected… In “News” The All Progressives Congress (APC) has launched a major move to take over the South-East and South-South zones in the 2019 general elections even as it continues to woo major political players in both zones into its fold. The game plan of the ruling party is not only to ensure… In “News”