 Lawyers, experts and major stakeholders in petroleum industry gathered at a 2-day workshop on “Taking Advantage of The Flare Gas (Prevention and Waste) Regulation (2018) held in Lagos to brainstorm on commercial aspect of energy.
The workshop which was organized by Syncrest Energy Limited in partnership with George Etomi & Partners and the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources was facilitated by energy experts from the Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialization Programme (NGFCP), Wycliffe Advisory & Consulting Services, George Etomi & Partners, Tranergy & Co, Primera Africa Legal and Pioneer Energy.
Industry players, investors, representatives of the Ministry and Regulatory bodies in the oil and gas sector were in attendance.
The workshop touched on the Gas Industry in terms of gas monetization strategies, gas dynamics in Sub-Saharan Africa and other regional markets, the Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme, the Gas Flare Regulation, transnational and commercial structures, Project bankability, etc.
At the workshop, Mr. Justice Derefaka (Programme manager of the NGFCP) unveiled importance of eliminating gas flaring, saying “flare gas is a waste of natural resources…only 12.5 million out of 180 million people have access to electricity.”
While giving an overview of the gas industry, Abimbola Olufore from Wycliffe Advisory & Consulting said that “with respect to commercialisation of gas, there is a nexus of gas with virtually all sectors of the economy, from the power sector to the healthcare sector, the agriculture sector and the textile industry.”
Ann Norman (Pioneer Energy) extensively showcased benefits of various remotely operated modular flare gas processing solutions.
Abolaji Femi-Ishola in discussing the gas-energy nexus stated that “as gas prices come close to market prices, there will be an increase in gas deals” and “the core of gas production goes
to power consumption to ensure that power plants are not stranded and have enough gas as feedstock.”
Israel Aye from Primera Africa Legal was not different as he enlightened participants about the
legal and regulatory expectations within the Regulation while Ivie Ehanmo og George Etomi and Partners discussed the legal, regulatory, transactional and commercial structures and strategies for flare gas commercialisation and sale to off-takers.
The Flare Gas Regulations had been signed into law by President Muhammed Buhari in July 2018.
Gas flaring in Nigeria is a tremendous waste of scarce natural resource and fuel. It also contributes to climate change.
The gas commercialisation programme seeks to provide a framework to eliminate gas flaring through gas utilisation projects which are technically and commercially sustainable.
These projects would be developed by competent third-party investors who were being invited to participate in a competitive and transparent bid process.
The first stage of the bidding process had commenced in January as NGFCP hopes to attract investment of about $3billion USD, creating over 300,000 direct and indirect jobs and reducing CO2 emissions by over 20,000MT yearly.