After another triumph of the lawmaker representing Osun Central in the upper legislature, Senator Ademola Adeleke, in his bid to realise his governorship ambition, BIYI ADEGOROYE reports on his many travails and pending battles  If his emergence as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Osun State primaries was mired by some controversies, they were incomparable to the drama which characterised the election itself. Worse still, since then, it has been one week one trouble for “dancing” Senator Ademola Adeleke. Before his emergence as senator to represent Osun West Senatorial District in the National Assembly in a bye election following the death of his brother and first executive governor of the state, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, little was known about him, other than the failure of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State to field him for the poll. But, like a man of destiny, his defection to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and battle for the party’s ticket in which he narrowly defeated a frontline insurance magnate, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi in the primaries conducted by the Bayelsa State governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson, only opened the door for more troubles. Rather than being a day of fulfillment, the Election Day proper – September 22, 2018, recorded another twist. To the chagrin of many pundits, Adeleke polled 254,698 votes to lead his closest rival, Gboyega Oyetola of the APC, who garnered 254,345 votes. The election was, however, declared inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) because the margin of lead was less than cancelled votes, which stood at 3,498. The run-off that was scheduled for the following weekend, triggered political brinkmanship as party leaders, including APC governors in the South-West; National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on the one hand and their PDP counterparts like the Senate-President, Bukola Saraki stormed Osun to woo Senator Iyiola Omisore of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), who came third in the main election to their respective sides. With that and other political activities, including what many election observers described as intimidation of voters and disenfranchisement, culminated in the victory of Oyetola of the APC and his consequent swearing in as Rauf Aregbesola’s successor.
But, while Adeleke headed for the tribunal, three members of the PDP in the state petitioned the police that Adeleke falsified the certificate he presented for the primaries ahead of the September 22, 2018 election and sought his disqualification. Some even alleged that he never sat for the West African School Certificate Examination (WASCE) in 1981. Adeleke and four others were also accused in December last year of examination malpractices and charged before a Federal High Court, Abuja. Hence the judge, after five months nullified his candidacy as the governorship flag bearer of the PDP in Osun election.
The court, presided by Justice Othman Musa, made the decision after it ruled that Adeleke failed to prove in court that he graduated from a secondary school as required by Section 177 of the Nigerian Constitution.
But, it was victory for the senator two weeks ago as the Osun State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Abuja, in a split decision, declared as illegal the September 27, 2018 supplementary governorship election held in seven polling units and directed INEC to issue a certificate of return to Adeleke. The tribunal held that the supplementary election was a product of an illegal cancellation of the results in the seven polling units during the main election and ruled that the Returning Officer, who cancelled the results had no power to do so.
However, the tribunal’s chairman, Justice Ibrahim Sirajo, in his minority judgement, dissented from the majority judgement adopted by Justices Peter Obiorah and Adegboye Gbolagunte.
Oyetola, who faulted the tribunal’s verdict, has filed a notice of appeal, listing 39 grounds why the decision should not stand. He urged the Court of Appeal to nullify the majority judgement, which he argued was perverse, replete with contradictions and not supported by the evidence led by the petitioners. While that is pending, the Court of Appeal sitting in Akure, the Ondo State capital, last weekend declared that Adeleke was eligible to contest the election. Justices M. A. Danjuma; R. M. Abdullahi and P. A. Mamoodu, in their ruling, dismissed an appeal against the judgement of an Osun State High Court sitting in Osogbo, which had earlier confirmed the eligibility of Adeleke to contest the governorship election. The Osun State High Court had earlier ruled that Senator Adeleke was qualified to contest for the governorship election, having been educated up to secondary school level. The petitioners, however, proceeded to appeal against the ruling, insisting that the senator is not qualified and that Dr Ogunbiyi, who is the second runner up at the PDP governorship primary election should be declared the winner of the exercise. The appellate court in its ruling dismissed the appeal on three grounds, affirming the judgement of the lower court that confirmed the eligibility of Senator Adeleke. The first ground was that the court has no jurisdiction to hear the case.
The court also said the sponsored petitioner, one Kingsley Awosiyan, from Ife Central had no locus standi to file the case and that the matter was brought to court outside the stipulated 14 days after the conduct of the governorship primary election.
Adeleke claimed to have attended Ede Muslim Grammar School, in Osun State and graduated in 1981, and in 1986, obtained a Diploma in Criminology at the Jacksonville State University in the United States. But it is not yet Uhuru for the “dancing senator” because the pending governorship suit is heading for the appeal court and its outcome can swing the pendulum in any direction. Even then the Supreme Court remains the final arbiter.
Oyetola and the APC have predicated their appeal on claims that his victory was nullified on technical grounds, even as his chances seem to be brighter by the absence of consensus among the three judges.
Providing a 39-ground notice of appeal, Oyetola has urged the court of Appeal to nullify the majority judgement which, he said was “perverse, replete with contradictions and not supported by evidence led by the petitioners.”
But to the PDP, the two judgements did not come by chance; rather they are confirmation of its position that their candidate won the election. Counsel to Adeleke, Mr. Nathaniel Oke, said the latest judgement has knocked out the judgement of an Abuja High Court and rendered its conclusion ineffective, null and void with no effect on the candidacy of the PDP candidate.
He said the Abuja High court judgment had contradicted the Osogbo High court verdict by rejecting testimonies of the West African Examination Council (WAEC), which in a sworn affidavit confirmed that Adeleke sat for its examination with attached results.
Also, the Publicity Secretary of the party in the zone, Mr. Ayo Fadaka expressed confidence that the victory of Senator Adeleke at the Court of Appeal, Akure and the tribunal in Abuja are evidence that the party will reclaim Osun State.
He said: “It is gratifying that the matter was resolved in his favor, particularly as there is no substance to this red herring accentuated and sustained by the APC for such a long time. Therefore, we express our appreciation to the court for being fair and professional in this matter. This judgement has most fortunately castrated the curious verdict of the FCT High Court, Bwari.
“While we await hopefully the removal of all roadblocks that the APC has installed to forestall the inauguration of Senator Adeleke as governor of Osun State, we express our confidence in the judiciary to do the needful in ensuring that justice and fair play continues to remain as the threshold upon which our democracy is built.”
The party also expressed confidence that Adeleke will be victorious at both the Appeal and the Supreme courts. “Our points were well-marshaled and since facts and truths are sacrosanct and cannot be changed, we are confident of victory.
You also know that both the minority and majority judgements agreed on the facts, and the figures gave credence to the fact that we defeated APC in the election, and these are the facts that subsequent courts will look at. We have always known that our candidate and party won that election,” he said.
Even as the party expressed that confidence, one undeniable fact is that the senator still has many rivers to cross and his fate is contingent on many factors.