Recent developments in Lagos arising from deplorable state of roads, failing street lightings, security challenges, flagrant abuse of traffic   law, among others, have made residents to ask if Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has, indeed, stopped working. MURITALA AYINLA reports   In the beginning Like most administrations, the government of incumbent Governor Akinwunmi Ambode started on a very challenging note. The administration was confronted with daunting tasks and burdens of a mega city ranging from increasing traffic snarl that nearly grounded the state economy, to the security challenges that almost made the state headquarters of kidnappers, armed robbers, pickpockets and other criminal elements. The roads are in terrible shape, and deteriorate on daily basis, thereby, making transportation within the state a turbulent experience. The daily experiences of residents and challenges brought about plethora of criticisms from all categories of commuters who expressed doubt over the inability of Governor Ambode to cope with the governance of Lagos which many believed had been heightened by his predecessor, Mr Babatunde Fashola. Many said Fashola’s shoe was too big for Ambode to put on. Hence, they blamed the challenges on Ambode’s inability to make the state work as Fashola did. The complaints rages on from different quarters Lagos metropolis. As commuters were lamenting over geometric increase in the travel time occasioned by hours of traffic snarl, so also were farmers in Epe raising alarm over frequent kidnap of their colleagues. Foreign expatriates handling projects on the axis too were not spared from the kidnapping spree. Schools needed to beef up their security because they had become target of abduction just as other commuters prayed for God’s divine intervention in the governance of Lagos.  Ambode’s Magic Wand Apparently worried by happenings in the state, especially many expressions of doubt over his ability to sustain the tempo of governance in the state, Governor Ambode began to make strategic moves to address arrays of challenges confronting the state. First, he embarked on a tour of trouble spots across the state with a view to identifying problems and finding solutions to traffic prone areas. The governor demonstrated high level of all-inclusive government by listening to the residents who volunteered to speak with him directly on their challenges. That was when the Governor came about the idea of lay-bys and other innovations which earned his administration credits.  Re-branding of RRS and Procuring of security gadgets In a move to make a statement and show the world his readiness to tackle security challenges in the state, Governor Ambode procured Multi-billion Naira security equipment to the state security agencies through the Lagos State Security Trust Fund. The governor procured equipment worth N4.765 billion for police boost and to boost the state security. The full security equipment commissioned were 100 four-door saloon cars, 55 Ford Ranger Pick-Ups, 10 Toyota Land Cruiser Pick-Ups, 15 BMW Power Bikes, 100 other Power Bikes, Isuzu Trucks, three Helicopters, two Gun Boats, 15 APCs, Revolving Lights, Siren and Public Address System, Vehicular Radio Communicators, Security Gadgets including Bullet Proof Vests, Helmets, Handcuffs, uniforms, kits, and improved Insurance and Death Benefit Schemes for the police. While unveiling the equipment, Governor Ambode said the overall policy thrust of his administration was built on a Tripod-security, job opportunities and improved infrastructure, saying that with a safer Lagos, “we would continue to attract bigger commerce and more local and foreign investment. This would create more job opportunities for our people and generate more taxes for the government to improve on the infrastructure in various sectors. Like the icing on the cake, Ambode introduced the “Light Up Lagos” initiative aimed at lighting up the entire state with constant street lights especially in the state metropolis. With the initiative, driving at night in Lagos became more exciting with glowing street light almost everywhere t. Areas hitherto known as criminal hideouts became safe as criminal element disappeared upon the activation street lights. According to the governor beyond enhancing security in the state, the initiative was also meant to boost the state economy. “With our commitment to light-up Lagos, we are sure we are on our way to creating a 24-7 economy. It is in our best interest. We are all aware of the recent trend in terror attacks all over the world. As one of the emerging global City-States, it has become compelling to re-energise the security infrastructure in meeting with present day realities.”  Introduction of pedestrian, 
flyovers Bridges While commendation on the security intervention were coming in torrents, Governor Ambode embarked on approvals for innovation and construction of pedestrian and fly-over bridges in some strategic areas in the state. Prominent among the bridges were Ajah and Abule-Egba Jubilee bridges, Aboru Bridge and ongoing Agree Fly-over Bridge. Approvals were also given for constructions of inner city roads to ease movement of residents within and outside the state. The Oshodi Transport Interchange project which was aimed at defining ideal transportation experience in the state was also conceived and approved just as an attempt to re-award the 4th Mainland Bridge was also made. All these changed the narrative of Ambode-led government.  Ambode’s Popularity With the massive projects being embarked upon and near all round efforts at activating governance across all the sectors of the state, Governor Ambode became a popular brand in the state even among his political rivals. The stories of kidnapping became forgotten just as the killing by Badoo cultists in Ikorodu axis. Oshodi became safer while commuters never stop wondering about the magic of lay-bys introduced by Ambode-led government which made journey on the Third Mainland faster than ever.
The pedestrians and commuters along Ojodu Berger and Lagos-Ibadan Expressway were too excited with the six-legged foot bridges that have not only saved lives but also permanently changed the landscape of the axis. Other road users along the corridor were also pleased with the connectivity of the well-lit roads. The acquisition of the State-of-the-art rescue equipment and the establishment LASEMA Response Unit were described as laudable innovations. No doubt, Ambode’s intervention in safety has saved more lives. Broken down vehicles needless to worry again as the LRU trucks will help tow their vehicle to a safe place free of charge. Areas hitherto neglected were rejoicing over tarred roads and appreciated values of their properties. The quarterly town hall meeting which was more participatory gave more residents opportunity to take part in Ambode’s government as most decisions were taken from the venue of the town hall meetings organised at different senatorial districts in the state. The news of Ambode became more conspicuous than many of his contemporaries. His LAKE Rice suddenly overtook some popular brand of bag of rice in the state for its price. At a time when other brands of bag of rice were being sold for N20,000 or above Ambode’s LAKE Rice which was a product of Lagos and Kebbi States initiative was sold for N12,000. The establishment of DNA centre, Mobile Court and enforcement of the law. These and other popular decisions endeared Governor Ambode to most Nigerians such that at a time, he was nicknamed Governor-General by a fellow governor who is now a former governor.  Endorsement Galore Perhaps born out of their honest remark or sycophancy which has characterised the nation’s political atmosphere, virtually all the political gladiators in the state endorsed Governor Ambode for a second term in office. From the serving senators to the members of the House of Representatives, the echoes of “Ambode Lekansi” (Ambode one more term) rented the air. From the traditional rulers and all other categories political bigwigs in the state, what you hear is: “No Vacancy in Alausa”. They made their endorsement in writing and verbally. Many came to Ikeja State House, Alausa, others made their declaration at public function, warning politicians not to waste their resources contesting against him.   ….And the stories changed! No doubt, beyond politics and other political developments which cut short the administration of Governor to May 29, 2019, many residents are of the view that governance shouldn’t suffer irrespective of second term or not. Today in Lagos, despite ongoing constructions of some of the projects, the narrative of a Lagos under the control of ‘Governor-General’ as he is now fondly called is fast changing. Residents are lamenting over the deplorable states of roads and the attendant traffic snarl which is taking over major roads. The Light Up Lagos initiative which make the state more attractive at night no longer functional. Pedestrian bridges which were usually lit up at night are now in the dark for days, giving room for the criminal to operate on them freely. The law enforcement officers stationed at most road particularly the popular Berger Bus Stop to ensure traffic compliance and use of the lay-bys no longer enforce the law as vehicles now park on the expressway to drop off and pick passengers. The Road Traffic Law 2012 seemed to be on suspension as commercial motorcyclists whose operation was prohibited by the law on certain roads, highways and bridges now operate everywhere even close to the seat of power at Alausa. The ugly incidences of kidnapping now appear to be resurfacing in the state with the recent abduction of the fire service director, Mr Musibau Rasak. For residents of Ajah, fear of cultists could hardly make them sleep with their two eyes closed. The stories are not different in the Epe axis and other remote areas where residents are afraid of attack from kidnappers. It was learnt that four suspected cult members were beheaded in Olokonla settlement in Ajah recently. Their charred bodies and heads were dumped on the road. Worked on most ongoing projects seem to have been slowed down or left to be completed by the incoming administration. It was lamentation galore in most part of the state.  The blame game As residents continue to express worry over shocking developments in the state, they seem be divided over the cause the emerging conundrums, while some blame the development on the victimization and humiliation of the governor by the political class and the House of Assembly, others argued that Governor ought to put all the disappointments behind him and finish strong despite the happenings.  Speaking with New Telegraph, Mr Johnson Kayode, a banker said that irrespective of political developments in the state, Governor should continue with his policies that endeared him to Lagos residents. “Honestly, we wouldn’t know everything the man might be going through politically but I feel he has made good name through his sterling performance than to allow thing to end like this. Why will it take the House of Assembly this long to pass the budget? There is no doubt something is wrong somewhere. But all I am saying is that Lagos residents shouldn’t be allowed to suffer for any reason,” he said. But in what could described as rebuttal of allegations of project abandonment, the state’s Commissioner for Transportation, Mr. Ladi Lawanson said that Governor Ambode will still commission some of his projects before his tenure ends in May 29, 2019. According to him, the governor will still roll out its 820 medium and high capacity buses under its public transportation transformation of Bus Reform Initiative. He added that the reform involves replacement of yellow mini buses with Air conditioned buses of uniformed specification, with predictable bus schedules and routes supported by appropriate infrastructure  Lawanson said the completion of other terminals at Yaba, Oyingbo, Ojota, Agege, and Ajah, with the masterpiece which is the Oshodi Transport Interchange, is also set to be unveiled by Mr. President Muhammadu Buhari before the end of this present Administration on May 29. Explaining further, he said under the first phase of the Bus Reform project, seventy five (75) out of the planned one hundred (100) bus shelters have been completed to support the operation of the buses. Allaying fear that the existing transport unions members will be sent into labour market, Lawanson opined that 800 of the buses will be released to private operators using the operating lease model which has incorporated the current road transport operators namely; National Union of Road Transport Workers, (NURTW) and the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) with their selection as part of the Bus Operating Companies. On the enforcement of the traffic law and other environmental nuisances which could be responsible for gridlock, the chairman of the Lagos Taskforce on Environment and Special offence Unit, Yinka Egbeyemi, a Chief Superintendent of Police said illegal traders responsible for selling of wares on the road set back were being arrested and prosecuted just as thousands of commercial motorcycles had been arrested for flouting the road traffic the law. 