Worried by the rising spate of kidnapping and armed banditry in Zamfara State and its environs, some security experts, last week, held a solution-finding conference. EMMANUEL ONANI reports   Security experts under the aegis of ASIS International, have maintained that, for peace and order to be restored to Zamfara State and its environs, traditional rulers suspected to be aiding armed banditry and kidnap activities, must be arrested and prosecuted.
While urging the Federal Government to order a comprehensive military operation within the area, the group warned that the entire country risked being engulfed in crisis, if urgent steps were not taken to address the situation.
Chairman of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Chapter of ASIS, Kabir Adamu, while presenting the group’s prepared speech before newsmen at the event that had all the executive committee members of the group in attendance, expressed worries over the security situation in the North West and North Central zones of the country.
“The military should be mandated and empowered to conduct decisive, surgical and comprehensive kinetic operations in all vulnerable areas in line with the dictates of human rights and global best practices to rid the regions of all undesirable elements with a view to prosecuting all arrested for breach of any extant laws of the land in connection with the identified risks and threats”, Adamu said.
Speaking against the background of Acting Inspector-General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu’s recent allegation that some traditional rulers’ involvement in mining activities in Zamfara State were allegedly contributing to the state of insecurity in the state, ASIS International, tasked the government not only to arrest, but also prosecute any traditional found to have compromised their position.
He said: “As security professionals from diverse expertise, it is our view that there are ominous indicators that attest to the emergence of new security threat factor.
“The entire country risks being engulfed in crisis of immense proportions if urgent and deliberate measures are not taken.”
This was as he further alleged that an estimated N1 billion may have been paid in ransom within the last few months.
“With these kinds of funds, more weapons will be procured and more youngsters will be lured into the “trade” due to its lucrativeness and perceived “high social status” of those that have made their bones.
“We appreciate and commend the efforts of the security agencies, some of whom have paid the supreme price.
“However, to contend with these emerging threats in the North West and North Central regions in combination with other existing crisis could be quite challenging.
“Therefore, there is an urgent need for the Federal Government to take an all-inclusive view of these threats and vulnerabilities with the aim of quickly outlining immediate, medium and long-term initiatives to curb these security risks and threats,“he said.
Meanwhile, ASIS has charged both the executive and legislative arms of government, to adopt measures aimed at checking banditry and kidnap for ransom in the country.
The group called on the Federal Government to adopt measures aimed at checking banditry, kidnap-for-ransom, and other forms of criminality in the country.
Continuing, the group challenged government should make its position on payment of ransom very clear, in line with global best practice.
According to ASIS, government ought to roll out the practice, while adhering to the principles and tenets of community policing nationwide for the Nigeria Police Force.