Senior leaders from the United States Africa Command, the Nigerian Navy, representatives of Maritime forces from the Gulf of Guinea,(GoG), Europe, North and South America, as well as regional and international organizations, gathered in Lagos recently for Exercise Obangame Express 2019. The word “Obangame” comes from the Fang language of Southern Cameroon and other parts of Central Africa. Interpreted “togetherness,” it is an annual exercise for the participatory nations to come together to counter sea-based illicit activity. They had the first exercise Obangame Express 2010 in Cameroon. The ninth Obangame Express, took place from March 14 -22, and was hosted by the Nigerian Navy’s Chief of the Naval staff (CNS), Vice- Admiral Ibok-Ette Ibas. It had in attendance the Service Chiefs, Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai and Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshall Sadique, but were ably represented by the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Nigerian Army, (NA), Maj. Gen Yusuf Sani and Air Officer Commanding, (AOC), Logistics Command, Ikeja, Air Vice Marshal Adeyinka Olabisi, at the Admiralty Conference Centre, Naval Dockyard Limited, Victoria Island, Lagos. Declaring open the Obangame Express, the Naval Chief said that: “It is an annual Multinational Maritime exercise aimed at improving cooperation among the participating nations in order to increase maritime safety and security in the Gulf of Guinea. “It was conceived out as a tool for enhancing the collective capabilities of GoG countries to counter sea-based illicit activities by improving regional cooperation, maritime domain awareness, information sharing and tactical interdiction expertise. “To share a deep sense of encouragement from your devotion and determination to entrench peace and order on our maritime common goal, challenged by multifaceted and evolving maritime threats, which have led to unpredictable threat levels and deepening conditions inimical to peace and security. “The migratory nature of these threats invariably calls for a united response by the regional navies and coast guards through the pursuit of prudent capacity building actions on a collaborative model. “The representatives from the Gulf of Guinea (GoG) region, strong contingents of the Nigerian Maritime Community and diverse Maritime practitioners have offered feasibility strategy in addressing the challenges of developing Africa’s blue economy. “Nigerian Navy along with the navies of ECOWAS Zone E and Gendarmerie of Niger Republic have been at the vanguard of efforts to build synergy across boundaries necessary to mitigate maritime security challenges within the zone.” On board the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Centenary and (NNS) Unity was a strong contingent of naval officers and men kitted in their camouflage and Nigerian Navy in their military blue uniform including the Defence Correspondents in readiness to sail, but had to wait for the Naval Chief’s briefing and a gun shot in the air for the flag off, which took place exactly 9am. Also, two Naval Helicopters were in the air, while several Nigerian navy boats were on the water boosting the moral of the team (onward together), as they sailed across the Nigerian waters to the Gulf of Guinea. At the briefing, Ibas said, “Obangame Express is a Multinational sea exercise sponsored by the US that brings together allied nations; the exercise is being hosted this year by the NN in collaboration with the United States Naval Africa”.The Naval Chief , who was represented by the Acting Chief of Training &Operation, Rear Admiral Francis Isaac, said “its aim from the beginning, nine years now, is assisting and improving the security at the Gulf of Guinea and in developing law enforcement capacity as well as promoting the nation’s general security within the Gulf of Guinea. The exercise of this nature is critical towards protecting and sustaining the resources of huge potential of the Gulf of Guinea, within the limited resources available. The NN has been able to focus and is proactive in combating the threat and illegal activities in Nigerian Maritime domain extending to the Gulf of Guinea. The protection of resources and economic activities in the gulf of guinea is a collective responsibility of all nations in the region.” The United States Consul General, Mr. John Bray, noted that, “the efforts by regional navies to work together in the spirit of the Yaoundé Code of Conduct, is designed to improve regional cooperation, maritime domain awareness, information-sharing practices, and tactical interdiction expertise to enhance the collective capabilities of Gulf of Guinea and West African nations to counter seabased illicit activity.” As part of event for the Obangame Express, Consul General Bray and the Naval Chief commissioned the Nigerian Navy’s Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) Training School in Apapa. The training school was built by the Nigerian Navy and equipped by the United States Navy . The Director, Directorate of Intelligence, (DDI), U.S. Africa Command, Rear Admiral Heidi Berg, eulogized the commitment of the 33 nations in readiness for this year’s exercise. Admiral Berg said: “Illicit maritime activities such as illegal fishing, trafficking of weapons, narcotics and people, as well as the ongoing threat of piracy, undermine the rule of law, food security, and economic development in the region. “This exercise is a clear demonstration of the United States’ dedication to combat these illicit activities and help our partners in the Gulf of Guinea to provide security for their resources, their economy, and their people. Obangame Express 2019 will make the region a safe place for maritime commerce and ultimately help increase prosperity of the region.” The Flag Officer Commanding, (FOC), Western Naval Command, (WNC,) Rear Admiral, Obed Ngalabak in his remarks said that: “The exercise is conducted simultaneously in various zones within the Gulf of Guinea, participating nations are zoned in five maritime operation zones within Gulf of Guinea, out of which three nations with their ships will operate with the Nigerian Navy in its Western Naval Command Area of responsibility.”