Senate Minority Leader, Mrs. Biodun Olujimi, representing (Ekiti South) , speaks in this interview with ADEWUMI ADEMIJU on the need for reforms in the electoral system, and her commitment to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), among other issues  Your party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is challenging the the outcome of the presidential election, how far have you gone with process?
I believe that we have filed our petition and everything is with the tribunal. What happened was that the party did an evaluation of the election and felt there was need to challenge certain aspects of the result. The victory of the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2018 gubernatorial election in Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has been upheld by the Court of APpeal, just like the tribunal. Do you still believe that the election was rigged?
Whatever it is, when you have been part of an election, and you don’t feel satisfied, the law prescribes the right to go to tribunal. For the governorship election, you can go to the extent of the Supreme Court. So, if anyone is not satisfied with the outcome of an election, he or she should be allowed to go through the process of justice for him to feel pleased with the process. Some members of your party believe that the feud between you and former Governor Ayo Fayose caused the electoral loss your party recorded in the just concluded general elections. How would you react to that?
May be, it was part of it. Available votes in my senatorial district are not more than 110,000, so whatever you see after that cannot be the real votes. Most people were driven away from the polling units during the elections, so you cannot adjudge the poll as free, fair and violence-free. Are you contemplating on a possible defection to another party after losing the senatorial seat to Prince Adedayo Adeyeye?
I am someone, who is grounded. I can never defect and the reason is simple. One must be known for honour, integrity, and steadfastness. This is the party, where I have achieved a lot. Why do I need to change it for another? What am I looking for than to serve my people and if they don’t want to be served, what do I do? What measures are you putting in place to put the PDP together as most of your members have left for other parties, while more are likely to leave in the days ahead?
We have started the rebuilding process; most of those who left are disenchanted where they are. There is no party like PDP. The truth is that it is the liveliest party, we are always there for one another and we support each other. It is really difficult to leave PDP for another party; it is the party that is ready to listen to the views of every member. We are trying to get our members back. Whether you like it or not, when a new government comes, as the head, they sweep everything away, but we are going to sweep the polls next time around. About 72 candidates contested the 2019 presidential election. What does this huge number portend for Nigeria’s democracy?
It is not good for our democracy as we are just wasting money on electoral process. We don’t seem to reason; most of those parties got between 1,000 and 5,000 votes, which were not appreciative. So, we should take a look at the performance of the various parties and deregister those that failed to make appreciable impact in the elections to bring down the number of parties to about five. Didn’t you see the ballot papers, it was so long, we need to rejig the electoral process because the rest of Africa is looking up to us. Last week the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) set up an 85-member campaign committee for the September 22 governorship election in Osun State, to lead its flag-bearer, Senator Ademola Adeleke, into battle against an array of formidable foes, which include Gboyega Oyetola, candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC); and… In “Opinions” All is not at ease between erstwhile political allies in Ekiti State, Governor Ayodele Fayose and Senator Abiodun Olujimi given the cold war between the duo over the 2018 governorship race in the state. WALE ELEGBEDE reports The 2018 governorship election in Ekiti State is still less than a year… In “Politics” The Senate Minority Leader, Senator Biodun Olujimi has been given the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) return ticket for the 2019 senatorial election in Ekiti State. Olujimi is currently the Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District at the Upper Chambers of the National Assembly. Olujimi was given the return ticket by… In “News”