Many children are brought from rural to urban areas with fake promises of a rosy future. They are forced to become house helps or forced into other forms of child labour. Many of these children are not allowed to go to school, violating the Child Rights Act. Diekola Abisola speaks with some of these children, highlighting their challenges   Victor was just five years old when he was taken from his mother’s bosom by an uncle he knows as ‘Uncle IK. Uncle IK said he was taking him to Lagos State. He promised his parents, especially his worried-looking mother that he would ensure Victor receive the best education.
Victor lived in a small village in Ukot Ikpene, Akwa Ibom State with his parents and siblings. Victor was quite young when Uncle IK came to take him, but he recollected that his parents looked relieved and happy when his uncle promised to send him to school.
It was cheering news for parents who were struggling to feed and never hoped of sending their children to school.
He left his village in 2006 with his uncle. Victor embarked on a long and tiresome road journey to Lagos. When the boy got to his uncle’s house and was introduced to his family, he had thought he had found another family.
He was shown his place that night as he was asked to sleep on a couch in the living-room, while his uncle, the wife and children went to their respective rooms to sleep.
Not discouraged by this incident, Victor couldn’t wait to start attending a school in Lagos. Every time he saw his uncle’s children go to school, he wondered when he would be enrolled. He couldn’t help but be inquisitive. So one day, he asked his uncle when he would be enrolled in school. His uncle’s response crushed his dreams of going to school.
With remembered pains and disappointment, Victor said: “My uncle said he never promised my parents to send me to school. He said that all he told them was that he would take care of me. He said that he would open a shop for me when I come of age.”
Eight years later, Victor’s dream of acquiring an education has been reduced to zilch. He is now nothing but a houseboy in his uncle’s house.
Victor said that his uncle was not exactly a poor man.
He sends his children to one of the best private schools in Ogun State. Even if Uncle IK couldn’t afford to send Victor to a private school, a public school would have been alright for the little boy with a yearning heart for education. Victor, now 13, does most of the chores in the household. He also assists his uncle’s wife in her shop, where she sells foodstuffs.
Victor narrated: “My uncle is a mean man. I don’t know what I had ever done to him; he beats me at the slightest provocation. His wife is also mean to me. She finds fault with everything I do.”
Asked if he would love to see his mother or if he had seen her since his journey to Lagos, the boy replied: “I don’t think I can recognise my mom and siblings anymore. I can’t even picture their faces. I miss my mother. I have not seen my family members since I left my village. But my uncle promised to take me to see my parents soonest. I have told my uncle that I wanted to see my parents. There is an annual festival in our village during December. My uncle promised that he would take me to see my parents this December.”
Like Uncle IK, there are so many people who think it is alright to take children out of their protective environment, prey on their vulnerability and make them to work for hours.
Child labour and trafficking are now widespread. It has become prominent among ills currently pervading the Nigerian society.
Child labour threatens the lives of children, who are often exploited. Most of these children are trafficked from one state or country to another. Trafficking children is symbolic to trading away their dreams and future. These children have lives of their own and according to the Lagos State Child Rights Act, every child is entitle to education, care, comfort, protection and love, among other things. They are not supposed to be working at this age.
Like in the case of Victor, the common factor that drives most children to become victims of child labour or human trafficking is poverty. Sadly, most are children trafficked by their parents, guardians and loved ones.
These adults only think of the best ways to make money, forgetting that the care and comfort of the child is the most important.
Our correspondent also had a chat with a maid, Suliat. She is just 12 years old. Her father died during a brief illness at the age of six. Before her father died, Suliat and her family lived a comfortable life; they were not wealthy, but they were comfortable.
Suliat and her siblings attended standard private schools. But all that changed after her dad died. Her widowed mother, a full time housewife, found it tough to fend for herself and her children, let alone to send them to a private school.
Suliat’s mother had to start a petty business, selling sachet water, with money contributed by her husband’s relations.
Suliat and her siblings had to start attending public schools and also assist their mother to hawk her wares after returning from school. The only person left out of this was her little brother, Ayo. Ayo was just a year old at the time and too young to hawk or go to school.
A year later, Suliat and her family were still finding it difficult to feed. It was in the midst of these challenges that a family friend, who everyone fondly calls ‘Big Mummy’ came to Ondo State from Lagos to see them.
Big Mummy is actually Suliat’s mum’s friend. The two friends got chatting and soon Suliat’s mum poured out her sufferings, frustrations and challenges. The woman told Suliat’s mum that she could only assist if she was allowed to take one of the children to Lagos. She promised to fix the child in a skill acquisition programme and also enrol her in school. The idea was that whenever the child returns from school, she would go to where she is learning a trade.
Suliat’s mum, thinking it was a win-win situation, decided that Big Mummy should take her eldest daughter, Sola. Sola was 16 years at time. But Big Mummy refused, saying Sola was already too matured and would be difficult to control.
After a lot of negotiations, Big Mummy took Suliat and brought her to Lagos. Suliat was just seven years old.
Suliat got to Lagos and discovered that the grass was not greener at the other side after all. Big Mummy was living in a condition worse than Suliat’s family. The woman lived in a one-room apartment with her husband and two children in the Mushin area of Lagos State. But despite what she saw, Suliat believed that Big Mummy would still send her to school as she promised her mum.
Suliat said: “I lived with Big Mummy for three years without her enrolling me in any school. I followed her every day to her shop, where she sells provisions. Anytime I asked her about school, she would laugh and tell me not to worry, that she would enrol me when she first finds a place for me to work. I had given up hope when Big Mummy came one day, smiling. She said that she had found a place where I could work as a housemaid and go back to school. I was very happy.
“My madam is called Mummy Tolu. She promised to send me to school. She gives me N5,000 monthly to send to my family and N2,000 for me to care for myself. Her husband lives overseas; I have never seen him. After paying for two months, my boss stopped paying the N2,000, but continued to pay the N5,000. She sent the money to Big Mummy monthly.”
Suliat continued: “She didn’t send me to school. I have been with her for about two years now and not a day goes by without her beating me. Mummy Tolu has three kids and the kids used to beat me. I told Big Mummy about it; she said I should be patient if I wanted to be successful.”
Chidozie (18), a victim of child labour and trafficking, also shared her story. She was trafficked at the age of 14, but she later escaped what she described as the “wicked clutches of my wicked aunt.”
Chidozie said: “It all started after my dad had a stroke. It was a turning point in the life of my family. Dad was the breadwinner of our family. We found it very difficult to feed and also pay for his medical bills. My elder brother, who is the only sibling I have, had just graduated from the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo and was still unemployed.
“My mother sought help from everyone. She even contacted her younger sister to help us in any way she could. I don’t know what they agreed upon, but I was told I would start living with my aunt. My elder brother, Tobechukwu, blatantly refused, but he couldn’t do anything. My mum took me to my aunt’s house at Ikorodu, Lagos. At first my aunt was accommodating; but all that changed a week later. She and her husband treated me like I was not a human being. They insulted and beat me almost every day.”
Asked if she was ever sexually violated in the course of living with her aunt, she said: “I was not sexually assaulted by her or her husband but I can boldly say I was physically and emotionally assaulted. There was a day I thought of committing suicide. After six months of living with my aunt, I decided to take action. I stole her money and used it to transport myself to my parents’ house at Toll-Gate area. All the months I lived with my aunt, doing domestic chores, she never fulfilled her promise of enrolling me in school.”
Chidozie further said: “When I got home, I saw my dad was a bit better. I explained everything to my family. My mum couldn’t stop crying. She kept saying she was sorry for making me go through that. For about two months, I was so scared. I really didn’t know why I was scared; maybe it was because of what I had gone through. My mum reported her sister to their family.
“Unfortunately, my aunt didn’t see anything wrong in the way she treated me. She told my mum that the way she treated me was the way she would treat her child too. Since then, their relationship had been strained. My mum rarely talks to her which I’m grateful for. My brother got a job and started a small business for my mum. My dad is better and I was enrolled in secondary school. I, however, can’t forget what I went through in the hands of my aunt. It still affects me till now. I’m no longer the outspoken person I used to be before I was made to go and live with her.”
One correspondent met with Mama B. She’s called Mama B because her first child is called Busayo. Mama B has at least four housemaids. These young folks, between 12 and 16, work for her. They are always at her shop, where she sells textile materials.
These children told our correspondent that Mama B doesn’t pay them, but remits monthly money to an ‘agent’ who brought them from Benin Republic and Burkina Faso. The shop is at Sango-Ota ‘Garage,’ Ogun State.
They don’t go to school. Every morning, while mates are bustling to prepare for school, they prepare to head to Mama B’s shop.
Our correspondent approached Mama B and asked why she didn’t see it fit to enrol the children in school. She glared at our correspondent and snapped: “I can see you are jobless. You don’t have anything to do. The parents of these children willingly gave them to me since they couldn’t take care of them. I take care of them very well. As you can see, they are not looking unkempt. They don’t have to go to school; some successful people didn’t go to school.”
The Commander of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Person (NAPTIP), Lagos State Zonal Office, Mr. Atokolo Daniel, spoke on issues that have to do with child labour and trafficking.
He said: “Most of these cases stemmed from parents having more children than they could cater for.
“If a father has so many children and has no means of taking care of them, he starts looking for ways to distribute them. When he does, he no longer has control over what happens to those children.
“Employing a child less than 12 years as a domestic worker is a crime! It is also a crime to employ a child under the age of 18 to do any work that is exploitative, injurious or hazardous to their health.”
Daniel added that child trafficking and child labour were criminal and unacceptable in Nigeria.
He said: “The effects of child labour and trafficking are terrible. When a child is trafficked, he has become a slave. It is terrible for a Nigerian child because they can’t defend themselves. Some of these children are trafficked for ritual purposes, while some are sexually assaulted and sodomised. We prosecute traffickers and we have won so many cases against them. People with information on such cases shouldn’t be scared to inform NAPTIP. People should be bold to speak to us. They shouldn’t be afraid provided they are giving the correct information. We have hotlines and social media pages where they can be reached anytime. Presently, we are trailing a trafficker. He is from Cross River and taking the children to Oman in the Middle East. He is currently hiding somewhere in Lagos.
“There was a time we went on a raid at Seme Border, we rescued some children, who should be in school. Traffickers were trying to traffic them. We rescued and invited their parents for counselling.”