…as Nigeria imports $400m tomato paste   Minister of Agriculture, Audu Ogbeh has lamented the “very annoying” rate at which Nigerians import goods from abroad, saying while the country spends over $400 million of its scarce foreign exchange on importation of tomato past annually, a basket of tomatoes sells at a paltry sum of N2000. The minister described Nigeria as “a nation of importers”, adding: “Toothpick every year costs us 18 million dollars; tomato paste costs us 400 million dollars. Meanwhile, a basket of tomatoes is less than N2,000. “The farmers are losing money because the processors do not have enough funds to set up factories. Two factories have started off. I am sure by the end of next year we can comfortably tell the importers of tomato paste to stop.” Speaking when he appeared before the senate committee on agriculture in Abuja, Mr. Ogbeh said some Nigerians even go to crazy point of importing import pizza from London. He came before the committee to defend the ministry’s budget for 2019. According to the minister, those making the orders usually do so in the morning, through British Airways airlines. He said: “Do you know, sir, that there are Nigerians who use their cellphones to import pizza from London; they buy in London and bring it on British Airways in the morning to pick up at the airport. It is a very annoying situation and we have to move a lot faster in cutting down some of these things.” Abdullahi Adamu, chairman of the committee, also lamented the high rate of importation of fruits and vegetables, and called on the federal government to address the issue. “What is eating deep into our capacity to develop are the little things,” he said. “Go to these major shopping malls in Abuja, Kano, Lagos, go to the sections where they sell vegetables, any of them, they are imported from South Africa.” Following mass importation of tomato paste into the country, the Federal Government said it was losing about N146 billion ($400 million) in foreign exchange. Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, who disclosed this in a chat in Abuja, explained that the activities of importers had slowed… In “Business” The Minister of Agriculture, Mr Audu Ogbe, yesterday, said that importers were the greatest enemies of Nigeria's efforts to promote patronage of locally produced products. The minister stated this when he appeared before the National Assembly Joint Committee of Agriculture in Abuja, to defend the 2019 budget of the ministry.… In “News” During the first quarter of this year, the country’s agric sector enjoyed tremendous performances. For the first time since the inception of this administration, there were fewer reports on crisis between farmers and Fulani herdsmen in the North-East region. Taiwo Hassan reports     Agric stakeholders believe that the second… In “Business”