Plateau State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate in the just-concluded election, Senator Jeremiah Useni, has filed his petition at the governorship elections tribunal in Jos. Chairman, Media and Publicity to the PDP Campaign Council, Hon. Yiljap Abraham, in a statement signed and made available to journalists said Useni wanted the tribunal to consider the declaration of Simon Lalong by INEC as winner of the governorship election of March 9 and 23, 2019 as ‘unlawful, undue, null and void, and of no effect.’ According to the statement, the petition was served against Lalong, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Useni and the PDP were praying the tribunal to nullify Lalong’s return and to order INEC to withdraw his Certificate of Return. ‘The petition points out that the PDP candidate was “duly and validly elected and ought to be returned as the winner of the governorship election in Plateau State, having polled the highest number of lawful votes cast…and having satisfied the constitutional requirements of the said election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Governor Simon Lalong winner of the Plateau State governorship election following the supplementary poll held in the state on Saturday. Lalong, who was the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), polled 595,582 votes to defeat 24 other candidates. The Returning Officer,… In “News” The Gubernatorial Candidate of Peoples Democratic Party PDP in Plateau state, Senator Jeremiah Useni, on Wednesday accused Governor Simon Lalong and the All Progressive Congress APC Candidate of spending 20 billion naira rehabilitation funds release to the state on his reelection campaign. Senator Useni who stated this during a press… In “National news” The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Senator Jeremiah Useni, yesterday accused Governor Simon Lalong and the All Progressives Congress, (APC) candidate of spending N20 billion rehabilitation funds released to the state on his reelection campaigns. Useni spoke during a press conference in Jos, where… In “News”