Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, has said over 17,000 people die annually from tobacco related diseases in Nigeria. Dogara, who disclosed this while declaring open the interactive session on Tobacco Regulation, 2018, organized by the House Committee on Delegated Legislation, observed that the sum of $591 million is being spent annually on tobacco related diseases. He said: “In our country, over 17,000 people are said to be killed by tobacco- caused diseases, while more than 370,000 children and over 4 million adults continue to use tobacco each day. According to the speaker, a report published by the Environmental Rights Action (ERA) group’s estimates that the Nigerian government spends as much as $591 million yearly on treatment of diseases resulting from tobacco consumption in the country. Represented by the deputy chief whip, Hon. Pally Iriase, the speaker disclosed that “Nigeria as a notable tobacco market and influential country in Africa ratified the World Health Organisation (WHO) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) in 2005. In his presentation, Minister of State for Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, explained that the move to seek the approval of the House was in pursuant of section 39 of the National Tobacco Act, 2015, as a legal framework for effective implementation of the Act, whose objective is the protection and promotion of the health and well-being of Nigerian citizens. “Tobacco is scientifically established as a product deleterious to human health, containing more than 7,000 chemicals, of which at least 250 are proven to be harmful and more than 69 are known as causative cancer agents. “Tobacco use is a leading preventable risk factor for heart disease, stroke, hypertension, chronic respiratory disease, like asthma, etc; and a facilitator for tuberculosis development. Even if used as recommended by its manufacturer, it believed to have the potential to kill many of its users. “WHO estimates indicate that more than 1.1 billion adults are smokers worldwide and that at least 367 million use smokeless tobacco products. Of these, over 7 million die annually through the effect of tobacco, 6 million by direct use and about 890,000 from exposure to second-hand smoke. “If nothing is done, ladies and gentlemen, there is a good reason is fear that the number of deaths will soon increase to 8 million with Low and Middle- Income countries bearing 80 per cent of the global tobacco use burden,” he noted. According to Nigeria Global Adult Tobacco Survey Report of 2012, in Nigeria, over 20 billion sticks of cigarettes are consumed annually and 5.6 per cent of adults (4.5 million) currently use tobacco products. The rate of exposure to secondhand smoke in public places is very high at 82 per cent, in bars and night clubs, 36.3 per cent in coffee shops and 29.3 per cent in restaurants.