STEVE UZOECHI, in this report, asks what will become of the statues of former presidents erected by the outgoing governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, in Owerri, the state capital  Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has listed a number of things he would be handing over to his successor on May 29 but it is obvious there would be no mention of statues in the hand over note. It is also predictable that the governor would not want to list the statues as part of the legacies he would be leaving behind after eight years in office.  Whatever the outgoing governor decides to do, it is certain, he would not be taking the statues along with him. What is left to predict is how the incoming government will view the statues and what they will do with them at the end of the day. The Okorocha statues hit limelight in 2017 and got a huge mention in the media toward the last quarter of that year. Between October and November 2017, Imo State under Governor Okorocha earned a name for being the pilgrimage centre for serving African Presidents and envoys of many nations. The intriguing traffic of African leaders to and fro Imo State got quite a number of eyebrows raised at the time. The argument in some quarters was that the purpose of any tourist destination is for profit, but Imo with its assumed tourist status for African leaders, at that time, had nothing to show for the influx of high profile visitors to the state. It would be recalled that the unveiling of statues of African leaders in very elaborate ceremonies took place after a two-week long birthday celebration by Governor Okorocha in September 2017. The unveiling of the statues of President Nana Akufo Ado of Ghana to former President Jacob Zuma of SouthAfrica and then former President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia, were all greeted with elaborate ceremonies with live telecast of their receptions by one or two national television stations. And for the days they stayed in the state, all issues of governance were seemingly suspended with nothing more important than a successful hosting of the August visitors. Regrettably, the governor’s lavish birthday feast and celebration of visiting African leaders happened at a time Imo State government’s cheques to pensioners were being turned down by banks as dud.  While government workers were lamenting the unjustifiable deductions amounting to more than 30 per cent slash in their salaries without explanations, some pensioners at the time averred that pensioners in the state were being owed arrears of pension ranging from 12 to 35 months, adding that the three months pension cheques they were issued at the time, after rigorous verification exercises, had bounced for three consecutive times, within the same period the governor was busy erecting statues and celebrating visiting African presidents and dignitaries. Not a few persons questioned the priorities of the Imo State government, which at the times seemed outrightly bizarre.  Of all the visiting presidents, the statue of Jacob Zuma drew angry reactions from both Nigerians and South Africans, base on controversy surrounding Zuma administration in South Africa. During the period Zuma was been celebrated by Imo State with unveiling of the ex-President’s statue, the Supreme Court in South Africa erased any doubt about the fact that Zuma was not worth celebrating by any decent society, when it ruled that Zuma may face up to 783 count charges of corruption.  Nigerians living in the Diaspora could not contain their rage at the honour bestowed on Zuma who has been repeatedly accused of tacitly endorsing the xenophobic attacks on nationals of sister African nations.  Okorocha would have scored a bull’s eye if he had placed more premium on committing Zuma to take a decisive stand against xenophobia in South African but Zuma’s tone betrayed a mindset of entitlement that suggested that shortly after the fall of Apartheid, a lot of people moved into their country to take what rightly belongs to them. Zuma did not make stern condemnation of xenophobia and efforts by journalists to confront him with questions were rebuffed. Much like an after-thought a windy press statement was issued by the Government House in which Zuma was quoted as saying, “No South African should kill a Nigerian; no Nigerian should kill a South African.” To some people, the statement was a puerile statement that held no assurances. Regrettable, barely two days before the arrival of Zuma, another Nigerian was killed in South Africa, yet not even a mention of the killing was made to Zuma. Another evident concern is the fact that the dominant issues discussed in the course of the visits were largely those affecting personal interests of the governor. While Akufo Ado of Ghana said what he had in common with Okorocha was the hunger for educating African children, Zuma came to Owerri expressly to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Jacob G. Zuma Foundation and the Rochas Foundation College System at a ceremony in Owerri, the Imo state capital. Pundits also believe that Okorocha may be looking beyond 2019 and building bridges for himself alone, to new grounds and opportunities. “Okorocha cannot afford to be irrelevant after 2019 and I can state without doubt that all his engagements with these visiting Presidents are largely personal endeavours,” Bestman Okere said.  While there have been claims and conflicting claims as to the actual cost of the statues ranging from N550,000 to N700,000, the state government has apparently refused to declare the cost of erecting each statue. During that period, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, (SERAP) asked the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to jointly investigate Okorocha. In the petition dated November 10, 2017 and signed by SERAP Executive Director, Adetokunbo Mumuni, the organisation expressed “serious concern that Governor Okorocha may have spent over N1 billion of public funds to build statues of Ghanaian President, Nana Akufo Ado; South African President Jacob Zuma and Liberian President Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf.” According to the organisation, “the spending on statues and apparent misuse of public resources may have violated constitutional provisions and international standards on code of conduct for public officers. The initiatives cannot be justified under any circumstances whatsoever, especially at a time when Imo State is unable or unwilling to pay teachers’ salaries and pensioners’ entitlements.”  The petition copied to the acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, states further that “SERAP believes that rather than serving the common interest of the public, spending over N1 billion possibly of public funds on Akufo Ado, Zuma and Johnson-Sirleaf in the context of their participation in the opening of the Rochas Okorocha Foundation would seem to put Governor Okorocha in a conflict of interest situation.”  These were the circumstances that played out and the atmosphere at the time Okorocha went on a building spree of statues. The episode is still fresh in the mind of many Imo people and it is rather very doubtful that the incoming administration will embrace the statues with cheers. Considering the enormity of work and rebuilding; structural and administrational, that the new administration will have to embark on, there will most likely be very little time to spare for such frivolities as statue beautification.  Already, the governor-elect, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, understands how touchy and sensitive the subject of the statue is to Imo people, that he may not want to entangle himself and his administration with it so soon.  It is likely that even if Ihedioha does not subscribe to demolishing the statues, he will definitely not get into any venture that may seek to promote it.  Under the circumstance, it may not be very easy to say what will become of some of the statues that are still under construction and are yet to be completed like the statue of President Muhammadu Buhari. But it is obvious that if left for Imo people to decide, demolition of the statue will be the most popular opinion.  A former governorship aspirant under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Mr. Okey Ezeh when confronted with the issue, had asked the Okorocha administration to immediately uproot the statue it erected in honor of Jacob Zuma and apologize to the Imo people for its indiscretion in that regard.  Ezeh described Zuma as the poster boy of poor, inept and corrupt leadership in the developing world citing the plethora of corruption cases that the former anti-apartheid crusader had been enmeshed in.  “How could such a character be honored in our Imo State?” the politician had queried. According to him, “Imo State University is in dire need of reinvention and currently does not enjoy any exchange programme with any reputable university in the world since after the Mbakwe regime’s linkage with University of Nebraska, USA in the 80s. A missed opportunity in the Zuma misadventure would have been the establishment of a linkage programme between IMSU and the University of Cape Town South Africa (currently ranked No. 20 in the world)”. He therefore demanded that the path of rectitude necessitated that the Okorocha administration immediately take down the statue and apologize to Imo people for that monumental blunder. Anger is building up against Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State over the latest trend of erecting statues of prominent persons in the state. STEVE UZOECHI, in Owerri, reports that the failure of the government to even consider some prominent sons of the state remains a sour point  … In “News” As a young secondary school pupil, two things endeared Owelle Rochas Okorocha to me: his Owelle title and his education foundation. I felt a man who shares 'Owelle' title with the great Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe must be a repertoire of knowledge and wisdom. The first time I saw pupils enjoying… In “Perspectives” On July 10, the Imo State House of Assembly set up a seven-member ad-hoc committee to investigate allegations of gross misconduct levelled against the Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere. That followed a motion moved by the Deputy Speaker of the House, Hon. Ugonna Ozuruigbo, which was based on a petition… In “Editorial”