The Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has arraigned a businessman, Cajetan Chike Muonagolu, before Justice Saliu Saidu of a Federal High Court in Lagos over alleged production and sale of substandard engine oil. Muonagolu was docked alongside his company, Richborn Nigeria Limited, on a 4-count charge bordering on production, possession, dealing on and distribution of substandard products. The defendants however pleaded not guilty to the alleged offence. Afterwards, defence lawyer drew the court’s attention to his clients’ bail motion. Responding, SON’s lawyer, Adeleke Olofindare, said he was yet to be served with a copy the motion. Justice Saidu subsequently adjourned the matter to 10th April, 2019, for hearing of the defendants bail motion. In the charge, the defendants were accused of committing the offences at ASPAMDA Trade Fair Complex, Lagos Badagry Expressway Lagos State between 12th and 13th December, 2018. They were accused of being in possession of 15,000 Cartons of adulterated  Prime Plasma, Prime ATF and Stanley brand of engine oil which they presented as being of high quality. The offences were said to have contravened Section 3 (6) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, CAP M17, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and Section 26 of Standards Organisation of Nigeria Act, 2015. Some of the counts reads: “That you Cajetan Chike Muonagolu and Richbon Nigeria Limited of  Plot  242, Oshodi Apapa Express Way , Odolowu Bus Stop, Lagos  on or about 12/13 December 2019, while at ASPAMDA Trade Fair Complex, Lagos Badagry Expressway Lagos State Lagos State within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court did indulge in dealing in adulterated/substandard  engine oil to wit: 15,000 Cartons and 60,00 pieces of Prime Plasma, Prime ATF and Stanley brand of Engine oil which is not of quality, substance nature or efficacy which the seller represented it to be and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 1 (18)(ii) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, CAP M17, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. “That you Cajetan Chike Muonagolu and Richbon Nigeria Limited  of  Plot  242, Oshodi Apapa Express Way , Odolowu Bus Stop, Lagos on or about 12/13 December 2019, while at ASPAMDA Trade Fair Complex, Lagos Badagry Expressway Lagos State Lagos State Lagos State within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court did fail to comply with the Standards Organisation of Nigheria’s Conformity Assessment Programe (MANCAP) to wit; dealing in and having in possession of: 15,000 Cartons of Prime Plasma, Prime ATF and Stanley brand of adulterated/substandard engine oil”. Two businessmen, Ayogu Great James and Ifeuwa Moses Christ, who were docked for allegedly importing 1, 570 pump action rifles into Nigeria by the Federal Government were yesterday denied bail by Justice Saliu Saidu of a Federal High Court in Lagos. The duo were docked alongside a firm, Great James… In “News” Justice Oluremi Oguntoyibo of a Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday remanded four men in prison for allegedly producing and selling adulterated engine oil. The order was sequel to their arraignment by the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) on a four-count charge of producing, possessing, dealing and distributing substandard… In “Metro and Crime” Justice Oluremi Oguntoyibo of a Federal High Court in Lagos has ordered the remand of four men charged before her by the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) for producing adulterated engine oil. The judge ordered that Johnson Uche, Olaide Shittu, Kingsley Meteke and Abdulquadri Olayinka be remanded in prison pending… In “News Around Nigeria”