The Office of the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta has debunked reports that the wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari and the National Security Adviser, General Babagana Monguno, were beneficiaries of alleged contract scams amounting to N3.2billion, perpetrated by its Coordinator, Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Dokubo.  A statement signed and made available to newsmen by the Special Assistant, Media Amnesty Programme, Mr. Murphy Ganagana, noted that a report published by an online platform, with the caption ‘Aisha Buhari, Monguno named in Dokubo’s fresh N3.2billion scandal’, was false, malicious, mischievous and promoting blackmail. He disclosed that the published contract letters said to have been awarded to two companies namely; Messrs. Innotek Royal Services Limited and Glassfa Continental Limited, alleged to be engaging in fictitious jobs contracts amounting to N3.2billion awarded within a period of one month to two companies fronting for Dokubo, were all fake.  According to him, the National Security Adviser or the First Lady had never requested for, or secured contracts directly or indirectly for their associatesor family members, who were not even known to the Amnesty Office.  “It is true that a contract for empowerment of 300 Niger Delta youths in oil and gas instrumentation was awarded to Messrs. Glassfa Continental Limited, and another contract for training and empowerment of 400 delegates in coastal fishing was awarded to Innotek Royal Services Limited. “However, the two contracts in question were beyond the threshold of the Special Adviser to the President and Coordinator, Amnesty Programme.  Therefore, in line with statutory guidelines and regulations, a Due Process No Objection was sought and obtained from the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) vides a letter OSAPND/ GCL/VT/2018/11010 dated 19thOctober, 2018.  Consequently, approval for award of contracts to the two companies was granted by the BPP. “Contrary to the allegation that payment had being made to the two companies even though work has not commenced, we wish to state with emphasis that no dime has been paid to any of the two companies. It is pertinent to state that processes leading to payment of 15 per cent of contract sum are yet to be completed for the two companies which have not been handed delegates for training. Files of the two companies on the contracts have not reached the Prof. Dokubo’s table. Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta, Prof. Charles Dokubo, has warned contractors awarded jobs for the Presidential Amnesty Programme to implement the contracts in line with the terms of agreement. He said the warning was necessitated by increasing reports on sale of contracts awarded to some companies in… In “News” 305 ghost varsity students uncovered   The Presidential Amnesty Office has uncovered a monumental fraud in the deployment of scholars and payment of tuition fees for its educational programmes at some universities in the country. It has also uncovered a total of 305 ghost students on its tertiary education scholarship… In “News” Madam Ekioukere Foster hails from Bayelsa State but resident in Bomadi, headquarters of Bomadi Local Government of Delta State. A few weeks ago, she was among thousands of beneficiaries of starter packs distributed by the Presidential Amnesty Programme to empower residents of communities impacted during the Niger Delta… In “Sports”