 Recently, His Excellency, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, of Enugu State performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the first University of Education in the South East Geo-Political Zone, the Enugu State University of Education, Ihe, Awgu Local Government Area. The state government had earlier released the sum of N200million (Two hundred million naira) to enable work commence at the site. The contract for the construction of the administrative building has been awarded by the State Executive Council. In her welcome address to the Governor and his entourage, the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Enugu State College of Education Technical, the Forerunner of the university, Amb. Mrs. Fidelia Njeze, revealed to the excited guests that the delay in performing this ground breaking ceremony was because the governor was not prepared to do so until he was sure that the money for the commencement of the project was concretely available. There is no other way to interpret this than to say that His Excellency is sincerely prepared to translate his dream and vision into reality. God in his creation simply said “let there be light” and there was light. His Excellency Governor Ugwuanyi had said let there be a University at Ihe and had followed it with necessary actions. Consequently, a brand new University of Education, the first of its kind in the south East is today birthed at Ihe. A university according to Wikipedia is an institution of higher education and research which awards academic degrees in various disciplines” university typically provides under graduate education and post graduate and these are what the University of Education, Ihe would soon begin to do. It will never be existentially the same with Ihe town and the neighbouring communities and indeed the entire Awgu Local Government Area. One may understand the gargantuan weight of His Excellency’s decision only if one appreciates or understand the relationship between a University and the socio-economic development of where ever a university is sited. A university is a catalyst of economic activities. Perhaps one of the reasons why Ugwuanyi sited the university is to activate the economy of Ihe town and Awgu in general, an economy that had been hitherto dormant and comatose. At present there is no commercial bank anywhere in Awgu Local Government Area. In no distant time Ihe community and the neighbouring communities would be enlivened. Houses would be built to accommodate students and staff, shops would spring up in all corners, telecommunication businesses of all shapes would abound, bookshops, hotels, restaurants, clubs would competitively come alive. Besides an educational institution creates all forms of employment. Socially a university generates wide form of exposure and social expansion. There would be interaction with people from other parts of the country. There would be increasing number of social-cultural activities. Apart from the opportunities of access to education which the university would generally provide for people from far and wide nearness to the university is particularly advantageous to people from Ihe and the neighbouring communities who ordinarily may not afford to attend schools in far flung areas for lack of finance. To say that the siting of the university would attract basic infrastructure like electricity, water, roads, medical facilities for Ihe town and the neighbouring communities would be an understatement. One prominent question that people have raised is about what informed the decision of His Excellency to site the university at Ihe and in fact away from his geo-political zone, a question perhaps nurtured by the fact that many state governors fuelled by sentiments of sectionalism and parochialism had sited universities in their own back yards. The answer to this question, however, may not be difficult to find for anyone who has known or is aware of the universalist mind bent of Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and his humanism and sense of justice, fairness and equity, his patriotism and nationalism. One could, however, answer the question with questions such as these: Why did Azikiwe choose to site the University of Nigeria at Nsukka rather that at Onitsha? Why did Obafemi Awolowo site the University of Ife, now known as Obafemi Awolowo University at Ife rather than at Ikenne? Why did the Sultan of Sokoto, Ahmadu Bello, the then Premier of Northern Region choose to site the Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria, rather than at Sokoto? Perhaps posterity will eventually come to the aid of those who raise the question in understanding the mind of Governor Ugwuanyi. Again, let it not be lost to people that no state-sponsored university is located anywhere in Enugu West geo-political zone. The University of Education Ihe is the first. One may therefore decipher the hands of justice and equity at work in the governor’s decision. Beside, Governor Ugwuanyi’s decision is consistent with his philosophy of inclusive governance as evident in his pattern of building of developmental infrastructural projects in hitherto neglected communities. What is baffling to many is about how Ugwuanyi has been managing to raise funds for all the things he is doing, including the building of a brand new university despite the fact that Enugu State is at the bottom of the ladder of Federal allocation in Nigeria. However a critical examination of Ugwuanyi’s policies in education clearly shows that he understood that education is the bedrock of a nation’s development, progress and survival. He prioritized education and placed it at the forefront of his policies. He believes that education is one sure way to empower the next generation, secure their future and alleviate poverty. Governor Ugwuanyi demonstrated this attitude at the Institute of Management and Technology; a school that was in a state of decay when he assumed office. Today Institute of Management and Technology (IMT) is revamped and re-positioned with great improvement in all necessary infrastructure with all courses accredited and upgraded as a degree awarding school. It may be necessary to point out that the governor had also set up a committee on the resuscitation of the Adada Campus of the University (ESUT). We are therefore yet to witness the last of Ugwuanyi’s revolutionary initiative and action in the Education sector. Although he placed Enugu State in the hands of God, Ugwuany’s astuteness, accountability, transparency, commitment and hard work remain cardinal to his numerous successes. It has to be pointed out that the building of the University of Education Ihe has become a challenge to all lovers of Education in the state, to the indigenes of Ihe and Awgu, to the people of Enugu West geo-political zone. All and sundry are expected to join hands with His Excellency, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi in making his dream of having the University of Education Ihe come to fruition.  Dr. Ugwuozor writes from Enugu Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State yesterday performed ground-breaking ceremony for the administrative building of the first University of Education in the South- East geo-political zone, the Enugu State University of Education in Ihe, Awgu Local Government Area amid jubilation and excitement. The university which would be a degree-awarding institution… In “News” For Pastor Lazarus Muoka and members of his Lords Chosen Charismatic Revival Church, this is a season of breaking new grounds. Just recently, the Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, perfected the ground breaking ceremony of The Crown Chosen University, a tertiary institution which will in no distant time put the… In “Body & Soul” The Enugu State Governor, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, as usual featured prominently in the news in the last three weeks. During the period under review, Gov. Ugwuanyi was named the “2018 Sun Governor of the Year” for good governance; rapid rural development; regular payment of workers’ salaries and retirees’ pensions… In “Opinions”