Vi c e – P resident Yemi Osinbajo yesterday spoke of plans by the Federal Government to decentralise the power sector to encourage private investors generate power for the people. He said that was part of moves to address the challenges of poor supply of power. He promised that in the next two years, there would be great and significant improvement in the power sector, given the Federal Government’s power reform put in place to address the challenges in the sector. Osinbajo disclosed this yesterday at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka, where he delivered the 50th Convocation Lecture. The theme of lecture, which is part of activities marking the Jubilee Convocation of the 57-year-old ivory tower, is “Nigeria Rising: The Path to Prosperity.” He further noted the Federal Government had increased the power generation from 4,000 Megawatts to 8,100megawatts to improve electricity supply to the customers, but that the effect of this increase in generation had not translated significantly to better service to the consumer mainly due to distribution challenges. According to him, over 2,000 megawatts of power is not taken up by the DISCOs for distribution to consumers largely because of problems they experience in collection of Tariff, but one of the reasons for this is the fact that the DISCOs have not invested significantly in metering. In fact, he noted that the Federal Government had now embarked on a major metering initiative, tagged: “ The Metering Assets Programme,” which involves private metering assets providers, saying in addition the Federal Government has in the past 18 months taken on the deficiencies in transmission head on through the TCN and the NDPHC while completing transmission projects all around the cou“But the more important strategy is to decentralise power production. So, we have adopted an off grid programme, which means that we are encouraging private investors to collaborate with government to build IPPs and supply power to willing buyers. Under the Federal Government’s power reforms, Osinbajo, an alumnus of UNILAG, said: “Those who bought or invested in the power sector thought it is where money would come immediately but when it was not so, they do not have money to buy and distribute pre-paid meters to their customers, or buy electricity already generated. The Federal Government has decided to invite private individuals, under the Independent Power Project (IPP) in order to overcome the challenges of the sector. Presently, there are over 2,000 megawatts that are yet to be bought for distribution to consumers.” On airport management, Osinbajo, however, hinted that the Federal Government would complete the concession of the airport for private sector to run, saying government has no business in the management of airport. Lamenting that corruption was a critical factor undermining the development of the country, the Vice President wondered at the rate at which political and public office holders directly steal government revenue with impunity. He said: “You can’t imagine how people were signing cheques and withdrew any amount of money from the government treasury. But, I want to assure you that such would not happen again.” Towards this end, he pledged the readiness of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to complete all major infrastructure projects across the country, saying their completion has been hampered by fund.