 Commuters and motorists were held for several hours on the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway yesterday as two trucks broke down on both sides of the road.  The gridlock, which started about 8a.m. at Ibafo had already spread to the middle of the ‘Long Bridge’ by noon. Commercial motorcycles made brisk business from people going to work as they were forced to alight from buses to take okada. The riders charged between N500 and N1,000 depending on individual’s power to haggle and locations.  Also hawkers of bottled water and sausage sold the products at 100 per cent increment. A bottle of water which normally costs N50 was sold to motorists at N100, while a stick of sausage also sold for N100.  Witnesses said the gridlock was caused by two trucks which broke down around Kara-Ibafo on the way to Lagos and another fuel-laden truck heading to Mowe-Shagamu, spilled diesel on the expressway, thereby making it slippery. Before another truck was brought in for the transfer of diesel from the truck, the gridlock had gone out of control.  This came exactly one week after a fuel-laden truck broke down and its product was spilled on the ‘Long Bridge,’ resulting in multiple accidents on the expressway as cars were skidding off the road and colliding with others.  Narrating his ordeal, a motorist, who identified himself  simply as Lola, said there was no traffic all the way from Motorway to Berger until he approached Arepo, where he spent more than two hours before he could negotiate the underpass at Magboro.  He added that he was going to Ibadan but with the gridlock, he had to make a U-turn. A danfo driver, Ramon, who drove against traffic from OPIC Junction to Arepo, before he was trapped in the traffic, said that gridlock had become a daily occurrence on the expressway.  Ramon added that he had to take ‘oneway’ in order to safe cost of fuel and time. He called on government to prevail on the contractor, Julius Berger, to speed up the road project and put in place measures to control traffic.  Another motorist, Kunle Ariyo, said the traffic had taken over Magboro underpass as motorists, who took one-way from Lagos and those who wanted to make a U-turn, were held in traffic. The Federal Controller of Works, Lagos, Mr. Adedamola Kuti, said the articulated truck which broke down where there was a road diversion in Ibafo, caused the gridlock.  