Ambassador Joe Keshi is a former Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, speaks about Nigeria’s growing debt profile, uprising against sit-tight African leaders and the need to effectively monitor state governments  What do we make of the recent execution of Nigerians in Saudi Arabia and arrest of others in Dubai for various criminal offenses? It adds to the sad narratives of Nigeria today, when you take into consideration the state of insecurity in this country like in Zamfara State, the Boko Haram insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, rape, and all the things you read in our newspapers. Some countries have actually described Nigeria as a dangerous country and had advised their nationals visiting Nigeria to be careful or not to visit at all. Then suddenly you hear that a Nigerian was executed in Saudi Arabia, others are on death roll in Dubai and 400 others have been convicted for various crimes including robbing a bureau de change in the United Arab Emirate. It gives you the impression about our unfortunate situation. But when you begin to think about it in a very serious manner, you see repeated failures of our system to really work as it should be. Again when the news broke, the first excuse was that the drug was planted by air line officials and the questions is how on earth could that happen and it was reported simultaneously that those that were involved were arrested, tried and jailed? If that was the case, the Nigerian authority should have used the evidence to plead for the life of the woman. I really don’t know what they did but that is what they should have done, later it came out that the drug was hidden in the body of the lady. So you now see a country that cannot give accurate information about anything going to its citizens. Today, you hear so many versions of how Boko Haram started. You don’t get to hear one narrative of what happened backed up by intelligence. From what we have heard so far and taking into account the numbers that have been arrested, it shows very clearly that this business has been going on for a long time. It shows that some Nigerians have been abusing the good gestures of the Saudi Arabian authorities who issues them visas to fulfill their religious obligations. It is unfortunate that they are now violating it by engaging in nefarious activities. It also makes you to question the presence of large number of security agents at the Nigerian airports, particularly Lagos and Kano. With all that people are able to take drugs out of the country. Again, it shows you the failure of our institutions because if they have done their work, it will be very difficult for that lady and others to travel to Saudi Arabia and this whole idea that it was planted shows the inadequacies of our airports, because in a number of airports today CCTV cameras are installed at luggage loading bays of aircrafts to detect any funny activity and if there is any issue they check passengers’ luggage tag against the one issued to him. Again these are some of the things we need to give serious consideration to, but this is a country where we learn no lesson from previous activities. For now, we have forgotten about it. Have you seen any Muslim leader say anything about it? If it was a different situation you would have seen people rioting. But here everybody is quiet. Their silence adds to possibility of a re-occurrence. And we must hold those leaders responsible because they approved these people to go on pilgrimage. The Holy Koran says that you can only go on pilgrimage when you can afford it yourself, but today, pilgrimage has become a political issue, because sometime in this country, governments spent billions to send people on pilgrimage, instead of spending that large amount of money to improve the people’s livelihood. There is the needs for a rethink because what is happening is unfortunate; it tarnishes our image. Right now we have forgotten about it. I have had to say at another place that what we need to do is tell people in the country that there are consequences if you go to another country and violate their laws. Here we will probably arrest you and put you in jail and you can probably manipulate the system and get out, but in countries like Saudi Arabia, Thailand and Indonesia, drug offences attract death sentence.  About the same period, President Muhammadu Buhari was in the UAE, canvassing for foreign direct investment. What impact do you think these criminal activities of Nigerians abroad can have on the quest? It will not impact negatively on it because it is another level. The President has a larger obligation to look for investors for the country. Like UAE that invited him they are also looking for areas to solidify their relationship with Nigerians by investing in Nigeria and what I just hope was that the President at some had the opportunity to put in some words for those in detention. And that leads me to say we should think seriously on how we can bring such people back to this country to serve their time here. If not they will have spend their time in those countries.  What is your reaction to Nigeria’s growing debt, now running into about N24 trillion? There is nothing wrong in borrowing. The top women and men in this country borrow massively to run their businesses, but the banks know how to deal with them to make them pay; they know it is an obligation. For me, we should have the mind set of bankers, that is the attitude the government should begin to take. If I was the President today I will even borrow double that amount to build infrastructure in this country but I will make sure we create a mechanism whereby we have money to pay back when the time for repayment comes, particularly when we are given some moratorium in some cases, like the loan we took from China, where we have a moratorium of some years. So we should begin to find a way, maybe annually, you just don’t budget to service loans, but you begin to invest some money, so that when it is time to pay back those loans you are in a position to pay back. The loans are not the problem but the management of the loans, the ability to repay. You cannot just take facilities from some countries and you build infrastructure as a social service. No, you must also take into consideration that you must pay. Taking the loan is not the problem but what you are using the loan for and the managements of the loans, and failure to make preparations for the repayment day. There must be a paradigm shift that as you are taking the loan there must be provision for repayment.  Briefly, can we look at the outcome of the last election? How do you see it? The elections have come and gone and there is nothing much else to say than to just wait for the tribunals to decide outstanding cases. But when you look at the number of election cases arising from the 2019 elections, you begin to wonder. As some people have said, this is possibly the worse election that INEC has conducted. Matters were not helped with the involvement of the security agencies. You can compare our situation with the election about to take place in some of the largest democracies in the. India with a population of over 1.2 billion, more than thrice the size of Nigeria; is going to deploy one million election officials around the country. It is so massive and as we speak, nobody had died and it also goes to show the strength of the Indian culture and tradition. You know why I said this? For most part of the 60’s that was an era of coup d’état in countries in Africa and Asia but there was never a coup in India. The Indian military has remained professional through the years. For us elections are over and those elected should settle down and think seriously on how they can relieve the people of their pains of underdevelopment and poverty that they are going through. I tell you if you begin to look at the economy and what we are going through, we are in serious trouble. So this is not the time to celebrate but post election times calls for serious thinking and serious readjustment to provide relieve to the people. This is not only about the federal government but also the states. You know, this country has no business been poor. If you look at the money each state is getting, if they manage the money well this country will be growing faster. We need to focus attention on the states and local government because if they don’t work this country won’t work. It is as simple as that. Unfortunately, we focus more on the federal government, perhaps because the federal government shares the money and that is where all the powers are. But when you look at the volume of money that goes into the states and local government monthly, 26.72 and 20,60 per cent respectively of the entire national revenue, such amount is huge. If you take a state like Kano which has 44 local governments, go and look at their revenue and juxtapose that with the level of development. We need to challenge the leadership of the states, let’s call out the the governors as we are taking on the president. Let me give you the reasons. Take education, the states have primary responsibility for primary education. It is the products of these schools that go into secondary school and into the universities . If the quality of the products of the primary schools are high, then the secondary schools will also be good in terms of quality of products, but if it is bad from beginning the end is predictable. Besides, the federal government has just over a hundred secondary schools while a state like Delta has probably about 3000 secondary schools. In agriculture, the federal government has no land but the states do. So for this country to work the economy of these states must be strong and good.  Looking at the political crises in Sudan and Algeria, do you think the Arab spring is back? I don’t think it is back because these are two nations that escaped it earlier, but we have to look at the internal dynamics of the two countries. For me, it is a positive development because it sends a message not just to those two leaders that are being brought down but to leaders in Cameroon and Uganda, for example, where the president has been ruling, especially in the case of Cameroon, for about 40 years. Look, if you have not achieved anything in 10 years there is nothing you can do in 30 years. If you take longevity as a basis for success then it means that you must be able to show what you have done for the people. But when people are revolting against you, it is a clear indication of your failure. But as I also have said somewhere that we should not just look at this is an isolated case because the vast majority of those who led the protests in these countries are relatively young people they are not politicians. They are relatively young people that are using social media to organise people but why are they in revolt? It is because they just see that the government that has been in power for so many years have really done nothing to improve their lives; they are growing up, yet there is no job, there is no place they can work but the government is living in opulence. So they just decided they need to fight and change government, to see if a new person with new ideas, new seriousness can really rescue them. In fact in Algeria, you can see how leaders stay too long in office, they lose the reality of everything. He has been sick for several years, unfortunately Abdelaziz Bouteflika had stroke a couple of years ago. He has been in hospital abroad and he now sent a message that he was going to contest election for another seven years. So is President Ali Bongo of Gabon, who succeeded his father in 2009, but who has been in Morocco attending to his health for over a year now. Is he the only one in that country? Why can’t he just say ‘look am resigning’ and ensure a proper election and transition and make arrangement that while in the hospital the state will look after him and the country will be glad to do that. Look at Sudan too, you have seen that President Omar al-Bashir was ousted by the military after 30 years in office. Leaders in Africa must begin to see the possibilities of such things happening in their territories because, it gets to a stage where people will say to the authorities ‘enough is enough,’ and with the power of the social media thus far, it could happen in any country. You know we are talking of long sitting presidents, you know in the nearby Togo, they have been in the same crises; they have told President Faure Gnassingbe, ‘he has to go.. You know his father ruled the country for about 38 years and since he succeeded him he has been there for about 15 years. Why don’t he organise an election and put somebody there who will sustain his legacy? What I am saying is that such uprising is a possibility anywhere in Africa if the leaders consistently fail to address the issues of under-development, but allows the people to remain in a state of poverty, you give people reasons for revolt, because there is a limit to how people today can accept anything. People are getting wiser.  During the same period, Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu got elected for the fight term. What implication will this have on the peace process with Palestine? From a long perspective, I’m sorry to say, I think it is about time Netanyahu rethinks the future of Israel. He was a Prime Minister who lost at one point and came back. Since then, his singular ambition has been to be the longest serving Prime Minister in Israel. To achieve that, he came to power as a pragmatic leader with the intention to make peace and negotiate with the Palestinians, but now went into alliance with extreme right group in Israel. These groups do not want to give any piece of land to the Palestinians or any neighboring Arab country.. So more or less, Netanyahu has been doing their bidding and that is why he has stayed long as Prime Minister. They keep voting for him as long as he does their bidding, but the long term effect of this is where the danger lies. You see, for instance, you have the Arab-Israelis and people are already worried that they are growing in population, because by the Jewish constitution, Israel in s Jewish state. But when you go to annex a non-Jewish people to Israel, it is going to be difficult in the next few years to describe Israel as a Jewish state. When these people grow in population and in strength they will begin to say ‘no, we are not Jewish people, at that time, you will not be able to describe Israel as a Jewish state. Number two. There is evidence that the world will experience another apartheid because they will not have equal rights with the Israelis. Today, the Arabs area is most underdeveloped area in Israel. Now when you annex the West Bank as he was threatening to do, and when you take the population of the West Bank and…, listen, this is a potential crises for the future. Finally to Britain’s plan to leave the European Union. British Prime Minister, Theresa May now has June 30 as another day for the Brexit discussion. What do you think Britain is likely to get out of this?  Let me put it this way, I think the British have confused all of us. Nobody really seems to know how the whole thing will play out at the end of the day. But there are certain things I think we need to bear in mind. You know for one thing that the United Kingdom was not a founding member of the European Union, when it was called the European Economic Community. They were not signatories to the treaty that established the EEC, as it was then called and even at that time, there were some Euroseptics in England who were not interested in being a member of that community. On the other hand, France under the leadership of Charles De Gaulle never wanted Britain there and it was actually after his death that Britain became a member of what is now known as the EU. But by 1975, the then 12-member states were fed up with Britain. What I am trying to say is that right from time, Britain has never made up its mind whether they want to be in EU or not, and the Europeans too do not want them. The feeling is mutual. Now they decided on this and Britain just realized that they were given an awkward choice – Yes or No, without knowing the consequences of each. So they voted for Yes, to leave, but suddenly they are confronted with the possibility that this is not in their best interest. Theresa May, sympathetic as I am to her, was too quick to evoke Article 51 0r 52 that states out the condition for leaving. I think what she is doing now- consulting with Labour and other parties are things he should have done first and until they have agreed on the shape of Brexit before she can begin to negotiate because the decision has been made.