She’s pillar of Journalism –Oba Adedokun Abolarin  An Osun State monarch, Oba Adedokun Omoniyi Abolarin, Orangun of Oke-Ila, on Saturday described the Managing Director of New Telegraph Newspapers, Mrs. Funke Egbemode as a torch light to the lives of many, especially the down trodden in the society, even as she remains a force to be reckoned with when it comes to progressivism and greatness.  The Royal Father said this in Oshogbo, the Osun State capital, when the Nigerian Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) Osun State Chapter, gave an award to the President Nigerian Guild of Editors and two other amazons.  They were: Mrs. Jumoke Akinjola, the Director General of the Osun State Broadcasting Corporation and Mrs. Abiola Akinode- Afolabi, a human rights attorney and lecturer Faculty of Law, University of Lagos.  Oba Abolarin, who was   also the Royal Father of the Day, described them as women of outstanding pedigree who can stand the test of time in the society. Also, he said that their contributions to the advancement of the country would ever be remembered by those who appreciate the works of geniuses like them.   He called on all and sundry, especially the younger ones to emulate her in order to be able to add value to their immediate environment. Furthermore, he advised every parent to take care of their children, adding parental guidance is the key to success in life.  While presenting Mrs. Egbemode with the award, Deputy Governor, Mr. Benedict Gboyega Alabi, described the icon of icons in the field of journalism as a reservoir of knowledge that uses her talents to benefit all and sundry. Speaking on behalf of the awardees, Mrs. Egbemode commended the association  for counting them worthy of the award and promised not to let the society down.  She appreciated the association for the honour bestowed on her and described women journalists as indispensable in the profession  She dedicated the award to God Almighty for His divine grace upon her life and charged the younger women journalists to be more committed to their job saying, they are the builders of life and should be ready to face challenges ahead of them. Egbemode further expressed her determination not to let humanity down in one way or the other. She appreciated men for supporting their wives while performing their journalistic assignments.  Earlier, the Chairperson of the association, Mrs. Motunrayo Ayegbayo, in her welcome remarks said: “The association is a platform to present awards to distinguished Nigerians who have impacted positively and meaningfully on the   development and progress of the southwest political zone, in their various fields or endeavours.  “We at NAWOJ feel these Nigerians need all the encouragement, recognition and accolades to spur them to continue to render more humanitarian gestures in the society and to also serve as a source of encouragement and motivation to others in the society.  “Some of the recipients of the NAWOJ Award today are women of substance who are making waves in business, academic, industry and in our profession. “We are very proud that one of our members is the President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors, the second woman to wear that ‘big shoe’ since the inception of the Guild, some decades ago. “For those we deem fit for the 2019 edition of NAWOJ Award, through their various contributions to mankind and society, we say a big congratulation to you all.”  