 Ahead of 2023 general election, elders and leaders of Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday converged on the party’s secretariat in Sogunle, Ikeja, emphasising the need for unity, discipline, mutual cooperation and understanding as well as forgiveness amongst members, dismissing insinuations that there was crisis in the state chapter of the party. This was as the party’s stakeholders, including Dr. Remi Akitoye, a member of PDP Board of Trustees (BoT); former Minister of Health, Dr. Abimbola Ogunkelu; Chief (Mrs.) Onikepo Oshodi, the party’s state chairman, Dr. Adegbola Dominic; Captain Tunji Selleh, among others, endorsed moves to restructure PDP in the state and administer it on the basis of 57LGAs as being done by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as against 20LGAs. The leaders also debunked report of crisis rocking the party, declaring that Otunba Segun Adewale aka Aeroland, who claimed to have taken over the party secretariat as chairman, having sacked the incumbent, Dr. Dominic, was not a PDP member and currently was having an issue to settle with the police. Addressing the gathering of party elders and leaders, a former minister, Ogunkelu emphasised that the meeting was called to commence process of healing, bringing the party together, ensuring mutual forgiveness, cooperation and understanding ahead of 2023 elections, noting sadly that the party failed to win the just concluded polls in the state due to division amongst members.
He said: “Division can’t bring us positive results. There should be self-examination. What can we now do to bring us together, not about pointing accusing fingers at each other? We should be more concerned about what to do to win the 2023 elections. Let’s turn a new leaf and work together.” “We have to turn a new leaf. Everybody must work together to let the party take its rightful position, we have suffered a lot in the last 20years. There should be wind of change.”
Also speaking, the party chairman, Dominic, in his remark, said Lagos needed to move on, declaring that the journey for 2023 must start now just as he said that he was of the belief that the state chapter of the party was not ready for the just concluded 2019 polls. “My own opinion is that we were not ready for 2019 elections. The presidential poll, yes, but for governorship election, we were not ready,” Dominic said, contending that the party structure was lacking and unlike what it achieved in the ruling APC for Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was the party’s governorship candidate.
“We have to start building the structure now ahead of the 2023 election,” the PDP chieftain said.