Two suspected kidnappers, yesterday, confessed to have abducted the Lagos State Fire Director, Rasaki Musibau and only freed him after collecting N5million as ransom. The suspects, Blessing Boyo (29) and Alfred Smart (32) were arrested three days after the abduction and release of Musibau. The suspects were alleged to have been arrested at Ibefun area of Ogun State, while trying to escape from Lagos to Ondo State. According to them, their gang leader, who is simply identified as ‘MK’, had already collected the money and was yet to share it before police swooped on them. Boyo, who said he had never kidnapped anyone before the fire director, added that he was working as a lumberman before MK invited him to join the gang. He said that MK told him that the business would fetch good money. He added: “I accepted and followed MK into the bush. When we got there, he brought out guns and showed me. It was at that point he told me that the business he had for me was kidnapping. I made him to understand that I had not participated in any kidnapping operation before. MK told me we were going to make more money than we were doing in the timber business. I accepted to join in the operation because of the money. On that fateful day of the operation, MK entered the forest and cut some woods. He used them to block the road. We laid in ambush, waiting for any coming vehicle. The fire director’s vehicle was the first to drive by. We swooped on him; we took him and others into the creek. In the creek, we prepared Egusi soup and eba for the victims. When MK collected the ransom, he asked Smart and I to meet him at Arogbo in Ondo State, so that we could collect our share. We were yet to meet him when police arrested us.” Recounting the role he played in the abduction, Smart said that he was given a rifle to guard the victims, while in the creek. Smart said: “I was working as a lumberman when MK invited and introduced me to kidnapping. Initially, I was afraid, especially after I was given a rifle to guard the victims. I had just secured employment as a lumberman when MK came with his invitation. MK said that he had a job for me. I didn’t know it was kidnapping. I also regret taking part in that operation.” The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, who presented the suspects to journalists, said: “On 6th March, at about 8p.m. Mr Rasaki Musibau and six others were abducted at Ketu Ereyun, Ikorodu. Following a sustained and well-coordinated operation by the command’s Tactical Anti- kidnapping Unit, two of the suspects were arrested. During interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime. Two single barrel guns were recovered from them. We are making efforts to arrest other fleeing members of the gang.”