I see something fundamentally wrong with the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). Officers and men of this noble security outfit, ordinarily, are supposed to be closest to the people. The cliche, “police is your friend” connotes positivity in the kind of civil-police relationship that should exist in the country. Unfortunately, however, over the years, since 1930 when the NPF was established, its image or reputation in the eyes of most Nigerians is on the decline. Hardly does anyone trust the police.  Don’t blame Nigerians for this perception. Countless ordinary citizens attempting to make precarious ends meet as taxi drivers, traders, and shopkeepers are often accosted daily by armed policemen who demand bribes and commit human rights abuses against them as a means of extorting money. The story sadly is not different on major highways across the country. Only recently, I travelled to cover the supplementary governorship election in Benue State as INEC accredited reporter.  Guess what! My eyes could not believe the boldness displayed by policemen at major checkpoints along the Makurdi-Lafia road. They stopped commercial drivers and without checking the vehicles, collected stipends not minding if any high profile Nigerian or a superior security officer on transit behind was watching. In the past, policemen at checks points on the highways who collected bribes carried out this extortion discretely. What is now giving policemen such boldness? How can an issue of security personnel demanding bribe become normal? I asked myself while watching in awe.   This was the response of my friend whom we drove together. Senior police officers now enforce a perverse system of “returns” in which rank-and-file officers are compelled to pay up the chain of command a share of the money they extort from the public. It is a serious matter. As I pondered over these words, one could remember several instances where policemen particularly, the very low ranking personnel, exhibit rude behavior, use abusive and derogatory languages towards innocent citizens, intimidate Nigerians and carry out human rights violations. Let’s leave that for another day. The burning issue about men and officers of the NPF is growing impunity, sadly occasioned by high disregard for the sanctity of human lives. While many Nigerians believe strongly that the police has utterly failed to fulfill its mandate of providing public security, stories of extrajudicial killings perpetrated by unrefined elements of the police are fast becoming a recurrent decimal. Imagine this incident of February 2018 in Edo State. Some disgruntled police personnel at a popular area ’third junction’, mounted a checkpoint where they were allegedly collecting bribes from commercial drivers. When one of the drivers David Okoniba got to them, they demanded N100 from him. Although the driver did not have N100 note denomination, he had one N50 note and a N1000 note which he offered, only if the policemen could give him back some change. Unfortunately, the policemen went livid with anger and decided to pull the driver out of his car forcefully. Okoniba was thrown out to the road and hit by a fast-moving trailer which crushed him to death instantly. An eye witness narrated the story which corroborated the account of the deceased wife, who was also with him at the time of the incident. The entire area was thrown into serious crisis as angry mob immediately swung into action to avenge the gruesome and willful murder of a citizen for not paying bribe immediately to policemen at the checkpoint.  Right inside the nation’s capital, in the early hours of Wednesday 20th March 2019, Nigerians were shocked with the news of how policemen beat a senior officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to death. Late Ogar Jombo, a two-star officer was in the company of his wife and two children while driving. His children were on their way to school. What offence did Ogar commit to warrant a sniff of life? A confirmed report reveals that the NSCDC officer made a U-turn at the wrong spot, but was flagged by a policeman on duty in the area. The incident which occurred on Nyanya market day attracted the attention of a mammoth crowd, causing traffic gridlock. Many people who gave an account of the sad event, said they could hear Ogar pleading that he was rushing to drop the children in school. Ogar was in uniform and also identified himself as an officer to the policemen. All pleas made by the deceased fell on deaf ears, as one of the police officers jumped on the bonnet of the vehicle, while the other one descended on him with a baton.  While the crowd watched helplessly, Ogar’s wife and children intervened and pleaded on his behalf. But the policemen ignored them, and they allegedly beat him to a stupor. He died in the process. One of his children was quoted as saying: “Please, don’t kill my father; leave my father alone.” Only on Sunday, March 31, police operatives again shot dead a young man identified as Kolade Johnson in Lagos state. The killing of Johnson records indicate, brings to four, the number of extrajudicial killings that have taken place within one month in the commercial city. In the case of Johnson, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) had visited his area in an unmarked commercial bus to arrest one of the boys of a major music producer who was wearing dreadlocks. According to witnesses, the police suspected the man was a criminal because of his looks. It was later learnt that the team carried out at least 12 indiscriminate arrests of young men with curly hair and dreadlocks the same evening. Lagos is a very busy city, an event of such nature would naturally attract a large crowd. So, reports reveal that the incident of the raid soon took a drastic turn. But in an attempt by the operatives to disperse a crowd, one of the policemen shot dead Johnson, a resident of Onipetesi in the Mangoro area of Lagos. Sadly, Johnson was trying to leave the scene while watching the English Premier League football match between Liverpool and Tottenham when he was hit by a stray bullet from the sporadic shooting by the policemen.  Other incidents of extrajudicial killings by the police in Lagos in March 2019 include that involving a bus driver in Mosan, Ayobo area of Lagos. He was shot dead for refusing to part with money. Two weeks after, a teenage girl was killed by a stray bullet in a shootout between policemen and some cultists in Ikorodu. On March 25, an Okada rider was also shot dead in Kilo, Surulere area of Lagos. What is not in doubt is the fact that many of these barbaric acts have been carried out by men and officers of the police in different parts of the country yet unnoticed. Johnson’s case which remains quite unfortunate too has only helped to elicit a national outrage on the recklessness of some rotten eggs within the NPF. I am personally troubled, by the news that police authorities have already confirmed Johnson’s murder as a case of homicide arising from the use of excessive. Why excessive force and not intelligence gathering?  This is where President Muhammadu Buhari intervention becomes necessary. The loss of any life cannot be replaced. Human life is sacred and must be accorded high regard irrespective of race, religion or tribe. I’m deeply convinced that without the public outcry about the killing of Johnson and the fact that the incident happened in Lagos, President Buhari may not have been briefed. His swift reaction that the Government will not tolerate in any way the brutalization of Nigerians or the violation of their rights, gives some sense of reassurance but is not enough. In a statement by his Special Adviser on media and publicity Femi Adesina, Buhari said: ”any officer of the law enforcement agencies or any other government functionary caught in this act will certainly be visited with the full weight of the law.” This is not the first time the President would be speaking tough on the issue of police excesses. She making a remark at the convocation and passing out parade of the First Regular Cadet Course at the Police Academy, Wudil in Kano State, Buhari said unprofessional conducts such as illegal detentions, extrajudicial killings, torture, and violation of fundamental human rights were unacceptable to his government and must be avoided by officers and men of the NPF.  If these gruesome incidences are still happening despite firm warnings from the Commander-In-Chief, what it means is that the police hierarchy is not ready with any reforms to reposition the organization in performing its duties effectively in the most civil manner. I recommend without mincing words that the penalty for killing an innocent citizen by any policeman should be death. Whatever way this is achievable, will help the stop the carnage and rascality of some uniform personnel. ...says Nigerians don’t feel secure with NPF   President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday approved a new salary structure for men and officers of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). The president expressed concern over the insecurity felt by citizens across the country despite the presence of the Nigerian Police. President Buhari, while… In “News” Not every Nigerian believes in the widely acclaimed cliche’ that ’Police is your friend,’. As an institution, the Police as it obtains in advanced democracies, are entrusted with the power to even take away life and liberty in order to ”protect and serve”, a system which places an extraordinary level… In “Columnists” As President Muhammadu Buhari returned to the country yesterday, a group of lawyers under the auspices, United Global Resolve for Peace, (UGRFP), has advised him to be patriotic and resign immediately. President Buhari had been away in London for the past 105 days, receiving medical attention for an undisclosed ailment.… In “News”