The military yesterday said it had killed 35 bandits and rescued 40 abducted people, including children, women, and men during the operations designed to tackle banditry in Zamfara and other contiguous states. The Acting Force Information Officer of Operation Sharan Daji (OPSD), Major Clement Abiade, disclosed this in a statement sent to Channels Television. He added that a total of 18 suspected bandits’ informants, rustlers, kidnappers and logistics suppliers were arrested as troops continue to dominate the Area of Operation with aggressive fighting patrols. Abiade explained that the soldiers conduct day and night patrols deep into the forest areas to deny the bandits freedom of action while building the confidence of the local population. The statement said: “The bandit hails from Naagwalam in Katsina State and confessed to being a member of a five-man syndicate responsible for kidnapping and highway robbery in Batsari and Jibiya axis. It is instructive to state that the suspects arrested have been handed over to Nigerian Police and other agencies for further investigation and possible prosecution.” Operation Sharan Daji in Zamfara State said its troops had, during its consistent day and night operations with aggressive patrols between February 15 and March 11, killed 55 bandits and rescued 760 kid victims. The acting Force Information Officer, Major Clement Abiade, who disclosed this in a statement, said… In “Metro and Crime” Six soldiers have been killed in an exchange of fire with suspected bandits in Bini Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara State. This incident also led to the death of 37 bandits and rescue of 80 kidnapped, the acting information officer of Operation Saharan Daji, Major Clement Abiade, revealed in… In “National news” Troops of Operation Sharan Daji (OPSD) fighting banditry have killed 21 bandits, captured 17 and rescued 89 kidnapped victims in Zamfara State. The acting Force Information Officer, Major Clement Abiade, said in a statement said on January 22, troops on clearance operation in Gando Forest came encountered a large… In “Metro and Crime”