During the first quarter of this year, the country’s agric sector enjoyed tremendous performances. For the first time since the inception of this administration, there were fewer reports on crisis between farmers and Fulani herdsmen in the North-East region. Taiwo Hassan reports   Agric stakeholders believe that the second term re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari during the just concluded general election in February was won on the basis of his good footprints in the country’s agric sector, which has for long has never received such patronage and support from government at the centre.
Particularly, the country’s election was critical to the administration’s performances in agric sector because of the giant strides recorded in its economic plan to diversify the economy from oil sector to non-oil sector with major focus on agriculture, manufacturing and solid minerals.
For agriculture, the way the sector was transformed and given face-lift is a testimony of how serious the present government is in its efforts to rebase the country’s revenue earnings from non-oil sector. Largest rice producer
One of the major events in the quarter under review was the pronouncement by the Africa Rice Center that Nigeria had taken over from Egypt as the largest producer of rice in the continent.
The centre, in a press release on the continent’s rice production, revealed that Nigeria was now the largest rice producing nation in the continent.
Its Director-General, Dr Harold Roy-Macauley, stated that Nigeria attained the pole position by producing four million tonnes of rice in a year.
Roy-Macauley explained in the release that Egypt was initially producing 4.3 tonnes annually but its production suffered setback by almost 40 per cent, owing to the fact that the Egyptian Government decided to reduce cultivation in a bid to preserve water resources.
He also added that rice cultivation in Egypt required about 1.8 billion metres of water in evaporation, transpiration and irrigation each year. FG’s green imperative loan
Also, in the first quarter, there was a pronouncement by the Federal Government that the country secured $1.1 billion loan facility from Brazil, captured under the ‘Green Imperative,’ a product of the diversification initiatives of the present administration meant to tackle current food insufficiency and unemployment.
Stating this at the official launch of the project by the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, at the Presidential Villa in Abuja recently, the Minister of Finance, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, noted that the green imperative loan would raise Nigerians’ hope in tackling current food insufficiency nightmare and huge job losses in the country.
The minister assured that nothing will deter President Muhammadu Buhari from continuing with the economic diversification drive, saying that the efforts were already yielding positive results, especially through agric sector.
According to her, green imperative was designed to promote agricultural mechanisation, create employment opportunities for the energetic youth and help achieve self-sufficiency in food. Bt Cowpea bean
Also, in the first quarter, Nigeria approved the environmental release of the Pod Borer Resistant (PBR) Cowpea developed by the Institute for Agricultural Research (IAR), Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, into the market. With this, the PBR Cowpea becomes the first genetically modified crop in Nigeria.
It is already known that Nigeria has been intensifying research in the area of genetically modified crops to ensure that they are suitable for human consumption because of their scientific cultivation.
Besides, Government through National Bio-safety Management Agency (NBMA) approved the introduction of Genetically Modified Organic (GMO) crops in Nigeria.
However, the agency’s GMO introduction faced criticism nationwide because of fears that such organic crops are not meant for the Nigerian market amid its side effects on people’s health. Tomato paste ban
In the quarter under review, Federal Government announced that it was ready to finally place a ban on the importation of tomato paste into the country later this year to pave way for the development of local market.
The move by government is in line with its sustainable implementation of new tomato policy in the sector.
In addition, this is succour for local operators and others that were already eyeing the tomato paste processing industry following government’s announcement that it would place a final ban on the importation of tomato paste before the end of 2019.
Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, made this known during a tour of Dangote Tomato Processing Plant in Kadawa, Kano State.
Ogbeh stated that the ban would encourage massive tomato production in the country, in line with the current administration fulfilment of the tomato policy.
According to him, government, through the Central Bank of Nigeria and Bank of Agriculture, had set aside N250 billion to disburse as soft loans to tomato farmers as part of the Anchor Borrower scheme to aggressively develop the tomato industry. India’s $100bn pigeon pea market
It was reported in the first quarter by Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) that Nigerian farmers have begun to penetrate the much-talked about Indian pigeon pea market valued at $100 billion.
The move, according to the agency, was part of its campaign and enforcement drive to change the narrative of Nigeria’s agricultural produce exports.
Its Director-General, Dr. Vincent Isegbe, at a media parley in Abuja, said government was working to ensure that all stakeholders across the value chain met the relevant sanitary and phytosanitary requirements meant for the start-up of the pigeon pea.
Isegbe explained that NAQS was putting necessary measures in place in collaboration with other government agencies to stem the tide of rejection of some Nigerian agricultural produce in foreign markets, as a result of quality defects. Agro commodity rejection
Also in the quarter, the Federation of Agricultural Commodity Associations of Nigeria (FACAN) stated that it was working out stringent measures for commodities export to meet international standard to prevent loss of revenue for Nigeria due to rejections.
Deputy Executive Secretary, FACAN, Peter Bakare, made the call in Abuja recently.
Bakare said that the stringent measures would be put in place on exports because the country had lost significant amount of revenue, while many exporters had suffered heavy financial losses because of the number of rejected export items from Nigeria.
He said that the association was faced with many challenges leading to rejection of its produces in the international market because of inability to provide sanitary standard compliance documentation.
Bakare said that years back, some notable products like sesame seed, beans, cotton, groundnut, palm oil and cocoa that were illegally exported to the EU were rejected because some of them contained un-authorised substance, which made their quality substandard. Importers as Nigeria’s greatest enemies
During the period under review, the minister of agriculture said emphatically said importers were the greatest obstacles to Nigeria’s efforts to promoting patronage of local produce.
Ogbeh, who made this known when he appeared before the National Assembly Joint Committee on Agriculture to defend the ministry’s budget in Abuja, said that international merchants such as importers of products as toothpick, sugar, vegetables and pencils were frustrating government’s efforts at ensuring that Nigerians bought made in Nigeria goods.
He said: “We are a nation of importers. Toothpick every year costs us $18 million, tomato paste costs us $400 million.
“Meanwhile, a basket of tomatoes is less than N2,000. The farmers are losing money because the processors do not have enough funds to set up factories.
“Two factories have started off. I am sure by the end of next year we can comfortably tell the importers of tomato paste to stop.
“Unfortunately, when you do you make enemies; even the importation of rice that we are trying to reduce is creating for us enemies, heavy enemies, people, who can kill if they have the opportunity because you are spoiling their business.
“Nobody should take this lightly. These guys have hijacked the economy of this country.” Last line
The first quarter of this year was good for Nigeria’s agric sector in terms of service delivery to operators. But the only snag was its less impact on common Nigerians, as people are still groaning over hunger, food shortage and high prices of agro commodities in the market.