Kesiena C. Obue is a Nigerian playwright, director and producer. She is one of the emerging strong voices among female playwrights, theatre directors and producers in Nigeria, and has been part of the making of some of the biggest musicals in the country today. Kesiena, as she is popularly called, in this interview with TONY OKUYEME, shares her thoughts on writing, musicals, Nollywood and feminism. She also talks about her journey into the world of performing art  You are a playwright, director and filmmaker. How do you combine these roles, challenging as they are? It is quite easy for me because these are really the only things I know how to do. If you take my art away then I will be left with nothing. The challenges I face like other artists has more to do with the environment we are in. It’s not really enabling for the artist to create. It’s like a constant tug of war. You want to create but your efforts are being touted by external forces. A lot of artists supplement their income with earnings from other side hustle. Social and financial security is not a guaranty for most artists. The average artist is poor and the poverty is structural. How was growing up like? Growing up… hmmm… I was very adventurous and a natural rebel, so I always got into trouble. I had a restless and curious mind, but I was highly loved by the people around me because I was easily the smartest kid in the room. So, it was quite easy to forgive my mischiefs. I have a Bachelor’s degree in Microbiology from the University of Port- Harcourt. I also have a Diploma in film, a diploma in creative writing and a Post Graduate degree in Theatre Arts from the University of Ibadan. You studied Micro Biology. Why? Microbiology was not the first choice; medicine was. I wanted to be a surgeon. Growing up Medicine, Engineering and Law were the only prestigious professions we knew. I excelled in sciences and biology, so of course my parents felt Medicine was the profession for me. I was already writing and consuming a lot of literary works which they, however, felt was a waste of my time. Lol. When did the passion for writing come to the fore? Writing has always been a way of escape for me. I liked that I could escape into a world created by me and play god. Weird but I liked that I could create and do and undo in my own little literary world. Writing however came to the fore in my University days. A friend of mine came across something I wrote and really liked it. He offered to pay me money to do some writeups for his grandfather’s birthday. I did and got paid. That was my first professional fee as a writer and then he said you know you make this a profession, ye? I mean you are good enough to do this professionally. I thought why not? I love writing why not get paid to do what I love doing? And that was it. I started and couldn’t stop and then it consumed me. What is the story behind your play Hertitude? Hertitude is about three sisters who reunited after their single mother suffers a debilitating heart attack. And in the course of this reunion they are forced to deal with past resentments, their individual demons, the pressures of society’s arbitrary formulations of womanhood and social media fakery and all of these will be laid bare with drama, dance, music and sass. With Hertitude we get to see that we never inherently posses the morals we portray to have. Why are you staging the play this period? It’s about time. Hertitude is an entertaining, educative and refreshingly candid work of art. It is a paradigm shift that seeks to vibrantly entertain, whilst also triggering a new determination for us to collectively and actively participate in the intelligent discourse that we need to move our society forward. Most female writers are said to be feminist. Are you a feminist? Feminism right now is a radical demand for equality, but do we really want equality? I see a lot of women screaming equality for all but go around using their woman card to get out of situations. I am more about equity and fairness than equality. What are the challenges of being a female writer in Nigeria? I think women have it easier than men in our industry. I have never faced any challenges as a female writer. I face challenges as a writer and it has nothing to do with my gender; artistic differences, a clash of ideas, appropriate fees etc. but never because I am a woman. Tell us your experience with the Musicals you have been part of as a writer? I have worked with some of the biggest Musicals in Nigeria; ‘Wakaa the Musical’, ‘Fela and the Kalakuta Queens’ and ‘Moremi the Musical’. It is an exciting genre of theatre, filled with spectacle and razzmatazz that keeps us in a state of happily dazed distractions from the familiar mechanics of our stolen lives. I like Musicals but people need to know that there are other exciting genres of theatre. Let’s not despise others so that one can thrive. What are your thoughts about Nollywood? Nollywood is like that abandoned baby that somehow managed to survive, grow and flourish into a giant. Whatever issues we face in Nollywood today I believe to be transient. A lot of our filmmakers are progressive and they have the technical and artistic know-how needed to push the industry to the next level. I really love and admire our filmmakers. What should your fans expect from you soon, in terms of plays? I have two plays being reviewed for publication right now. ‘Ivie’, and ‘Hey Brother’. ‘Ivie’ was inspired by a peculiar tradition in my place called Erhinwin. I am an Urhobo girl. A wife cheating on her husband means death on the husband or the kids. It made me wonder the many atrocious acts committed and covered in the name of Erhinwin or tradition. With ‘Hey Brother’ I talked about sickle cell and somnambulism. I wondered how our forefathers handled these conditions in their time.