Too much blood shed in the land is abominable  President Muhammadu Buhari is right now at the threshold of his second tenure; violence still continues to escalate in different parts of Nigeria while police keep shooting innocent citizens on flimsy excuses. The Prelate Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence Dr. Kanu Uche speaks on all of the above and others issues, in this interview with   The Federal Government has ordered the Inspector-General of Police (IG} to flush out bandits from North Western Nigeria. How far do you think the police can go in this regard? Well; police cannot do anything without information. I know that police acts on information. Nigerians should cooperate and report to the police, if you know anybody in you vicinity or community that has questionable character. Policemen are not spirits. For them to succeed in flushing out miscreants and hoodlums, they should be given adequate information by Nigerians. That’s where the citizens of the country come in.  What is your opinion about the state of mind of policemen who are shooting innocent people in our country? I think that they are very bad police people. I don’t think that they are well trained. I know what we see when we travel out of the shores of Nigeria. We see police men, even when they arrest people they won’t harass the people. They will even greet them like a friends. For instance, I see in some of the airport when I travel, where police arrest some Nigerians and other nationals. They don’t take them to a corner for questioning. You won’t even know that it is a serious matter. Until they imposed their passport, that’s when you know that it is a serious matter. I believe that those country’s police are enlightened, they are friendly, they are intelligent, they respect human rights but our police don’t respect human rights. They behave like people who are operating jungle justice. So that is the problem, I believe that they didn’t quality training. Secondly, at the level of recruitment level, I don’t think that they are recommended by good people. If they are recommended by their traditional rulers and their Reverend Ministers, they will do a good jobs. Something should be done at the recruitment level. Only people who are qualified should be recruited, not people who are looking for job at all cost; not drug addicts because if you recruit drug addicts they can become trigger-funny. Those are the problems.  What are the spiritual implications of the kind of blood letting we are experiencing in Nigeria today? It is an abomination; it is an abominable act. The Bible does not support anybody taking somebody else’s live unless there is chaos situation and there is a shootout; even in a case of armed robbery, a person remains an accused until is proven otherwise. You can’t just kill a person on assumption.  What is your view about the last general elections we just had in this country? We are an emerging democracy, we can’t be perfect now. There will be some hitches, mistakes here and there. The important thing is that we should learn from those mistakes, for better preparation in future. Most democracies are not yet perfect even America is not all that perfect. There are accusations and counter accusations here and there, arson and other things. So, I will not mark us poor; but I will say that our people are average or a little above average. INEC made a good attempt. It is not easy to organise an election for a country of about180 million people and at least 90 million are registered voters. But whoever thinks he has been cheated can go to the court/tribunal to look for their mandates. That is why the Federal Government set up the election tribunals for such people to sought out their problems. If they feel that their mandates have been stolen they can go and retrieve it under a peaceful condition. So there is no need over heating the polity.  What are your fears for the future generations of Nigeria? For now education is not taken seriously. I get worried when I see our young people roaming about the streets and selling wears, it portends danger. In some parts of the country, you see young people from ages three to 18, carrying plastic plates and begging. I believe that the Book Haram we are having now is a child’s play because those boys who have no good education and no quality care are potential danger for the nation. Some of them are hawking; people from the Eastern and Northern parts of the country hawking. Hawking is not good business; from hawking they learn how to go on armed robbery, they learn how to go on kidnapping and other heinous crimes. Government should sit up and there should be some enactments in form of bills and motions from the National Assembly and the State Houses of Assemblies, to curtail the rate of perambulating and wondering about. And then government should address the welfare of the young people. Any nation without young people is not a nation with any form of hope. If we don’t prepare for those who will take over from us then we are sowing wind; and we will end up reaping is wild wind, which is what you may call Tsunami, or holocaust or anything. We need to prepare for our children else we are going nowhere. If we eat and die and our children become useless then the country will crumble. Any nation, leadership that is worth its salt should work for the future of the country. That is why people make five-year plan, 10 year plan, 50 year plan; and say this is where we want to be at this time and at that time and then you also generate resources that will cover the periods of the plan.  Leah Sharibu is still in Boko Haram captivity. What is your take on this? l am not happy. Nobody is really happy about Leah’s plight, especially when it borders on religion. Why must we negotiate for the release of the majority of the girls and leave one person? It shows we don’t have religious tolerance in Nigeria. We need to have real religious tolerance in Nigeria. When I went to Greece sometime in 2019, I discovered that that in Greece there are Muslims, Hindus and all sorts of religions; but also there is enlightenment. Have you had that there religious problem in Greece? And in other parts of the developed world there is no religious problem, like in the United Kingdom; apart from few cases when people who say they are suicide bombers throw bombs at railway stations and people die. And it was traced to people from Egypt or so. We need to do something about security; security cannot be gotten until people are satisfied. When people are insatiable, there are bound to be problems here and there.   What will be you message to Nigerians and Christians in particular as we celebrate Easter this season? Easter means hope, Easter means victory, Easter means that no condition is permanent; if you have darkness in a tunnel, at the end of the tunnel there will be light. So, Easter shows us that even though evil is going to make noise and be boisterous, but evil does not last. What will last is righteousness; righteousness is durable.  Right now, President Muhammadu Buhari is at the threshold of his second tenure. What advice do you have for him? I was among the CAN delegates who visited him at Aso Rock Villa. We told him to be magnanimous at victory. For now he is the one who is declared winner. He should run an all-inclusive government where every person has a sense of belonging and ensure that in his appointments every section of Nigeria is considered. It should cut across religious, tribal and social group and when he turns around nobody will have cause to complain.