The Kaduna State police command confirmed the attack and killings in Anguwan Aku village of Kajuru local government area of the state on Monday. However instead of the 20 persons reported the police disclosed that 21 persons were actually killed, 10 houses destroyed and 50 cows rustled. A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Yakubu Sabo also said, three persons were injured, adding that security operatives are already combing the surrounding bushes to prevent any other attack. Sabo said,  “On 08/04/19 at about 0930HRS, we received a distress call that a group of armed Men in large numbers on Motorbikes entered Banono and Anguwan Aku both remote neighbouring villages in Kufana district of Kajuru Local Government Area.” Sabo said “The attackers started shooting sporadically attacking the villagers and in the process shot and killed twenty-one persons (21),  injured three (3) others and torched ten (10) houses. The bandits also rustled about fifty (50) cows. “Combine Teams of Police Mobile Force (PMF) personnel, conventional Police, Army and the local Vigilante were promptly mobilized to the area, repelled the attack and evacuated both the dead and the injured to hospital. “While efforts are on to apprehend the fleeing criminals, reinforcement of more Police Operatives have been drafted to the area for intensive combing and patrol with a view to forestall further breakdown of Law and Order/Reprisal and arrest the perpetrators.” Part of the statement also said, “The Commissioner of Police CP Ahmad Abdurrahman is saddened by this attack and has reiterated the Command’s commitment to apprehending the culprits. He sincerely condoled the affected families on the irreparable losses. “The Command appeals to members of the public to continue to assist the Police with useful information that could help in addressing these challenges and for the possible arrest of these criminals.” Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen on Saturday attacked Nandu-Gbok village in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State, killing at least 10 persons. No less than 30 houses were either burnt or destroyed during the onslaught. Similar attacks on a number of communities in Kajuru Local Government Area… In “News” Baba Negedu Kaduna Another round of crisis which erupted between farmers and herders in Kaduna State has left 37 persons dead with several others injured in the last two days. The incident occurred in Kajuru Local Government Area, about 50 kilometres from Kaduna, the state capital. The violence was said… In “News” Armed herdsmen have reportedly killed at least 85 people during attacks on three communities in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The killings took place in three communities in the southern part of the state from Sunday to Monday. The communities include Ungwan Barde and Gamu villages in… In “Metro and Crime”