  Two teams in red-hot form go head-to-head this afternoon at Goodison Park with Everton hoping to make home advantage count when they host the team from the British capital, Arsenal. Currently ninth on the log, Marco Silva’s side is once again showing the form that kept them in the top four at the start of the season, before their slump saw them dropping down the table. Just before the recent international break, the Toffees, as Everton is affectionately called, showed their new-found grit when against all odds they were able to nick a point of their title chasing cross city rivals, Liverpool. In front of a sell-out crowd, the Toffees matched their more illustrious opponent’s grit for grit as they dented the Reds’ match towards their first league title in 29 years. Had Liverpool won that match on March 3, then they (would have been five points) ahead of title holders, Manchester City who still have a game in hand on the team trying to replace them as champions. Instead the draw kept the Reds in second place just a point behind the leaders.
Although the draw meant that Everton had now gone without a win against their rivals in 19 games in all competitions, their fans would have been delighted with the performance of the Toffees. Speaking after the game, Silva said: “Both teams wanted to win, both teams had dangerous crosses, but we were the better team in the second half. What I wanted to give the fans was the three points, but we gave them a good performance and desire. We showed a good attitude and they want to see that always. The atmosphere in the stadium was fantastic. The fans can push our team to win, not just this game but any game – they were the 12th player on the pitch.” Naturally his opposite number saw the game differently. “It was a difficult game for different reasons and a wild opponent. It was a game that was difficult to control yet we had three or four really big chances with Salah and Fabinho, I don’t remember them having any chances. We have to take the situation as it is. We have to show stability and fight for the result,” said Jurgen Klopp. But the Jekyll and Hyde nature of Silva’s team was to manifest itself in the very next game when instead of building on the Liverpool result; the Toffees allowed two late Newcastle goals rob them of three valuable points in a 3-2 loss. Incidentally, the result meant that the Magpies had made it five wins on the spin at St James’ Park. On Rafael Benitez’s three-year anniversary as boss, Newcastle fell two behind at the break as Dominic Calvert-Lewin (18) and Richarlison (32) put Everton in control. Richarlison’s effort came 71 seconds after Jordan Pickford saved a Matt Ritchie penalty after the goalkeeper hauled down Salomon Rondon with the goal gaping but survived a straight red card. Fuelled by that apparent injustice, Benitez’s men staged a remarkable second-half fight back with Rondon (65) and an Ayoze Perez double (81, 84) blitzing a crumbling Everton defence. The reversal meant Everton had lost 10 of their last 17 games in all competitions with the positivity from their previous weekend’s Merseyside derby performance disappeared with a woeful defensive capitulation. But last weekend, Everton fans were once again back in buoyant mood when they saw their side put up a very impressive performance against big-spending West Ham at the London Stadium. A totally rejuvenated Everton, in their first game after the International Break, took the lead with just minutes on the clock through Kurt Zouma’s header and the lead was doubled before the break by Bernard, putting Everton in cruise control. West Ham tried to fight back in the second period but could not muster a response, as Everton strolled to three points that kept the race for a top-seven finish alive. Everton had not put in a 90-minute performance of this accomplishment since Silva’s arrival last summer but such a slick, dominant display boded positively for the task ahead. That is to finish seventh, earn the lukewarm best-of-the-rest chalice and see if it squeaks them into the European spots; they are a point away now and, with consecutive league wins to their name, the manager’s buzzword throughout a troubled winter – “consistency” – lies within reach. “I’m proud of what we did here this afternoon,” Silva said after watching goals from Kurt Zouma and Bernard secure a margin of victory that could have been far higher. “From the first minute we were the best team on the pitch. The general performance was really, really good.” And this is what Goodison Park fans will be hoping to see again this afternoon albeit against a side which is nine places and 21 points better off than last week’s foes and who go into the match on the back of 10 straight league wins – the first time they will be achieving this since May 1998. Unai Emery is once again the toast of Gunners’ fans after seeing his side beat Manchester United and Newcastle to surge into third slot on the table – one place above their dreaded North London rivals, Tottenham Hotspur. In Monday night’s game Aaron Ramsey, bound for Juventus after this season, struck his fourth league goal of 2018-19 before Alexandre Lacazette settled a somewhat scrappy encounter at the Emirates Stadium over Newcastle United. Although Emery’s side were far from their best, but Ramsey’s display while wearing the captain’s armband was significant, and his departure with an apparent injury in the second half will come as something of a worry, especially should he fail to turn out this afternoon.
However, speaking to BBC’s Match of the Day after the game, the Arsenal manager said: “We played very consistent over 90 minutes. We didn’t concede any chances. We created and dominated the match. We are happy. “Each match is very difficult – we got three points and did it our way. It’s a nice challenge to win consecutive matches – it’s a new history – and we’re creating our own way. We’re in a good moment but each match is a new test. “I hope Ramsey’s injury is not serious. The doctor is thinking it’s a small injury. “We are improving. Today we are third, but the next match against Everton is difficult and our rivals are going to win a lot of matches.” And herein lies the crux of the matter: with such a tight race left the Spaniard cannot afford to drop any points if he wants to end Arsenal’s two-year Champions League wilderness. As things stand the Gunners are only three points ahead of sixth-placed Chelsea with only 18 points left to play for so any slip up could be terminal to this dream. Week 33 league action concludes tomorrow night with six-placed Chelsea hoping to stake a case for a top four finish when they host capital city rivals West Ham. Maurizio Sarri, believed to be a “dead man walking” at Stamford Bridge, needed a huge slice of poor officiating from the officials to have been saved the embarrassment of losing to 18th-placed Cardiff City last weekend. Until the linesman inexplicably failed to flag for a clear off-side in the equalising goal scored by Cesar Azpilicueta six minutes from time, Chelsea had been second best to the home side struggling to avoid relegation.  Then Neil Warnock’s day totally imploded when to add further to the injustice, Ruben Loftus-Cheek headed in the winner in injury to snatch all three points for the visiting side. At the end of full time a totally incandescent Cardiff manager stood in the centre circle with his hands on his hips, glaring at the officials who had just made the sort of mistake that may ultimately cost his side a place in the elite league of English football. In the end the victory did little to mask the fact that the Blues were desperately poor for so much of that game and the mood among the travelling supporters was mutinous. “We want Sarri out” reverberated loud and clear time and again.
The fact that the officials helped Chelsea spring out of jail has only further shorten the odds on the Italian still being in charge next season.  Speaking after the match, while saying he did not see if his side’s equaliser was offside or not, Sarri, however, did admit that his side was “lucky”.
He will need more than a slice of luck tomorrow against an 11th-paced Hammers’ side desperate to get back to winning ways.