Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, who was first elected in 2007, is going to the House of Representatives for a record four times. Onyejeocha is from Abia State where she was a commissioner and later local government chairman. This graduate of English from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, says in this interview, that she intends to capitalise on her strength as a woman to become the next Speaker of the House.   You have joined the race to become the Speaker of the House of Reps. How do you intend to achieve that? First of all I’m a Nigerian, I’m a woman. I think that being a woman shouldn’t be a minus; it should be a plus for me. Being a woman should also be my strength and I want to capitalise on my strength as a woman because to begin with, God created us to be helpmate for the man and that means we should simply get it right this time around, the men should have their helpmate presiding at the Chambers. Having said that, if I’m coming from that concept that we have to compliment the men, that means that Nigeria needs a woman to compliment her. There are lots of things that we haven’t got right. Why don’t they just try this one woman who God just brought? I was a local government chairman, a commissioner, and a third term member of the House. I’ve learnt through the rope. I know what it means to be in politics. How do I win? It is simple, everyman has a mother, every man has a wife, most men have daughters and I know they cherish their daughters, wives and mothers and they see some strength in their daughters. So it is not like something that is unusual because I know that fist-hand information is important. These men we are talking about know that we have the strength. It is just because of the religious and cultural background and those things are the things we have to look into and then push Nigerian forward to the next level. Basically I attended the same school, the men attended. My election, nobody treated me like a woman and of course as a woman you have to fight ten times to win. Being a woman for me is not a limitation because l went to the same primary, secondary, university with men; they didn’t set different exams for me neither was I given any less. Why would I aim for less because I’m a woman? I believe that it’s high time that woman change the narratives, it’s high time the women change the conversation, it’s high time the women changed their attitude. Most women are not fit; it is just because they have been stereotyped into believing that a woman will be asking for peanut or 35 per cent. For instance when we discuss or debate in the floor of the House, sometimes they use to bring down our bills, on one simply item, if you ask for gender that is against the constitution because the constitution states that there should be no discrimination. When you push gender issues, they will say no! Don’t go there because they will raise the constitutional point of order. It takes a constitutional point of order to obey what the constitution has said about gender. Why will they bring gender issue when somebody wants to contest election? Or they will bring religion, sex, and all manner of things, the constitution has given me the right to contest and I believe that those points of order we use to hear every time would be applied for equal opportunities. How about this believe that women rarely support one another in their quest to achieve success particularly in politics? That’s why I’m saying that the women have to change the narrative; women have to change their style. I support women. The women that will not support me are just the minority; it is just that sometimes the minority’s voices are heard the more. I’m basing my campaign on the majority of women who are progressive, the majority of the women who are mentoring young ones, women who are caregivers,not women who careless about supporting other women. I’m not going to dwell on the minority, their voice is loud but they are not the majority. Personally, I support women. I came to the parliament in 2007 that was the 6th Assembly and I was the chairman House Committee on Women Parliament, I promoted women issues and concerns. The issue of women not supporting women will not be a challenge because we are talking of Speakership of the House of Representatives; it is beyond only the women but the entire House. Your party, APC, seems to have zoned the Speakership out of your reach. What are you going to do about it? The party officially has not told us so, I’m a party person and if the party comes up with this zoning and it does not favour me because I’m from the South East, the worst I can do is to let them know that it is not good to exclude a region from national politics. Party supremacy is sacrosanct because all of us came from a party platform. We believe that the party will do the needful by looking at the South East geopolitical zone. What if the party compensate the zone with another position, will you drop the speakership ambition? I don’t want to limit myself because I believe that I can be Speaker and I’m not someone that can take no for an answer. The good thing is that I have more positives than negatives. I believe that with God all things are possible but you see no man or person is an island, you can’t be if the people do not want you to be. That’s why my agitation is that women should be given their places because the president said that he is going to run an inclusive government and if he had said so, that means that South East will be recognised and the geo political zone should be part of the next level of the APC government. Secondly, the President promised that he is going to include women in his second term in office and I believe that he can start with the House of Representatives. What will you do differently if given the position? Number one, I am going to collaborate with every facet, all stakeholders involved in this House. Remember we are representing 360 constituencies. I will make sure that the 360 constituents are involved with what we do more than what we’ve had. The conversation will still be that the previous leadership has done well. It is just to improve on what they have done and bring in the feminine balance into the equation. Apart from politics, could you tell us a little about yourself, your fashion, style and those things that make you happy and those things that make you relax? I’m Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, my middle name is Chidubem, I do not have an English name. I grew up in the village, went to Isuochi Central School. I attended Isuochi Secondary School. My grandmother later changed my school to Ovim girls. My background is in my constituency. I attended the University of Nigeria Nsukka, later I got married. I have five children and I was commissioner in Abia State, later l became the local government chairman. In 2007, I was elected as a member of the House of Representatives and by 2019 I was re-elected for the fourth time. Have you wondered why men are tagged serial liars? Do you know that women encourage and coarse men to tell lies? Is it in the nature of men to tell lies? Why is it that many intimate affairs are based on assumed lies? Who is the liar: the man or… In “Back Page Column” Lady (Hon) Nkeiruka Onyejeocha is the Chairperson, Committee on Aviation in the House of Representatives and former Chairperson, House Committee on Women. In this interview with ONWUKA NZESHI, she expresses her concern over the depletion of women in the National Assembly and the chances of a woman becoming the president… In “Interview” From time, revisal of roles in the matrimonial homes has always been a big issue when wives have to provide for the upkeep of the home with their husbands jobless. This revisal has not ceased to produce its own dynamics with the husbands under serious pressure to cope with the… In “Sunday Magazine”