Troops of the “Operation Sharan Daji” in Zamfara State have arrested the Vice Chairman of Anka Local Government of the state, Mr. Yahuza Wuya for alleged link to bandits. The Acting Information Officer of the operation, Major Clement Abiade confirmed the arrest of Wuya in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja yesterday. Abiade said the council vice chairman was picked up on April 13 based on credible intelligence linking him to bandits’ activities in Wuya and Sunke communities. He alleged that Wuya “seamlessly assist in selling rustled/stolen cows and donkeys, as well as giving information about troops, other security agencies and vigilantes’ movement to the bandits.” The acting information officer also alleged that the suspect aided “the release of a notorious gun runner (Sani Yaro) from the Gusau prison.” In another related development, Abiade said troops arrested two suspected informants along Burukusuma-Sabon Birni road in Sokoto State. He named them as Malam Ibrahim Bangaje and Mallam Ado Bayero. Abiade said that they would be handed over to relevant security agency for possible prosecution after initial investigation. Meanwhile, the Force Commander Operation Sharan Daji, Maj-Gen. Hakeem Otiki has restated the commitment of troops toward ensuring peace in Zamfara, Katsina, Kebbi and Sokoto states. Otiki, who is the GOC 8 Division Sokoto, appealed to the public to support the operation by reporting suspicious activities and movement of bandits to nearest security agencies for prompt action. Governor Abdulaziz Yari had recently said 3,526 persons were killed by armed bandits in the state in the last five years. Speaking during a Town Hall Meeting attended by the acting Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, Yari said nearly 500 villages had also been devastated and 8,219 persons were injured, some are still in critical condition. He also said that over 13,000 hectares of farmlands were either destroyed or made useless as the farmers can no longer farm them. Troops of Operation Sharan Daji (OPSD) fighting banditry have killed 21 bandits, captured 17 and rescued 89 kidnapped victims in Zamfara State. The acting Force Information Officer, Major Clement Abiade, said in a statement said on January 22, troops on clearance operation in Gando Forest came encountered a large… In “Metro and Crime” The military yesterday said it had killed 35 bandits and rescued 40 abducted people, including children, women, and men during the operations designed to tackle banditry in Zamfara and other contiguous states. The Acting Force Information Officer of Operation Sharan Daji (OPSD), Major Clement Abiade, disclosed this in a statement… In “News” Operation Sharan Daji in Zamfara State said its troops had, during its consistent day and night operations with aggressive patrols between February 15 and March 11, killed 55 bandits and rescued 760 kid victims. The acting Force Information Officer, Major Clement Abiade, who disclosed this in a statement, said… In “Metro and Crime”