Death toll in the fire attack on a family at Igbodigho in Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State has risen to eight. An aggrieved lover, Mr. Deji Adenuga aka Davar, had allegedly set the family of eight on fire at Igbodigho in Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State. Adenuga was said to have been jilted by his girlfriend, Titi Sanumi, prompting him to set her family house ablaze in the middle of the night with eight members of the family asleep.
Five members of the family died immediately while others were injured. But the remaining three others have died at the Trauma Centre, Ondo in Ondo West Local Government Area where they were rushed to for treatment.
Family sources said the three people died after the doctors failed to save their lives. A police source gave the names of the victims to include Glory Alade, Mercy Alade, Joy Alade, Adebayo Alade, Aladesewa Alade, Johnson Alade and Ayorinde Alade.
Family sources said the girlfriend was not at home when the estranged boyfriend came to set the house ablaze.
Unfortunately, the other members of the family were sleeping when the attack occurred. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, said the three people died as a result of the injuries they sustained in the fire.
He said: “I can confirm to you that three more people have died, it only remains the girl (Titi) in the family that is surviving. For the suspect, we are still on his trail and we will soon get him.”
The PPRO added that Titi had been admitted at an undisclosed hospital.
He said: “She is still in a traumatic state.” An aggrieved lover, Mr. Deji Adenuga aka Davar, has reportedly set a family of nine on fire at Igbodigho in Okitipupa Local Governent Area of Ondo State. Adenuga was said to have been jilted by his girlfriend, Titi Sanumi, prompting him to set her family house ablaze in the middle… In “Metro and Crime” Two pastors have been killed in different areas and circumstances within Ondo State in the last 24 hours. While suspected kidnappers killed a Pastor and abducted three commuters who were travelling on commercial vehicle along Owo/Ikare road in Akoko Southwest Local Government, another Cleric Pastor Deji Joshua was killed by… In “News” New York State Judge, Dele Alade, yesterday said Nigeria must harness the expertise of Nigerians in the Diaspora for the country to have an all-around development. Speaking in Washington DC after receiving a trailblazer award from the Nigerian American Lawyers Association, Alade said until Africa was developed, black people all… In “News”