Young and not scared of challenges, Ishaya Bako is one of the most notable young filmmakers in Nigeria. From working with Nollywood superstar, Genevieve Nnaji, on her debut movie, Road To Yesterday, Bako keeps growing in leaps and bounds as noted in this interview with ADEDAYO ODULAJA. On account of the intensity of the drama, the caliber of cast and others, how were you able to pull through directing 4th Republic? There’s the common saying that ‘it takes a village to raise a child’, well it takes a lot of committed and talented people to make a (good) film. While I am the creative lead on the project, I could not have done it without the commitment and dedication of the cast and crew of 4th Republic. From the producers Bem Pever, Lala Akindoju and the fantastic Ummi Yakubu, to our editor and my longtime writing collaborator, Emil Garuba. All the lead actors, supporting actors and extras and even the Federal High Court, Maitama and the men of the Nigeria Police Force who were quite helpful in providing us with access and resources. It is important to also mention our amazing funders, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation who through their ‘On Nigeria’ programme, have empowered organisations and funded projects that focus on anti-corruption and transparency in Nigeria and the Open Society Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA). This will be my third project supported by OSIWA for which I am grateful, they have and continued to push the envelope through their grants that highlight the importance of open societies and good governance. How did you come about directing the political thriller? I was intrigued by the general elections of 2015 and the tribunal rulings that followed. The elections and tribunals in Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Ekiti and Kogi in particular were some of the case studies that informed the research put into the film. There was a car chase, complete with gunshots in Port- Harcourt just after the Rivers State election and Ekiti had a voice recording of the plan to rig the election that allegedly implicated a serving governor and minister. Kogi… well, Kogi is just special. All of these gave a rich tapestry to build on, particularly with the 2019 elections approaching at the time. Also, this genre was something I’d never done before, I’ve not quite made a film like this before which caught my interest. The movie was shot in how many days? And what were the main challenges you encountered during the shooting? We filmed for about 30 days and had reshoots for about another week in Lagos and Lokoja. The challenges were varied, locations were a particular headache, our planning could have been tighter and we should have put more time to it. Also getting a hold of a good special effects supervisor for our practical effects was also a significant challenge. But we overcame most of these and they’ve become lessons for the future. Being a feature with an out and out political theme, do you think the movie will connect with the people that much? I hope it does, we’ve tried to make a film that appeals to a broad section of the cinema-going audience. There’s action, lots of drama, a hint of romance and a strong message that challenges the audience to reflect on the kind and quality of leadership we have in the country; our political class. I hope it connects with people, we’ve made it with the audience in mind. And what do you think is the selling point of the movie? I think the film is well produced and it has a good and timely story. From the cinematography by John Demps and the score by Kulanen Ikyo to the characters and plotline developed by Emil Garuba and Zainab Omaki. I think there are decent performances from the main cast and also newcomer, Sifon Okoi, a comedic actor, who had to bring some dramatic chops to the film. It’s a well-made film and it speaks to some of the front burner issues in our polity and politics today. You are one of the leading lights of the younger generation of movie makers, what energises or inspires you? I think I’ve been fortunate and blessed in many respects, but sometimes I also feel like I’m underachieving. It’s the ying and the yang of life, the valleys and the mountains. I strive to do the best work I possibly can, because it’s worthwhile, and life should be spent doing that which is worthwhile. There are dark days, really dark days but I feel like you can draw inspiration from that too. Life can be beautiful in the tears just as much as the laughs… in a certain way, nowhere epitomizes that more than Nigeria. I guess that’s where I get my inspiration from. Which had been more challenging among the movies you directed – Road To Yesterday, The Royal Hibiscus Hotel and this? Each of the films came with it own challenges. Road to Yesterday was the first, a huge learning curve. Royal Hibiscus Hotel had the soft luxury of being a studio production, but not without its attendant pressures. 4th Republic is a film I’ve been wanting to make for a while, an actioner and a legal drama, and one that reflects on some of the issues in our democracy. It was a challenging film to make, but we pulled through. What more should we hear from Ishaya Bako? I’m making a documentary on the power sector in Nigeria called ‘Up Nepa’ and developing three screenplays over the next 18 months. As a young film maker, what are your dreams and plans before turning 40? The dream is to continue making movies. The plan is to develop capacity and hone my skills to get better at telling stories and telling stories well. The technology is improving, thankfully we have an audience that’s pretty receptive and there is talent in our huge population. We just need to catalyse all of that. To you, what makes a good movie? Several factors make a good movie. Engaging characters, a compelling plot and a realistic or realistically portrayed story world. What are your thoughts on the current dynamics of the Nigerian movie industry? I think there are a lot of positives to be taken from the Nigerian film industry. We are growing from strength to strength, maybe not as much as we should be, but there’s growth nonetheless. If you take the last quarter of last year for instance, there were over 12 Nollywood titles in the cinema many of which had what we would consider ‘significant budgets’. We need to do more with distribution and properly securing revenue streams. But by and large, the industry is growing and the market is vibrant which is always a good thing. 