 The Police Service Commission (PSC) yesterday said it had approved the promotion of a total of 8,916 senior officers to their next ranks. Head of Press and Public Relations, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the commission’s approval was necessitated by the need to fill existing vacancies in the Nigeria Police. According to Ani, three Commissioners of Police (CPs) were promoted to the rank of Assistant Inspector General (AIG), two acting CPs had their appointments confirmed, while 71 Assistant Commissioners of Police were elevated to the next rank of Deputy Commissioners of Police, among others. The Force Public Relations Officer, Emeka Frank Mba, was elevated from Assistant Commissioner of Police to the next rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police. He further disclosed that approval for the elevation was given during the 5th Plenary Meeting of the Commission, which held in Abuja between Tuesday and Wednesday, last week. “The PSC has approved the promotion of 8,916 senior police officers to their next substantive ranks to fill existing vacancies. “The promotions were the highpoints of the 5th Plenary Meeting of the commission held in Abuja on Tuesday and Wednesday, 26th and 27th March 2019 and presided over by its Chairman, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police. “The commission approved the promotion of three Commissioners of Police to the next rank of Assistant Inspectors General of Police. They are: Jona Jackson Mava; Olushola Babajide David and Titus Sumba Larmode “The acting appointments of two Commissioners of Police were also confirmed. The beneficiaries are; Rudolf Echebi Obe, Works and Danladi B. Lalas, Air Wing,” Ani said He continued: “Seventy one Assistant Commissioners of Police were elevated to the next rank of Deputy Commissioners of Police and they include Ogundare D. Emmanuel; Alonge Adebowale; Augustina Nwuka Ogbodo; Ibrahim Abdullahi; Garba Ahmed; Uzuegbu Kanayo; Zubairu Abubakar; Vincent N. Nwajiofor (works), Polycarp Chilaka Dibia and Emeka Frank Mba, the Force Public Relations Officer. “One hundred and two Chief Superintendents of Police (CSPs) were also promoted to Assistant Commissioners of Police. They are: Michael M. Masomene; Egbe Eko Edum; Onyeamu Akaeme Onyeamu; Dauda I. Ayuba; Chinedu C. Ugwu; Moses Gana; Victor Akongtender Bepeh; Aminu Musa; Danjuma Madugu; Promose Chinedu Udeh; Anthony Okon Placio; Ikechukwu E. Nwosu; Okey C. Nwabufo; Ayodeji A. Dagunduro; Kanu Kanu Okoronkwo (Works); Agbo B. Usman (forensic); Mustapha A. Rufai; among others. “The commission also promoted 487 Deputy Superintendents of Police to Superintendents. The new Superintendents of Police include Atiku Ibrahim, Personal Assistant to the acting Inspector General of Police; Florence Odewo; Ojo Abraham; Mohammed Idris and Abraham Ogedengbe. “One thousand, one hundred and sixty five Assistant Superintendents of Police (ASPs), were promoted to the next rank of Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSP), while 7,086 Inspectors were elevated to Assistant Superintendents of Police. “The promotions will be conveyed to the acting Inspector General of Police, on Monday, April 1, 2019 in a letter signed by Nnamdi Maurice Mbaeri, Permanent Secretary and Secretary to the commission.”