As the Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN) marked the 2019 World Theatre Day (WTD), a Professor of History and Executive Director, Centre for Black Culture and International Understanding, Abere in Osun State, Prof. Siyan Oyeweso, has decried the challenges facing theatre practitioners in the country. He also said this year’s celebration provided practitioners the opportunity to reflect on the evolution, challenges and prospects of theatre arts in Nigeria, Africa and the world at large. Oyeweso, who expressed sadness over the situation in his keynote address delivered at the event, said the aim of the International Theatre Institute (ITI), initiators of the World Theatre Day, is: “To build an organisation that will align with UNESCO’s goals on culture, education and arts and which will focus its endeavour on improving the statue of all members of performing arts profession.” According to him, the theme of his paper was chosen to address some of the noticeable challenges confronting the Nigerian artistes, including visual, non-visual and performing artistes. He said: “I have read and watched with utmost dismay the rise and fall of great actors in the arts industry in Nigeria. Very recently, the dire condition of the popular comedian, Babatunde Omidina, fondly referred to as Baba Suwe was shared across the media. “The story of Baba Suwe is one out of many arts practitioners nurturing one challenge or the other. It is based on this underlying reason that I have decided to look more on the challenges and proffer some recommendations in order to address these ugly incidences in the industry.” While lamenting the downward turn in the industry, Oyeweso expressed regret that apart from the fact that the National Arts Theatre had been poorly managed, the Federal Government had also failed to construct more of its kind in other cities of the country. He added: “The contribution of theatre arts to national development is profound, and as the second largest movie industry in the world, Nollywood has been able to project Nigeria in a more positive than negative light.” While underscoring the importance of the day, the don said there was no denying the fact that the World Theatre Day had come of age and hence its importance could not be overemphasised. He said: “The World Theatre Day has provided all theatre practitioners and lovers of theatre in the world the avenue to reflect on the essence and importance of theatre. This is because, often times, the plight, sorrow, and helplessness exhibited by the actors and actresses on stage closely reflects our lives. “In order to appreciate the significance of theatre in our day-today existence, the International Theatre Institute in 1961, set aside March 27 for the celebration of World Theatre Day across the world. “The goals of World Theatre Day, include but not limited to promote theatre in all its forms across the world; make people aware of the value of theatre in all its forms; enable theatre communities to promote their work on a broad scale so that governments and opinion leaders are aware of the value and importance of dance in all its forms and support it; enjoy theatre in all its forms for its own sake; and to share the joy for theatre with others. Meanwhile, as they celebrated this year’s World Theatre Day, Oyeweso called on the leadership of TAMPAN at the national and local levels to embrace the opportunity of modern technology, not just to enhance their prestige as theatre practitioners, but also to carve a niche for themselves in the comity of theatre practitioners in the world. “It should be the goal of the members of TAMPAN that in few years to come, one of its members will be invited to deliver the World Theatre Day message, just as the theme of the day suggests,” he said. The guest speaker added: “The WTD is a very important initiative which is celebrated by those who see the value and importance of the art from the prism of theatre. “Beyond this, it is an opportunity for individuals and both the private and public sectors, particularly government at all level to contribute their quota and borrow from the immense potentials theatre engenders for economic growth and development. “I implore TAMPAN through which we are celebrating ITI and the WTD today to continue to explore diverse and creative ways to make theatre deeply rooted and more appreciated in Nigeria. “I want to use this profound opportunity, on behalf of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Centre for Black Culture and International Understanding, to congratulate TAMPAN and the global art community on the celebration of this year’s WTD and hope for more fruitful and theatrically interesting celebrations in the years to come.” Nigeria, under the auspices of the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP), joined the rest of the theatre world in celebrating this year’s World Theatre Day (WTD).     Initiated in 1961 by the International Theatre Institute (ITI), World Theatre Day is celebrated annually on March 27 by… In “Arts & Entertainments” As NANTAP unveils theatrical activities, advocacy programmes   NNigeria, under the auspices of the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP), is set to join the rest of the theatre world in celebrating this year’s World Theatre Day.   World Theatre Day was initiated in 1961 by the International… In “News” Tony Okuyeme As part of efforts towards revival of live theatre in Nigeria, the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP) in collaboration with Touchstone last week announced commencement of the playwriting competition ahead of the maiden edition of Akete...the theatre festival. Announcing this at a press conference last… In “Arts & Entertainments”