Kidnappers, who abducted three persons from Kajuru castle, a holiday resort in Kujuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State at the weekend, have demanded N60 million ransom in order to release the captives. Security sources in Kajuru said the kidnappers made the demand yesterday evening through a staff of the castle. Our correspondent also gathered that the attackers did not come into the castle to attack the visitors, but climbed a rock near the castle and started shooting into the property. He also disclosed that the two mobile policemen, who were on duty during the invasion of the castle, fired back at the hoodlums. It would be recalled that the abductors killed two people, including an expatriate, whose name was given as Miss Faye Mooney, a Briton. She was a staff of Mercy Corps Nigeria. The source explained that worried by the exchange of gunfire, Mooney and her colleague, who were lodged in one of the rooms of the towers, got terrified and attempted to escape. In the process, they were hit by bullets on the staircase. The source said: “The bandits climbed the rock by the gate. When they started shooting, the two mobile police guarding the place responded. So the bandits knew there were armed policemen inside. They couldn’t come in. The two people they killed were already tensed in their rooms in one of the towers. They were panick and rushed out of their rooms and started running down the stairs. The stairs is opened. As they were running down the staircase, the bandits saw them and opened fire. Their corpses have been deposited at the St. Gerald Catholic Hospital, Kakuri, Kaduna.” The source also narrated that five people were abducted initially, four staff of the castle and a bus driver. The driver was abducted after he brought some guests to the resort The source continued: “These people were somewhere, outside the gate, taking tea. But two of the staff managed to escape. The bandits left with three people, two staff of the castle and the bus driver.” The Kaduna State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Yakubu Sabo, when asked about the latest development on the abduction of the five victims, said a manhunt was on for the kidnappers. Sabo said: “Efforts are still on to rescue the kidnapped victims and bring the perpetrators to book. The slain expatriate, Miss Faye Mooney, has been identified to be a Briton. She was a staff of Mercy Corps Nigeria. Investigation into the incident is in progress.”