The Senate yesterday passed the Nigerian Police Trust Fund Bill. The passage of the bill came barely a week after the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, visited the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, in his office to plead for passage of the bill by the Senate in concurrence with the House of Representatives version.  The bill seeks to provide a legal framework for the management and control of the special intervention funds established under the Act for the training of personnel of the Nigeria Police.  The Trust Fund would also be utilised to enhance the skills of the personnel of the police in order to ensure their efficiency, overall performance and constant improvement while they perform their duties.  Furthermore, the Trust Fund would also be used to ensure that the Nigeria Police had the necessary operational equipment, instructional materials, police stations and living quarters. In his remarks after the passage of the bill, Saraki said: “By passing this bill, we will be creating big strides towards providing and improving security and the policing in our country.   “One of the major concerns has always been the issue of funding. We believe that this bill will provide the funding needed for training and recruitment. I am confident that by the time we lay the report on the Police Reform Bill, we would have gone a long way in moving the police in the right direction. “It is our view that once we have these police bills as laws, we will relieve the burden on the military, so that it can focus on its constitutional responsibility.”  The bill will be transmitted to President Muhammadu Buhari for his assent. President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, yesterday assured the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu of the readiness of the 8th National Assembly to pass the Police Reform Bill and the Police Trust Fund Bill before the expiration of the Assembly.   Saraki, according to a statement by his… In “News” The Senate, yesterday, concurred with the House of Representatives by approving N30,000 new minimum wage for workers in Nigeria, as opposed to the N27,000 proposed by the Executive in a bill it forwarded to the National Assembly for passage in January this year. The Senate also urged the Executive to… In “News” In this report, AKEEM NAFIU writes that the establishment of state police has been widely suggested as panacea for the incessant security challenges in the country     Not a few Nigerians were alarmed when on June 28, 2018, a global human rights group, the Amnesty International, released a report… In “Law”