“Moral authority comes from following universal and timeless principles like honesty, integrity, treating people with respect” – Stephen Covey  Even with the filth that hounded the just concluded 2019 general election there are still some persons who stood out for democracy and ensured that the people’s votes count. It’s for these people that some father figures who played God found themselves thoroughly humbled. For instance, the uncommon man of Akwa Ibom state, Senator Godswill Akpabio ran into an uncommon Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) called Mike Igini and became common. In Benue, Senator George Akume surrounded himself with soldiers but when somebody with conscience called Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda insisted that votes must count he became ordinary. Ditto Senator Aliyu Wamakko whose arrogance in Sokoto State was apparent but forgot to factor in some critical players who decided to stand for principles like the state REC, Abubakar Sadiq.  In Anambra State during the Presidential poll, the busy body role of Governor Willie Obiano against PDP and Peter Obi failed woefully as the state REC, Dr. Nkwachukwu Orji chose to be with the people where Obi had advantage. WhenKanoStateGovernorAbdullahiGanduje was promising President Muhammadu Buhari five million votes from Kano he knew he will not be able to get it justly and in his calculations he did not factor in one principled Commissioner of Police called Mohammed Wakil who would want votes to count. By the time they realized themselves, Ganduje was losing and election had to be declared inconclusive to import seven officers superior to the Commissioner to loosen security for the originally planned game to go on.  The story is the same in Oyo, Bauchi, Adamawa, Imo states and off course Rivers State where the REC in Port Harcourt, Obo Effanga’s insistence on the votes to count lowered to the floor the bloated ego of the Minister of Transportation, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi and literarily brought his politics to the decline. In any life endeavour as you map out your strategy even with all the expertise there could happen an omission that will make the difference. At times this omission occurs because God the master strategist wants to prove a point that you as a mortal cannot play him God even when you are not of the level of thin god.  While you plan without God He smiles and waits for you at the gate where He is almighty janitor and when you think all is made and that youarehomeanddry inyour plan, Heappearslike a typhoon to dismantle all you have done. No wonderthescripturesayshebuildsinvainwithoutthe lord.  The song of ascent of Solomon as captured in Psalm 127 says it all “Unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labour in vain. Unless the Lord watches over city, the watchman stands guard in vain. In vain you rise early and stay up late, toiling forfoodtoeatwithouttheLord.” When God is ready to forestall your evil thoughts he leaves you to carry on as if all power belongs to you but ensures he places an obstacle, a hurdle you must jump but would not be able, a pothole you will fall into to stud your journey which you will not see even though it would be conspicuous on the way but requires transcendent or mystical eyes to see. When political pundits say that every politics is local it entails that in all political calculations as a politician, reasonable consideration must be given to the local peculiarities.  These fallen godfathers: Senators Akpabio, Wamakko, Akume and Governor Ganduje put their illicit agenda on the federal might and forgot their localities. As they chose to work against the local political tide, their eyes and minds were fixed in only one thing, the mighty power of the federal government, the Alpha and Omega status of the national in the country’s politics. They were so certain of tapping on the potentials and turn the table in their favour. Why not with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies all within control what else. After all, elections in Nigeria are determined by those who count the votes not by those who vote. Against this backdrop Akpabio, Amaechi, Wamakko, Akume etc. were right in their over confidence.  When you plan something based on corruption prevalent in the system you hardly will ever consider that there could be exceptions. As Akpabio, Amaechi and political lords in APC set out their victory strategy with INEC, their consideration was at the central INEC whom they expected would flog locals into line. Some of these principled, God-fearing persons did not need to do anything extraordinary but to do exactly what the constitution and God expected them to do, allow the votes to count. Igini, for instance, a product of the civil society groups is about the oldest resident commissionerinthecommissionandhavesuccessfully carved a niche for himself just like some other RECs and security operatives and would not want it undermined.  They just approached their work sincerely based on the rules on the ground and developed the needed courage and the stubborn disposition to dire the corrupt politicians who came with threats. When on the eve of the election the APC sensed that some strategic persons were not cooperating, their National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiohmole cried out seeking their reassignment but it was too late in the day. Fresh strategy had to be developed to torpedo the non-cooperating persons using security agencies but it all failed. In Akwa Ibom and Rivers states a division commander in the military had to be mobilized to lead troops to execute the Akpabio and Amaechi projects but it still failed. In Rivers and Akwa Ibom states, the two armies, federal troop armed to the teeth led by a division commander for Akpabio and Amaechi and the people’s army armed with their PVCs for Emmanuel Udom and Nyesom Wike battled themselves outside the collation centres where they had planned to replace the results but the people’s power prevailed.  There are so many lessons to learn from these fallouts, a significant one being that if the electoral commission is ready and disposed to conduct free, fair and credible elections it can. Even with distractions from politicians and security agencies a focused commission can still forestall anything that could thwart the will of the people. From these states also we have learnt that a transparent election is feasible if the right people of conscience and good moral standing are picked to occupy positions in the commission.  These fallouts also show that a credible election is achievable if the nation learns to avoid ethnic and religious bigots while selecting those to conduct elections in the country. So sad that some of the INEC appointees including some academic first class materials allowed their parochial interests to direct their thoughts and behaviours. Igini and some of his colleagues pushing aside pecuniary gains and withstanding threats to ensure that the correct thing is done gives hope to this country. It shows that all is not lost to corruption in an electoral system that university professors ridiculously were unable to add up simple arithmetic figures because of corrupt inducement.  Some of these principled figures who stood for principles are likely to suffer loss but not loss of reputation and integrity, they are likely to be denied reappointment but in the end they would have gained the real things that are needed: reputation, integrity and principle.  Even as it’s a fact that this nation celebrate wrongs over right, greed and avarice over honesty and modesty, but it’s also a known fact that history hardly forgets this type of sacrifice. I am sure that their place is already reserved in the book of men and women of principle who stood up when others could not because of pecuniary and other selfish interests. But truth remains that as India’s B.R. Ambedkar captured it “Political democracy cannot last unless there lies at the base of it social democracy. What does social democracy mean? It means a way of life which recognizes liberty, equality and fraternity as the principles of life.”