With metering gap hitting five million, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) declared that no DisCo must collect more than N3,000 monthly bill per 2-bedroom flat. Adeola Yusuf, in this report, examines the potency of the NERC’s directive  The Meter Asset Providers (MAP), last Tuesday launched the bank consumer and retail financing for meters’ acquisition in Lagos, an occasion that the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) took full advantage of. The regulator, at the occasion, took a decisive action against the 11 distribution companies (DisCos) on crazy billing, as it outlawed collection of over N3,000 per 2-bed room flat on estimated billing.  NERC’s General Manager in charge of finance, Mr. Abdulkadir Shettima, who disclosed this on the sideline of the occasion, declared that DisCos either comply with the new directive or meter customers to avoid the regulator’s wrath. The latest intervention to save consumers who have been groaning over the burden of estimated billing from these illegal charges, Shettima said, was aimed at compelling Discos to meter every consumer within 10- days as contained in the MAP regulation.  ‘‘The Discos cannot simply continue with the old order of estimated bills. What we have done to is to say for a 2-bed room flat, they cannot charge above N3, 000. If the Disco now feels shortchanged that the amount is too small for the consumer, then it should meter the consumer and save itself from the argument of consumption disagreements,” he said.  ABC of MAP acquisition scheme The MAP meter acquisition scheme was, according to him, designed to bridge the country’s metering gap, which currently stands at five million from 4.7 million recorded in December 2017, when the last enumeration was done. He explained that the MAP scheme would go a long way in addressing disagreements between Discos and consumers, while also helping to reduce commercial losses and energy theft often recorded in the distribution channel.  On ownership of meters, the NERC official clarified that legal ownership belongs to the person who has paid for it, warning that the asset-which is the meter cannot be moved from one location to the other in order to ensure that the integrity is protected.  ‘‘When a consumer who has finished paying for a meter moves from one house to another, he notifies the Disco who will ensure that another meter is installed into the new house he is moving to. If he still has units on the meter, it will be credited onto the new one. This is applicable if the movement is still within the franchise area of the Disco. But, in the instance that the movement is outside the franchise area of the Disco, an arrangement is worked out with the new DisCos and a new meter installed,” he assured.  From the lens of meter manufacturers Also speaking, Managing Director of Mojec Meter Asset Company, a company, into the production and installation of meters, Chantel Abdul, said Mojec as a company had existed as MAP before the MAP regulation came on board by financing the DisCos. But, with the MAP regulation, she said the focus has now shifted to been a consumer centric focused company because financing would now be for the end users under the MAP regulation. Abdul disclosed that Mojec had signed a financing scheme for MAP meter acquisition with a consortium of eight banks, which include; Keystone Bank, United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA), Polaris, Zenith Bank ,Wema Bank, Unity Bank, Sterling Bank and First Bank for the financing of meters.   In the beginning  This is not the first time that government is giving directive on bills and prepaid meters to customers. The last time such order was given, the poor customers who wrongly took the order hook, line and sinker, suffered in the hands of DisCos officials. Their supplies were not only cut off, they also paid heavily for reconnection just because they followed a “no meter no pay order by government.”  NERC, on June 11, 2018, directed MD customers not provided with meters to stop paying estimated bills presented by distribution companies. The Commission also directed the companies not to disconnect such customers.  It advised such customers to report to the commission, if disconnected. NERC said that the directive was to make the companies effectively execute metering deployment for MD customers.   Discos react to NERC’s order  However, Electricity Distribution Companies, penultimate Monday, said that the government’s directive asking consumers yet to be metered not to pay electricity bills is applicable only to Maximum Demand (MD) customers.  The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) and Ikeja Electric made this known in a statement jointly signed by Heads of their Corporate Communications, Messrs Felix Ofulue and Godwin Idemudia. The companies said that residential consumers were not included in the directive issued by NERC. They said that the clarification was necessary because of a report claiming that NERC directed all consumers yet to be metered to stop paying electricity bills. Maximum demand customers are commercial and industrial customers, who consume high levels of electricity and contribute substantially to the revenues of distribution companies. “We are happy to report that our maximum demand customers have been provided with meters as directed by NERC and are no longer billed by estimation,” they said. “While we are making concerted efforts to provide meters for all our customers, we will continue to ensure the integrity of our bills and do everything within our mandate to comply with all NERC directives. “We, therefore, urge our non-MD customers to please avail themselves of the content of the directive and be rightly guided. “Consumers should not misinterpret it to avoid paying for electricity already consumed.”   Like DisCos, like ANED However, the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors, ANED had also made the clarification in an interview with newsmen in Abuja. The Chief Executive Officer of ANED, Azu Obiaya, told newsmen that the directive applied only to MD customers and not residential. NERC had in June 2016 directed distribution companies to meter all MD customers by November 30, 2016. Following the expiration of the deadline, NERC further directed that MD customer not metered by March should not pay any estimated electricity bill presented by any distribution company. Obiaya said: “We recognise that our residential consumers will be interested in this notice, thinking that it applies to them in their need for meters, and we recognise that everyone will like to be metered, we are working toward that. “But this time, that notice by NERC is specific for maximum demand customers.  “It is a challenge, but we are working hard to ensure that we meter all MD customers to eliminate issues associated with estimated billing that those customers have.”  Politics of prepaid meters The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, had earlier raised the hope of Nigerians towards ending crazy electricity billing with the announcement of approval for 108 firms to supply meters. Fashola said this during his neighborhood consultations/campaign for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 to two wards in Surulere Local Government of Lagos. At his own ward G3, Fashola reeled out the achievements of Buhari, which included improved power supply. He said that 108 metering companies had been given licenses to supply meters to address problem of discriminatory and arbitrary billing in the electricity sector. “It is the solution of our government by the president to intervene in the metering gaps, people were licensed as GenCos and DisCos,” he said. “DisCos have the contract to supply meters and we hear the concerns of citizens now saying that they want meters because their bills are going up. “So the president and the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved the proposal for us supported by the law, the Electric Power Sector Reform, with that, we can licensed new operators within a licensed area. “So this time, we are going to create new businesses for meter suppliers under a Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme. That policy has been approved. “Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has made the regulations around which it will work; 108 companies, small businesses that will also create employments because those companies are now going to be the suppliers of meters. “They are going to employ people to install the meters, they are going to buy meters, they are going to make meters,’’ he said.  Last line One of the potent ways to address the crazy billing and other major challenges in the power industry is through proportionate metering. Therefore, any effort geared towards this direction should be encouraged and supported by all stakeholders.