…approves N10bn intervention fund for Zamfara The Senate, yesterday, condemned the escalating spate of killings across the country, stressing that there would be no solution in sight except the Federal Government takes appropriate steps towards tackling the menace. Most senators, who spoke on the matter, insisted that the only effective strategy to tackling killings, kidnappings and other vices that have engulfed the nation was for government to set up machinery for state and community policing. They reiterated the need to revisit the call from different quarters across the country for establishment of state and community policing in all states of the federation.  This was as the apex legislative Chamber resolved to set aside N10 billion in the 2019 budget as an intervention fund for tackling the problem of insecurity in Zamfara State and the concomitant humanitarian crisis thereof.
For the management of the fund, the Senate urged the Federal Government to set up an ad hoc committee to be known as Presidential initiative on Zamfara, with a 10-year lifespan for coordination of programmes aimed at addressing humanitarian crisis in the state. Also, some senators advocated ban on motor cycles in the state to curb incessant killings by bandits. These resolutions followed a motion sponsored by Senator Kabiru Marafa (APC- Zamfara Central) and a point of Order raised by Senator Emmanuel Bawcha (PDP, Taraba South) In his motion, Senator Marafa lamented that the activities of armed bandits and cattle rustlers terrorizing Zamfara State since 2011 has led to the death of many people, and caused tremendous humanitarian crisis, which include, but not limited to growing number of widows, rape victims and orphans. He further noted that a conservative estimate of 11,000 male adults have been killed by the bandits, leaving behind an average of 22,000 widows and an estimated 44,000 orphans. His words: “Owing to cultural and religious consideration, the burden of these widows, orphans, rape victims and displaced persons are borne largely by close relatives, extended families and sometimes immediate neighbours, who are now overstretched to a point that they can no longer cope . “These killings have brought untold hardship to several other families, who have to accommodate displaced persons and families; over stretching accommodation, scarce food items, clothing and other sundry issues.” Marafa, who raised orders 42 and 52 of the Senate standing rules to move the motion, said the problem of insecurity in Zamfara State is deteriorating on daily basis and called for urgent national action as well as legislative intervention by the parliament. “Since 2011, as a result of the unabating activities of criminals in the state, a roughly estimated 11,000 males have killed and they left behind an average of 22,000 widows and by extension, 44,000 orphans. “These figures are just by conservative estimates because the figures are far, far higher. The bandits, especially heavily armed kidnappers operate with little or no resistance in Gusau, the capital of the State, making less than 75 per cent of people in Zamfara not to sleep in their houses.  “The situation has nothing to do with politics because my own blood sister was brutally murdered in her matrimonial home in February this year and even two of my cousins outside the state capital few weeks back,” he said. Contributing, the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, commended Marafa for always bringing the deteriorating security situation in Zamfara to the front burner of discourse in the Senate. His words: “The primary purpose of government as clearly stated in Section (1b) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), is all about security and welfare of citizens. Any government that cannot make provision for these has no business in governance. “For government to tackle the security problem headlong, the abnormality of Nigeria being the only federation with centralized police, must be addressed. It has been suggested and said in this hallowed chamber that the long lasting solution to myriads of insecurity challenges in the land, is creation of state police. The earlier we embrace it, the better for the country,” he said. In a similar submission, the Senate Chief Whip, Olusola Adeyeye (APC, Osun Central), said that the problem of the country is the constitution itself, which by its provisions, put on ground, an over centralized federation or unitary system of government against the federal system. He maintained that as long as the problematic constitution is not amended by way of removing policing from the Exclusive List to the Concurrent List to pave the way for state police, criminality at local levels will continue unabated. “How on earth would a supposedly federation, have 68 items on its Exclusive List and just 12 ambiguous and nebulous items on its Concurrent List? Provisions of this constitution make mockery of Nigeria as a federation and the earlier it is addressed, the better because every crime is local and solution to it is local,” he said. Other senators like the Senate leader, Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe North), Deputy Leader, Bala Ibn Na’Allah (APC, Kebbi South), Shehu Sani (PRP, Kaduna Central), Mohammed Hassan (PDP, Yobe South) and Emmanuel Bwacha (PDP, Taraba South) condemned the spate of insecurity in the country in their respective contributions. But, the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, in his remarks, emphasised the need for policing to be localised to fight all manner of crimes at the local levels. His words: “From the contributions we’ve had, I think it is key that we begin to look at the problem and look for long-term solutions. More importantly is that we must go back to what a lot of us have been advocating here that there is need for us to have state or community police. “It is the way forward. Otherwise, we will continue to run into these problems. On the area of oversight, there is a lot also that we need to do to ensure that we hold the security agencies accountable and we need to move very fast in this area.” Similarly in his point of Order, Senator Bawcha, who came under Order 42 of Senate rule lamented that his state (Taraba) has been under siege by kidnappers and gunmen. According to the lawmaker, the situation has gotten off hand to the extent that “in a broad day light, people armed with guns will stop an individual and walk away with him. In our communities, individuals who are not known to be from our localities and state will come and shoot sporadically in the air and kidnap anybody they like and walk away. Sometimes, policemen would be there watching helplessly. “The curious aspect of it is that when you are abducted, they take you to an unknown destination and you are expected to pay ransom, which in most cases, people comply with. But, why it is taking a dangerous dimension is that even after paying ransom they still refuse to release the victims.” Senate deputy leader, Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah( APC, Kebbi) said the only panacea to stopping the spate of killings in Zamfara is for the state House of Assembly to enact a law, banning commercial motor cyclists in the state. He noted that most of the killings happening in the area are attributed to motor cycle riders. Other senators, who spoke on the issue, shared the view and lamented that there is a total breakdown of the nation’s security architecture. Saraki in his remarks noted that from the contributions by his colleagues, the cause of the problem and solutions have been identified. “Like what we did yesterday by trying to improve on the funding of the police through the Police Trust Fund Bill and the Police Reform Bill, what is more important is that all of us are advocating the need for us to have state or community police force, otherwise, we will continue to have problems.” He also stressed the need for all relevant committees to effectively carry out their oversight functions on the police and other security agencies.  “We need to carry out our oversight on the security agencies. We need to hold all the security agencies accountable for all the funds allocated to the them and we need to do that very fast,” he said.