It was a big shame at the weekend as the young athletes from the country faced a terrible experience as they travelled for over 60 hours by road between Ijebu-Ode and Abidjan for the 2019 African U-18 and U-20 Athletics Championships. The Team Nigeria athletes left their Ogun State camp at about 3.30am for Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, the venue of the championships. It was learnt reliably that the athletes slept in the buses for two nights while transiting as they had to pass through Republic of Benin, Togo and Ghana before arriving their final destination. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added that the problems started from the camp where the athletes went through a harsh condition to prepare for the competition. “At first, athletes finished training and were unable to bath,” the source said. “They had to take the smelling body to the evening training each day. “Apart from that, there was no light in camp and it took the intervention of some well-meaning individuals to get diesel to power the generator. “I pity the athletes because they have been struggling so hard to get ready for the championship and I hope Nigerians will rise up to support these youngsters. “Imagine what we are putting our future stars through and when they decide to dump the country, we will tag them as being unpatriotic, it is unfair.” Nigeria travelled for the championships with over 70 athletes and 15 coaches with the hope of winning the overall position but it was learnt that the mode of travel affected the athletes. “Apart from the stress on the road, the mode of transportation was poor as the athletes were crammed into three coaster buses belonging to Lagos State Sports Council and Delta Sport Commission, and another small bus.” It could be recalled that New Telegraph reported the Athletic Federation of Nigeria’s Technical Director, Sunday Adeleye, said the federation did not receive any support from the government and had been handling so many things on its own. According to him, the funds for the camping of the athletes and the trip to Abidjan were through personal contributions from the board members, as he also travelled by road with the athletes. Meanwhile, the competition takes centre stage from Tuesday April 16 (today) to 20 at the Stade Félix Houphouët-Boigny, also known as Le Félicia, in Abidjan, Cote D’Ivoire. This is the first time these age groups (U-18, U-20) will be combined at the continental stage, with the major power countries on the continent looking to challenge for the top spot on the medals table. The country failed to be at the last competition in Algeria and Kenya respectively after winning the inaugural U-18 championships in Warri, Delta State in 2013 and the U-20 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in 2015.