…links crime to illicit mining …declares war on criminals  The Federal Government has ordered foreign miners operating in Zamfara State to vacate all sites within 24 hours. Acting Inspector- General of Police (IGP), Mr. Muhammed Adamu, who disclosed this yesterday while briefing State House Correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said intelligence reports have established strong links between the activities of armed banditry and illicit mining in the state. He said: “Intelligence report has clearly established a strong and glaring nexus between the activities of armed bandits and illicit miners – with both mutually re-enforcing each other.” According to the IGP, government, which has declared full war on armed bandits in the state, has also set up a security Joint Task Force to take over all mining sites and restore total peace in affected areas. The IGP told reporters that all miners, both local and foreign, who proceed with mining activities despite this directive, will have their licenses revoked. According to Adamu, as part of sustained efforts to permanently put an end to banditry and all forms of criminality in the state, the Federal Government has commenced Operation Puff Adder in affected areas. Joined by the Director General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmed Abubakar and the acting Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Birchi, the IGP said: “Mining activities in Zamfara and other affected states are hereby suspended with immediate effect. “Consequently, any mining operator who engages in mining activities in the affected locations, henceforth, will have his license revoked. “All foreigners operating in the mining fields should close and leave within 48 hours,” he stressed. The IGP disclosed that the Federal Government has established a strong link between activities of armed bandits and illegal miners in the state. “As part of sustained efforts to flush out, and permanently put an end to armed banditry and criminality in Zamfara State in particular and the North-West in general, the Nigeria Police Force, in collaboration with the Nigerian Military and other Security Services, has commenced “Operation PUFF ADDER” which is a full scale security offensive against the bandits. “The operation is aimed at reclaiming every public space under the control of the bandits, arrest and bring to book all perpetrators of violence in the area and their collaborators, achieve a total destruction of all criminal camps and hideouts, mop up all illicit weapons fueling the violence and attain a full restoration of law and order in the affected communities,” Adamu added. The IGP explained that government remained committed to protecting the sanctity of lives and property. He said the commitment was irrevocable. “We will not scale down the pressure on the armed bandits until they are totally flushed out. I want to assure the general public, especially in the affected areas, that the security services are doing their best to address the situation,” he said.