The Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria [ASCSN] has called on the National Assembly and the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) to probe the activities of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Okechukwu Enelamah, over alleged corruption, impunity, high handedness, injustice and nepotism since assuming office in 2015.
Speaking with journalists, the General Secretary, ASCSN, Comrade Bashir Lawal, said the issues were being treated at the National Assembly and EFCC, adding that workers were watching and waiting for the outcome.
He said for instance, the minister had succeeded in duplicating and wasting resources through the creation of Nigerian Office of Trade Negotiation [NOTN] based on false memo to the Federal Executive Council [FEC], adding that the minister had also killed the Trade Department and rendered commercial and trade officers redundant.
“We are also demanding that all outstanding payments since 2014 till date be prioritised on first come first serve basis for payments,” Lawal said.
“The training and welfare needs of workers must be concluded before the end of December 2018, services of consultants be withdrawn with immediate effect, timely conduct of promotion exercise should be observed.
“All cases of conversion and upgrading pending in the ministry and with Head of Service [HOS] and FSCS should be worked on to ease off delays.”
Similarly, Chairman of the union, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment Unit, Mr Okonkwo Onwuyah, said it was worrisome that the minister had allowed impunity and maladministration to continue in Human Resources Department of the ministry.
He also alleged desperate attempts to privatise Calabar and Kano free trade zones under the management of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority [NEPZA].
He alleged the looting of a private company – Nigeria Special Economic Zones Company Ltd [NSEZCO] – using public funds to take over the functions of NEPZA.
He called on government to reinstate Keftin Amuga as the Chief Registrar recognised by the Head of Service, Federal Civil Service Commission and the Civil Service rule.
Corroborating the allegations, the Chairman, ASCSN, NEPZA Unit, Mr Samari Isah, said the association wrote President Buhari last year on the alleged impunity and corruption the minister was perpetrating at NEPZA, saying that the authority was established with Decree No, 63 of 1992, now NEPZA Act Cap 20, Laws of Federation of Nigeria 2004.
“Power was granted NEPZA by section 4 of the Act, and previous administrations’ resolve to give the powers to the agency to handle the implementation of the nation’s drive towards industrialisation,” he said.
“Such would have been achieved by accelerating the speedy implementation of the National Industrial Revolution Plan [NIRP] through the Special Economic Zones [SEZ] and the attainment of the Economic Recovering Growth Plan [ERGP].”
He said the whole ministry was grounded because majority of the management did not support the special economic zone created, adding that the Ministerial Tenders Board’s (MTB) recommendations were jettisoned based on the uncompromising stand of the management.
“The minister abandoned the contractors except one DABAJ Engineering Company Limited, which he has special interest in “ he alleged. “The company was paid upfront and had not completed the project in Block H.
“The minister created National Trade Negotiation Office (NOTE) and domiciled it at the NEPC office despite the protest by management of the ministry and he brought one “Ambassador” Osakwe to head the office. The new office has taken away the duties of technocrats and professional negotiators in the Ministry Bilateral, WTO and Multilateral units.
“You may wish to recall that previous minister with the cooperation of stakeholders formulated various policies that would advance industrialisation of the country such as auto policy, sugar policy, cotton and textile and enterprises training as well as backward integration, which involved stakeholders from inception and adopted by stakeholders. “He abandoned these policies to pursue selfish interest. This has stalled development in these sectors.”
Recently, foremost rights group, Human and Environmental Agenda (HEDA) said the Minister had unlawfully diverted the 35 million dollars meant for the Growth and Employment Project, (GEM).