 Traders and others affected by the Nkwor-Ngwa Timber Market fire disaster of November last year have called on the Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu come to their aid as he promised. The victims said the state governor after a meticulous assessment of the fire disaster, sorted out the victims into two groups of: ‘Affected and Most Affected’ in a bid to render an all-inclusive aide to all those Involved. Speaking to journalists in Aba, the ‘Most Affected Victims numbering about eight, thanked the governor for redeeming his promise of N5 million for the ‘Affected victims’ who are now back in business and pleaded with him to remember them (‘Most Affected’).
Narrating his ordeal, Mr. Vitalis Chidozie, a dealer on building and furniture materials, and farm implement, who lost his five shops to the fire disaster, said he now feeds from hand to mouth.
“I was operating with five shops at the market before the incident. The five shops which included my wife’s, that of my little sister who stays with me, and my two parking stalls all got burnt to ashes. “I couldn’t get anything out from them. Since then, I’ve being suffering. When all the victims of the disaster went to meet the governor at the governor’s lodge in Aba, he made a promise of N5 million which he has redeemed since.
“He excluded the eight of us here (‘Most Affected Victims’) because our businesses were huge. We thank him for fulfilling the promise made to the other group. For us we are pleading for him to remember us.
“We have managed to put up the razed down structures back through several borrowings and help from many angles, but we have absolutely nothing to sell anymore.” Speaking further, Chidozie said: “I have students that are under me who are supposed to take this ongoing WAEC and the JAMB that follows, but how could I have performed the magic to make it possible! I have no money. Most of their teachers in school even came to our aide.
“Even those that gave me goods to sell, I can’t pay them back because we have fed on it. We plead with our good governor, whom God has shown his love by making Abia people to massively vote him back into power to remember us.”
Another victim, Mr. Emeka Ife said he lacks the right words to describe his current condition both as a father, husband and breadwinner. He said: “The promise made to us by our able governor encouraged most of us to go borrowing to put back our structures razed down by the fire.
“We did that hoping that the help from our governor will quickly get us back into business as we can purchase some goods through it, sell and pay back our debts.” The case of Mr. Udochukwu Adindu is not different. Adindu, who deals on Almaco Windows and Doors Glass and has been at the Nkwor-Ngwa Market for 25 years, said that he is still alive remains a mystery only God can explain.
Udochukwu said he lost everything he had to both the fire and looters who capitalized on the fire incident to loot the glasses and frames in his shops.
“We know the governor as a promise keeper. And our speaking out is only a reminder. His words last year after the incident consoled me a lot. He said he will give us something to help us and may not be something to solve our problems.
“I cannot take care of my home financially right now. I beg the governor to save us. I lost four shops together with my wife,” he said
The Nkwor-Ngwa Timber Market was razed down on the night of November 17, 2018.