  The Federal Government and International Oil Companies (IOCs)operating in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry have agreed to a whopping $13.95 million revenue deficit on crude oil sale in one month, New Telegraph has learnt.This deficit, data obtained from this newspaper showed, is to be suffered on sales of about 1.8 million May crude oil production. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) May crude loading schedule sighted by this newspaper offered Nigeria’s May crude at $0.25 lower than the April crude price. “Nigeria released its official selling oil prices for May, showing a decrease for major grades-Bonny Light BFO-BON and Qua Iboe BFO-QUA, Forcados BFO-FOC and Escravos by around 20 to 25 cents compared with April,” a report on the schedule showed. Buyers had been largely reluctant to pick up cargoes of May loading cargoes offered at and above a premium of $2 compared to dated Brent. One trader said backwardation and low refining margins had reduced the appeal of Nigerian crude for European buyers. This came as the government heightened efforts to further prone down its crude production cost. The average production cost for a barrel of oil in Nigeria had earlier declined to just US$23 a barrel. But the Minister of state for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu said in a statement penultimate weekend that oil companies were not stopping there and were aiming to reduce this further to US$15 a barrel to boost profitability. Oil exports are the largest single source of oil revenues for Nigeria and anything that makes these more appealing to buyers would help revenues grow. However, production costs are not the only factor at play when it comes to oil revenues. “We are still underdeveloped, underachieving and we are close to achieving the 4 million production target as we deliver 1.9 to 2 million barrels a day currently, but even at that why are we not taking over from the International Oil Companies, or produce a single oil firm that can transcend other West African countries,” Kachikwu said. Nigeria is taking part in the latest Organization of Petrochemical Exporting Countries (OPEC) + round of production cuts and it is supposed to be producing less than 1.9 million bpd. The country, exempt from the first round of cuts, was initially reluctant to join the agreement but Saudi Arabia convinced it to take part. It has yet to reduce its production to the quota set it by the cartel. Host communities in Nigeria continue to be a hotbed for militant activity, as they see only a fraction of the money Nigeria receives for its oil exports. This, in turn, makes investors reluctant to commit more funds and other resources to field exploration and development in Nigeria. As a result, Exxon, one of the companies with the longest presence in Nigeria, is now looking to   sell assets there worth as much as US$3 billion.  The move is also in line with the company’s—and the whole oil industry’s—new focus on quicker and higher return projects, which, for Exxon are clearly not in Nigeria.  Kachikwu had denied the claim that Exxon is looking to bail. On the other hand, French Total earlier this year launched production at a new offshore field, Egina, which has the capacity to produce up to 150,000 bpd of crude. 