…as England FA gives N14m per year contracts to Three Lionesses players   The winner of this summer’s Women’s World Cup in France will leave the European nation, £3.1million (N1, 457,000,000) richer after FIFA decided to double the bonus for the female champions. Incidentally this is twice the amount the USA was given for triumphing at Canada 2015. However, it is a far cry from the £29.7million (N13, 959,000,000) FIFA gave France for winning the men’s World Cup in Russia last summer. Nigeria’s Super Falcons, who are currently in Spain honing their skills for the competition taking place from June 7 –July 7 in nine French cities, are one of three teams representing the African continent in the women’s showpiece football event.  Under the guidance of Swede Thomas Dennerby, the Falcons were crowned African champions for a record 11th time when they triumphed in Ghana late last year. However, despite qualifying for the World Cup eight times, the African champions are yet make any serious impact with their best showing being the quarter-finals they reached when US hosted the tournament in 1999. The Nigerians have been handed a tough draw for France 2019 being placed in Group A along with the host nation, South Korea and Norway.
Dennerby is, however, insisting that this time around the Falcons will surprise many at the World Cup. Meanwhile, coach of England, Phil Neville believes the women’s game is on the brink of “boom time” but has advised his players to put glory before money and concentrate on football rather than chasing commercial deals. Commenting on the increase in prize money, the former Manchester United player told The Guardian: “FIFA has put the prize money up a lot; we’re being supported unbelievably by the FA and FIFA in the summer in terms of our budgets, and in the next four of five years we’ll get real equality.” The Three Lionesses, which is in Group D with Scotland, Argentina and Japan, have also been boosted by their federation which has agreed to pay them £30,000 (N14, 100,000) a year, in addition to individual club deals which, in some cases, lift overall incomes to six figure sums. Also sportswear giant, Adidas, which kits England like it does the Falcons, has said that it will pay its contracted female footballers the same bonuses for winning the World Cup in France as the men received at Russia 2018. And after winning the SheBelieves Cup in the US last month England’s morale is high but Neville remains wary of complacency. “These next two games – against Canada (which England lost 1-0 on Friday) and Spain [at Swindon on Tuesday] – will be harder than the SheBelieves,” he said. “Our challenge is not to take our eye off the ball. I’ve seen teams do that and they get beat. They get found out.” A delegation of the Super Falcons including 24 players, has fully settled down in Spain as the African champions continue their preparations for the 8th FIFA Women’s World Cup finals in France this summer. A number of the players left on Monday night while the rest of the delegation departed… In “Sports” Gone are the days when Nigerian footballers regularly made waves on the international scene frequently getting mentioned in the same breathe as the best players on the planet. Sadly the slid is continuing which is why in the latest of such rankings, female footballer, Asisat Oshoala is the only Nigerian… In “Sports” As part of their preparations for this year’s FIFA Women’s World Cup slated for France, the Super Falcons will on Monday jet out to China. The nine-time African queens will face hosts China, Romania and Korea Republic in the four-day competition, which also has some other countries set to turn… In “Sports”