‘No be Jazz’, is a music dominating airwaves in Lagos and Guchi, 22, whose real name is Ugochi has been in the music industry since 2012. She spoke with journalists, and said she was prepared for all sides of stardom, TONY OKUYEME reports   You sound a lot like Simi. Is it some kind of marketing strategy? There’s no relationship. I admire Simi like I admire a lot of other artistes who are doing wonderfully well, but I don’t think I sound like her. I sound like Guchi and not like Simi. What inspired your foray into music? I have always had passion for music. Growing up, I sang in the choir which helped shape my desire and resolve to take it on fully. Is any of your parents gifted in music? My dad, I would say. He is a music lover. He made me to like Michael Jackson’s songs, as he was always playing them. That was an early influence and inspiration. Where did you grow up and how was your upbringing? I was born in Kaduna but I grew up in Abuja. I am from a family of six and I am the second child. How old are you, and are your parents supportive of your choice of a career in music? I am 22 and yes of course, my parents are totally supportive of my decision to go into music. The competition in the industry is high today. Are you prepared to cope? Yes, I am prepared and like I said earlier, I have been into music since 2012. I have dozens of songs prepared already and I will be dropping them back to back. At what age did you start music precisely? I started at the age of 7. I remember a family get-together on my grandfather’s birthday, when the children were called upon to sing. I was the only one that came out to sing and with excitement and clarity. Which song was that? It was a song I got from a Barbie cartoon movie. The name of the song was “Wish for one thing” Tell us about your educational background I was at the Edo State University before but when I relocated to Lagos, I had to start all over again at the University of Lagos. I am now studying Theatre and Media Arts. Doing music is time consuming, quite sapping and competitive. How do you intend to balance your music career and education? It’s not going to be easy I know, but my course falls in line in a way with what I am doing – Theatre and Media Arts – so I think I can cope. Also, I did not register for a full time programme but Part-time, so I can have time to conveniently juggle between the two. The profession comes with negative stories about music stars, sometimes true and sometimes false. How prepared are you for this? I would not let that bother me because I know who I am. My personal life is different from my music life, which to me is more like acting. Saying things about me would only serve to make me more popular I guess. What genre of music do you consider your best? Afropop, dancehall and Highlife. I am not strictly everybody’s kind of Afropop musician but I can do any of the three depending on what inspires me. What inspired your track, ‘No be Jazz’? The inspiration came from the fact that today, girls seem more interested in the money and the men more interested in sex. “No be Jazz” portrays the old kind of love where neither money nor sex was the basis for relationships or marriages, but true love. And that was why couples could go through the good and bad times in love. My mother actually inspired the song. Taking a cue from her, she was always steadfast in the good and the bad times; steadfast in love. So the song preaches trust and love, even in the face of challenges. Are your songs based on experiences then? Many times the songs artistes sing do not necessarily define the artistes. There’s a song I did called “Hennessy”, not because I drink it but surely there are people it would appeal to. A song like that could also be done to promote the brand. That is why I said music is like acting. What is the record label you are signed under? The music is produced under the record label, Media Viva Productions Company, MVP, and it is run by popular broadcaster and compere, Mr. Israel Edjeren, and I am the first artiste of his label. Are you looking forward to collaborating with some established artistes in the future? I am hoping to collaborate and perform alongside some of our established artistes like Burna Boy, Kizz Daniel, Tiwa Savage and Davido. What would you have done if you were not singing? I don’t think there’s any other thing I would have done. Music is just my love.