Today, the 1 st of April through the 5th of April, several lucky commuters will get free access on the Zeno experience free bus rides between the Ajah-Lekki-VI axes of Lagos. Zeno, a flagship product from Zeno Digital Limited – an indigenous technology firm in Nigeria – is seeking to change the narratives of the daily commuters through organized mass Transportation while also leveraging shared economies. This service will be delivered through the Zeno mobile app. Zeno bus service is a schedule based system that is both time-based and route-based – a 7 am bus leaves exactly by 7 am and heads straight to its destination. It runs via a network of private loading bays all across the city of Lagos. Schedules are available daily for users to book and secure their seats in a bus ride. Our private loading bays have been carefully selected along existing paths to the traditional bus stops. Whilst it immediately shields users and the buses from the harassments and hustle at the traditional bus stops, they are easily located as directions to them are available in the app when a booking is made. The bus service runs two lines; a blue line with no stops in between and a red line that has only two stops. These stops are simply drop-off points. A key feature of the Zeno app is FDT (Fixed Daily Transit). This allows users with fixed daily transit pattern to pre-book and schedule their rides ahead of time, saving them the last minute rush of trying to book or completely missing a trip because it was fully booked. With this feature, users get a reminder 15 minutes before pick-up time to either confirm or cancel their booking. Payment is completely cashless; you can pay in-app via your cards or by purchasing a voucher online. The Zeno app has an SOS button on the user and driver apps respectively that can be activated when in danger. This allows the business to intervene immediately if there is an issue of concern and can be further escalated to the nearest security agency if need be. Also, there is real-time
video surveillance in the buses to capture events as they happen. Zeno buses are fully air-conditioned and comfortable. Needless to say, the affordability that comes with the shared system is unmatched. The buses also provide the opportunity for individuals to join the scheme as partners by bringing their buses to the platform. Partners have access to a remote dashboard that shows them how their asset is performing daily while also having a lion share of the revenue. The Zeno app is available to be downloaded on the Google and iOS app stores respectively.