 The 2019 general election has come and gone, as well as won and lost. While its memory lasts, some families are mourning in devastation sequel to the negative and sober mood the exercise has caused their emotional condition in Sokoto, seat of the caliphate. The trend of the occurrence will continue to linger in the minds of the family of Malam Abdullahi Shehu. The family will find it uneasy to forget bad memories associated with the just concluded 2019 elections. It has let them shattered as a result of a negative incident that befell the bread winner and a father of four children. Shehu, 41, a resident of Kofar Kade area in Sokoto South Local Government Area, got locked in an attack that resulted in cutting off his right arm with a sharp cutlass by a suspected opposition party member while celebrating the victory of the incumbent Governor of the state and the PDP candidate in the Governorship election, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal shortly after he was declared winner of the rerun election in the state. New Telegraph gathered that Malam Abdullahi Shehu’s right hand was amputated at Iraki area along Sultan Palace, Sokoto while waving his hands to appreciate the victory of Tambuwal at the polls, during a procession of PDP supporters in celebration of their party’s success at the concluded election. Further findings revealed that some political thugs otherwise called area boys who opposed the second term bid of the incumbent governor cut off the right hand of Shehu who was said to be a die-hard supporter of the PDP.  According to Shehu a.k.a.’ Walfiya’ who spoke to New Telegraph while still nursing the pains, said the incident happened at Iraki area on Sunday during the PDP victory celebrations when he suddenly found myself in the midst of the thugs brandishing swords, and other dangerous weapons. “Immediately they sighted me, they targeted to cut my head with sword and machete. When I realised that, I used my right hand to block my head, neck and face but before I know it my right hand was cut off. I only saw it on the ground as blood began to gush out profusely.  “At that point, despite the pains, I summoned courage and immediately brought out my phone and called my friend whom I had an appointment to meet within that time. While on arrival at the scene of the incident, he called the state’s immediate past Commissioner of Health and PDP candidate for House of Representatives, Dr. Balarabe Shehu Kakale who directed that I should be admitted at the Sokoto State Specialists Hospital. “But, due to the magnitude of the injury, it was observed that there was attendant weakness, death cells and tissues linking the arm with the rest of body cell which made it difficult for the hospital to treat the injury”, the victim narrated. Explaining further to New Telegraph, Shehu said” on hearing about the incident which left many in confusion, concern and fears, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal swiftly responded by extending his gesture to sponsor my trip to the National Hospital Abuja, where I am presently receiving medical treatment.”  Though, the victim who said he cannot identify those that carried out the dastardly act rests his fate with God while praying for His mercy and believed that they would surely be punished for causing him loose his right hand.  However, family of the victim has called for the arrest and be brought to justice those who attacked and maimed Shehu. Doing so will not only ensure justice prevail but would serve as deterrent to others.