… prays for injury free end to season for players  Super Eagles goalkeeper trainer, Alloy Agu, has said the national cannot afford to underrate any of their group opponents the Africa Cup of Nations scheduled for Egypt from June 21 to July 19. Nigeria on Friday was drawn against debutants Madagascar and Burundi, alongside Guinea in Group B of the competition. It would be recalled that the coach of the team, Gernot Rohr, immediately after the draw said the Eagles are in a very tough group and while speaking with our correspondent, Agu reiterated same position as the coach.  Agu added that they were going to approach all the games the same way they approached the qualifiers and see how they can get to the final and ultimately win the trophy for only the third time. “Honestly speaking, all the teams that qualified for the AFCON, they are all good sides, and    also the best on the continent and that’s why they got the ticket to be there in the first place,” he said.  “They are all top teams as there are no push over again in Africa football, so all the teams are good and we have to approach them in the same spirit having it at the back of our mind that they are all formidable sides, likewise Nigeria. “We cannot afford to underrate them or belittle them because they have played series of games and done well to be in Egypt. “The approach has been spelt out right from the qualifiers.  Everyone involved, the government, the Nigeria Football Federation, the technical crew and all Nigerians that have been solidly behind the team. “They (Super Eagles) knew what was at stake which was the qualification ticket at the initial stage, and they went out to achieve that.  “They are going with the same attitude to Egypt knowing fully well that all the teams going to Egypt are all top sides, they have to go out there to do what they knew how to do best and make sure they make the country proud.”  Meanwhile, the former national team captain has prayed for an injuryfree end to the season to all the players especially the goalkeepers while also revealing that they  are looking out for other good keepers. He, however, admitted that the current goalkeepers in the team have been doing well and if called into action in Egypt, will make the country proud.  “We still have about two months to the AFCON and we are still looking at several options because the national team is for all good Nigerians.  “Anyone doing well will have the opportunity of wearing the team’s jersey, but we should not forget that the current goalkeepers in the team, Francis Uzoho, Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Daniel akpeyi have all done well for the team. “But the most important thing is for all our players, right from the goalkeepers, the defenders, midfielders and attackers to be in good health and form when the AFCON commences in June.”