Some eminent Nigerians, yesterday, called on governments at all levels to focus on how to fix the country’s economy in order to make life more comfortable for the people. Among those, who made the call, while speaking at the second annual lecture of Freedom Online Newspaper in Lagos, on how to fix the nation’s economy were Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and former Governors Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia) and Gbenga Daniel (Ogun). Governor Fayemi, who was the guest speaker, in a lecture titled: “Fixing the Economy: Less politics, more substance,” said Nigeria has the potentials to be among the most prosperous nations in the world, but pointed out that certain things need to be done before that could be achieved. The governor, who was represented by Akin Oyebode, said there should be a road map to determine development, giving instances of what Ekiti State is doing presently to boost the economy of the state. His words: “For Nigeria to achieve its potentials, our economy must be competitive. We must have a critical policy framework that can give foreign investors the confidence to create and make Nigeria a global investment market. We need to develop a lasting social investment in all sectors, including, power, education, agriculture and trade. We need a knowledge economy that can truly translate to what is obtainable in the developed world. “The cost of not investing in infrastructure and human capital is usually painful, and in Nigeria’s case, it is manifesting in an unemployment rate hovering above 40 per cent. With two-thirds of our population under the age of 35, it is important to set the country on a path of sustainable economic development, if not for our sake, for generations after ours. “This brings me to reason we are here; how to fix the Nigerian economy. This discussion must start by identifying the necessary conditions for inclusive economic development, which not only ensure macro-economic growth indices improve, but also lifts people out of poverty and puts our citizens, especially young people in jobs. These conditions are clearly security, human capital development, infrastructure and a clear policy framework that encourages the investment of private capital. “It will be impossible for me to examine this topic without speaking about the role of states in economic development, especially as I am now in my second stint as governor of Ekiti State. While the Federal Government performs a very necessary role in developing our economy, the real federating units of economic activity are the states. Therefore, it is very important that the subnational synergy and support required to build an inclusive and robust economy exists. “Like statesmen, we must think about the next generation, when making economic choices. The results of these often difficult choices might not be easily obvious to the less discerning, but our responsibility as leaders is to stay the course, and ensure we make the right investment and decisions, to safeguard the future of unborn generations.” Kalu, a former governor of Abia State and Senator-elect for Abia North Senatorial District, who chaired the event, said Nigeria’s economy should be expanded. “I see our economy as one that needs to be expanded. I used to tell people, I will rather remove every business of the government; government has no business in doing business. It is better Aliko Dangote owns everything or Bayo owns everything than government being in business. You cannot do policy formulation and do policy implementation. “I want politicians to think about governance now that elections are over. Nigerian politicians have forgotten about governance and are talking about politics. People are already talking about 2023 instead of thinking about the one they voted for. This is why the coming of President Muhammadu Buhari is a good thing, we must sustain what we and look forward to doing other things. “We have forgotten that the greatest input you can make is the business input; not a political input. There is a Bible verse that says there is time for everything; time for politics and time for business. Everything has its own time. We, in this business have forgotten that we should do the right thing. “Those of us who understand this economy and also understand the politics are few and this is what we have being discussing. Now, we need to forget about All Progressives Congress (APC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or any other party and talk about the economy. What we need is fiscal federalism. And when you say you need restructuring, people make it to be a political issue; it is not about dividing the country,” he said. Kalu also congratulated the Publisher of Freedom Online, Gabriel Akinadewo, for the second annual lecture of the publication, promising that he will always do his best to support the media in Nigeria. In his address as Special Guest of Honour, ex-Governor Daniel reiterated the need for restructuring, noting that it will address the country’s systemic problems. “Restructuring for me is very simple and straight forward. We are running a system since 1960 and everybody here agrees that this system has not worked. So, trying to make the system work is restructuring. We need to take what is good in capitalism and mix it up with what is good in socialism. We need to do something to make the system work,” he said. Also speaking the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said the Buhari administration has done enough to improve the Nigeria economy, but his efforts and achievements have been ignored for political reasons. Adesina, who took time to reel out the achievements of the Buhari administration, said Nigeria’s economy went into recession in 2015 because it was unavoidable, but explained that immediately after the recession, the economy recorded 1.95 percent growth, while in 2018, it recorded 2.00 percent growth. He noted that despite the challenges facing the government in power, the economy is still growing, but some Nigerians have failed to appreciate the growth because of political interest. The presidential spokesman emphasized that Federal government has made tremendous improvement in the agric sector and solid minerals. According to him, both sectors have maintained tremendous growth, adding that in the last 19 to 20 months, inflation rate has fallen to 11.3 percent. Adesina explained that the Buhari administration has increased the nation’s external reserve from $29.68 billion it met in 2015 to $47.5 billion despite the fall in oil price. He added the exportation rate of Nigeria has risen to 59.4 percent and that most of the product exported are agricultural products and solid minerals. Also speaking at the event, Aare Onakankafo, Iba Gani Adams, urged the Federal Government to work on policies and programmes that will alleviate the suffering of Nigerians at the grassroots. He noted that from all Indications, the present situation in the country shows that majority of Nigerians are suffering, with little or no hope. While reacting to issues raised by Adesina, on the state of the Nigerian economy, Adams said the Freedom Online lecture platform presents a better opportunity for him to tell the President that he needs to concentrate on programmes that will make direct impact on the lives of the people at the grassroots. His words: “My brother, Mr. Femi Adesina, has raised some issues on the state of the nation. He is doing his job, however, I want you to tell Mr. President that Nigeria is bleeding. From my experience so far, I think President Buhari needs to attend to some critical issues that need urgent attention. “Let me use my personal experience to buttress my point. I spend N13,000 daily on diesel to fuel my generating set and that is the situation across the country. That shows the power sector is not working. “Another area that the president needs to work on is the agricultural sector. Facts and figures show that we still have a long way to go if Nigeria is to be ranked among the most vibrant countries in the world. From all indices, it is no doubt that our economy needs total overhauling. Though we have exited recession as claimed by Mr. Adesina, efforts should also be made to revamp the economy from the abyss of stagnation.” The Keynote speaker, Prof. Akin Onigbinde, said Nigerians need a change that will be feel by everybody, especially the common man, noting that what the people will appreciate is to feel the positive effect of the economy change, which the federal and state governments claimed they have achieved in the last few years and not a theoretical explanation and achievements reeled out by governments at public events or in the media Earlier in his welcome address, the publisher of FreedomOnline, Akinadewo, urged Nigerians, especially politicians to stop playing politics with development of Nigeria. He advised public office holders to be concerned about the economy, stressing that governments at the various levels should focus on development of the agricultural sector. He said the lecture is an annual event that brings together captains of industry, media chiefs, politicians and professionals “to discuss economic challenges in the country, proffer solutions and ensure that Nigeria occupies its rightful place in the comity of nations.” Among those who graced the event were former Minister for Police Affairs, Navy Capt. Caleb Olubolade (rtd); President, Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief of New Telegraph Newspapers, Mrs. Funke Egbemode; former Ekiti State Commissioner for Information, Hon. Niyi Afuye; former NGE President and General Manager of Vanguard Newspaper, Mr. Gbenga Adefaye, among other media and business executives. Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, would on Thursday, April 18, speak on challenges facing Nigeria's economy and the way out at the second annual lecture of Freedom Online, an online newspaper. Fayemi, sworn-in for a second term as governor of Ekiti State in October 2018, would speak on the theme;… In “News” Former Governor of Abia State and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu has described the victory of Dr. Kayode Fayemi in the July 14th governorship in Ekiti State as a testament to the general acceptance of the ruling party across the nation. While acknowledging the… In “Politics” Following Tuesday’s inauguration of the Kayode Fayemi-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in Ekiti State, residents of the state list areas of priorities the new administration should focus on, ADEWUMI ADEMIJU reports     The people of Ekiti State on Tuesday October 16 witnessed the second coming of Dr Kayode… In “Politics”