The suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, yesterday, opened his defence before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja in a six-count charge bothering on alleged failure to declare his assets as prescribed by the law. Onnoghen was ordered to open his defence to the allegation, following refusal of the tribunal to his no case submission. The three-man panel of the tribunal, led by Danladi Umar had, on Friday, insisted in its ruling that Onnoghen has a case to answer in the said charge, as the prosecution had established a prima facie case against him. FG had, in the charge marked CCT/ABJ/01/19, alleged that Onnoghen’s failure to properly declare his assets was in violation of section 15(2) of Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act. At the resumed trial yesterday, the defendant called his Defence Witness 1. In his Evidence-In- Chief, the first defence witness, DW-1, Lawal Busari, a driver at the Supreme Court, told the tribunal that he was the one that drove the defendant to the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), the day he collected his asset declaration form in July 2010. The witness, who said he joined the judiciary in February 1999, told the CCT that he was equally there when Onnoghen submitted the completed asset declaration forms at the CCB office in Asokoro, Abuja. He added that the forms, which were issued to both himself and Onnoghen on July 28, 2010, were filled and returned back to the CCB sometime in November same year. Busari further told the tribunal that Onnoghen submitted the asset declaration form before he was appointed the CJN. Led in evidence by Onnoghen’s counsel, Chief Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), the witness, said: “On July 28, 2010, my lordship called me to take him to the CCB office at Asokoro. “When we got there, he collected asset declaration forms. After the form was given to him, he said Alhaji, are you not collecting your own? “He said, collect it, and I did. We came back to the office, I filled my own too. “On November 4, 2010, he gave me N200 to pay for the asset declaration form. The second day, I did my own too and paid the cashier N200 at the FCT High Court.”Though the prosecution counsel, Aliyu Umaru (SAN), opposed the tendering of the receipt in evidence. He was, however, overruled by the tribunal. The CCT Chairman admitted and marked the receipt as an exhibit in the trial. Busari said: “After payment at the FCT High Court, we went and submitted the form, myself and your lordship, at Asokoro office of the CCB. “It is a woman, fair in complexion that received the form. I cannot remember her name, but she received both forms. “The form was not acknowledged that day. The woman said we should come back to collect the acknowledgment copy.” The witness also said he subsequently went back to the CCB alone and collected the acknowledged form. Under cross-examination, the prosecution counsel queried Busari if he was reading from a piece of paper. Upon the admission of the witness that he was indeed holding a piece of paper in his hand, the tribunal chairman demanded that the paper should be brought to him. After the CCT Chairman had read through the paper, the prosecution counsel requested that it should be returned back to the witness. Asked who wrote and gave him the paper, the witness said: “My Lord I wrote it myself. It is my hand writing and it contained facts about me.” Application by the prosecution to tender the paper in evidence was not opposed by the defence counsel. It was, therefore, admitted in evidence and marked as exhibit 7. Furthermore, the witness told the tribunal that he obtained his WAEC in 2004, adding that he also has Trade Test Certificates, Grade 1, 2, and 3. After the witness was discharged, the defendant prayed the tribunal to issue a subpoena and compel a Director at the CCB, Mrs. Theresa Nwafor, to appear as his second witness. The proposed witness is currently serving at the CCB office in Edo State. Application by the suspended CJN to produce her to testify in the matter was not opposed by the prosecution counsel. The tribunal consequently adjourned till Wednesday to enable the witness to appear and give evidence in the trial. ...fixes Monday for opening of defence   Suspended CJN appeals ruling       The Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja yesterday threw out the no case submission filed by the suspended Chief of Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, against the six-count criminal charge filed against… In “News” Tribunal summons bank officials, ends day's trial in darkness   The suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, has told the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja that his assets declaration forms have been tampered with. Onnoghen, who noted this through his counsel, Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN),… In “News” The Federal Government has asked the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Samuel Nkanu Onnoghen, to immediately vacate his exalted office as Head of the Nation’s judiciary over alleged sundry asset declaration issues. In a move to force Justice Onnoghen out of office, the Federal Government will on January 14,… In “News”