As the race for presiding officers within the ranks of members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the National Assembly heightens, members of the opposition parties, particularly the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are also neck deep in the campaign to produce their leaders. This is as chairman of the House Committee on Ethics and Privileges, Hon. Ossai Nicholas Ossai (PDP, Delta) has written to his colleagues soliciting their support in his ambition to become the next minority leader. New Telegraph had, three weeks ago, exclusively reported that Ossai and three others were in the race to succeed current minority leader, Hon. Leo Ogor. Others interested in the position are the deputy minority leader, Hon. Onyeama Chukwuka (PDP, Anambra), chairman committee on public petitions, Hon. Uzoma Nkem-Abonta (PDP, Abia) and one-time chairman power committee, Hon. Ndudi Godwin Elumelu (PDP, Delta). Ossai, in the letter addressed to his colleagues, dated March 25, 2019 and obtained byNew Telegraph, said: “Respected colleagues, you may agree with me that the National Assembly is about the only institutionalsed platform where the opposition party in a democracy can truly offer alternatives to government policies, call and hold government to account, advance the manifesto of our party to better lives of Nigerians, work with the ruling party on agreeable issues and ultimately garner momentum to take over the national government. “To accomplish these goals and more, our great party needs a minority leader who is a unifier with deep legislative knowledge and experience, a transparent and honest leader with capacity, a loyal party man and a fine legislator with the courage to deliver our great party’s legislative agenda in the House of Representatives and the National Assembly.” The lawmaker representing Ndokwa/Ukwuani federal constituency of Delta State said he “is excited to inform you that my character and legislative accomplishments best fits in the above qualities. I thus offer myself to have the honour of leading the charge of our great party’s vision in the Green Chamber as the minority leader.” Ossai, who is being elected for the third time, argued that the choice of who becomes the minority leader in the 9th Assembly is critical to the identity and sustenance of life of their party, the PDP.” According to him, “A vibrant minority leader will sure lead a virile opposition and help our party avoid the political risk of loss of our hard earned regained trust of the Nigerian people, unique identity and national relevance.” Wase withdraws from Speakership race, to run with Gbajabiamila   As the race for presiding officers within the ranks of members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the National Assembly heightens, members of the opposition parties, particularly the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are also neck deep in the… In “News” Former Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriation, Hon. Abdulmumuni Jibrin, (APC, Kano) yesterday risked another round of suspension for daring to question the National Assembly’s 12-point resolution to President Muhammadu. Jibrin, alongside his colleague, Hon. Mohammed Gudaji Kazaure (APC, Jigawa) are to face the House Committee on… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus in the House of Representatives yesterday protested as one of its members representing Ahiazu Mbaise/Ezinnihite federal constituency of Imo State, Hon. Raphael Nnanna Igbokwe dumped the opposition party for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). With Igbokwe's defection, the APC now have three out… In “News”