Working as a DJ back in 2007, Xolane Ndlovu, who said he once washed dishes for a paltry sum, is today a millionaire. Shuttling between structures in Nigeria and South Africa, the driven entrepreneur spoke to ADEDAYO ODULAJA in this interview. What year and date were you born? I was born on 24th November 1985 What city and country were you born in? I was born in Burgersfort, it’s a small City located in the valley of the Spekboom under Greater Tubatse Local Municipality, near the border of the two provinces Limpopo and Mpumalanga in South Africa. Where did you grow up and what was it like growing up there? Growing up during the oppressive regime was never the greatest experience as my family were constantly on the move from one place to another. From South Africa to Zimbabwe, to Nigeria and we also briefly lived in Kenya and Tanzania well. I returned permanently to South Africa in 2001. What is your educational qualification as of now? I have a National Diploma in Media, Bcon in Economics and an MBA. What was it like being born to a Nigerian Father and a South African mother? Having two great families in two countries is a great honour, I get to learn about both cultures. We have two big family homes I built in both countries. I’m just worried though; I do not know much about Nigerian law, I will probably get myself into trouble with law enforcement down there trying to imply South African law in a Nigerian incident. Like for instance, I learned that in Nigeria, you have to carry your car paper with you at all times, which is not the case here in South Africa as we use something called “Disk” sort of a sticker which contains all information about your vehicle. Flashback to when you were 10 years old. What did you want to be when you grew up? I never had a lot of aspirations growing up, the only thing I can recall is that we all wanted to play soccer and be on TV. What was your first job like? I have washed dishes at a roadside food vendor for R20 daily which I saved with the owner for rent. At what age did you start DJing and how did it start? I started Djing in 2007 at the age of 22; I even had my own album and radio slots. I was a great live DJ people enjoyed watching display his incredible live skills behind the disks. How did you go from DJing to being an entrepreneur who now controls over 15 businesses? I registered my first company, ‘Ziggy’s Entertainment’ in 2007, although I can’t say it was my first stint in business but it was my first officially registered business, and that is how it all started. What inspires or motivates you in life? Becoming successful was always the main motivation but after reaching a certain stage in my life became more motivated by humanity. When people ask for money to help feed starving children, they are appealing to your sense of humanity. What do you want your legacy to be? How do you want to be remembered? Many describe me as someone who lives in his own world because of my character, and I believe my character will leave behind enormous memories and legacies. When building a legacy you don’t get see it as a legacy, you just doing what you love but in the end when you are gone, people will remember you for
that. Are you married? Do you have children? I have three kids from disadvantaged backgrounds that I adopted and put in school. They may not be exactly legally adopted, but they call me Dad and I see them as my own kids. Even in future when I am blessed with my own children, we will all live together as one family. I’m not yet married, although I do like to get married someday but don’t expect a lavish wedding, not my cup of tea. What do you like to do in your free time? What are your hobbies and interests? I love History, so you will find me spending my spare time researching about where Africa was in the 11th century. Do you have any regrets, anything in life that you wish you could do differently? I was shot in 2010 which left my right hand slightly disfigured. My regret is that I was alerted that it was going to happen but I took the information for granted as I felt I was untouchable which almost got me killed. What obstacles or major challenges have you faced in life? My first financial breakthrough was in 2007, as young as I was – I bought expensive cars through bank finance without a solid or properly planned long term cash inflow that would service the debts – this led to me losing the cars and learning my lessons not to do things to impress people again. Name 3 words that describe you? Humble, humorous and benevolent You own a charity foundation. What are some causes you care about? At Ziggy’s Foundation, our main focus is Education and Poverty. When did you consider yourself a success? I’m not yet successful in my own definition of “success”. I’m just happy that I am better than I was last year and the year before. What are your success habits? I am a habitual goal setter, and I am always analysing every event and situation, looking for a way to exploit it for profit. What is your favorite quote? Impossible is just an opinion, not a fact -Muhammad Ali