REGULATION
The Commission has been building capacity in-house in partnership with South Korea for the development of derivatives  The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has said that the rules on derivatives will be ready soon. The Acting Director General of SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, stated this durihga chat with reporters. She noted that the Commission had been building capacity in-house in partnership with South Korea for the development of derivatives.  “We have a knowledge sharing programme with them, they have been to the country twice now and our staff are scheduled to travel to their country for more training,” she said. “Even their ambassador has been to the Commission and all of that is part of building capacity and training the staff. “Even in the market NSE is doing a lot in the area as well as the FMDQ, which is taking some people to India this month on capacity building. All stakeholders including CBN have been joining hands together to ensure that we get it right.” On what is the position of SEC in regulating crypto currencies. Uduk said: “In the last Capital Market Committee (CMC) meeting we talked about it and inaugurated a Committee in respect of FinTech. The committee was charged with coming up with a FinTech Road map on the capital market community and we now have a dedicated Division in the Commission on that.” She noted that the Committee is working assiduously to decide what regulations it could make in this area.  “The Commission has the mandate to protect investors. We know that crypto assets are volatile unlike ordinary assets,” she explained. “Since January 2017, we have been asking investors to be vigilant when it comes to that area. We don’t want to get in the way on innovation. Regulators across the globe are paying attention to what is happening in this sphere. “On the one hand, they want to protect investors and on the other hand, they want to support innovation. On all fronts SEC is looking at development in the FinTech space.  “There is also on-going collaboration led by CBN, there is an inter-agency committee on virtual currencies on which SEC is working with other market operators. In no distant time, SEC will come up with regulations on crypto currencies.”