Following the signing of N30, 000 as new national minimum wage into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, organised labour has warned that it would make governance unbearable for any state governor who failed to implement the new wage by the end of May. Deputy President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Dr Nasir Idris, issued the warning yesterday in Abuja, at a pre-May Day sensitisation rally ahead of the Workers day Celebration with the theme ‘March for jobs, labour rights and shared prosperity,’ organised in collaboration with the Trade Union Congress (TUC). Idris, who urged the governors to ensure they put machineries in place to enable the swift implementation of the new minimum wage for Nigeria workers, called on management of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) to set the pace for other states by kicking off implementation of the new minimum wage. “The NLC and TUC will not condone any governor who fails to implement it for his workers. We want to assure workers that any governor that refused to implement the new minimum wage for workers, we are going to make the state unbearable for him. “We will do anything humanly possible and we are going to use our might and strength to ensure that they implement that minimum wage,’’ he said. President, Civil Service Union of Nigeria, Mr Lawrence Amaechi, equally warned that labour would not take it likely with any governor who failed to implement the new wage saying, “President Muhammadu Buhari has signed it into law on April 18, and the effective day is April. So, we are already in arrears of few days. “By the end of May, we expect that every worker will go home with the salary. In fact, most of the problem that we are having are with the state governors and we have asked them to cut down their excesses and pay the new wage. “So by the end of May, if no governor has paid the minimum wage and the arrears cumulatively, it is going to be war between labour and that particular government and we hope that they will do the needful,‘’ he said.