  How did you celebrate Easter – or maybe I should ask whether you did celebrate it at all! Did you manage to put food on your table? Did you eat what you wanted or you made do with what came your way? We shall soon return to that. Last weekend up till Monday was Easter celebration, the occasion of the uncommon suffering, crucifixion, death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ into heaven with a promise to come back again to gather the saints unto Himself. Of all the gods or pretenders to God-ship, Jesus Christ is unique in many ways. His birth was foretold hundreds of years before the event. The manner of His birth was also accurately prophesied as well as His mission on earth. Babies are usually named after their birth on the 7th, 8th, 9th or 90th day depending on what customs and traditions hold true in the community concerned; in the case of Jesus Christ, He was named hundreds of years before His birth. Human beings navigate their way through life but Jesus Christ had His assignments and life chores already cut and set out for Him before His birth. His end was known from the beginning – better still, His end was foretold even before the beginning. His birth stands out to this day, being the only One born of a virgin/the Holy Spirit. He is the only begotten Son of God the Father. His assignment was unique: To die for the sins of mankind as the Lamb of God and becoming, in that wise, the new nexus between God and Mankind. The bond that was rend asunder in the Garden of Eden when Man fell into sin is wound back and renewed through, by, and in Christ Jesus! Herculean as it was, Jesus fulfilled His mission on earth. His preaching, ideas, and ideals were unique. He might not have abrogated the law like He said; He did, in fact, stand it on its head in a very important manner. If anything, His summary of the 10 Commandments into two basic laws of love for God and love for fellow mankind was revolutionary. Besides, His interpretation of what love is and how it works revisited the Mosaic law of an eye for an eye and the Hammurabi code of tit-for-tat. Nevertheless, it is in His resurrection, ascension, second coming, and the promise of eternal life that Jesus Christ stands head and shoulders above other gods. None is as audacious in what they professed or promised! And none is a cent as confident! The occasion of His death – His passion – therefore, calls for sober reflection concerning all that He represents and stands for. Ideally, it is a season when we should reflect on His life, lifestyle, teachings, sermons, admonitions, commandments, and promises. But, today, it has been reduced in the minds and hearts of many into an occasion simply for wild merriment, riotous celebrations, and even the perpetration of sinful and criminal activities. How many visited church during the Easter to listen to sermons and make restitution for their wayward lifestyle and viewpoints? How many gave a thought for their spiritual standing to see whether, if Jesus returns today as He has promised, they will rapture with Him? How many Christians understand the spiritual essence or significance of Easter? How many can intelligently discuss or answer questions on their professed faith? For many, Easter, like Christmas, New Year and such other dates, is simply about merriments and festivities. In this regard, there is hardly a difference between many who attend church and those who do not. And this is not for lack of efforts on the part of spiritual leaders. In the Redeemed Christian Church of God, for instance, Christmas and Easter periods are tied to evangelism and church growth activities when the Church plants new parishes and extends the frontiers of the gospel. These periods are not for frivolous trips and travels; they are also not occasions for unbridled frolicking. Instead they are periods of sober reflection, demonstration of Christ-like commitment, and obedience to Jesus Christ’s commandment to all Christians to go into the world and make disciples of all nations. This is called the Great Commission from which no Christian is exempted. Whatever other “worldly” celebrations that we may plan for such periods, first things must come first! Our first love is Christ and His gospel of the good news of salvation unto mankind. Should Christians, then, only wear long faces and not rejoice during Christmas and Easter? Far be it! Christ is no longer on the cross. The suffering is over. The price is already paid. He is no longer in the grave, either. Jesus Christ is raised from the dead! He is risen! Unlike those other “gods” that are not sure of the fate that awaits them, Jesus is already seated on the right hand side of God where He is daily advocating for us. That in itself calls for celebration. We have a God who is not dead but is alive. We are not praying and advocating for this God every minute; instead, He is the One praying and advocating for us. Jesus was not man; He was God come in human flesh. That is the difference; a great one indeed. So Christians should not be prevented from celebrating during Christmas and Easter. Our celebrations, however, must be with moderation. And we must never lose focus of the reason for the season, as they say. Avoid sinful activities; distance yourself from danger spots; and spare time for spiritual activities, such as the RCCG’s Let’s Go A-Fishing programme and other spiritual exercises that the different denominations and churches put up during such periods. Eat and drink moderately, even when you are drinking only soft drinks and non-alcoholic beverages. Too much of anything, as they say, is bad. Too much food during festive periods turns the belly. Why must you create problems for yourself while celebrating? It is in this wise that the worsening economic downturn is seen by many as a “blessing” in disguise; especially for those who find it difficult to do things in moderation. The economy of many Nigerians is in terrible shape. Driving around Lagos during Easter; everywhere was quiet and the atmosphere drab. Very few people went out to celebrate and many of them, as they confessed, to fulfil all righteousness. There is no money in people’s pockets, as they say. These days, demands for money from people you know and who think you are better off than themselves are hard to meet because they come in torrents whereas your own supplies are also constrained. It gets worse and not better by the day. The worsening security situation is another reason why people are afraid to venture out these days. Parlous economy and insecurity bordering on government’s abdication of authority and responsibility make a frightening combination indeed. All the same, we thank God that we were alive to witness another Easter. When there is life, as they say, there is hope. So, keep hope alive! Zamfara’s King Solomon’s gold mines It is not enough for the Zamfara State Government to say the state has benefitted nothing from the mining of gold on its territory. It is also a mere game of passing the buck to say that, after all, it is the Federal Government that gives licence for mining activities. One other excuse, which is jejune, is that not much has been realised from the mining activities because it is yet to be done on a professional level or commercial scale. Zamfara is not only being economical with the truth; it is also trying to be clever by half. The crux of the matter is that some people are mining gold on a large scale in Zamfara and not a dime is coming into the Federation Account for every Nigerian to benefit there from. Presently, by law, every natural resource belongs equally to all Nigerians. What is happening in Zamfara is cheating because other natural resources such as oil and gas, which are found in other parts of the country, are being enjoyed equally by all Nigerians. Those who do not have a drop of oil under their soil are even getting more from oil and gas than those so endowed by God. Same with VAT and revenue from the sea and air ports, among others. So, why should Zamfara, which shares in the resources of others, enjoy its own gold exclusively? This is cheating of the highest order. This validates the clamour for resource control and restructuring. Zamfara has become a metaphor for insensitivity, callousness, and audacity which cannot but worsen the national question and further drive a wedge between our various people. LAST WORD: I love reading cartoons, especially those that make informed commentaries. Two characters were discussing and the first described ex-CJN Onnoghen as not smart. Why, asked the other. “I learnt he only resigned as CJN.” What else could he have done, the first character asked. “I think he should have joined the APC immediately,” the second replied!