 Thieves have stolen the HP Laptop of the Deputy Editor of Saturday New Telegraph Newspaper, Mr. Vincent Eboigbe, at the Lagos State Cooperative Federation (LASCOFED) on Wempco Road, Ogba. The thieves opened his car boot and disappeared with his laptop and bag, while he stepped into LASCOFED to eat. The bag contained the laptop and other vital documents, including his university certificate. It was learnt that it was not the first time important items, belonging to customers would be stolen at LASCOFED. According to Eboigbe, what happened to him on April 15 was shocking to him. He said: “The laptop contained valuable information of many years.” Recollecting the events of that fateful day, he said: “I left my office with my laptop in my car boot. I drove to LASCOFED to eat about 8p.m. I didn’t spend up to 20 minutes before I left and drove straight home. On getting home, I went to the boot of my car to take out my laptop and discovered that it was gone. “Immediately, I knew something had gone wrong. I didn’t stop anywhere that evening after leaving office. I drove straight from office to LASCOFED, then from there to my house.” Eboigbe said that after mapping out his movement, he knew that the laptop was stolen at LASCOFED. He went to the place that same night and met the manager, who introduced himself as Mr. Isaiah. “I complained to him; he said that I should follow him. He expressed shock over the loss of my laptop. He called one of the workers, who were sitting on the bonnet of one of the parked vehicles. “Mr. Isaiah narrated what happened to me to the worker. Isaiah said that he suspected him (the worker). He said that he knows something about the missing laptop. The worker protested his innocence. The manager was very furious. He appeared to be sure that the worker took the laptop or had something to do with it,” Eboigbe said. He added that the worker and the manager nearly engaged in a fight over the stolen laptop. The following day, Eboigbe went to Pen-Cinema Police Station to lodge a complaint. Police went with him to LASCOFED. The manager of the place, who had earlier accused one of his workers of being behind the theft, changed his narrative. Isaiah insisted that there was no time he accused any of his workers of taking the laptop. Speaking with our correspondent, Isaiah said: “The man came to patronise us. He actually complained about loss of his laptop. At the end of the day, there was no evidence to show that his car boot was burgled or to indicate that someone actually stole his laptop and other items.”  This is the first time such a thing is happening here. We have not recorded any incident of any customer losing their property on our premises.”