The current management at Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is locked in battle with phoney investment outfits/illegal fund managers. The confrontation gets fiercer with capital market regulator taking the battle to the fortress of illegal fund managers’ camps. Abdulwahab Isa reports  From time immemorial, human desires are limitless amid limited disposable income. He’s caught between limited resources and a heap of insatiable desires. To conquer more items on his list, he finds a means to escape from his routine income by creating additional means of livelihood to complement limited income. Most Nigerians have different sources of incomes. The quest to beat competing needs gave birth to fund managers, a set of specialists on income portfolio management for a paid return on investments. Regrettably, fake and unlicensed fund managers have invaded the Nigeria investment market.    Proliferation There isn’t a law that forbids people from exploring genuine means of seeking income addition as far as such means doesn’t conflict the constitution. All investments carry some level of risks. Only investments in government securities such as Treasury Bills and Bonds are free of risks. Nigeria’s investment market today is saturated with all forms of investments. While real investment managers are handy, and they are registered by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), majority operating in today’s Nigeria investment market lack SEC approval. They are swindlers, who take advantage of the naivety of unsuspecting Nigerians. From the populous city of Lagos, Kano, Port- Harcourt in Rivers state and Calabar to the city of Abuja, activities of illegal fund managers, specifically ponzi schemes have been pervasive in recent time, putting SEC on combative toes.  SEC’s battles The proliferation of illegal fund managers is one of the nightmares SEC is battling. Under the current management led by Acting Director- General, Ms. Mary Uduk, SEC is not only proactive, the agency is taking the fight straight to the domain of illegal fund managers. A number of times, taskforce enforcement team constituted by Uduk go on raids without notice. Last month, in continuation of this drive to rid investment market off fake fund managers that were collecting huge sums of money from unsuspecting members of the public, SEC enforcement team sealed the premises of Dantata Success and Profitable Company Ltd in Kano as well as Growing Circle in Lagos. The two illegal fund managing firms were shut down for engaging in investment operations without registration with the apex regulator. SEC said their activities constitute an infraction of the Investments and Securities Act (ISA), 2007. According to SEC, “They do not have registration with the SEC and the commission has powers, according to Section 13 (w) of ISA 2007, to shut down any company carrying out capital market activities without due registration. “The mode of operation of the company is that for a new entrant, registration is N10, 000 and the person is not entitled to products while the second category has a registration fee of N16, 000 that entitles the registrant to receive products. “For anyone to come under the company, he has to come under an up liner since the company engages in networking business. In the case of Growing Circle, the least stage is a starter point with minimum registration of $50 with an incentive of $15 for a member who introduced two down liners.” The company, SEC noted, engaged in free seminars at its head office for people to learn more about the products and the money making business with an unbeatable compensation plan and huge bonuses. For Dantata, the company baited unsuspecting members of the public by enticing them with returns of monthly interest on investment of between 25 per cent to 50 per cent depending on the nature and investment type. It also indicated a registration period of February 5 to 15 in one of their numerous notices directing all prospective customers to make deposits into their bank accounts.  “The company sells its forms to prospective investors according to their investment plans ranging from N1,000 to N3,000. The minimum amount investable is N50,000, while the maximum is N5 million. The investment period of the scheme is pegged at a minimum of 30 working days to a maximum period of 12 months with offer of interest rates on short and medium term basis. It claims to be involved in trading, general merchandise supply, oil and gas, transportation, import, export and general contract,” SEC said vin a statement after the firm’s shut down.  To the astonishment of naive investing members, no products from the company and all efforts to retrieve their funds proved abortive. Hence, they launched complaint to the SEC.  Punitive actions Beyond shutting down operational base of illegal fund managers, SEC is taking more daring decisions as the affected firms’ bank accounts are frozen. In all proven cases, promoters of phoney fund management firms are arrested by the Nigeria Police Force and meant to undergo interrogation. The current management at the commission adopted public advocacy to enlighten the public on the danger of gambling their hard earned income with phoney fund managers. At all times, the management enjoins investing public to be wary of investment firms they patronise.  SEC advises the public to exercise due diligence and caution in the course of making investment decisions. It added that valid licence of lawful operators could be obtained on the commission’s website by members of the public to confirm the licences of firms with which they intend to carry out investment activities. Uduk, on several occasions, admonished Nigerians to stay away from fake financial experts who would promise to double their money within a short time. She pledged the commission’s commitment to sensitise investors and protect them from the antics of such fraudsters, especially promoters of Ponzi schemes.  “The purpose is also to ensure that you do not fall victim to the antics of fraudsters who purport to be able to double any amount of money you make available to them as investment value. These fraudsters or promoters of ponzi schemes are the false prophets of the investment environment; they are the ill wind that blows no good and at whose sight you must flee,” she said.  Way out Total amount of monies lost by unsuspecting, ignorant Nigerians to illegal fund managers is huge. Currently, no exact amount to reference. There isn’t a saintly country spared of illegal fund managers. What differentiates one country from another is the proportion of spread. In case of Nigeria, poor income level and high illiteracy gap fuels its spread. The situation isn’t a dire one. There is hope in tackling the menac, according to SEC’s recent market development initiatives. The current management regulatory radar is potent in reducing the number of illegal fund managers.  Last line The battle to rid investment market space of phoney investment outfits shouldn’t be left for the SEC alone. All stakeholders in the investment space, including fiscal and monetary authorities as well as the National Assembly should extend hands of support to SEC management to dislodge illegal fund managers of their grip on the investment space.