The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has debunked speculations that it had banned Nigerians from obtaining tourist visas to Dubai and other cities in the kingdom In a short statement released yesterday from its Embassy in Abuja, the UAE said the information was not accurate and urged the media to always seek information from the appropriate sources. The statement read thus: “In light of the press reports published this morning, and alleging that the United Arab Emirates has suspended issuing tourist visas to Nigerian nationals, the United Arab Emirates Embassy in Abuja would like to announce these news are inaccurate, and stresses the importance of getting the news from its official channells .” It could be recalled that a few days ago, the media was awash with reports that UAE had suspended the issuance of three months visa to Nigerians. The information which came last Wednesday via the Instagram page of Afric Holidays, a Travels and Tours firm, Afric Holidays, said Nigerian passport holders were now restricted to one month, 96 hours and 48 hours UAE Tourist Visas til further notice. The measure, it was learnt might not be unconnected to the arrest of ffive Nigerians for allegedly robbing a Bureau de Change operator of Dh2.3 million (N225.4 million) in Sharjai, Dubai. United Arab Emirates’ investors have signified interest in Nigeria’s business environment to promote their investment. This followed discussions between the First Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Abu Dhabi Chamber of Commerce, Ibrahim Mahmoud Al Mahmoud and Ambassador of Nigeria to the UAE, Mohammed Dansanta Rimi. The duo… In “Business” The United Arab Emirates tightened the squeeze on fellow Gulf state Qatar on Wednesday threatening anyone publishing expressions of sympathy towards it with up to 15 years in prison, and barring Qatari passport or resident visa holders entry. Efforts to defuse the regional crisis -- prompted on Monday when… In “News” TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, who was in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), examines the dual life of Nigerians in the UAE, how they live out there and back home   When Nweke Kizito was leaving Nigeria in 2016 to play professional football in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), he was enthusiastic… In “Insight”