The Federal Government through the National Social Safety Net Co-ordinating Office (NASSCO) recently undertook a tour of a typical rural community, with a view to lifting the inhabitants out of poverty. ONWUKA NZESHI reports  It was a fairly long journey, that began on the smooth, wide and well-paved lanes of the city. In the cool, early morning breeze, our convoy zoomed through a fascinating landscape. We admired the large swathes of arable land on both sides of the road; the herds of cattle grazing in the green patches and the ubiquitous rock formations delicately placed upon one another in a beautiful work of nature.  Like pilgrims on a guided tour of a sacred land, we looked forward to encountering the uncommon phenomenon that could satisfy our curiosity. As soon as we veered off the Jos/Keffi highway, we began to navigate through a bumpy, rough and dusty road. It led us through a cluster of rural communities where the roads were narrow, untarred and without drainage. The buildings had not only become smaller, but appeared to had been built without recourse to town planning rules.  The only aesthetics around the vicinity were the rocks and the “green fences” built with cactus, a drought resistant plant, which provided protection to the households without obstructing the freeflow of air. As the convoy, consisting of a Toyota Prado Jeep, a Ford Range Rover and a Toyota Hiace Bus, pullled up at what appeared to be a primary school, it was apparent we had reached our destination. The Mission It was pilgrimage to a poor, vulnerable community.  We soon learnt that we were at Dantau , one of the rural communities in Turu Ward, Vom District of Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State. It is a typical abode of the poor and vulnerable. Many of the villagers were already assembled under the mango trees behind one of the buildings at the Local Education Authority (LEA) Primary School, Dantau. Yet many more including the aged, the young, the children and even the physically challenged were seen trooping to what has become a mustering point.  The gathering was at the instance of the National Social Safety Net Co-ordinating Office (NASSCO) which serves as the fulcrum of the Social Investment Programmes being executed from the Office of the Vice President. The programme is supported by the World Bank and funded by the World Bank Credit. The total credit available to the programne is $500million across five years So far about ten percent of the amount has been expended on the programme.  The mission to Dantau was to search for and identify poor and vulnerable communities, sensitise the people on the efforts of the Federal Government to build a National Social Register, determine those that are the poorest of the poor among them and ensure they we’re enrolled in the register.  This is to enable them benefit from the pro-poor programmes of the government at the various levels. It was the first meeting to enlighten the people of Dantau on the exercise and the purpose was to brief the people and agree with them on the essence and modalities for being captured in the social register. There would be further consultations until the people had sufficiently bought into the project and agree on an appropriate date for their enrolment in the social register.  The stakeholders at the meeting, included the Ward Head, Damavwul Gai and other elders of the community. It also included the women and the youths of the community. Samuel Gyang Davou, an Assistant Director with the National Orientation Agency (NOA), Jos South Area Office had the task of breaking the ice and setting the tone for the meeting. He stepped into the arena and briefed the people about the mission if NASSCO and solicited for their patience and understanding. The villagers looked on with disbelief on their faces.  They thought it was one of those rallies organised by local politicians hunting for votes that would take them to their political Eldorado. Davou who spoke to them in their local language, told the gathering that their visitors were not politicians who usually come to give villagers cash and token gifts during political campaigns in order to get their votes.  He explained that officials of NASSCO were bureaucrats who were solely interested in the welfare of the community people but would require their cooperation in order to help the poor and less privileged families among them. “In the past, there have always been deception as to people who come with such programmes like this. Normally they will gather the people but after collecting their names, they will disappear. They are hoping and believing that this is going to be a different exercise entirely.  “Some people have come in the past even wanted the people to bring money for registration. They were initially skeptical and wanted to be sure it was not a political exercise where they would entice them with promises and abandon them thereafter. So we have assured them that it would not be like what they have witnessed in the past,” Davou said. National Social Register National Co-ordinator, NASSCO, Mr Apera Iorwa said the meeting was essentially to sensitise the community on the need for them to get on board the National Social Register.  Iorwa explained that the exercise usually begins with the geographical mapping which identifies the local government in focus; the community targeting which starts with the community engagement and sensitization where NASSCO meets with the key stakeholders to let them know what they want to do for the community and seek their cooperation and the individual family mapping which identifies the actual persons that would be captured in the register. “In this community, we are gathered here with the Ward Head who has also called all his subjects together. For us, it’s a win-win situation because as we are talking to him, other members of the community are also listening. When we leave, it is expected that the community leaders and key stakeholders will the disseminate and cascade the information around what we are supposed to be doing with them to other members of the community.  “Once this phase is finished, we will come back for community engagement where we mobiluse the entire community as they are gathered here and separate them into three groups namely male, female and youths. They will define what poverty means to them in terms of the context of the community. They will identify amongst themselves which households are poor and vulnerable based on their understanding. “We will then call them back like this in a plenary and harmonize the list. Then the community will sign off on that list to affirm that the selection process was transparent and that these people are from this community and were selected by the community stakeholders to come on the social register,” he said.  The National Social Register has so far captured 3,031, 065 individuals drawn from 755, 112 households across 27 states in Nigeria. On the average, NASSCO has reached out to 264 communities in each local government area and 31 families per community have been identified as poor and vulnerable in these states. It costs an average of $300 to enumerate a household under the scheme. Iorwa explained that the Federal Government in collaboration with state governments, was building the social register to create a reliable database of poor and vulnerable families who can have access to social intervention schemes.  According to him, these social interventions include the government initiatives such as cash transfer, skills for job and public works. It could also come as assistance from philantropic organisations, donor agencies or intentIonal partners in areas such as nutrition, agriculture. The bottomline, he said , was that each of these initiatives must be targeted at the poor and vulnerable households in rural communities. “The man focus is to try and bring people out of poverty.  Now , you will argue that poverty is relative across the country and that is why this particular activity is important to us. The communities themselves would define what they understand by poverty within their environment.  We also argue that poverty being relative is different from one part of the country to another. What the typical Southerner will consider as poor might be a middle class in the North. “The communities own this process by defining what they understand by poverty and identifying the families they consider poor and vulnerable with the community that gets enrolled into the register,” he said. Global Poverty Map In June 2018, a report by Brookings Institution indicated that Nigeria had taken over from India as the nation with the highest number of extremely poor people.  According to the report, the number of Nigerians in extreme poverty increases by six people every minute. According to the report, as at the end of May 2018, there were indications that Nigeria had about 87 million people in extreme poverty, compared with India’s 73 million. What is more? While extreme poverty in Nigeria is growing by six people every minute, poverty in India continues to fall. “In fact, by the end of 2018 in Africa as a whole, there will probably be about 3.2 million more people living in extreme poverty than there is today.  “Africans account for about two-thirds of the world’s extreme poor and that If current trends persist, Africa will account for ninetenths by 2030.” “Fourteen out of 18 countries in the world— where the number of extreme poor is rising— are in Africa,” the report said.  Under this scenario, going out in search of poor and vulnerable people in Nigeria would certainly yield a handsome catch. The Challenge From the experience on the field at Dantau, it was evident that nearly every member of the community was poor and vulnerable. The absence of good roads, standard schools, health centres, pipe-borne water and other social amenities were clear indicators of the rural, backward and poverty-stricken status  of the community. At a glance, one could also read poverty and vulnerability on the faces the people and it would be a miracle if any one of them would honestly classify his or her household as being comfortable, rich or affluent. However, Iorwa said there was need for NASSCO to follow the due process of allowing the communities define who is poor and vulnerable in a given community.  He said that the National Social Register was not necessarily meant for cash transfer but a data base through which the people could access various social intervention programmes that could provide skills for the youths, boost local businesses and lift the people out of poverty. On the sustainability of the programme, he said that experiences globally had shown that social intervention programmes have a way of stimulating economic growth over time.   “When you give a family any amount of money, about 68 percent of it goes to consumption which entail buying foodstuffs like rice. If the family goes to the market to buy rice, the producer of the rice and the retailer gets revenue He pays tax to the local government and because there is more money on the community, there is more demand; the retailer will go back to the wholesaler and buy more rice. This increases the wholesalers market who will in turn demand of the manufacturer to produce more bags of rice.  “Initially the manufacturer had one employee producing five bags of rice but because of the demands from the community he will increase his production to twenty bags. He is going to employ three more people because with only one employee, he produced only five bags  “Within a space of two or three years where they have access to this cash, they will improve. Experiences in this country on a project ran in Zamfara and Jigawa states by Save the Children and Action Against Hunger has also brought out empirical evidence that showed that over time, these families were no longer reliant on borrowing from family members and other people.  They were solely depending on and were sustained by the cash that was coming into their small scale businesses. They have used that to open other business ventures that are bringing them twice as much income monthly. “So we don’t just give them the cash and leave them. We engage them for a period of six months with some skills building in savings scheme and other economic ventures that they can do locally.  We are also looking at piloting a set of livelihood programmes that will help these families graduate out of poverty. They will be taught some skills in any vocation of their choice that will gradually push them towards that area of investment and when eventually the cash transfer stops, the business ventures they have moved into would then take off. At the end of that cycle you are given a start off grant that now helps you establish the business firmly,” he said. Iorwa said that NASSCO has a plan to go back to the communities where they had intervened after every three years to update the National Social Register.  It is expected that by that time some of the families that were classified as poor and vulnerable would have exited the poverty cycle. In the same vein, others may have been driven down into poverty because of either man-made or natural shocks like flood disasters, communal crisis that may have wiped out their houses and investments.  He said that experiences of countries like Brazil which has operated cash transfer for over fifty years, has shown that the scheme has a great impact on lifting citizens out of poverty Iorwa also said that similar feats have been achieved in other countries such as United Kingdom, Pakistan, South Africa, Malawi, Uganda and Ethiopia. According to him, these experiences has given Nigeria the confidence that social protection is one of the most effective strategies of supporting poor and vulnerable families and lifting them out of poverty. One of the challenges identified on the tour was that Social Protection is relatively new in Nigeria and there is an apparent dearth of institutional framework and human capacity in the field But Iorwa was optimistic that by 2020, the necessary institutions for Social Protection Interventions would have been established and strengthened in a way that would ensure sustenance of the programme.  He said that the need to keep the programme rjnning for a long time was the reason government deliberately designed it to be more of a community based programme. He explained that from experience what you do with the community and investments you make in the communities stay with the people beyond the intervention period once the people take ownership of the programme