The governorship election petitions tribunal sitting in Kano, yesterday granted a plea by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) requesting access to Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) electoral materials in the gubernatorial election.  The gubernatorial candidate of the party, Abba Kabiru Yusuf, was challenging the declaration of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner of the March 23 supplementary election in Kano State. In an ex-parte motion filed before the tribunal, presided over by Justice Halima Shamaki yesterday, counsel to PDP candidate, Abba Maliki Umar Kuliya, had sought the order of the tribunal to direct the first respondent (INEC), to allow PDP access the materials used for the conduct of 9th and 23rd March, 2019 governorship election  . In her prayers, the PDP lawyer wanted the tribunal “to direct the 1st respondent to forthwith grant access to the petitioners/applicants and their solicitors, agents, experts and other staff to inspect, photocopy, scan, pay for and obtain certified copies of all the documents used by the 1st respondent for the conduct of the Kano State governorship election held on March 9, 2019 and March 23, 2019, for the purpose of instituting and maintaining an election petition; the said documents being the ones contained in the schedule attached to the supporting affidavit to this application.”  In her ruling, Justice Halima granted the PDP prayers, directing INEC to surrender photocopies, scan and other certified materials used during the conduct of Kano election. Governorship candidate of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) in Ogun State, Hon. Adekunle Akinlade, and his party, yesterday filed a motion ex-parte, seeking an order to compel the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to grant them access to inspect documents used for the March 9 gubernatorial election in the state.… In “News” The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja yesterday turned down the request of the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, for access to scan and conduct forensic audit on all the electoral materials, including technology used in the conduct of the February 23 election.… In “News” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)’s gubernatorial returning officer in Kano State, Prof. Balarabe Shehu, yesterday declared Governor Umar Abdullahi Ganduje of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the governorship election in the state. Ganduje scored 1,033,695 votes to defeat his closest challenger, Abba Kabir Yusuf of the Peoples… In “News”