Many roads in Nigeria are in a terrible state of disrepair. From one end of the country to another, it is the same story as there is practically no part that free from this malady. The issue is age-old; unfortunately governments across all levels have never made it a priority to deal decisively with this problem hence it persists. Bad roads are widespread; they are everywhere. Just a few examples, both within and across states, will serve to illustrate this terrible state. In Kaduna State, the Abuja- Kaduna Expressway continues to be a source of worry to users of this important expressway. The Nnamdi Azikiwe by-pass, Church Road / School Road, Kaduna South (Romi- Karatudu), Aliyu Makama Road, Barnawa, Sabo-Juji Road Sabon and Tasha, among others, are in various stages of disrepair. Oyo State also throws up its own fair share of the malady of deplorable roads. Some of these roads include Awotan to Akufo Road in the Iddo Local Government Area; Amuloko to Akanran Road in the Ona Ara Local Government Area; Taki to Oke Baby Road in Ogbomoso; Kisi to Igboho, Ogbooro to Igboho Roads in the Oke Ogun areas of the state as well as Ashipa to Sabo Market Road in Oyo Town. Dogon Karte, British American Junction Road, Bukuru Du Road, Jenta Adamu Road, Vom Manchok Road, Bauchi Road, 11 and 12 Avenue Federal Low Cost Road, Jos, New Abuja, Kangwang Dadi Kowa Road, all in Plateau State, also present varying degree of decay. In Edo State, the Textile Mill Road is a study in dilapidation. Once it rains the entire stretch of the road is flooded and the sight is better seen than imagined. The situation has been like that for many years and it is confounding that a solution has still not been found. Others are Uwelu Motor Spare Parts Road, Ekewan Road in Benin Metropolis. Port Harcourt Road in Aba, Urata Road, Obohia Road, Ngwa Road, Ohanku Road, Omuma Road and Aba-Ikot Ekpene Highway are just a few of the decrepit roads both within Abia State and leading outside of it. In Akwa Ibom, the Ikot Ekpene- Aba Highway, Itu-Calabar Highway (the latter is under construction) continues to make the lives of motorists who ply them a nightmare. Owerri- Mbaise- Umuahia Road, Okwu Uratta-Bishop Court Road, Tansi Road/ Works Layout Extension, Control Post-Last Roundabout, World Bank Street, John/ Burrow Pit Road, Area N, Worldbank, Area M Road by Holy Trinity Catholic Church, Worldbank, Site and Services Road, Worldbank, Umuguma Road, Nworie Road and Onumiri- Ofai Road, are some of the bad roads in Imo State. The list is by no means exhaustive. The terrible state of roads in the country is often exacerbated by rains. The heavy downpour of some weeks ago in Lagos, for instance, exposed the deplorable condition of roads in the state and underlines the need to do something urgently to fix them. The Agege Motor Road around Pen Cinema is in such terrible state and the thought of plying that road alone gives commuters and motorists a nightmare. The same thing applies to portions of the Badagry Expressway and many others across Lagos State. We enjoin the state government to quickly repair these roads. The government shouldn’t wait until the heavens open up more forcefully before repair work can be done. In some cases, what is needed is just to fill the potholes that are rapidly becoming craters. It goes without saying that the poor state of the roads leads to serious traffic jam that, in some cases, stretch for kilometres. This does not only make life difficult for commuters and motorists, it leads to huge loss of man hours. Again, the increasing loss of lives to auto accidents is also partly attributable to the poor state of roads. This is another compelling reason to quickly fix them. Undoubtedly, one reason why many of the roads are so terrible is the fact that the materials used in their construction are of low quality, hence they easily fail when the rain start to come down heavily. In this regard, we want to call on governments to always monitor road construction projects rigorously to ensure the highest standards are adhered to. There are several roads within the Lagos metropolis that are still very solid years after construction. The Igando/Ikotun Road is one example. The least that can be done is to ascertain why this particular road is still solid and has not succumbed to the problem of bad roads and replicate it everywhere. We also note that there is practically no effort devoted to maintenance of roads after their construction. Again, there is little or no provision of drainages. These are some of the reasons for their failing in just a few years after construction. The truth is that no road lasts forever, so effort must be made to not only periodically maintain them but to also engage in major repairs when the need arises. The agency charged with maintaining roads, the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FEMA), and its state equivalents are obviously not alive to their responsibility. What does the agency do in the face of the decrepit nature of roads across the country? We want to call on FEMA to shake off its slumber and justify its existence. We also note many of the contracts for road construction and rehabilitation are sometimes awarded based on political patronage. The effect is that such roads end up not been constructed and even when they are, are poorly done. There have been instances in the past where contractors neglected or refused to do the job for which they had received mobilisation funds. We insist that the provision of these critical infrastructures cannot be subjected to party politics and patronage.