In this encounter with JOHN CHIKEZIE, Joy Ukhuedeobah, an alumnus of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, shares her foray into the ‘noble’ profession  Background
My name is Joy Ukhuedeobah and I am from Uzebba in Owan West LGA of Edo State. I attended Ivbiotor Primary School and Itohan Girls Grammar School both in Benin City, Edo State.
I got admitted into Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma in 2010 and I studied law. Even though I registered for law with the intention of switching to Mass communication; which I never did I found myself loving the professAfter my LL.B, I was admitted into the Kano Campus of the Nigerian Law School where I obtained my BL and I was called to the Nigerian Bar in 2017. Career choice
Prior to 2010 when I finally got admitted, I had spent years attempting admission into four different schools to study mass communication. When I went to fill my JAMB form in 2010, for some weird reason, I couldn’t find mass communication or history and International studies on the choice of course column; so I opted to fill in Law and switch departments later on.
I decided to continue with Law because before my admission, I initially had the mindset that the suit wearing and sobriety of the profession wasn’t for me but later found other sides to the profession that I never knew. I discovered that being a lawyer wasn’t just about the “uniform” but that I had the key to many legal doors and the opportunity to help a lot of people and change my society. Even though studying mass communication still had its perks, I found the call of the legal profession stronger. Looking back now, I can’t help but conclude that I was meant to study Law. Challenges
Amidst all the challenges, the one that stands out as the most challenging (yet) was finding a way to circumvent an arbitration clause in an admiralty matter. Even though we are not yet settled on the way forward in that regard, I found it very challenging because while researching, it seemed impossible but finally I had to do more research than I had the patience for. I read more than I thought I could and spoke with people I barely knew. It was challenging but worth the while.
Skills
Before practice, I always considered myself a quiet/shy person and wondered how I could advocate because I know that advocacy is a very key area of legal practice. Surprisingly, since I started practice, it’s been a different story. I have been able to work on my advocacy and research skills even though not perfect yet. Pupilage
Well, my pupilage was at Stonewaters Law Office the only place I’ve interned or done any legal work. It was fun, stressful and above all, a key factor to my practice. My pupilage entails more of actual legal work, because my principal never spared any opportunity to expose me to the practice. I went through some rough patches but it was overall an amazing. Embarrassing or exhilarating moments
Mine would be when I was asked to attend a meeting with a client alone. Truth be told, I was scared and unsure how to act basically because I hadn’t done anything like that before. At the end of the day, I realized that I had it in me to handle situations like that without embarrassing the client. I was very pleased with the report of the client to my principal about my conduct at the meeting. It made me believe more in myself and the idea of consistency as a recipe for growth. My mentors
I take particularly to the legal spirit and sagacity of Femi Falana. This is because he is one of courage and never afraid to speak when things are not in conformity with the law. The Chief Judge of Lagos State, Hon. Justice Opeyemi Oke is another legal figure I admire, for her principle of change. I also admire her willingness to effect the much needed change in the Lagos State judiciary and process. Reforms in the Nigerian Law School and Law Faculties
As a law student just admitted into the Nigerian Law School, I was told and I believe others were told too in their campuses to remove everything I was taught in the university from my head/mind so as to be able to learn. But for many, it was a struggle realizing that a large chunk of what we learnt for five years didn’t really matter over there. Likewise when I left Law School, I realized that a lot of the things about core practice/procedure which I had been taught at the law School were really not the same with real life practice.
I had to start afresh in learning some practice and procedure, and that made things difficult.
It is my belief that the different stages of education are meant to be a seamless transition from one level of learning to a higher level and not a series of unconnected levels.
One reform that I would love to see at the Law School and at the different Faculties of Law in Nigeria is a seamless transition for aspirants to the Nigerian Bar. Consequently, I know that some of the confusions and struggles will be eradicated completely and students would not be caught in another reality when they are called to the Bar. Ambition
I would definitely pick a Professor. I love the law but I don’t see myself as a judge or a senior advocate. I would like to delve into other areas of legal practice that seem to be in the shadows of litigation and are usually unexplored by legal practitioners in Nigeria. 