The Chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Patrick Ezeagu, in this interview with Chris Ugwu speaks on critical issues in the stock market and the nation’s economy   What is your assessment of the economy since the beginning of the year?
The Nigerian economy since the beginning of the year has been a mixed bag of reactions; early in the year, it was positive but due to the elections, a degree of uncertainty was added into the system, and because of that, the indices began to wobble. You can see that the election has come and gone, so it was a mixed bag of fortunes and a mixed bag of uncertainties. Although the election has been concluded, the opponent of the wining candidates are going to court and investors, both local and foreign, equally have to be cautious about what they want to do. And there are a number of cases that are likely to end up in courts and as long as those cases are unsettled it will continue to introduce some degree of uncertainties around the economic space, and you know that uncertainty is one of the worst things that will happened to an investor when he is not sure exactly of what is going on; what kind of policy initiative is coming on board? Therefore, both local and foreign investors will continue to play cautiously in the market. Such things don’t augur well with the economy because it slows down the economy. We have agreed that statistically, we will grow by 1.9 per cent and projections of about 2.2 per cent for this year. But think about it, since the budget was sent to the National Assembly it has not been passed, they are still struggling with a few other issues in terms of petroleum products among others.
And what is happening in River State now is a source of concern. If care is not taken, the way they conclude the elections may throw up some restiveness, and this will create panic within the oil production circle, and if we are not able to meet the benchmark we used in formulation of the budget, there will be deficit.
Already, there is deficit and we are borrowing and people are complaining about the borrowing because we don’t know what it is used for. The propaganda about the projects they said they are handling, we cannot verify and say it is true. The level of unemployment is quiet high, and this is not good for the economy. Generally speaking, one cannot say we are out of the woods, even though they say technically we are out of recession. How will the current scenario impact on investments in the country?
For sure, uncertainty impacts negatively in any investment space. There are many critical infrastructures, which by now would have been considered as things of the past. Let’s take power as an example; we know that power is very critical to everything we want to do especially these days of technology when almost everything is driven by power. If we have constant power, that will accelerate business. Talk about the roads, traffic paralyses activities in a city like Lagos because of high level of inefficiency.
Honestly speaking, any foreign investor coming to Nigeria will be very wary because of all these uncertainties. And I believe that government is not being truthful to itself; they say a lot of things they don’t mean and mean a lot of things they don’t say and that’s not good enough for a nation that is striving to be one of the world leaders. People should be certain on how to relate with you on the variables surrounding your market space. These are things that will engender confidence in individuals or institutions to take investment decisions. In terms of foreign exchange, government has been struggling and has done quite well in terms of giving it stability, but one will ask is N360 the right exchange to a dollar? With the potential in Nigeria, I think that it is simply not acceptable. As chairman of ASHON, what are the challenges faced by stockbroking firms?
The stockbroking community is facing a lot of challenges, critical of which is lack of apparent support from government in the sense that there are many things government needs to do in order to catalyse the capital market. You see them carrying out what they call privatisation, and what do we see, people in government will hand over our common money to their friends or relatives to acquire these companies. The natural things that ought to have happened is that these companies, corporations or assets are supposed to have been sold through the capital market. When you sell it through the capital market you have a fair price, the due diligence of those who will buy would been assured, the discipline that is required to sustain and create value after the sale will be on ground and all Nigerians will be available to have a take, if they wish, in the asset. But they pigeon-hole them and sell to their friends. Take the DisCos for example, they are not achieving the desired results because those whom they sold the assets to don’t have capacities in terms of financial and technical know-how to be able to handle them. And so if today 50 megawats of electricity is generated, they can’t distribute them because they don’t have the capacity to do that. Capital market is a barometer for measuring an economy, it cannot exist in isolation, every policy statements that comes out from government has its impacton the capital market, and the capital market is not just about brokers, quoted companies are part of capital market, if anything happens to textile, petroleum, manufacturing, they will eventually aggregate to the market because it will now impact on the fortunes of the companies that trade in the market.
Then you talk about issue of purchasing power of individuals who are supposed to be investors in the capital market, the income they earn today does not even take them home, if someone does not have enough income to take care of recurrent expenditure he can’t be talking about savings and is only savings that is aggregated in the capital market and put for investment. So everything government has done that distorted the growth of the economy has direct impact on the capital market.
Besides that, look at when the market plunged into crisis between 2007 and 2009, what did they do? They were watching while peoples’ investment went down the drain. Yes, investment is a risk but beyond being a risk you have to equally ensure people do not lose so much money that they won’t think coming back to market. A lot of efforts would have been engaged to know how to win confidence back to the market. Since 2010 up to today because of the kind of things they suffered, the investment apathy has been sustained. Part of it is the issue of regulation; at the initial stage when the market had a boom I think some regulatory framework were not in place so that it can safeguard some investment, but more importantly, it is a fact that it was government behavior that resulted in capital flight, which necessitated that all the foreign investors had to leave en mass and that preceded the kind of crisis we had in the market. But a wiser government would have quickly put in place a special purpose vehicle so that they buy up the assets and hold it and gradually release it to the market when the economy stabilises. What should government have done differently?
During the meltdown, government did not take the issue seriously; they considered it a private sector matter, forgetting that the economy in itself is made up of private and public sectors and that each one depends on the other for survival. We expected government to have immediately understood the full implication of what was going to happen, set up a special purpose vehicle that would have stemmed that outflow. Because as the foreign investors were bailing out, the prices were moving and they were ready to sell at any price to bailout, so if we had a special purpose vehicle it would have taken up that portion of foreign investors and stabilise the price and gradually begin to release them at the end of the day. It is a possibility that the government would have made money out of it, but somehow, they abandoned the capital market to its own peril. They came eventually a bit late and when they came, it was more or less an undertaken and that was what brought about establishment of AMCON. AMCON was created to take the bad debts already accumulated and warehoused, but by that time full damage has been done in the market. What is the significance of the Approval-In-Principal for Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange (LCFE)?
The Approval-In-Principle means SEC believes that we are on course and we can start to set up for operations i.e. do those things erstwhile regulatory requirements hindered us from doing. We were given the window to prepare for final approval. This endorsement by SEC signifies that we are very close to the commencement of full operations. Is ASHON the soul promoter of LCFE, and how prepared are stockbrokers to fully trade in commodities and derivatives?
Yes, at the inception, ASHON as the promoter of the commodity exchange did a feasibility study, which has now become the roadmap for the project. In it, we have made provisions in conjunction with the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) to train all our members on the workings of the new commodity exchange. Indeed, we had done some initial training and others will follow soon before we fully roll out. Is ASHON considering holistic training for its members to build capacity for the take-off?
The training of our members is to be handled by our institute, which is CIS, as it is empowered by law to train professionals in capital market in Nigeria. The financial press is also a member of the capital market community and as partners we shall look into a collaborative effort to ensure that they are trained with support coming from some of our other partners. Stockbrokers are calling for the privatization of all moribund government enterprises through the capital market. What is your view on this?
Government should always patronise the capital market to make it more viable. Professionals in the sector should be involved in policy making to make this privatisation initiative a success. Consequently, and to ensure transparency, all future privatisation processes should be done through the capital market. ASHON is believed to have restructured its board. What informed this development and does it have to do with the birth of LCFE?
The restructuring of the Governing Council of ASHON is in keeping with the provisions of the constitution of the association. What happened was that we wanted to ensure that our secretariat is empowered to become more visible in the scheme of things. We changed the nomenclature of our principal officers to reflect world best practices What are the benefits of Mutual Funds Trading Platform recently launched by NSE?
There are so many advantages of trading in mutual funds, which the recently launched trading platform will bring to the fore. It is the simplest way to achieve a reduction in risk by way of diversification of one’s portfolio. Investors will enjoy the expertise of a professional fund manager without paying extra for the service. It affords them the opportunity to enjoy economies of scale, which is achieved by pooling other people’s funds to increase bargaining power. They have the opportunity of easy entry and exit, which this platform further provides. It also encourages the financial inclusion of the retail investors. How would you advise government to protect the stock market and the economy, knowing fully well that the market is very sensitive to uncertainties?
There are lots that government should do, basic of which is to provide the enabling environment, ensure economic stability and intervene where necessary. For instance, the case of contract stamp contention between NIPOST and FIRS, waiver of VAT for capital market transactions and granting incentives for companies quoted on the stock exchange. It should provide basic infrastructure like power to boost the economy, reintroduce margin trading, constitute the board of SEC, provide direct incentives to capital market, and review the effects of minimum tax on our members, etc.