Two policemen, three bandits and scores of others were killed at the weekend when gunmen invaded a wedding ceremony in Kaduna State. The incident occurred at Kakangi village in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The gunmen were also said to have set some houses ablaze in the village, leaving the villagers in disarray before the intervention of the police. The police said two policemen and three bandits died when the police engaged the gunmen in a shootout. The Chairman of the Birnin-Gwari Vanguard for Security and Good Governance, Ibrahim Abubakar Nagwari, in a statement, explained that the bandits stormed Kakangi village, south-west of Birnin-Gwari, shooting, killing and burning houses. He said: “The bandits stormed Kakangi about 5p.m. on a motorcycle, shooting sporadically at the police station before moving from house to house, attacking and torching houses. “An escapee, who right now is at Gagumi about 20 kilometres from Kakangi, said they were sitting in front of the police station when the bandits started shooting. He said that he jumped over the fence to escape. “Several sources close to the area said that many people were feared dead, including high profile indigenes of Kakangi, who were attending a mass wedding. Many communities, particularly on Birnin-Gwari-Funtua Road had now deserted their homes and took refuge in Birnin- Gwari and elsewhere.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Yakubu Sabo, confirmed the incident yesterday. He said: “We received a distress call through the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Randagi, on April 6, about 7p.m., that armed men, in large number, entered Kakangi village in Birnin-Gwari Local Government Area, a neighbouring community to Niger State, shooting sporadically and then attacked the villagers. “The combined teams of Police Mobile Force (PMF) personnel, conventional police and vigilantes, who were quickly mobilised to the village, engaged the bandits in a fierce gun duel and successfully repelled the bandits. “Our gallant men gunned down three of the bandits and several others escaped into the bush with bullet wounds. However, two of our men paid the supreme price during the battle. Inspector Aliyu Mohammed and Sergeant Rabiu Abubakar, both attached to Randagi Division, while Sergeant Ibrahim Nasir along with six civilians were injured and are now receiving treatment at the General Hospital Birnin-Gwari. The attackers also torched some houses in the village.” According to Sabo, the command has mobilised more reinforcement to the area with a view to apprehend the perpetrators and bring them to justice. He noted that the Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdurrahman, has condemned the attack and assured members of the public that the command would fish out the culprits. Sabo, however, appealed to the good citizens of the state to support the police with prompt and relevant information that could help in getting rid of the bandits in the state. He said: “The commissioner of police prayed for the repose of the souls of the gallant officers who lost their lives in the operation and quick recovery of the injured persons.”