…explains why Leah remains with B’Haram  President Muhammadu Buhari has disclosed that the Federal Government is intensifying measures to secure the release of the remaining Chibok girls kidnapped by members of the Boko Haram sect in Borno State five years ago. Members of the sect on the night of April 14 – 15, 2014 kidnapped 276 female students from the Government Secondary School in the town of Chibok. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu in a statement on Saturday to mark the anniversary of the abduction said the government has succeeded in securing the release of 107 of the girls.  He said President Buhari and his government will not rest until the remaining girls are also release by the sect. “President Buhari would like to remind the parents of the school girls of Government Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State that he has still not forgotten their daughters who were kidnapped from their dormitory five years ago (April 14, 2014). “He promised the parents when he met them, at the beginning of his first term as president, that he would bring their daughters home.  “He is aware that this promise he made is the main reason the people of Chibok voted overwhelmingly for him in the February elections, and although his government has so far succeeded in bringing back 107 of the girls, the President will not rest until the remaining are reunited with their families,” the statement added. The President assured the parents that his administration is still on the matter.  “Diverse efforts are being intensified to secure the release of the Chibok Girls, along with all hostages in Boko Haram captivity, including Leah Sharibu, who was kidnapped from her school, Science Secondary School, Dapchi, Yobe State, on February 19, 2018.” On the situation of Leah’s abduction, the President said the interlocutors have reported encouraging progress so far.  “The report reaching us says her return to her family has unfortunately been hindered by the fear of the militants. “They worry that heavy military presence in areas where they previously moved about freely could affect their safety after they return her to the government.  “Leah Sharibu will be reunited with her family as soon as any conclusions are reached on a number of options being considered for her safe transportation. “The success of the Nigerian military in subduing Boko Haram is evidenced by the large numbers of militants who have surrendered recently, especially in neighbouring Cameroon and Niger.   “A similar mass surrender of militants is expected to happen soon in Nigeria. “While Nigerian military operations are on-going, the government is also engaging with the militants but the talks have been affected by the fractionalisation of Boko Haram – with one group adopting a hard line attitude and intensifying attacks on Nigeria, Cameroon and Chad, and another group engaging with the government for peaceful resolution. “He sends special greetings to the 106 girls sponsored by the Nigerian government to continue their studies at the American University of Nigeria, Yola.  “He encourages them to stay focused on becoming women who will inspire girls in Nigeria and around the world to triumph over the daily battles they face in a world that is often unfair to the girl-child. “President Buhari also extends his best wishes to Chibok girls in other schools in Nigeria and around the world.  “The President sent special congratulations to Kauna Yaga Bitrus, who has excelled beyond expectations in her college in Maine, USA, and who is soon to receive a special ‘Against All Odds Award’ from her school,” the statement said.