 Following reports of Nigeria’s agric sector losing about $10 billion yearly to post-harvest losses and also about 50 per cent of foods produced to same problem, an agri-tech solution provider, Farmgate Africa, is set to tackle the problem and other key challenges in agriculture.
The company said that challenges such as lack of access to funds, post-harvest losses and market access facing farmers in Nigeria and beyond were being addressed to ensure that farmers improve their income by at least 30 per cent in agro business.
This, according to the company, will bring succour to the continent’s agriculture in a bid to ensure that farmers in Nigeria and beyond realise full harvest.
The co-Founder/ Managing Director of Farmgate Africa, Kenneth Obiajulu, in a chat with New Telegraph during the launch of Farmgate Africa in Lagos, said that they were poised to bridge the gap between rural farmers and the market place by providing major processors and international buyers the opportunity to purchase commodities directly from local farming clusters through technology.
Obiajulu explained that from the market access point, farmers would have the capacity to produce millions of metric tons of agro commodities, but they can’t sell them directly to major processors or international buyers without parting with huge margins to middlemen.
He said: “Our business model is one that brings the farmers closer to the processors and take-off by eliminating several layers of intermediaries. By doing this, Farmgate optimises market access to African farmers and also improves their income by at least 30 per cent.”
The Farmgate boss said the company would focus on identifying major processors and international buyers to uptake certain agro-commodities, including identifying the production clusters and building relationships with local farmers in those areas.
According to him, the modus operandi is getting more processors to place orders via the platform in order to boost their agricultural demands.
“It will aggregate commodities from smaller-holder farmers while paying attention to the unique specification of the buyers. Delivery of the agro-commodities to the major processors or the international buyer’s agent will be our priority in this marketplace,” he added.
Also speaking, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Farmcrowdy Group, the parent company of Farmgate, Onyeka Akumah, expressed confidence in the critical role Farmgate is set to play to help suffering farmers and other stakeholders through technology.
He said: “Launching Farmgate Africa as one of the subsidiaries in the Farmcrowdy Group gives us huge joy with the expectations placed on us to continue to innovate and build new solutions driven by technology to finance agriculture.
“We have received a lot of feedbacks from farmers and major agro buyers who need to fund market access to agro-commodities but are constantly held back because the market place is unstructured. Farm gate is our response to this need.
“As we launch Farmgate Africa today, we have tirelessly worked for the past six months with the team to build relationships with blue-chip companies in and outside Nigeria, extend our relationships with thousands of games networks across the country and now, we are set to launch to the market with a strong team behind the idea.”