Dr. Eddy Olafeso is the National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) South-West. He speaks on his party’s performance in the 2019 general elections and intrigues over the leadership of the 9th National Assembly, among other issues. ADEWALE AJAYI reports  What do you make of the resignation of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnogen, after several months of trial at the Code of Conduct Tribunal?  It is tragic that we no longer have a sane nation. We have a nation divided against itself. If you would recollect, it was during the period Prof. Yemi Osinbajo was acting president that Justice Onnogen was confirmed. Like every appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari had to be from the North, otherwise it cannot stand or work. It is a sad scenario and very unfortunate. It is all about the destruction and the plundering of the institutions that can actually make Nigeria a great nation. It is a continuation of our downward fall. Onnogen is just part of the very complicated situation Nigerians have been dealing with under this government. It is rather unfortunate that this kind of thing happened.  What impression do you have about the recent general elections, vis-a vis your party’s performance?  We thank Nigerians for in ensuring that the PDP was not declared dead in line with the prediction of the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole. We rose to the challenges of defending our position with the electorate. We did everything to convince them that we are far better than the APC. If you look at the destruction from 2015 to now; in 2015 you had less than 1.5 million people as internally displaced; now we have over five million people in IDPs camps. We have over 20 million people displaced in North-East. The insurgency had moved from North- East to four other zones of the country. The economy has been plundered, there is no hope for the common Nigerian and everything is upside down. That is exactly what the Nigerian people voted against.  You can see the number of states controlled by the PDP has increased. As at today, it is 16 states and we still hope to get more states. People are voting the PDP to run away from the draconian administration of the APC, and the hopelessness in the environment in the last four years. It is not a surprise to me that we did very well because it is obvious that the nation can no longer take another four years of the APC. The election was rigged, we are at the tribunal over the presidential election, and we are very  hopeful we will secure victory. If you look at the election, the reality of pattern of voting is coming out now. You can see that we have more states now and democracy is really entrenching itself. The next step, as I hope, is the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The electoral body did not prepare adequately for the complex assignment it had at hand.  But we should not blame INEC alone, the political class should share in the blame and that exactly is what we must watch out for in the next election. The APC government wanted to command INEC like part of its department. The party is part of the reason we had the unfortunate scenario of some elections not being concluded a month after the general polls. The governorship election took place on March 9, but that of Rivers State was just completed some days ago. How do you justify that under a democracy? How come election period is now like a war; that people have to die. It is rather unfortunate that we lost so many lives in the process of electing people, who want to lead. Nigerians have gone through pain and misery and poverty in the last three and a half years, now the position of the leaders have to be filled just to go through votes, it is really unfortunate. I think by time we write the story about 2019, we have so many things to put down concerning the feeling of that moment, and we all have a blame to share, not only INEC alone, the political class, political parties, even Nigerians, those who did not raise the alarm, when they saw things going wrong or those who kept silent in the face of tyranny.  We all have ourselves to blame. It is unfortunate that Nigeria is not going the way it should be going, we are not where we are supposed to be, we are not actually creating a foundation for a new beginning for our nation. There way things are at the moment, nobody knows what will happen in the future. Insecurity is rising, no jobs, the economy is going down, we are rated as one of the poorest nations in the world and we have been tagged as poverty capital of the world. That shouldn’t be our portion by the virtue of the gift of God to this great nation called Nigeria. That was one of the reasons we insisted on restructuring Nigeria, maybe we can bring back the energy of the 60’s to bear upon our productive energy and lead Nigeria to the destiny of our growth.  Against expectation, your party made an inroad into the South- West, how do you feel about that? It is a reflection of the energy and hard work we put on our job. We said it to all of you at the beginning that we are ready to work, and we are ready to take the pain that is associated with working hard, to convince the people that the government in power is bad for them. The Bola Tinubu dynasty has been punctured. At the eve of the presidential election, the man drove two bullion vans into his premises in Lagos and nobody raise an eye brow. The security agencies all went to sleep. We know that his rule over the South-West is over because we will stop at nothing to ensure that we root him and his followers out of the zone, which is the most sophisticated in terms of education advancement and also the economic nerve of the nation.  Unless we take the South-West away from these people, there can’t be any meaningful development. We have done well, we have to thank the people of the geopolitical zone, we need to thank the people of Oyo, Ogun, Osun and Ondo and all those committed themselves to the struggle. Unfortunately, in some of our states, we still need to work on some of our leaders to be united, so that in the nearest future, we will be able to take the largest percent in the South-West. Hope is rising in the South-West and the PDP is doing very well in the zone. All we need is more energy to ensure that we convince our people and give them hope of a better tomorrow  The National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, initially said that the party does not need the support of PDP senators to elect the principal officers at the 9th National Assembly, but reports has it that the party has started soliciting the support of PDP senators and encouraging them to support Ahmed Lawan as the Senate president. What is your take on that?  Oshiomhole by virtue of his background is more of a cancer to APC than somebody who will look for solution. He is very undemocratic. The man has no clue whatsoever about democratic process, he opens his mouth wide only to later regret his utterances. I have never taken him seriously, even the eight years he spent in Edo State as the governor of the state was a complete disaster for his people. But, because he is in the ruling party, they are still covering him up on the corruption charges against him. He is a tragic persona in this country as far as democratic development is concerned. He is one of the worst mistakes ever made by APC.  Any way you can understand, is APC even a political party? If APC was really a political party, how can Oshiomhole be its national chairman? Its days are numbered alongside with Oshiomhole and his cronies. What business does the executive and the party leaders has to do with the National Assembly. The legislature is another arm of government, the executive has nothing to do with it and I want to seize this opportunity to appeal to members of the National Assembly to make sure that they do the needful by selecting leaders, who can actually serve the nation at this particular point in time.  One thing I can assure you is that, Lawan or whatever his name is, is not a considered material for such a lofty position of the president of the Senate. Oshiomhole, Lawan and Buhari cannot hold the nation to ransom. We will free ourselves; this is a land of freedom and of great men who fought and to keep it together. We are not going to allow their labour to be in vain by allowing reckless characters to continue to dominate our public life.  What is your party doing about the crisis rocking the Lagos State chapter of the PDP? I mean the faceoff between your governorship candidate, Jimi Agbaje and leaders of the party in the state as well as the fight over who controls the state executive between Segun Adewale and Adegbola Dominic?  Segun Adewale is not a member of our party. On the blame game between Agbaje and leaders of the party, that is always a true tale of defeat, but we are stepping into it and we will make sure that everybody come together because the party is bigger and more authoritative than any individual. We have called and cautioned everybody and I know that we will sit at the table and resolve our differences. On Adewale’s issue, how can an individual, even if he is a raving mad man just wake up one morning and say he is the state chairman of the party.  The reasons advanced over why the PDP lost election in 2015 were given as arrogance on the part of PDP members, disconnection from the people and indiscipline on the part of party members. Will you say that your party has addressed these lapses?  All what you said about us are correct, but we have addressed them. If we did not address them, we wouldn’t have done better in the last general elections. We have eliminated this idea of victors sharing all the positions and public office being for the highest bidder, internal democracy has improved, things are been done right and in the open. We have apologised to Nigerians, so we have called to order some of our leaders and some of them have even retired. Before God and man we made it abundantly clear to anybody who wants to run for any office that the wish of the people must prevail.  That was the decision of National Working Committee (NWC) of which I am a member. That is what we are doing differently from the APC. You could see that all our primaries were different from their own, they just sat in the office and wrote results, they just wrote names and submitted and say those were their candidates, that was why many factions submitted candidates’ and in the end none was accepted by INEC. I am not saying we don’t have our own problems, we had problems in Ogun and Lagos states, but I am sincere and honest enough to know that those are problems .  I had to resolve them; I had to bring everybody to the table to resolve them. Like I have been tough on Adewale of Lagos State, who decided to open his mouth wide and vomiting insanity; that is what the party has to do discipline, internal democracy, good leadership, commitment to goal and ensuring that when you go wrong you have to apologize. How many times have you seen APC apologising to Nigerians for insecurity, for lack of infrastructural development, for not ruling well, except abusing everybody and blaming everything on the PDP.  For us, the future is bright and we will get back our stolen presidential mandate. Mark my word, by the time the presidential election litigation is declared in favour of Abubakar Atiku at the tribunal, the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court, you will come back and interview me. You will see that these people just sold a dummy to the Nigerian people.