 The Lagos State Police Command said two suspects have been arrested over the death of Dr. Stephen Urueye, a graduate of the University of Lagos and House Officer at Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). Urueye, who along with his mates graduated from UNILAG as part of the convocation ceremony held on Wednesday, was stabbed to death 24 hours later. When the report of the unfortunate incident got to them, students and some of Urueye’s doctor colleagues from LUTH staged a protest in front of LUTH gate at the Idi-Araba area of Lagos. According to the police, Urueye was stabbed during an armed robbery attack on Thursday night. Speaking to Saturday Telegraph when contacted, Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, confirmed the arrest of two suspects regarding the incident. He said: “Yes we have two suspects undergoing interrogation in the unfortunate killing of the late doctor.” Speaking further, he said the case was not one of premeditated murder but armed robbery. He said: “Those who attacked him are robbers, they collected handsets from him at the lagoon side. He left the school with his female friend, they were walking but it was when they got to the lagoon side that the hoodlums attacked, collected their handsets and they stabbed him, leading to his death.” Other sources said although he was rushed to the emergency wing of LUTH that night, he did not survive despite the frenetic efforts of medical personnel who attended to him. He was pronounced dead in the early hours yesterday. Meanwhile, #Justicefor- Stephen took over Nigerian Twitter on Friday, with many demanding justice while lamenting that hoodlums have turned Idi Araba a den of violence crimes and other social vices. @OjuokoIsaac, reacting, wrote: “I pray for comfort for his family, they lost a son. I pray for comfort for his close friends, they lost a friend. I pray for comfort for LUTH, they lost a Doctor. I pray 4 comfort for the nation, they lost a world changer. RIP DR STEPHEN You are in a better place #JusticeForStephen.” Also weighing in along with a video of the protest, @dna_xo wrote: “The protest is on, Students and Doctors from Luth are raising their voice demanding #JusticeforStephen, a Luth graduate and house officer who was killed yesterday in front of LUTH.” @Dr Zobo, who also posted pictures of the protest, wrote: “A hospital in an environment of high crime rate. Yet the govt has done nothing to tighten security Now in one night a young promising Dr, only son, who just convocated on Wednesday, stabbed to death by 9pm AT LUTH