Delectable actress, Uche Ogbodo, may have walked through an unpleasant past, the single mother of one had demonstrated beyond doubts that yesterday will never determine her fulfillment and joy. In this interview with LANRE ODUKOYA, she recounts the circumstance of her daughter’s birth, failed romance with her ex-lover, Arthur Apo, while also counting her many blessings.  You’ve seriously worked on your body shape, what led to this? criticism?
No, not really. I don’t care about people who body shame actually. It’s one of the things that happened in my life years back that made me take on this step to make myself a better and happier person.
I had a baby and she is 4 years old. Before the baby, I had issues with my Ex. These are life changing events, happening at the same time. So, I told myself, that if I want to do what I want to do, I have to lose some weight. Baby weight and all. I had to reorient myself. Bottom line is that I am happier. Were you almost giving up on yourself at any point?
No, I never. The minute I went to the gym, I knew the result I was looking out for. I didn’t think back. Each time I looked in the mirror, I saw a more beautiful version of myself. I’m happy, I never gave up. I started a movement ‘Body Postive with Uche Ogbodo’ which is to inspire women to work on themselves. I noticed that some women go through a lot and seeing the changes in their bodies, sometimes get them depressed, some even contemplate suicide. So, I know they need a push to look better and become happier, I became that push for women. Nobody gave me that push before I hit the gym, but I want to inspire other women to find themselves, that’s how I want to give back to the society.
I want to help women see how beautiful they are. Nobody is ugly. About your former lover, what actually happened?
It’s part of life I don’t want go back to because whatever happened in my other life happened for the best. God has a reason for it to happen. I’m happy, that’s all that matters. So you don’t think you made a mistake?
I am happy, it didn’t work. I’m not an advocate for people staying in a relationship where they are not happy. If you are not happy, go away. It is not a do-or-die affair. You don’t have to die in marriage. If it is no longer convenient for you, walk away. Don’t care what people are going to say, just move on. It’s your life. There are other means of happiness lined up somewhere. So, move on. But you believed in him before marriage?
No. I didn’t marry him. I have never been married, but the media took me as a married woman. I was never married. I was in a relationship with someone and it lasted about a year and we broke up. We were engaged to be married. But the minute we said that, everything just dissolved. So, when he left the picture, about a month after, I found out that I was pregnant. I didn’t want to tell anybody about it, I just wanted to think about my life. Should I go back to him because of this pregnancy? Or should I just move on? It took me about nine months to realise that I don’t want that kind of man in my life. He would drag me back. How involved is he with raising his daughter now?
Well, he hasn’t been involved because initially, he said, “this girl is not pregnant she wants to get me”. Until, I went to America to have my baby. He wasn’t interested. I wasn’t interested in saying anything to him. Over the years, I’ve been able to take care of my child alone. I don’t mind. It’s been great. What would you say is the major reason Nollywood actresses hardly last in romantic affairs and marriages?
I don’t think relationship is hard for any Nollywood person to take. I want to believe that we are blessed people. Nollywood exposes you to better opportunity and takes you to greater heights. It gives you exposure that being a businessman or banker won’t give you, so whatever you do, all eyes are on you. And sometimes you are entangled with people that understand you or your job, they expect you to be a super woman. You meet people who don’t complement you. It happens everywhere though, not just to entertainers. What have been the challenges of single mother?
It has been tough. I never believed I would be a single mother in my life, but I’m a Catholic girl. We preach against abortion and all. Then, when you have a covenant with God that you are going to be a mother and a good wife, that I don’t ever want to break up with my husband when I get married, but things changed. I thought about marrying the father of my child, but the relationship didn’t work. It is unfortunate. This child came as a blessing, maybe God wants me to have this child to teach me a lesson. My parents told me, that I am not married that I should move on with my life, but I was like I think there’s a reason for this child growing in me. I didn’t get pregnant while in other relationships, so why this one? Why now? There’s a reason for this child and I’m keeping her. That’s why I kept her. It hasn’t been easy. So, are there fresh plans for marriage?
I’m still positive. I still want to get married. I’m a Catholic girl. I want to be in a relationship where I would be happy, where I would be allowed to live the way I want to. I want to be happy. So, if you want to make me happy, then come on. So there’s no one in your life at the moment?
There is actually. But just relationship. We haven’t defined it yet. Professionally, is anything in the offing?
I had a job in the cinema about two years ago. It was premiered in London, Switzerland, and Spain. Now I’m doing more jobs for myself. I am now more into producing my own movies.