Innoson Nigeria Ltd. has denied the claim by Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) that the recent court judgement obtained by the motor company was against the Nigerian Customs Service, not the bank. Following reports in some sections of the media last Friday that Innoson Nigeria Ltd. had started enforcing a court judgement it obtained against GTB by sealing off some branches of the Tier 1 lender in Anambra State, Company Secretary of GTB, Erhi Obebeduo, had issued a statement debunking the reports. The bank had claimed that: “The judgement allegedly in issue is in respect of Garnishee Proceedings against the account of the Nigerian Customs Service Board domiciled with the Bank and not against the Bank as an entity.” However, in a press release signed by Head of Corporate Communications at Innoson Group, Cornel Osigwe, the motor firm described the GTB statement as “nothing short of being economical with the truth.” Innoson said: “The Garnishee order absolute issued by the Federal High Court Ibadan, in Suit No: FHC/L/ CS/603/2006 ordered GTB to pay Innoson Nigeria Ltd. the judgement sum of N2.4 billion with a 22% interest, per annum, on the judgement sum until the final liquidation of the judgement. “GTB appealed the Federal High Court’s decision up to the Supreme Court and lost. From the Supreme Court’s decision, you will find that the case was between GTB and Innoson Nigeria Ltd and no other person.” Continuing, it stated: “For emphasis, in a garnishee proceeding, once an order of garnishee nisi is made, the garnishee is required by law to set the amount involved aside and will not allow the judgement debtor to withdraw from it; and if the order is made absolute, the garnishee pays the money to the judgement creditor and incurs no liability for doing that, but if the order is not made absolute, the garnishee returns the money to the judgement debtor. “In this case, the order was made absolute since 29th July, 2011 and GTB held unto the money from that time and is using it for its business. It follows that by the time the order was made absolute, it was no more the judgement debtor’s money, but rather that of Innoson Nigeria Ltd., who is the judgement creditor. If a garnishee refuses to comply with the order, then, it becomes a judgement debtor, as GTB has become in the present case, against whom execution of the order will issue. Therefore, there is no merit or force in the GTB’s press statement.” It further argued that: “The garnishee order ab-solute was against GTB and no one else; and it is only GTB and no one else that will comply with the order; in the circumstance, the order will be executed against GTB and no one else.”