Integration of various technologies into one unit, otherwise known as ICT convergence, is an inevitable phenomenon. While this is already happening, stakeholders have called for a rejig of regulations in the sector to meet this reality. SAMSON AKINTARO reports   A few years back, analysts in the country’s Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector often referred to convergence as the future of the industry. Convergence refers to the integration or merging of previously separated services in telecommunications/telephony, media/broadcasting and internet technologies into a single technological unit.  But today, the future is here. The gap between television and mobile phone is gradually closing. In the same vein, it is becoming difficult to separate broadcasting from telecommunications and several other components of technology.  Today, with the availability of broadband—though not widespread yet in Nigeria—some people no longer subscribe for cable TV, as they would rather watch their favourite movies on the internet using their mobile or laptop. This new phenomenon is, however, raising question of regulation. With the different services converging, stakeholders are calling for converged and efficient regulations as well. This was the crux of discussions at the 10th West African Convergence Conference held in Lagos recently. The event organised by KnowHow Media Limited brought together decision makers in government and the private sector, entrepreneurs, professionals, investors and the market drivers to chart new courses for development in a converged IT world. Industry stakeholders, who gathered at the conference, unanimously agreed that ICT convergence had become inevitable. They noted that several services that were hitherto seen as very different and unrelated were becoming more closely integrated and unified as technology advances. According to them, technological borders between telecommunications, IT and broadcasting are blurring at a very fast pace. Speaking on the theme of the Conference: ‘Regulations Disruptions Employability Entrepreneurship and Convergence Broadband and Broad Plan,’ the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof Umar Danbatta, noted that the convergence of IT, telecom and media had come of age with new opportunities and threats being thrown up. Danbatta, who was represented by Head, Wireless Networks at NCC, Engr. Anthony Ikemefuna, added that existing industries were being disrupted, while new industries are being created and new competencies and skill-sets required.  “The increasing convergence of the ICT and media industries is a trend that we’ll be watching as it has tremendous implications for the types of services that will be delivered, the ability to connect to new audiences, and even the types of networks built to power the new data-intensive customer demands,” he said. Also speaking, Head, Lagos Regional Business office of Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT) Ibiye Ukoko, said with convergence, voice and data services were merging to belong to a single data stream, adding that a single device like mobile phones can handle calls, instant messages, stream television, photography Email etc. “Some services are becoming obsolete with convergence however a lot of other opportunities are open to those that can innovate in developing new applications,” she said. In the same vein, the Founder, Ausso Leadership Academy (ALA) Mr Austin Okere, in his keynote presentation at the event, noted that the future of work would be driven by technology. According to him, a lot of young people now prefer to be entrepreneurs because of technology enablement. He added that convergence would also change the face of work environment as many would be working from home in silos as opposed to relating and meeting with their co-workers every day.  Efficient regulations The EVC declared that convergence would be difficult to achieve without effective regulation. “Regulations represent a powerful instrument to promote efficiency but their impact depends on good implementation and effective compliance. NCC has over 12 enforceable regulations for the telecommunication industry and more are being developed to cater for emerging technologies in the sector,” he said.  In his presentation, the Chairman, Qitech Technologies, Dr Sola Afolabi, said Nigeria’s education system and curricula must be tweaked to reflect the realities of convergence. According to him, while the role of the academia is to produce goods and services (workers and ideas), their products must meet the need of the industry which is now becoming converged.  Broadband and convergence  With special attention on broadband as the next frontier for Nigeria’s ICT development, participants at the event described fast speed internet as the driver of convergence. They said government and all stakeholders must now see broadband as a right for all citizens and not just service. In that regard, NCC’s EVC disclosed that at the end of February 2019, broadband penetration in Nigeria stood at 33.34 per cent, adding that the country is now witnessing steady increase as operators are deploying 4G networks.  On her part, the NIGCOMSAT official said it the company had been a partner in the National Broadband Plan and as such, one of the priorities of the NigComSat-1R satellite is to provide high speed internet across urban and rural areas, thereby increasing internet penetration.  She added that the satellite also provides broadband internet for people who live too far from other infrastructure.  “NIGCOMSAT has deployed its cheaper Ka-VSAT internet service throughout the country to improve penetration rate in accordance with the National Broadband Plan,” she said.  For CEO of Backbone Connectivity Network (BCN), Ibrahim Dikko and Managing Director of Rack Centre, Tunde Coker, supporting the data ecosystem that exist in the country would be dependent on how much of broadband the Nigerian environment can offer. They added that convergence of technologies and services was imperative on the availability of broadband and right regulations to foster and not impede growth.  The President of Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria, Olusola Teniola, tasked all stakeholders on the need for collaboration among government and private sector players if the new timeline of 70 per cent broadband penetration by 2024 must be met.  He agreed with Dikko and Coker that ‘broadband should be a privilege right’ since broadband is the key vehicle to drive all sorts of growth including converged technologies and services in the 21st century.  Regulatory convergence  Long before now, stakeholders had called for a merger between two key agencies of government, NCC and National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and possibly the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) and the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST).  According to the stakeholders, the world is increasingly experiencing a convergence of technologies, where the lines between telecoms and broadcasting regulations are becoming thinner by the day and where regulatory merger has become expedient for efficient resources management for accelerated economic growth.  A former President of the ATCON, Lanre Ajayi, who is a strong advocate of convergence, said: “Today, the reality is that technologies are converging and the industry has also recommended the merger of NCC and NBC so as to ensure efficient utilisation of spectrum and other resources. This is one reality we cannot run away from.”  He, however, said that broadband development remained key to driving convergence by getting policy and actions right to attract private sector investment in broadband infrastructure.  Last line  The inevitability of convergence is no longer in doubt as lines between telecoms and broadcasting regulations are becoming thinner by the day. With that, regulatory merger has become expedient for efficient resources management for accelerated economic growth.