 Nigerian-born Israel Adesanya will in some few hours take a shot at the middleweight title when he steps into the ring to confront Kelvin Gastelum in a Ultimate Fighting Challenge 236 match in Atlanta, USA.
Adesanya became an overnight sensation after defeating Anderson Silva on February 10, 2019 via a unanimous decision at UFC 234.
The ovation that greeted Adesanya’s exploit after his win over the Brazilian legend had hardly died down when another Nigerian Usman Kamaru also hugged the global headlines by becoming the first African to emerge UFC champion following his triumph over title holder Tyron Woodley in March in the USA.
While UFC is still gaining popularity among sports fans across the world, the exploits of the two Nigerians are expected to be the bedrock of Nigeria’s success in the sport which is a combination of boxing, wrestling and martial arts.
Usman, 31, who migrated to the US at an early age from Auchi, Edo State, in South South Nigeria, always stated that he was born to fight.
“If Tyron Woodley doesn’t bring his A-game, it’s going to be a short night,” Usman had said about the American who has been welterweight champion since 2016.
Usman has been involved in a few other combat sports and he is of the view that the UFC presents the perfect arena to showcase his talent for a sport he joined at elite level in 2015, an opportunity he grabbed with alacrity.
Since joining the UFC, Usman has slowly worked his way up the ranks from rookie to title challenger in the space of just a few years.
To highlight his meteoric rise, in 2010, he won a national title while in college at the University of Nebraska at Kearney. He hasn’t looked back since and now has a record 14 wins and just one loss in his mixed martial arts career, also known as MMA.
Nicknamed the ‘Nigerian Nightmare,’ Usman is one of around five Africans in the UFC.
The effect made by Usman in the sport is huge such that Dana White, president of the UFC, said in a recent interview: “I was impressed. I’m telling you, I want to see him fight Woodley now. I want to see the Woodley fight. That’s what I want,” he said of the Nigerian.
Usman is a former NCAA Division II wrestler and broke into the UFC in 2015 on its long-running competition reality show.
He won his first eight UFC bouts and battered ex-champ Rafael Dos Anjos last November to earn his shot at Woodley’s belt.
Can’t nobody handle me,” Usman said. “I’ve been wanting this fight, and I’ll be honest, I might not be the best striker in the world. I might not be the best wrestler in the world. But when it comes to mixing this (stuff) up, I’m the best in the world right now.
For 30-year-old Lagos-born Adesanya, a background that includes kickboxing and taekwondo has helped him achieve so much in the sport. In 2010 at age 21, he relocated to Auckland, New Zealand, and began training at City Kickboxing with other established fighters such as Kai Kara-France and Dan Hooker.
A martial art-mixed career saw adesanya take his fighting skills to Hong Kong, Australia and China, and over a five-and-a-half years, he amassed a record of 11-0 with all wins coming via KO/TKO prior to being signed by the UFC just in December 2017.
His debut fight was a blast as he defeated Rob Wilkinson via a TKO on February 2018, at UFC 221 which deservedly earned him the Performance of the Night bonus.
Barely two months after he faced and subdued the challenge of Marvin Vettori at UFC via split decision.
Brad Traves and Derek Brunson were to be added into the list, the latter was pummeled to submission via a first-round TKO before his high-profile win over Silva, his mentor.
Ahead of his fight with Gastelum, Adesanya said he could “smell the fear” on previous opponent Derek Brunson.
“Kelvin’s not scared; he’s dangerous,” Adesanya told reporters, including MMA Junkie, after an open workout on Wednesday ahead of their UFC 236 interim middleweight title fight. “That’s what excites me about him. Mexicans are known for their warrior spirit. He’s going Mexican style of MMA. I’m looking to put him on the stake, as well.”
Although Gastelum professed to struggle with motivation for the fight in the first episode of “UFC 236: Embedded,” Adesanya isn’t taking his opponent lightly. But his toughest fight? That honour goes to once-dominant middleweight champion Anderson Silva, who he outpointed in February at UFC 234.
“To the younger me, (Silva) was the pinnacle of the sport,” Adesanya said. “So when I beat him, that was like, (expletive), I’m the best in the world. I already knew it, but I had to prove it to myself. So now, everything else is easy.”
Whatever the outcome of his fight with Gastelum,Adesanya, like Kamaru, has shown the way for the next generation of Nigerian sportsmen particularly those into combat sports that they can rise to the pinnacle of the sport. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has congratulated US-based Nigerian boxer, Kamaru Usman, for defeating American Tyron Woodley, thus becoming the first African fighter to win an Ultimate Fighting Championship title. Usman, known as the ``Nigerian Nightmare’’ had on Saturday night in Las… In “Sports” Nigerian-born New Zealand fighter Israel Adesanya bettered legendary Anderson Silva in UFC 234's main event in Melbourneon Saturday night. Adesanya Vs Silva was bumped up to be the main event of the UFC 234 in the last minute after originally scheduled between middleweight titleholder Robert Whittaker and challenger Kelvin Gastelum… In “Sports” ●I made N31 from the deal, says Islamic cleric     Three months ago, Nigerians were stunned speechless when a woman, later identified as Mrs. Akinloye Oluwatoyin, allegedly jumped off the Third Mainland Bridge, into the Lagoon over an alleged discovery of her nude pictures and that of her lover… In “Metro and Crime”