….as judiciary advises him against such illegal act  Despite outcry against Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello’s planned removal of the state chief judge; the state House of Assembly yesterday empowered him through its recommendation to sack the Chief Judge, Justice Nasir Ajanah, for an alleged gross misconduct.  Following the adoption of the report and recommendations of the House Committee on Public Account, which indicted Kogi State High Court and Kogi Hajj Commission for financial breaches, the Assembly said the chief judge should step aside to defend himself over the indictment by the auditor-general of the state. The Assembly also recommended punitive measures for those indicted to avoid a reoccurrence.  The Kogi State council of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) had on Monday protested against the plot by the state House of Assembly to remove the chief judge.  The union, which described the planned move as illegal, following a stay of action order by a state high court in Koton Karfe, insisted that the removal of the chief judge must follow laid down procedure as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution. Deputy Majority Leader, Ahmed Mohammed, who was also the Chairman, House Committee on Public Account, alleged that the High Court was reported to have expended its budget above the approved limit provided in some subheads as contained in the 2016 Appropriation Law to the sum of N7, 574, 850.00 without the approval of virement application.  Mohammed said:”It was also reported by the auditor-general that Kogi State High Court made huge cash withdrawal to the tune of N137, 607,334.11.  The cash was withdrawn from high court bank account in the year under review. “This transaction breached the provisions of chapter 6, regulation 632, which stipulated that; “the use of cash for payment is hereby prohibited except as provided in regulation 631.” The committee therefore urged the House to direct the accountant-general to ensure prudent management and posting of funds to MDAs to avoid the reoccurrence of over and under-expenditure.  Also in the recommendation, the Chief Registrar of the state high court should be referred to the Kogi State Judicial Service Commission for disciplinary actions for gross misconduct.  Meanwhile, Kogi State judiciary yesterday described the move by the Yahaya Bello-led executive to forcefully remove the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Nasir Ajanah, from office as dangerous and ill-advised. Although the National Judicial Council (NJC) has intervened in the removal of the Chief Judge of Abia State, Justice Theresa Uzokwe and declared the removal by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu as directed by the House of Assembly unconstitutional, the dust generated by the removal is yet to abate as lawyers yesterday… In “Law” The recurrent spectacle of assault on the judiciary, in recent time, is not only an embarrassment to administration of justice in the country, but a cause to worry, especially not only at a time a series of reforms introduced by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, are beginning… In “Editorial” Following commencement of impeachment proceedings against the Imo state Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere, a crowd of anti-Okorocha protesters yesterday besieged the state Assembly, condemning the plot to remove Madumere as Deputy Governor.   The angry protesters accused Governor Rochas Okorocha of masterminding the plot to unseat the Deputy Governor.… In “News”