In line with its enabling Act, the Industrial Training Fund (ITF), yesterday disbursed over N7 billion to 510 employers of labour as reimbursement claims for the year 2018. The Director-General of the agency, Mr. Joseph Ari, who disclosed this during the Fund’s 2018 annual performance review meeting/ merit award ceremony in Jos, said the payments were in fulfilment of its establishment’s Act, which requires that contributing employers are refunded up to 50 per cent of their contributions provided they meet all criteria for such payments. Describing the disbursements as the biggest pay-out to contributing employers in a calendar year by the ITF since its establishment, Ari said only contributors that trained their workforce across all cadres and accepted students on Students Industrial Work Experience Scheme (SIWES) amongst other conditions were reimbursed. He also stated that in the year under review the Fund cleared the backlog of unpaid SIWES allowances dating as far back as 2012 as it paid out N1,344,527,500.00 to students and supervisors of accredited courses that participated in the scheme. The Director General, who recalled that the Fund had tagged 2018 “the Year of Service Delivery”, noted that despite the numerous challenges it encountered in the course of the year, it realised most of its goals and targets. He attributed the Fund’s achievements last year, particularly to the training of 450,000 Nigerians in technical and vocational skills through its implementable programmes, a combination of visionary and resolute Leadership and equally committed and dedicated workforce. In order to ensure that more Nigerians benefit from its skills acquisition programmes, Ari said work was accelerated on a number of infrastructural projects, including Katsina, Minna, Awka, Ibadan and Ikeja Area Offices as well as the Oba Akran Institute for Hospitality, Lagos and the Abuja Multi-purpose Centre, which he said would be completed and commissioned before next year. He added that the Fund had fully automated its business processes with the launch of the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), which ensured that all accounting activities including payment of salaries were now fully performed on-line. He said: “We embarked on publicity campaigns and executed publicity plans that have considerably heightened our visibility and image. “That today, the ITF has become a household name and is mentioned in all discussions regarding skills acquisition is not by accident but the result of these deliberate and sustained efforts.” The ITF boss said the Fund embarked on a number of staff welfare and development initiatives to improve the knowledge and productivity of the staff for optimal performance, N229,200,000 was disbursed to 266 staff as housing and car loans just as 1,985 of the workforce benefitted from various capacity development programmes both locally and overseas.