The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has distanced himself from the posters in circulation in Abuja, Nigerians federal capital. Billboards and posters of the former vice president with the inscription: “The PUKKA, H. E. Atiku Abubakar, GCON: The Real and The Right”, flooded some streets of the nation’s capital. But Atiku’s media adviser, Paul Ibe, in a statement said Atiku has nothing to do with the poster. “We disassociate the former vice president of Nigeria from the said posters in circulation,” the statement read. It noted that the campaign season was over, adding, that “The tainted electoral victory by the incumbent is being challenged in court. “We refuse to be distracted, which is exactly the objective of our opponents, but to remain focused on diligently pursuing our election petition with a view to retrieving the stolen mandate.” Atiku’s media office had earlier denied paying an American lobby group a whooping sum of $30, 000 to stop the recognition of Muhammadu Buhari as Nigerian president by the US Congress. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar yesterday met with former Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida, at his residence in Minna, the Niger State capital. Atiku, who arrived at the Minna airport, drove straight to Babangida's mansion about 12:35p.m. It was reliably gathered that the meeting, which lasted over three hours, may… In “News” The Buhari Media Organization (BMO) has faulted claims by the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on the routine search carried out on him at the Airport on his arrival from Dubai. The Media Organisation stated that it was a deliberate… In “News” OBJ vows never to support ex-VP Atiku shuns Ethiopia meeting I made my money early –Atiku He must beg to achieve aim –Group     Sequel to the resignation of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), there have been so many backlashes on the… In “News”