 The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) is organising an induction for newly-elected and returning governors on governance and management skills. The training programme, which will hold between April 28 and May 1, will have past and serving Nigerian and governors of United States of America in attendance, and is expected to deepen the skill of the governors on the principles of governance. A statement from the NGF secretariat, also disclosed that a day programme would also be held for spouses of governors, to introduce them to public life. According to the statement, the induction programme would serve for the governors-elect as transition from campaigning to governance as well as building bridges for effective leadership. The statement added that the induction would create a platform that would enable the governors to fully understand the philosophies, responsibilities, organisation, cultural values, as well as key processes of governance. “This is aimed at generating conversation among the newly elected governors, respected national and international leaders, heads of national institutions and development partners, among others,” the statement added. It stated that the programme would provide for peer learning, promotion of global best practices and networking with national and global leaders, among the governors. “It is expected that all the governors will, at the end of their induction, have their knowledge and skills honed on the nuances of governance to better equip them to hit the ground running “All governors would have established relationships with national and global leaders and have a better understanding of the tools and opportunities available to achieve their vision and their priorities. “The NGF finds it imperative to highlight the task before governors and support them to create a workable framework that will aid them to achieve a smooth transition into their new administrations,” the statement added. The last time an induction was organised for Nigeria governors-elect was in 2011. 