Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) has been appointed as Africa Centre of Excellence in Future Energies and Electrochemical Systems (ACE-FUELS).
This is also as 43 students who bagged First Class Honours Degree for the 2017/2018 academic session would be conferred with the honours during the University’s 31st convocation ceremony. Vice Chancellor of the institution, Professor Francis Chukwuemeka Eze, said that the university was one of 17 universities in the country approved as Africa Centre of Excellence in various specific research areas. According to him, FUTO ACE-FUELS was sponsored by the World Bank in collaboration with the Association of African Universities (AAU) with the aim of improving quality and quantity of higher degree programmes on the continent.
Eze, a Professor of Physics and the 7th substantive Vice Chancellor of the university disclosed this while briefing newsmen on the activities fixed for the 31st convocation ceremony of the institution coming up within the week. He said: “By the same token, FUTO emerged over all best in the Maiden Open Education Resources (OER) ranking by the National Universities Commission (NUC) in 2018, adding that by this ranking, the university was rated the best University in the country with the highest online resources. “Out of a total of 2,927 graduating students to be conferred with degrees, Eze said that 42 would be conferred with first class Honours degrees, 834 with second class honours (Upper division), 1, 352 second class honours (lower division), 254 with third class honours and 4 with pass. “One Miss Ogwo Onyinyechi Jane of the Department of Maritime Management Technology with CGPA of 4.90 emerged as the best graduating student for the 2017/2018 session.” The Vice-Chancellor of Redeemers University, Ede, Osun State, Prof. Debo Adeyewa, yesterday gave the total number of the institution’s students that would graduate at the 10th convocation ceremony of the institution as 422 out of which 27 bagged first class degree grade.   The Vice-Chancellor who disclosed this at a… In “News” …honours AFDB President, Adesina, Channels’ CEO, John Momoh   Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State (ABUAD) will graduate its first set of medical doctors, mentored by Clinicians and Academics of International Standard, Prof. Joseph Olurotimi Sanya. The graduating medical students are 43. This was disclosed yesterday by the institution’s… In “News” A total of 11,807 graduates, among them 42 first class students would on Saturday pass out from the University of Calabar, according to the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Zana Akpagu. In a pre-convocation briefing yesterday in Calabar, Akpagu said the first class students had satisfied all criteria for… In “News”