About 10 people have been killed while several others were injured in the ongoing clashes between Jukun and Tiv ethnic groups on the fringes of Benue and Taraba states. The Chairman of Wukari Local Government Area of Taraba State, Mr. Daniel Adi, said this in an interview with journalists in Wukari yesterday. Adi, who called for calm, disclosed that about 10 communities had so far been burnt down around Kente ward in the local government area. He said: “As I am talking to you now, several households including Government Day Secondary School (GDSS), Kente, were burnt down by the attackers in the early hours of today (yesterday). “I made efforts to contact my counterpart in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State to appeal to his people to lay down their arms and embrace peace.” The chairman said the local government was footing the bills of several injured persons currently receiving treatment at the Wukari Gen-eral Hospital. Meanwhile, a former All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant, Chief David Kente, who hails from the area, has condemned the wanton destruction of lives and property. He described the crisis as unfortunate. Kente added that the Tiv and Jukun in Kente had coexisted peacefully for many years after their first clashes in 1991. He appealed to both the Tiv and Jukun to embrace peace and sheathe their swords. Kente promised that all those who lost their property to the current crisis on both sides of the borders of Benue and Taraba states would be compensated. He said: “You see this is achievable because after the 1991 clashes between the two ethnic groups in Kente area, I singlehandedly provided succour to all affected communities by providing roofing sheets, cement and related building materials. “I also sank boreholes in the affected communities both on the Benue and Taraba sides.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP David Misal, confirmed the ongoing clashes. Misal said that after the death of two persons at the initial stage of the crisis on April 1, 2019, the police were yet to ascertain the actual casualty figure. He, however, disclosed that the command had deployed additional officers and men to restore peace and order in the area. The Tiv and Jukun engaged in a bloody war on April 1 over a minor disagreement, arising from sales of yam in a border market in the area. 90-year-old woman burnt   At least three Tiv people were killed as the Jukun militia at Kente in Wukari Local Government Area of Taraba State launched attack on Atsenga village in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State.   In the attack, which started on Monday evening and ended yesterday… In “Metro and Crime” …burn 10 vehicles, rob convoy   Nigerian envoy to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, Alhaji Hassan Ardo Jika, and the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Taraba State, Alhaji Sani Abubakar Danladi, yesterday escaped death when youths in Wukari, suspected to be loyal to the Peoples… In “Metro and Crime” The Aku Uka of Wukari and Chairman, Taraba State Council of Chiefs, Dr. Shekarau Angyu, yesterday urged the army panel probing retired Lt. Gen. Theophilus Danjuma's allegations of armed forces collusion with bandits to come up with a report that would help in restoring the lost image of the military.… In “News”