The Federal Government has released N1.5 billion to be paid to all certified next-of-kins to deceased civil servants, as death benefits.  Permanent Secretary, Service Welfare Office in the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF), Mrs. Didi Walson-Jack made this disclosure yesterday in Abuja at the second edition of Permanent Secretary’s quarterly forum with labour leaders in ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs).  Walson-Jack noted that out of 563 registered death benefits claims of deceased workers next-of-kins cutting across 166 MDAs, 497 claims have been verified, certified and approved for payment to the tune of N1.3 billion.  She explained that the backlog payment, which will commence by the end of April, is death benefits for the period not covered by the insurance policy subscribed to by the deceased workers.  She said: “It is equally important to point out that the sum of N1.5 billion has been released by the Ministry of Finance for payment of some of the backlog of death benefits for the period not covered by insurance policy. “In order to make payments to deceased next-of-kins, a service wide verification exercise of backlog of death benefits’ claims of 563 deceased officers, cutting across 166 MDAs was conducted in January 2019, to confirm the veracity of the claim requests submitted by the MDAs.  “After the verification exercise, a total of 497 next-of-kins of deceased officers have been cleared for payment of N1.3 billion. The payment to beneficiaries is expected to commence before the end of this month,” she added.
According to her, the Office of the Head of Service has also designed a robust welfare package for civil servants who are still in service.  She added that in realisation that the civil service reforms being championed by the Head of Service would not succeed without incentives and motivation for the workers, the present administration was working out a policy that will guarantee a better reward system for them.  “This cannot be achieved without the use of motivation, which ties incentives and rewards to better performance. Pursuant to these laudable initiatives, the service welfare office has submitted a robust proposal for the institutionalisation of a Rewards and Recognition System (R&RS),” Walson-Jack noted.  She said that the Pension Reform Act, 2014, provided that every employer of labour with not less than five employees must insure them to a minimum of three times of their annual total emoluments. She noted that the Act had marked the beginning of the Group Life Assurance (GLA) scheme under the OHCSF for federal public servants. According to her, GLA scheme is the scheme whereby the Federal Government has insured the life of every serving officer and this has been done in line with the Pension Reform Act. Walson-Jack explained that every serving officer who dies has benefits which his or her next-of-kin could claim. Mr. Alfred Abba, the Director, Employee Relations and Welfare, Service Welfare Office, OHCS, said that regular and periodic government-union interaction was a platform for sharing ideas and receiving updates on developments on labour-related matters affecting the MDAs. He said that the forum was also an avenue to intimate the representatives of public servants on the policies, projects and programmes of the Federal Government, especially as it pertains to labour and industrial relations management in the public service. Abah said that the interaction created the opportunity for appraising and managing industrial relations practices and ensures the need to constantly align the demands and requests of the Public Service Trade Unions. “This collective responsibility needs continuous consultations among stakeholders to resolve issues and sustain a conducive and convivial industrial relations climate in the Service,” he said.