There was tension in Onitsha, Anambra State on yesterday over reported plans by the state government to relocate over 25,000 traders. This was coming on the heels of a public service announcement by the state Commissioner for Commerce, Trade, Investment and Wealth Creation, Dr. Christian Madubuko, directing some traders at Onitsha and its environs, particularly those tagged ‘street traders’ to relocate to the permanent sites of their markets or face the wrath of the law.  The public announcements which gave the traders up till Thursday, April 4, 2019 to relocates listed the effected markets to include traders at Madueke Street Onitsha, Onowu Anataogu, Iweka Road, Uli Street and Tomatoes markets among others. Following this development, various traders association, the street traders and their owners are now at daggers draw.  Sunday Telegraph gathered that the affected traders besieged the Anambra State Government House as well as courts in the state at the weekend with petitions, while factional groups are now at one anothers throats over the matter. Our correspondent learnt that some landlords in the affected areas have joined forces with a section of the trader’s association to drag the state government to court over the contentious order.  This development has also divided the traders as some were said to have declared loyalty to the state government while others pledge their allegiance to the landlords.  Narrating their experience to the Commissioner for Commerce, Trade and Investment, the Chairman and BOT leader of the Upholstery Materials Dealers Union, Uli Street, Chief Isaac Onuigwe and Chief Hyacinth Asiuloka appealed to the state government to give them time to relocate.  He told the commissioner that a section of the traders association that deals on Synthetic Fabrics different from what their own association deals on had relocated to their private market but wanted to force the rest of them to take up shops at their market at a cut-throat price.  He complained that the shops were designed to suit the purpose of the traders that built them and has nothing to do with their own line of business. They promised to continue to be law abiding but warned that any attempt to use intimidation by the traders that have relocated to force them to join them in their market, will be resisted. Earlier the commissioner had told them that the state government is desirous of relocating all the street traders in the state to a more convenience and safer place.  He harped on the need to decongest the state in line with the mission and the vision of the Obiano administration. He noted with regret that fake revenue collectors who hide under various guises claiming to be agents of the state government have been causing untold hardship to both the visitors, traders and investors in the state. Dr Madubuko also advised the traders to ensure that they relocate to their own market within the shortest possible time. He, however, assured them that the relocation will be a gradual process.