The Super Falcons of Nigeria return to the country on Tuesday after playing two friendly games in Spain in further preparation for the 2019 FIFA Women World Cup in France. The Nigeria Women national team defeated an Icelandic women’s side, UMF Selfoss 6-1, before losing 2-1 to the Canadian Women team. The team will also be taking part in a West Africa Football Union competition as the Nigeria Football Federation prepare them for a better outing in France. Meanwhile, the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja is already agog in anticipation of the arrival of the FIFA Women’s World Cup trophy, which is expected on Nigerian soil on Thursday.  The Women’s World Cup trophy’s stop-over is coming 13 months after the FIFA World Cup trophy (for men) also made a stop in Nigeria ahead of last year’s FIFA World Cup finals in Russia. World football –governing body, FIFA has informed the Nigeria Football Federation that former Nigeria international striker, Osaze Odemwingie, who is one of the FIFA Legends for this year’s World Cup finals in France, will arrive Nigeria on Wednesday morning, with three other FIFA officials due in the country hours later.  Nicole Fisch (lead for women’s football project), Sarai Bareman (chief women’s football officer) and Vanessa Marques (lead for marketing project) are the FIFA officials expected on Wednesday. After a special welcome at the Office of the Minister of Youth and Sports on Thursday morning, the FIFA team alongside Ministry and NFF officials will move to the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja for the display of the trophy, for which the best 24 women national teams in the world will battle in nine cities in France from June 7th to July 7th. Nigeria’s senior women national team, the Super Falcons, were in devastating form as they defeated an Iceland team, UMF Selfoss, 6-1 in a friendly game. Striker Courtney Dike, within 19 minutes, recorded a hat trick, while Umotong bagged a brace in the encounter decided at the Pinatar Arena in Murcia… In “Editorial” Former FIFA President, Sepp Blatter, on many occasions told the world that the future of football was feminine. The position of Blatter was that women's football had the potential to grow fast in the coming years. Today, we can feel it. Women's football has developed from the kick and rush… In “Sports” Ahead of the Women’s World Cup which will begin in few months’ time, Former Super Falcons attacker, Mercy Akide, has called upon the Nigeria Federation to organise friendly matches for the team if they are to deliver at the FIFA World Cup. The Super Falcons will be appearing at… In “Sports”