The Senate, yesterday, stepped down the earlier scheduled consideration and passage of the 2019 Appropriation Bill till Tuesday, April 30. The President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, made the announcement during the Chamber’s plenary, saying that the postponement was to allow the Senate Committee on Appropriations distribute copies of the budget to lawmakers to study for effective contributions before passage on Tuesday. He said: “Some members have not got printed copies of the details and I have directed the Clerk to make sure that latest Monday we all have printed copies. This is to allow everybody sees the details of the budget, so we can pass it on Tuesday.” Saraki explained that his decision was informed by the need to avoid passing the budget without the lawmakers going through the details, in order to make necessary observations, if any.
“So, Clerk, ensure that everybody has copies of the details by Monday so we will pass it on Tuesday, “he said. The 2019 Appropriation Bill was one of the items listed on the Senate Order Paper for consideration and passage, but later stepped down due to the unpreparedness of the committee handling it. The 2019 Appropriation of N8.83 trillion was laid by President Muhammadu Buhari, before the joint session of the two chambers of the National Assembly on December, 19, 2018. The National Assembly, however, delayed debate on the general principles of the bill as a result of the electioneering and subsequent conduct of the recently concluded general election in the country.
The bill was, thereafter, laid in plenary on April 17 by the Senate Committee on Appropriations after failing to meet several deadlines for its submission, with the hope that it would be passed on April 24.
The 2019 budget estimate is N300 billion lower than the N9.1 trillion being implemented for the current fiscal year. Also, the budget is based on an oil production estimate of 2.3 million barrels per day and an exchange rate of N305 to a dollar. It is also based on Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate of 3.01 per cent and inflation rate of 9.98 per cent.
The budget deficit is projected to decrease to N1.86 trillion or 1.3 per cent of the GDP in 2019 from N1.95 trillion projected for 2018 among other projections.