Following reported dislodgement of illegal miners in some states in the North-West geopolitical zone, there is currently influx of their activities into other states, which threatens the Federal Government’s mining agenda. Taiwo Hassan reports  No doubt, Nigeria is a country endowed with huge mineral resources potential. In fact, statistics show that Nigeria has abundant potential in her solid minerals sector with capacity boost non-oil sector revenue. Consequently, President Muhammadu Buhari, on assuming office, said solid minerals was one of the three key sectors earmarked for re-positioning the country’s ailing economy in line with its diversification agenda. Ironically, the solid minerals sector has been neglected by past governments for decades and this prompted the administration of President Buhari to work towards turning it around in order to make it profit driven. It is, however, regrettable that in spite of measures taken so far by government to reposition the sector, there is still high influx of illegal miners nationwide further amplified by bandits in the North West.  Bandits’ threats The threat of insurgency in the North West is indirectly affecting Federal Government’s mining agenda. Emerging revelations, which linked the menace of banditry in the North West to illegal mining in Zamfara and other affected states, gave another narrative to the whole drama. It was alleged that some powerful northern elites, mostly traditional rulers and retired army generals, were behind series of illegal mining business going on in those states, which brought about bloody rivalry among ‘powerful merchants,’ who employed services of hoodlums in the fight for dicey economic struggle. These groups of hoodlums around illegal mining sites constitute scary armed bandit gangs, which continued to unleash terror on innocent residents un-abated. Perhaps, the proceeds from illegal exploration of national resource became insufficient to meet their illicit lifestyle, or desperation to get more money must have pushed these criminal elements to diversify and venture into robbery and kidnapping, making lives terribly miserable for people of the affected states.  Insecurity Regrettably, despite the coordinated security arrangement and increased deployment of security operatives to those areas, the tempo of criminality went on perpetually and became an embarrassing national security burden to the Federal Government. At the peak of this menace, therefore, the Federal Government, acting on the advice of the Ministry of Defence, gave an order to suspend all mining activities in Zamfara and all other states in the North West where illegal mining activities were going on, following intelligence report that suggests close collaboration between the activities of the bandits and illegal miners. Also, the Nigerian Army established 8 Division with headquarters in Sokoto to cover Kebbi, Sokoto, Katsina and Zamfara states, while the headquarters of 1 Brigade was relocated from Sokoto to Gusau. Also, the tactical headquarters of 8 Division has since located to Gusau. Similarly, the Nigerian Air Force also established Quick Response Force in Gusau and landing areas in Gusau and Birnin Magaji respectively.  Futile project However, the upsurge in the country’s mining space is still a cause of concern for government and stakeholders because it has been a re-occurrence in the mining sites areas. Just last year, in a bid to check and reduce illegal mining activities across the country, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved N987 million for the procurement of 50 vehicles for Special Mines Surveillance Task Force. The then Minister of Mines and Steel Development and current Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, stated that the approval became necessary due to negative impacts of illegal mining on the nation’s economy. Emphatically, he said that Nigeria lost over $9 billion to illegal mining activities between 2014 and 2015 alone. “What this memo that went to council requested from council was the approval of 50 Hiace vehicles for the Special Mines Surveillance Task Force to capacitate them in their work to monitor and curb illegal mining activities in all the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory and then to support the collaboration between the federal and state governments via the mineral resources and environmental committee that the mining Act as allowed to be set up in all the states. “So, this memo went to council for procurement of 50 Toyota Hiace vans for the sum of N987 million,’’ he said. However, it is shocking that despite the acquisition of the 50 Hiace vehicles specifically meant to reduce illegal mining activities around the mining sites, there is still upsurge in illegal mining activities nationwide,l, making it a futile project and waste of funds.   Influx  To worsen the situation, investigation has revealed that illegal miners from these affected states have migrated into places such as Osun State’s mining zone for succour and livelihood. It was gathered from reliable sources in the mining space that illegal miners, who have started feeling the heat of security operations in the North West, have shifted their attention to other areas where those nefarious activities are going on. Ijesha land, in the Osun state has been fingered in this regard as there is a large deposit of 99.5 per cent pure gold in Ilesha, an ancient town and other adjoining towns and villages. The source revealed that there are over 5000 illegal miners from the North in over 10 villages and towns in the state, including: Ijana Wasare in Atakumosa LGA, Igun- Ijesa, Gona, Ajewanwa, Atepe-Akire, Igbadare among others. It was also discovered that over 6000 illegal miners from Zamfara, Sokoto, Katsina and some parts of Kaduna states have moved into the areas between Sunday, March 31 and Tuesday April 16.  Ordeal A miner and community leader in one of the towns with gold deposit in Ilesha, Chief Bisi Alabi, told this newspaper that there were over 100 illegal mining sites around Ilesha and its environs, making the areas seriously volatile amid the migration of illegal miners from North West. “We are handicapped my brother. This illegal mining business has been going on here for more than a decade,” he said.  “We couldn’t challenge these people (northerners), who are working on the sites because the thing belongs to the Federal Government.  “Also, many of them are just working for their big boss in the North, who we heard got licence from the Federal Government to operate freely.”  Another miner, Rauf Akomolafe, explained that Ijesha had become a hub for illegal miners and their activities have been threatening the economic livelihood and security of the town because of gold mining. According to him, the influx of the illegal miners is a threat to the Segilola gold project, which has become a landmark project in Nigeria’s gold mining sector.  Last line  Despite the laudable and plausible mining interventions in the country’s economy, the damning consequence of illegal miners is ravaging parts of Nigeria, especially, Osun State, and its environs.