 To actualise accurate and reliable data needed for effective national planning and analysis of the creative sector, government and creative sector stakeholders should cooperate and work more closely to conduct a nation-wide mapping of the creative industries.
This was among the recommendations made at the end of forum on the creative sector’s Pioneer Status Incentive with the theme: ‘Catalyzing Investment In The Creative Sector’, organised by Arterial Network Nigeria, the Committee for Relevant Art (CORA) and the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), with the support and cooperation of the British Council. The event, held last Thursday at the British Council, Ikoyi, Lagos, was in line with the stakeholders’ collective vision to promote the growth and development of the creative sector in Nigeria taking into consideration the Sector’s N239Billion contribution to Nigeria’s GDP in 2016 and the newly implemented policy extending Pioneer Status to the Sector. The objective of the Forum was to bring together major public and private sector stakeholders in the creative sector, particularly to review recent developments and progress of efforts to promote the growth of the Creative Sector in Nigeria against the backdrop of the ‘Pioneer Status Incentive’ of the Federal Government of Nigeria; and to make appropriate recommendations on how the private sector could tap into the opportunities in the sector. At the end of the deliberations, the Forum identified the challenges and opportunities, and also recommended that: government should amend the old legislation under which the incentive was established as it is no longer in tune with current economic realities; artists and practitioners in the creative sector should organize themselves in corporate entities and explore the possibility of mergers in order to take advantage of the Pioneer Status and other incentives; government should do more to make the incentive more attractive to entrepreneurs in the creative sector by looking at the value chain vis-à-vis the application requirements and develop a framework that works for industries and products in the sector; and that government and practitioners in the creative sector should be more responsive to changes in technology.  The forum was attended by major players including the Head of Incentives Administration, Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC); representative of the Statistician-General of the Federation/CEO, National Bureau of Statistics (NBS); representative of the National President, Director-General and officials of NACCIMA; representatives from the private sector involved in Creative businesses; entertainment celebrities; the media and members of the diplomatic community.  The forum started with introductions by Ayodele Ganiu, National Coordinator, CORA/Arterial Network Nigeria; an overview of the event by veteran journalist and culture ambassador, Jahman Anikulapo; welcome addresses by the Chair of Arterial Network Nigeria Steering Committee, Fola Martins, and the Secretary-General, Committee for Relevant Art (CORA), Toyin Akinosho. There was opening remarks by the National President of NACCIMA, who was represented by Aare Segun Phillips.  Several presentations were made at the Forum. Head, Incentives Administration, Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Mr. Benjamin Ikheloah, presented a paper on “Creative Industries’ Pioneer Status”; while the presentation by the Statistician General of the Federation/CEO, National Bureau of Statistics, Dr. Yemi Kale, represented at the Forum by Ms Lola-Talabi-Oni, was on “Creative Industries: How Reliable Data can Complement Pioneer Status & Attract Investment”. Other presentations at the Forum include: “NACCIMA Creative Sector Intervention” by the Director-General, NACCIMA, Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni; and “Promotion of Non-oil Exports from Nigeria” by Mr. Arnold Jackson, Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC). There were goodwill messages from the Guest of Honour, art patrons and representatives of International Cultural Institutions such as the former Minister of Foreign Affairs and Founding Partner, Ajumogobia & Okeke law firm, Mr. Odein Ajumogobia SAN; OFR, Nigeria’s foremost art collector, Prince Yemisi Shyllon; Director Programmes, British Council, Mrs Ojoma Ochai; Attache for Cooperation and Cultural Affairs, Embassy of France, Mr. Aurelien Sennacherib; and Director, Alliance Francaise (French Cultural Center) Lagos, Mr. Charles Courdent. The Forum was not all about talks, as delegates had their artistic moments. The Chair of Guild of Nigerian Dancers, Lagos Chapter, Ugo Ademoye, known by her stage name EAGLE, charged delegates with ‘Shaku Shaku’ and ‘Zanku’ legwork. Dignitaries were not left out of the fun.  Highlights of the event also include an interactive session with a panel of discussants comprising Director-General, NACCIMA, Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni, Head, Incentives Administration, Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Mr. Benjamin Ikheloah, Representative of the Statistician-General of the Federation/CEO, National Bureau of Statistics, Ms Lola Talabi-Oni, Executive Vice President, Chocolate City Music Group, Ms. Aibee Abidoye, Tax Consultant and Managing Partner, Moronkeji Olufemi & Co., Mr. Moronkeji Olufemi (FCA). Also, there were feedbacks from key stakeholders – Nollywood veterans, musicians, actors, writers and other practitioners such as ace filmmaker and cinematographer, Mr. Tunde Kelani, filmmaker and Director, Multichoice Talent Factory West Africa, Femi Odugbemi, President, Actors’ Guild of Nigeria (AGN), Emeka Rollas Ejezie, musician and founder, Afropolitan Vibes, Ade Bantu, celebrated Nigerian female talking drummer, Aralola Olamuyiwa (ARA), Nollywood actors and producers, Francis Onwochei, Funsho Adeolu, and Foluke Daramola-Salako, representative of the president, Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), Representative of the president, Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), Secretary-General, Committee for Relevant Art (CORA), Toyin Akinosho, notable theatre practitioner, Ropo Ewenla, and Taofeek Olatunbosun.  