Detectives attached to the Ondo State Police Command have arrested five suspected kidnappers terrorising Akoko and other parts of Ondo North Senatorial District.
The Owo-Ikare Road has been notorious for violent crimes, especially kidnapping, as many prominent indigenes, including monarchs had been abducted along the axis. The state Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, presenting the five suspects to journalists yesterday, said that the gunmen were nabbed following the abduction of their victim identified as Prince Omoghae Igbegbon.
The hoodlums on April 2, operated on Akunnu-Akoko-Auga-Akoko Road in the state, where they allegedly disposed their victim of N185,000 before demanding N30 million ransom.
The police boss disclosed that it took the efforts of his men to track the kidnappers to their hideout in Ibilo, Edo State. He said: “On 2nd April, about 7.15a.m., Prince Omoghae Igbegbon of A3 Senior Staff Quarters, Nifor, Benin, Edo State was attacked by gunmen numbering six on Akunnu Akoko-Auga Akoko Road, Ondo State. The hoodlums robbed him of N185,000 and also abducted him into the bush. The abductors demanded N30 million as ransom for his release. “On 3rd April, a team of policemen with members of vigilance group trailed the kidnappers to their den at Ibilo, Edo State. After exchange of gunfire, the kidnappers fled to unknown destination, leaving behind one pump action rifle, one double-barrelled and two single-barrelled guns. The victim escaped to a community in Ibilo where he explained his ordeal in the hands of the kidnappers.” Adie added that the police placed the community on red alert to watch out for any strange face. Thereafter, Ismaila Wakili (19) from Niger State, who the victim later recognised as one of the kidnappers, was arrested and handed over to the police. When Wakili was interrogated, he allegedly confessed to the crime and mentioned names of other members of the gang. The commissioner said: “The suspect led a team of detectives to the hideouts of the hoodlums at Aduwawa in Benin, Edo State, where the following members of the gang, Abdullahi Sanni (33) from Kogi State, Mohammed Abdullahi (36) from Sokoto State, Umoru Usman (25) from Kebbi State, and Sheu Usman (25) from Niger State, were arrested. Wakili identified them to be members of the kidnap gang terrorising Akoko axis of Ondo State.”
Adie maintained that effort was on to arrest other fleeing members of the gang, while those already arrested would be charged to court upon the conclusion of ongoing investigation.
Wakili, who admitted participating in the crime, denied knowing the other four suspects. He, however, admitted that it was his first. Adie, who ceased the opportunity to give update on the bloody bank robbery that took place in the state on Monday, revealed that investigation was on top gear to arrest those involved in the crime.
He also emphasised that security measures had been scaled up around bank premises across the 18 local government areas of the state in order to prevent future reoccurrence.