Ex militant leaders under the umbrella of Niger Delta Ex Agitators yesterday took a swipe on the Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, Professor Nelson Brambaifa, for refusing to pay the fund meant for the clearing of water hyacinth in the area. In a statement issued in Yenagao and signed by the group’s chairman and Vice Chairman, General Alex and Leader Monday, the group said it has resolved to take the “bull by the horn” stating that enough is enough from Professor Nelson Brambaifa. The group also reiterated that Professor Brambaifa like most public office holders should desist from playing politics with public NDDC funds to the detriment of ex militants and remain apolitical. The group, however, threatened to storm Aso Rock for a protest over Professor Nelson Brambaifa continuous neglect on them after series of requests to dialogue with him on kilometer road contract,   water hyacinth payments, the recent volunteer surveillance payment and other benefits. To avert the impending catastrophe according to the group, it stated that elders and stakeholders should reach out to Professor Nelson Brambaifa for amicable dialogue before hell is let loose. Stating that he was unfit for the position of managing Director of NDDC and should not be confirmed as one, The statement read in part “We need an apolitical MD who can address issues without bias and if Professor Brambaifa continues, we will ensure that the Niger Delta is wasted. “A stitch in Times saves nine” they concluded. But Chief Kalaiti Jephthah advising the group said “Fighting our very own” due to envy, bigotry and inducement from individuals and political parties is not good. “Professor Nelson Brambaifa should be given benefit of doubt and time to sit well to focus on the huge and robust assignment as acting MD of the NDDC. He said. The peace advocate further suggested that the likes of Elder Comrade Preye Agama, Comrade Tari Thomas, Elder Ebiakpo Barley and Barr. Ayebakuro Igbeta should be approached to assist facilitate the needed meeting. The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has spoken of plans to strengthen collaboration with the European Union (EU) through the Niger Delta Support Programme (NDSP) to resuscitate abandoned water infrastructure across the nine Niger Delta states. The Acting Managing Director of NDDC, Prof. Nelson Brambaifa, disclosed this when a delegation… In “News” The Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Prof. Nelson Brambaifa has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for demonstrating an enduring love for Niger Delta region and its people.   The Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of the Commission, who spoke during the inaugural meeting of the new… In “News” The Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, has renewed its drive to fast-track the completion of its projects spread across the nine Niger Delta states, especially the big ticket projects that would transform the region significantly.   NDDC Acting Managing Director, Prof. Nelson Brambaifa, set the tone for the commission’s plans… In “News”