Dr. Adeyeye Arigbabuwo is a family physician and the National President of the Health Care Providers Association of Nigeria (HCPAN). In this interview, he discusses the obstacles militating against full implementation of the National Health Act (NHA) and expanding coverage of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), thereby impeding the achievement of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) for Nigerian citizens. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  Poor capitation for providers under Federal and state health insurance unsatisfactory The mandate of health care provider across the country, is to tell the populace in the country and the authorities that the offer of peanut as capitation to primary care providers in guise for health insurance the ultimate support of health insurance, is unacceptable. There is poor acturial studies due to poor statistics. Health Insurance is a game of number; therefore, the higher the population, the better it is for all the stakeholders. There is paursity of investors in health sector; people are beginning to see the health sector as not bankable. Poor or lack of use of electronic devices and keeping of data is one of our challenges. Another challenge is poor quality of care because quality is not cheap. If people cannot afford to pay out-of-pocket and we are floating insurance scheme, there must be commensurate, payment mechanism appropriate to the quality of health care delivery that is being expected. However, there is this dictum that you cannot give somebody money that is only the good enough for Mr Biggs and he’s going to Tantalizers. It’s a dictum. So, it’s applicable to us.  Challenges care providers face under health insurance scheme There is lack of trust, equity and transparency with the scheme. Managed care is poorly run in Nigeria. This is an overview. Utilising global capitation that is alien to the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) Act then, poor fee-for- service that is, rating for services rendered on claims, state-support health insurance is emphasising more on primary care while neglecting secondary care provision or accreditation of provider. Emphasis seems to be more on primary care providers and it is not generally being encouraged that it should be both primary care and secondary care providers simultaneously. It has been discovered that providers are not encouraged to register both as primary and secondary care unlike what is happening in NHIS. In NHIS, depending on your capacity, you can be a primary provider and still have capacity within your compound or premises to register some stand-alone secondary care. But the state health-support health insurance programme does not seem to be encouraging this for now. The National Health Act (NHA) is being implemented peace-meal while the issue of the certificate of need of facility is still pending and unresolved.  Funding medical emergencies unresolved You will all recall recently that there was a provider somewhere in Ekiti State who had a case at the lower court and went to an Appeal Court. He has lost at the lower court and lost at the Appeal Court. On what the offense was, he said a patient took treatment. On the day of the discharge, patient was to go on the due-day of discharge and the doctor was expecting his payment, the patient said they were going to look for money, and the medical doctor said go and look for money. For the few hours they went and came back to come and pay part of the money, they regarded the number of hours that they stayed as false imprisonment of the patient and therefore, the provider was mitigated and the case was tested in the High Court and also at the Appeal Court and all the focus there at both courts was that the NHA said all medical emergencies must be treated, whether the patient could pay or not.  How the doctor or provider will get his payment was ambiguously spelt out. It was not channelled properly to know by the provider who will pick the bill. It amounted to somebody going to the cafeteria to eat, clean his mouth, refuse to clear his bills and was going out. Then, the owner of the cafeteria said: “No, pay my money” and the consumer of the food went to court and to say: “Why should I pay; you delayed me before I came to pay.” That is the situation health care providers are going through in this country.  State of certification of facilities under National Health Act (NHA) However, even if it was spelt out somewhere in the NHA on how such a bill would be paid nobody puts the channel in place. This was the NHA that took us long time to appeal to government to start operating or implement. Then, how come will it be that with that something that has not been experimented, as we are experimenting and implementing, you are jailing people; this should not be. The issue of certificate of need means a certificate which will say this facility is qualified to dispense health care delivery to citizens. And by the NHA, it is wound around the minister of health. If you don’t have that certificate of standard where in the tools of what forms your standard will be spelt out, it is guarded that you are operating illegally and that your facility is illegal. Until somebody, will again go to the court for this, providers will not be taken seriously because going by this none-certification, all the hospitals in Nigeria today by that NHA is assumed operating illegally.  Resolutions Tertiary Institution must be stopped from attending to primary care cases and receiving capitation. They can however treat their own staff on primary care. They should concentrate on the primary objective on which they were established: taking up referral cases, doing teaching and research. The NHIS must be made compulsory for all the Nigerians; the NHIS Act should be reviewed and amended accordingly. Tariff must be reviewed and done regularly to meet the economic realities in the country. As at today the tariff as at 2005 and 2006 is what we are still using for service. It could then be as difficult as taking a sum of N54,000 for a complete package of caesarean section; you could be asked to take N10,000 for Rojam injection which is sold in the market for #38,000, just to mention one or two example. A Rojam injection is an anti-D injection that is given to rhesus negative (RhD-negative) expecting mums to protect their growing babies from possible complications that might arise because of a difference in rhesus status between mother and baby.  That some facilities across the country, have embraced the state-support health insurance scheme is done on the principle of patriotism, not because it is economically relevant, or economically good enough for providers to embrace. It does not mean that providers are ready to provide services with the meagre amount of money that is said to be the carpitation, but is for us to show that we are not tagged unpatriotic before Nigerian’s populace whom they could say we wanted to give you Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and health care providers said they are not participating, they are not interested. Nobody is telling our story; but when we are in the system we can orchestrate our own part of our story for Nigerians to hear us well. We can ring the bell of where the shoes are pitching us and people will listen to us. So, if we don’t test the water, we will not know how dip it is.