Events the last few months in Nigeria, particularly in the middle belt area of the country is a sad commentary about how far we have fallen as a nation especially when it comes to the sanctity of human life.
Virtually every day now its non-stop reports of killings upon killings of innocent citizens by ‘suspected’ Fulani herdsmen and other bandits.
In fact one recent report that I read, indicated that from January till April more than 900 people have been killed in Benue State alone. By the time we include murders that have taken place in adjourning states of Nasarawa, Taraba and Plateau states; Kaduna, Bayelsa and other parts of the country, the figures will easily run into the thousands and this is happening in a country which is not at war!
Before the advent of the ‘Fulani herdsmen’ the group that was associated with wanton killings and mayhem was the Boko Haram; but now that they have been “technically defeated” they have apparently passed the butchery baton on to the herdsmen.
Gloomily what is taking place in the aforementioned Benue/Nasarawa axis can be likened to what happened in South-East Asia in the 70s in a country called Cambodia, which was later dubbed the “killing fields” by the Western media.
According to Wikipedia: “The Cambodian Killing Fields are a number of sites in Cambodia where collectively more than a million people were killed and buried by the Khmer Rouge regime, during its rule of the country from 1975 to 1979, immediately after the end of the Cambodian Civil War (1970–1975).
“Analysis of 20,000 mass grave sites by the DC-Cam Mapping Program and Yale University indicate at least 1,386,734 victims of execution. Estimates of the total number of deaths resulting from Khmer Rouge policies, including disease and starvation, range from 1.7 to 2.5 million out of a 1975 population of roughly 8 million.”
Although in truth Nigeria is yet to reach anywhere near this level of murders, but for those directly involved one murder is even too much!
It just beats the imagination that what could suddenly turn generally peace-loving people into monsters who take delight in the savage and brutal way they dispatch of their victims – irrespective of whether they are women or children.
In fact if reports and some of the pictures posted on social media are anything to go by, then it appears the more savage is the killing the more the murderous mob gets high. If not, how can any sane human being slaughter a pregnant woman cut open her womb and then proceed to dismember the unborn baby? This can only be the work of a sick and depraved mind.
So where is government in this debauchery taking place across the land? That is the million naira question begging for answers from the millions of other law abiding citizens in Nigeria.
It is a given that the primary function of any government is to safe guard the lives and properties of the citizens that it governs.
Unfortunately so far virtually all governments that have been in power since the return to civil rule 19 years ago have failed woefully in this primary assignment.
Even if things were not this bad when the soldiers returned to their barracks in 1999, subsequent governments whether the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which was in power for 16 years, and the All Progressives Congress (APC), which has been in power for just over three years should have made security their number one priority.
If they had contentiously kept a firm eye on this very important aspect, then the wanton and senseless killings we are witnessing across the country would have largely been curtailed.
Regrettably this has been the bane of Nigeria over the years with each new government failing to build on what their predecessors had laid down when they were in office.
It’s amazing that in spite of the massive votes for the security services – military, Para-military and police – from 1999 till date the nation is battling to come to grips with the spiralling rise of criminality across the land.
We have heard police chiefs saying they are setting up “special squads” whose main aim is to crack down on violent crime – yet the crimes continue unabated. The same thing with the military which the heads at various times have also announced the setting up of “special units” which are also meant to tackle unique crimes or violent situations, which are beyond the abilities of the police.
Yet these “special units” we still have Boko Haram carrying out attacks and herdsmen maiming and killing innocent people.
I had in a previous write up; pointed out how the United States fed up with the rising wave of crime across the land, set up the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in 1908 with one of its core mandates being “combating significant violent crime”.
And in order to achieve this it has some of the best brains available to call on, some of the best equipment and best training. Its Hostage Rescue Team (HRT) is its elite tactical unit and was formed in 1983 to provide a full time federal law enforcement tactical unit capability to respond to major terrorist incidents throughout the US.
Today, the HRT performs a number of national security and law enforcement tactical functions in high-risk environments and conditions and has deployed overseas including with military Joint Special Operations Command units – an indication of how good it is.
So why can’t we have such in Nigeria, a unit capable of going after and taking down those that seem determined to plunge the nation into religious strife.
Inappropriately even the troops deployed to help quell the situation have also become part of the problem as was the case with the recent Naka invasion when unruly soldiers angry that one of their was killed by unknown persons invaded the village in Gwer West Local Government Area of Benue State and allegedly burnt some houses in the community.
Such incidences will only turn the local community against the same troops despatched by government to help provide security for them.
As things stand, the sooner government is able to get on top of the situation the better for the affected communities and the wider Nigerian populace will then have belief in government’s ability to properly carry out its main mandate – which is to protect them! *NB: This article was first published on May 5 last year but is being reproduced in view of the current security situation rocking many parts of the country an indication of how little we have done in checkmating the menace.