  With a whooping sum of N10 billion already spent on the cassava flour bread inclusion policy by the Federal Government, Nigerians are still in shock over the sudden disappearance of cassava bread in circulation. TAIWO HASSAN reports on the setbacks of the policy    For Otunba Femi Oke, Chairman, All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Lagos State chapter, farmers in the country are in support of the Federal Government’s 20 per cent cassava flour bread policy under its High Quality Cassava Flour (HQCF) initiative. He said the cassava bread flour inclusion policy of the Federal Government was a laudable initiative meant to develop usage of local raw materials manufacturing of breads in the foods industry. The AFAN helmsman explained that cassava is always available in large quantity for the processors (flour millers) to make cassava flour bread for Nigerians to eat.  The renowned farmer, however, stated that sudden disappearance of cassava bread in the country had nothing to do with Nigerian farmers, adding that it was due to refusal of the flour millers under the aegis of Flour Milling Association of Nigeria to patronise cassava farmers due to price volatility of the commodity and thus, thwarting government’s 20 per cent of cassava inclusion in wheat bread and all other flour-based products.  Oke noted that the issue of pricing of raw cassava from farms by the flour millers was one of the major reasons for the exit of cassava flour bread in circulation, saying that the flour millers prefer to buy at international benchmark price for raw cassava locally sourced and this does not augur well for Nigerian farmers. According to him, there are no flour millers in the country willing to buy raw cassava from them at their stipulated price. For instance, he said that they prefer to price one tonne of raw cassava at N16,000 and N18,000 which is not in tandem with their selling price for the commodity, considering all the factors and hard work put in during harvesting of cassava in the farm. To him, the pricing regime played crucial role on why flour millers jettisoned the government’s 20 per cent cassava inclusion in wheat flour bread and all other flour-based products.  He said: “The fault is not from us (Nigerian farmers), it’s the flour millers who intentionally refuse to patronise us in getting cassava for making of cassava flour bread in the country. “You know that we have to contribute the 20 per cent of cassava flour needed with wheat flour for them to make the cassava flour bread. But for so long, most flour millers have not been getting the 20 per cent cassava needed for the production of cassava flour bread from the farmers, even though, we are ready to meet up with their demands.” Challenges Oke explained in details that the only flour miller collaborating with them (Nigeria Farmers) is the Thai farms, a cassava processor company at Ososa in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. Unfortunately, he said that Thai farms complained that, based on what they get from most Nigerian farmers, they are not encouraged in any way. According to them, the profit margin is not encouraging. For a ton of cassava, the flour millers will be demanding to offer between N16, 000 and N18,000.
“This is not encouraging at all, so we prefer to supply the industrial firms or exports for us to make more profits. The flour millers will even tell you that they do not have vehicles to carry the harvested cassava from the farms, as they prefer that we (farmers) should also arrange for vehicles to transport the cassava for them to the processing companies. For us to supply the flour millers, it takes 24 hours of the same day we harvested the cassava because of moisture that is required for baking the cassava bread. In addition to our frustration, the flour millers use international benchmark to price our locally produced cassava.  They use the price of N16, 000 per ton for cassava which is the international price, instead of N21, 000, local price; meaning that we are at a short fall of profit margin price. Check our mode of operation; from 5am till 10am, we are in the farm to harvest cassava for sales. It will only be ridiculous to point accusing fingers at us for being one of the impeding factors to government’s 20 per cent cassava inclusion in wheat bread and all other flour-based products.” Corroborating Oke’s view, Pastor Segun Adewumi, National President of the Nigeria Cassava Growers Association (NCGA), said that the flour millers were the problems for failure of the government’s 20 per cent cassava flour bread policy under the HQCF initiative. Adewunmi explained that the penchant for continued importation of wheat, abroad by flour millers at the detriment of locally produced cassava bread, needed to be stopped by President Muhammadu Buhari administration. He stated that wheat importation was taking huge toll on the country’s foreign exchange, adding that government needs to wield the big stick by compelling flour millers to go back to the use of cassava in the making of bread in the country. While speaking on benefits of cassava to growth of the Nigerian economy, Adewumi stated that Nigeria could generate N20 trillion annually, from cassava as revenue if implementation of the government’s 20 per cent cassava flour  bread policy was fully adhered to by value chain operators. “The flour millers are the problems we have in this country. They don’t want cassava in their bread at all from beginning of the government’s 20 per cent cassava flour bread policy that is why they have been resisting it from onset. But we have cassava in abundance, which is wasting away on our farms. “Nigeria can realise N20 trillion from cassava as revenue annually more than twice of what we get from oil and gas sector. The things we import into this country that can generate cassava is worth more than N3 trillion, that is; if we processed our cassava into items like, ethanol and others sources. We imports 97 per cent ethanol at the cost of N800bn abroad.”  Adewumi revealed that the total supply of cassava to the flour millers was less than one per cent in Nigeria now. He pointed out that the flour millers were always complaining of one thing or the other so that there won’t be market for cassava in the production of bread. “It is very unfortunate that government is not paying attention to the cassava-flour-bread inclusion policy as it ought to be. Right now, if we used 40 per cent of cassava in the production of bread, we will be generating N200 million, a year from what we import. Additionally, 20 per cent would give us N400m yearly based on less importation,” he said. Opposing Factors However, an attempt to make the policy work was botched as the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and rural Development and Federal Ministry Trade and Industry failed to use legislation to back up the policy because of pressure from the bakers and wheat importers. It was learnt that the Master Bakers Association of Nigeria argued that the proposal by the Federal Government for the inclusion of 40 per cent cassava flour in bread would reduce quality. The association complained that the bread industry had provided jobs for 500,000 Nigerians. Its chairman, Lagos State Chapter, Jacob Adejorin, said that the Federal Government should have consulted the association when developing the policies on matters relating to bread consumption and innovations. He noted that some of the innovations do not meet international standards as the percentage proposed by the government was not feasible. The chairman said that the 20 per cent cassava bread inclusion was carried out without inputs from the bread makers, saying that this was why its acceptance was difficult in the bread industry. “Before research was made, we should have been consulted because most of these researches need to be carried out at our bakeries. The issue of using cassava in bread is welcome but the percentage proposed by the government is not feasible; the 20 per cent suggested by the government will reduce the quality, and the bread will not be premium again,” Adejorin added.  Excuses Adejorin alluded that the 20 per cent inclusion of cassava flour in bread production was difficult due to some constraints. He listed poor awareness, short shelf life, substandard cassava flour, lack of training and equipment for production, among others, as the constraints. “For now, the only place you can get cassava is around Oyo State, and even then, not many people are aware of cassava bread, neither are the bakers trained in it. “Until there is high quality cassava flour, the ones we have around have very low shelf life. “This means that the bread made with it does not last long, before it starts to go sour. I am aware that quality cassava flour is available in FIIRO, but how much of this is available?” he said. Government’s efforts In a move to ensure that the cassava bread policy work out, the Federal Government asked the ministries of Trade and Investment and Agriculture and Rural Development to play the role of coordination of investment in the cassava bread sub sector and farmers’ support respectively. Also, the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Federal Institute of Industrial Research (FIIRO) and National Root Crop Research Institute (NRCRI) were asked by the government to take care of research, development and demonstration, while Bank of Industry (BoI) and Nigerian Agriculture and Rural Development Bank expected to provide financial support. Other bodies with interest in the cassava value chain include Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), which carry out the responsibility of quality control. The policy, backed by improved agricultural practices from International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and national partners, increased cassava production in Nigeria by 10 million tons within six years of its invention, thereby, making Nigeria the world’s top producer of cassava. As part of measures to ensure the success of cassava flour inclusion in bread, the Federal Government introduced a stiffer higher duty on the importation of wheat flours and grains in order to encourage the use of cassava flour in the country. Particularly, wheat flour which attracted a levy of 65 per cent was moved to 100 per cent levy, while wheat grain was increased from 15 per cent levy to 20 per cent. Also, the administration of the former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, sent a bill on cassava inclusion in bread to the National Assembly for consideration. FIIRO’s position The Director-General, Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi (FIIRO), Prof. Gloria Elemo, said that the passage of the 20 per cent cassava flour inclusion in bread into law by the National Assembly would allow Nigeria to save about N127bn annually in terms of conservation of foreign exchange. She said that Nigeria could also generate close to three million jobs annually along its value chain, ranging from the farmers that plant, transporters, suppliers, processors, distributors and others. FMAN’s stance Also, the flour millers who have been fighting to maintain the ‘status quo’ said that the policy was stifling their businesses amid scarcity of cassava crops in the country. Irked by the huge losses suffered in local flour production following the compulsory 20 per cent cassava flour inclusion in bread production, the flour millers lobbied the lawmakers to ensure the rejection of the bill on cassava inclusion in bread at National Assembly. Following intense lobby to scuttle the bill, it was learnt that the proposed bill was still gathering dusts as the 8th National Assembly never made any attempt to re-open it. The millers had said that the government policy was an attempt to disrupt their multi-billion naira investment in flour production in the country. Blame game Accusing fingers were pointed to the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari administration for paying a leap service to the implementation of the 40 per cent Cassava flour inclusion policy in the country. Indictment However, New Telegraph learnt from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) that the failure to continue the implementation of the 20 per cent cassava flour inclusion in bread under this present administration was due to lack of Presidential support for the scheme.  A director in the ministry, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the initiative, had been technically laid to rest.  He explained that the Federal Government’s 20 per cent cassava flour inclusion in bread under the HQCF initiative has died naturally because President Buhari was reluctant and skeptical about the success of the scheme since he assumed power in 2015. The source however explained that the President believed that it was a waste of fund to continue     to vote N10 billion yearly on the scheme because of the lean national budget which depended on the price of crude oil at the international market. Also he noted that the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, was keen to reintroduce the cassava bread initiative in food production and processing, particularly to 15 per cent.  The director further explained that the initiative may also not be unconnected with the power tussle between the current Minister, Chief Audu Ogbeh, and the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Dr. Shehu Ahmed, on the continuity of the former President Jonathan’s agric policies in the country. He however, pointed out that the low budget voted for the agric ministry since inception of the present administration had played a major critical role towards the technical suspension of the cassava flour bread initiative.  The source alleged that the Presidency had made enquiry from the former Permanent Secretary in the ministry about the 20 per cent cassava bread initiative and was ordered to suspend it amid lack of fund. Stakeholders call for probe Meanwhile, some stakeholders in the agriculture sector have urged the Federal Government to probe the N10bn cassava bread intervention fund, granted to farmers and others by immediately past administration through the Bank of Industry (BoI). They said that the executive members of the cassava group and others benefited immensely from former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan’s government, no development was made on the cassava bread project. Adewumi told New Telegraph that the sector received not less than N10bn from Jonathan in form of intervention on the project. He lamented that the money could not achieve its objective as the targeted cassava farmers and related stakeholders did not benefited from the fund. He said that those who pretended to be representing the farmers hijacked the fund. He further lamented that the national executive members of the cassava group did not carry the various states association along in the disbursement of the intervention funds on the project.  Adewumi added that the fund was deposited at the Bank of Agriculture and the Bank of Industry for cassava growers and processors respectively. According to him, “the fund is ready for disbursement, and has been deposited at the Bank of Industry for bakers and processors and at the Bank of Agriculture for growers. We were at the Bank of Agriculture in Kaduna and we all reached an agreement that we will not give the funds out until the rainy season comes. 50 per cent of the money is a grant while 50 per cent will be paid back by individual farmers in form of loan.”  Effort to get official reaction from the ministry of agriculture was failed as the officials refused to talk. However, a source in the ministry said: “It is very difficult for me to speak on the fund set aside for the 20 per cent cassava flour inclusion scheme. “I can even tell you that there are some other monies in the ministry but they won’t tell the minister about it that they are available somewhere, except the minister discovers it by himself by calling them but we have such amount of money here, so what are we doing with it.” Review Worried by the high cost of wheat importation, the National Association of Master Bakers and Caterers of Nigeria, has recently called on the Federal Government to review the cassava bread policy in order to cut down on prices of bread. It noted that the high cost of flour which had led to increase in prices of bakery products in the country.  The Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Alhaji Jabi Hassan, in an interview explained that the government’s assistance by the Jonathan administration on cassava bread initiative was not adequately utilised because of corrupt practices
He called on President Buhari to rectify challenges affecting the policy. Nutritional value Speaking on nutritional value of cassava-flour-bread to human consumption, Dr. Paul Ilona, Country Manager, Harvest Plus Nigeria, a renowned nutritionist, pointed out that the nutritional value of cassava-bread-flour could not be quantified. He said that the importance of cassava-flour-bread was not targeted for specific health benefits rather it was a compelling need by the government to entrench self-sufficiency in bread production in Nigeria. “There are numerous health benefits of cassava flour bread to human consumption no doubt about that. But then, what really is pushing Nigeria to promote cassava bread is because of the economic benefits to the whole country and that area is more important to me,” he said.  He explained that empirical scientific findings showed that cassava flour has low glycemic indices of 59.34 per cent compared to wheat flour having 70.10 per cent. “Yes, we can look at the effect of low glycemic compared to that of wheat flour in bread and perhaps, what it constitutes to human health. You can say that it has low glycemic levels, so cassava has its own benefit to health of human.” He added: “In the glycemic indices of selected Nigerian flour meal products in male type 2 diabetic subjects published in diabetologia croastica 36: 2, 2007, the authors compared cassava flour with yam, maize, and wheat flour among diabetic patients. The glycemic indices show that yam flour is 49.81, cassava flour: 59.34, Maize flour 54.83 and wheat flour: 70.10. “But I don’t think that is the key thing on why government’s 20 per cent cassava bread flour policy was introduced.” For instance, he explained that Brazil was one country where cassava had become a major commercial crop for local use, saying that Nigeria today is the largest producer of cassava in the world and cassava has not translated into economic benefits to Nigeria in terms of local usage.  History When the 40 per cent cassava inclusion in bread and other confectionery products was first introduced, there was five per cent reduction in the importation of wheat from 4.2 million metric tons to 3.7 million metric tons. As at 2014, it was learnt that a total of 2.2 million tons of wheat per year was used for bread making, 500,000tons for biscuits/snacks and 300,000 tons for noodles. The 40 per cent cassava was later reduced to 20 per cent because of pressure by importers and bakers. In 2005, the former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, mooted the idea of 40 per cent cassava inclusion in order to produce HQCF initiative Obasanjo’s government had made it mandatory for bakers operating confectioneries in the country to include 40 per cent of cassava flour in the production of bread and all other flour-based products. Unfortunately, his effort seemed frustrated by the flour millers who said it was not possible to include cassava in wheat flour then.