Scientists in the United States (US) said preschoolers that were served large portions of food every day, would ultimately eat more. In a new study, the researchers examined whether children between the ages of three and five were susceptible to the food portion size effect — the tendency of people to eat more when larger portions were served. Findings of a new study published in the ‘American Journal of Clinical Nutrition,’ showed that that when served larger portions of typical meals or snacks, the children consumed more food, both by weight and calories.To this end, Alissa Smethers, a doctoral student in nutritional sciences at the Pennsylvania State University, PA (Penn State), suggested that caregivers should pay close attention to both the amount of food they serve as well as the variety. On her part, Barbara Rolls, Helen A. Guthrie Chair and director of the Laboratory for the Study of Human Ingestive Behaviour at Penn State, added that the results also suggested that the portion-size effect could be used strategically by caregivers to help children eat more fruits and vegetables. “The positive side is that you can use the portion size effect strategically for example, by serving larger portions of fruits and vegetables to increase their consumption,” Rolls said. “You can also serve them at the start of the meal or on their own as snacks. When there are no other foods competing with them, kids may be more likely to eat them.” While it may be hard to define portions that were appropriate for all preschoolers, since their calorie requirements vary due to differences in height, weight and activity level,” Smethers said it was a good idea to look at the proportions of different foods being served, with fruits and vegetables filling up half the plate and with smaller portions of more calorie-dense foods, as recommended in the USDA MyPlate nutrition guide.” MyPlate is the current nutrition guide published by the USDA Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion, a food circle depicting a place setting with a plate and glass divided into five food groups. MyPlate is based on the recommendations of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The researchers recruited 46 children between the ages of three and five from childcare centers at the University Park campus for the five-day study. All meals and snacks were provided for the children, who during one five-day period received baseline-sized portions — based on Child and Adult Care Food Programme requirements — and during another period had portions that were increased in size by 50 per cent. “In the larger portion meals, we wanted to serve portion sizes that the children might encounter in their everyday lives,” Smethers said. “For example, instead of getting four pieces of chicken nuggets, they would get six, for a 50 per cent increase.”