65 members of the Plateau State Executive Council of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP out of the 72 members in the state have endorsed the suspension of the embattled chairman of the Party Hon. Damishi Sango and his deputy Hon. Amos Gombi on alleged financial misappropriation of Presidential Campaigns funds and money donated for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the state. The State Executive Council consists of the Former and Serving  National and State Assembly members, Former State Chairmen, Former Governors, State Executive officials of the party, 17 LG party chairmen, stakeholders, amongst others on Monday signed to affirmed the Suspension of the party Chairman and His deputy on the 23rd April 2019. The Acting Chairman Hon. Chris Hassan while briefing Journalists after the emergency meeting held on Monday at party Secretariat Jos said 65 SEC After endorsement of the suspension also set up a seven-man disciplinary committee to investigate the petition against the Party Chairman and his deputy. “The SEC members 65 out of the 72 consists of National Assembly members present, 17 LG chairmen, stakeholders have today endorsed the Suspension of the State chairman Hon. Damishi Sango and Hon. Amos Gombi and also set up a seven-member disciplinary committee headed by Barr. Sunday Panwal and Panson Daggyat Secretary to investigate the allegations of corruption levelled against them” Also Speaking to journalist after the meeting, the member representing Barikin Ladi Riyom in the National Assembly and Senator-elect. Plateau North Hon. Istifanus Gyang flanked by Hon. Beni Lar, Hon. Johnbull Shekarau, Hon. Simon Mwadkon and State  Assembly members expressed support for the decision taken, adding that the National EXCO of the Party is expected to wade into the matter. Hon. Gyang stressed that the development will not divide the  Party, as it applied the Constitution of the Party which it will not infringe on. He noted that the issue has nothing to do with the cases the Party has in Court, adding that it stands with its Gubernatorial candidate and all other Party members seeking redress at the tribunals. It would be recalled that the embattled Chairman, Hon.Damishi Sango was last week suspended by 16 members of his Executive over allegation of corruption levelled against him by the Party in the State