The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has warned that Nigeria would lose foreign partners and investors if the senseless killings in the country were not urgently addressed. Atiku who was reacting to the killing of British aid worker, Faye Mooney, and her Nigerian partner, Mathew Oguche two days ago in Kaduna State, however, told the British government that these atrocious actions do not reflect Nigeria’s national character. In a statement, the former vice president challenged the Federal Government to keep Nigeria safe for Nigerians and foreigners. “The death of any Nigerian or foreigner from terror, crime or insecurity grieves my heart. Nobody’s life is worth taking to advance a religious, political or criminal cause,” Atiku added. He further called for arrest of perpetrators of the crimes, warning that the time for empty rhetoric has gone. “Now is the time for urgent national action to stem insecurity. “Nigeria must once again become synonymous with peace, progress and prosperity. This can only happen when crime and punishment are a natural cause and effect. “As long as there is impunity, our nation will lack unity and security. Impunity must end and must end in earnest. These crimes continue to reoccur because previous killings have not been met with justice. “When the punishment for crimes are not forthcoming, criminals are emboldened to commit even worse crimes,” Atiku noted. The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has written to international community, alleging that President Muhammadu Buhari is threatening Nigeria's democracy.   In the letter sent to the Ambassadors of France, Germany, the European Union (EU), the United States of America (USA) and the High… In “News” The desperation of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress to stop the growing popularity, acceptance and political momentum of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in the race to become the next suitable President of Nigeria in 2019, obviously took an absurd, yet very disturbing and dangerous dimension recently, when the… In “Perspectives” The invasion of the National Assembly by armed security operatives yesterday has been described as an attempt to foist fascist regime in the country by the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who state this in separate statements… In “Politics”