The recent unveiling of micro-pension plan by the Federal Government has ignited expectation from the targeted contributors. Sunday Ojeme reports  A few weeks after the formal unveiling of the Micro-Pension Plan by the Federal Government, those that are expected to be covered are eagerly awaiting full implementation.
The pension plan, which is expected to bring about 70 million Nigerians into the pension net under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) was launched by President Muhammadu Buhari after going through series of teething problems.
Findings by New Telegraph revealed that although majority of those targeted were oblivious of the scheme, they, however, expressed their willingness to key into the scheme as soon as the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) commence the implementation in earnest.
Micro-pension targets the significant majority of Nigerian working population who, incidentally, operate in the informal sector. Participants are expected from various informal sector workers including market women, members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), members of textile, garment and tailoring associations, tricycle and motorcycle riders’ associations, butchers’ associations, workers in the movie and performing art industry, mechanics and other workers in the automotive industry and single professionals like lawyers, accountants and many others. Regulator’s position
While unveiling the scheme in Abuja, the Acting Director-General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, said the plan perfectly aligned with the current social empowerment prgrammes of the Federal Government as it seeks to ensure, in the long term, the sustainability of the benefits of the empowerment programmes for the participants, who may seize this opportunity to save for their old age.
According to her, “this is the first time such window of opportunity is being opened to self-employed Nigerians and those working in the informal sector, to participate and enjoy the benefits inherent in the Contributory Pension Scheme.
“As you might have observed, the CPS has been very impactful in Nigeria since the commencement of its implementation in 2004. The formation of long term domestic capital, represented by the over N8.74 trillion worth of pension assets as at January 2019, belonging to 8.46 million formal sector participants, is slowly but surely changing Nigeria’s financial landscape. This, by extension, is also transforming the course and pace of our socio-economic development. Potential beneficiaries
In a chat with our correspondent, an artisan, who is into metal fabrication, Oriade Abiodun, said although he was making adequate preparation towards his retirement, it would, however, not be out of place to be part of a pension plan regulated by government, provided it is foolproof.
According to him, “apart from keeping money in the bank and buying some landed property, I have no other pension arrangement for my retirement when I become too weak to do this job. Since it is not good to put ones’ eggs in one basket, I want to believe that the pension plan will also work better for those of us that are self-employed.
“I just hope the plan would begin soon, especially since the year is just beginning so that one can start setting something aside as quickly as possible.”
On his part, a major dealer in electronics, Mr Bernard Oriakwu, who expressed some reservation over the scheme due to the huge failure of pension in the past under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS), said he would, however, register himself and his workers for the micro plan, since it was going to be regulated under the CPS.
He said his knowledge of the formal sector arrangement under the CPS compelled him to take the decision as his landlord’s children currently working and having their pension contributions with PFAs furnished him with the workings of the scheme.
“It is a good thing that government is also willing to include self-employed into the pension arrangement. No one can be so strong to work forever, so it is good to plan for retirement. Now that the scheme is in place, I will register myself and the few workers with me. We expect those in charge to hasten up the process,” he added.
Apart from securing a good future for the workers, Dahir-Umar had said that the enlistment of the informal sector into the pension savings net would also boost the quantum of available long term investible funds that will galvanise national development efforts.
Umar said the scheme was designed to fit the peculiarities of these informal sector groups, stressing that the National Pension Commission had extensively engaged all relevant stakeholders and obtained their inputs before the product was developed to suit their requirements.
“The product is flexible with respect to contribution amount and the channel of remittance of contributions to the respective pension accounts. Access to accumulated contributions is also flexible, seamless and facilitated by technology through varied payment system platforms.
“Thus, a prospective contributor is required to open a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) by completing a physical or electronic registration form with a Pension Funds Administrator (PFA) of his/her choice.
The contributors may make contributions daily, weekly, monthly or as may be convenient to them,” she added. Partnership
To expand its reach the commission had organised sensitisation workshops and enlightenment programmes on CPS for informal sector associations and unions as part of the strategy of driving pension coverage in the sector.
It also had meetings with Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) where an agreement was reached to set up a joint Technical Committee that would work towards the effective implementation of the micro-pension plan.
Section 2(3) of the Pension Reform Act, 2014 extends coverage of the CPS to self-employed persons through micro pension scheme. Presidential stance
While unveiling the plan, President Muhammadu Buhari, said: “Today, millions of traders, farmers and other entrepreneurs in various industries are completely excluded from the different pension programmes in existence.
“If you recall, one of the three core pledge of this government is the creation of a diversified and inclusive economy. This can only be achieved by creating an enabling environment for farmers, entrepreneurs and people in other professions.
“In the past three years we provided grants, concessionary loans and technical support through the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) clinics to farmers, traders and SMEs.
“The micro pension plan guarantees that when these hardworking citizens retire, they can do it in dignity and comfort.”
Buhari encouraged trade associations, unions, non-governmental organizations and other stakeholders in the informal sector to join hands with the government and the pension industry to enlighten their members and the general populace of the benefits of the plan.
Buhari further added that: “We are working tirelessly to sanitize some of the rot within the pension system we inherited.
“This government remains committed in resolving all pension issues and payments, despite the lean resources of the government. We will ensure that every hardworking Nigerians in the private sector, formal and informal can retire without fear.”
While conceiving the micro-pension idea, PenCom proposed that it would boost pension contributors to 20 million from the current figure of 8.48 million contributors by 2019 and 30 million by the year 2024. Short-term target
The commission said it was working assiduously to enrol 250,000 contributors within six months of the commencement of the initiative. The scheme is an offshoot of the pension industry five-year strategic plan to expand the coverage of the CPS to 20 million contributors by the end of this year.
The commission is also targeting the self-employed in various trades and professions in Nigeria such as artisans, accountants, lawyers, mechanics, tailors, market men/women, hair dressers, architects, engineers among others. We have reviewed the implementation of micro pension in other jurisdictions like Kenya and Ghana; formulated guidelines and framework on micro pension; consulted licensed Pension Industry Operators and enhanced its information and communications technology capacity to accommodate the scheme. Mode of contribution
As part of the arrangement, the contributors in this segment may be expected to make contributions daily, weekly, monthly or as may be convenient for them as the plan is open to individuals who are 15 years and above with legitimate source of income and resident in Nigeria.
In the same vein, every contribution made shall be split into two comprising 25 per cent for contingent withdrawal and 75 per cent for retirement benefits just as the contributions shall be made by cash, electronically or any payment platform approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).
The regulator noted that a contributor shall be eligible to access pension upon attaining the age of 50 years or on health ground in accordance with the law, adding that a contributor shall also be entitled to guaranteed minimum pension, provide they satisfy the provision of Section 84 (1) of the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014. Last line
No doubt, with the targeted group set to take advantage of the scheme, it is now left for the sector regulator and the PFAs to hurriedly set the ball rolling in order to capture as many contributors as possible so as to meet the initial target for the current year.