Shocking revelations show that over 70 per cent of rice in circulation are still imported or smuggled into the country, with a new report putting it at one million metric tons in the last three months. Taiwo Hassan reports  President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2018 New Year broadcast that rice importation would be stopped at the end of last year in order to pave way for local production appears to have suffered a major setback.
Obviously, smuggling and importation of the commodity have taken a toll on the efforts of local farmers to achieve self-sufficiency in this regard.
Indeed, the country’s porous land borders remain the number one challenge facing the successful implementation of the Federal Government’s rice sufficiency policy as smugglers continue to invade different borders just to smuggle in the commodity and make quick profit.
Also, some officials of the Nigeria Customs Services (NCS) have been accused of looking the other way in the course of doing their job, therefore, fuelling influx of smuggled rice into the country. Survey
A three-week survey conducted recently on rice market across the six-geopolitical zones in the country indicated that foreign rice such as Mama Gold, Royal Stallion, Rice Master, Caprice, Falcon Rice and Basmati are sold alongside Nigerian rice such as Umza and Fursa Crown from Kano, Mama Happy from Niger, Labana Rice from Kebbi, Olam Rice from Nasarawa, Abakaliki Rice from Ebonyi, Ofada Rice from Ogun State, Swomen Dama from Plateau, Lake Rice of Lagos/Kebbi States among others.
Ironically, the foreign products are more visible and dominant in the Nigerian markets.
The question is how foreign rice keeps gaining access into Nigerian market in spite of rigorous government’s local rice policy.
Particularly, some agric analysts have concluded that government’s local rice policy embarked upon with visible intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) via the Anchors Borrowers Programme (ABP) is a failure and waste of resources since reports have it that foreign brands are still finding their ways into the country with ease, whether legally or illegally.
They also emphasised that findings had shown that Nigerians still preferred foreign rice in terms of consumption when compared with the local ones, saying that these are the reasons for increase in rice smuggling and importation.
Survey conducted showed that investors have invested multi-billion naira in local rice value chain, but recouping their investments have been a challenge as many of them complained of lack of patronage by Nigerians. Blame game
The sudden renewal in rice smuggling across the country’s land borders is currently unsettling the nation’s rice value chain with accusations and counter accusations becoming the order of the day among rice stakeholders, Nigeria Customs Service, CBN and investors over the missing link hindering the successful implementation of the government’s rice policy tailored towards sufficiency in rice production in the country.
Indeed, stakeholders in the rice sub-sector, namely, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Rice Millers Association of Nigeria (RIMAN) and Rice Processors Association of Nigeria (RIPAN), all gave kudos to the apex bank for the timely intervention and banning of rice since 2015, a development that has seen growth in local production of rice and serious savings of foreign exchange.
But they, however, laid the blame for the inflow of the banned commodity on the doorsteps of the NCS, saying that customs officials have been frustrating government’s local rice policy since its inception following their inability to fight against smuggling of the commodity and also paid serious attention to the various porous borders in the country. Report
In fact, the figure released recently by Africa Rice Center on the current state of Nigeria’s rice production was greeted with mixed feelings among key stakeholders in the country’s agric sector especially some members of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) who either doubted or supported the figure alluded to Nigeria.
Ordinarily, the news by the Africa Rice Center on Nigeria now occupying the pole position as the largest producer of rice in the continent ought to be a cheering news for everybody in the country, but the fact remains that the country is yet to attain alleged four million tonnes of rice production target, thereby, putting a snag on the Africa Rice Center’s report.
To buttress that all is not yet well with the country’s rice sector of the economy, RIPAN raised an alarm that over 20 million bags of foreign rice, equivalent of one million metric tons, have been smuggled into Nigeria in the last three months.
The Chairman of RIPAN, Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar Maifata, raised the alarm while briefing the media in Abuja on the latest development in rice smuggling in the country.
Maifata said: “Investors in Nigeria have made enormous financial commitment in the rice sub-sector. Unfortunately, the only threat to the industry’s total development, is smuggling. Over one million metric tons of rice, which is equivalent to about 20,000,000 bags of 50kg, have been smuggled into Nigeria in the last three months.
“Nigeria currently loses huge revenues, foreign exchange and jobs to this menace as Nigeria rice processing companies are shutting down because of their inability to gain market access.
“More painfully, millions of small-holder farmers are stuck with their paddy because the millers can no longer afford to buy from them,” he added.
He said investigations conducted by the association in the last few months indicated that “all our international borders have been converted to smugglers route and our markets are filled with smuggled foreign rice.” Last line
Sadly, this latest report by RIPAN has further cast doubt on government’s local rice policy in terms of its success and implementation since it has shown that foreign rice is still dominant in many Nigerian markets signaling that there is still much work to be done by government to convince Nigerians and investors about its genuinely local rice policy.