The 1.8 million barrels per day average crude oil exports from Nigeria faced fresh threat forcing two foreign super majors – Royal Dutch Shell and French Total – to declare force majeure on exports of 322,000 barrels crude per day from two Nigerian major crude grades: Bonny Light and Amenam oil. Force majeure is a legal terminology, which shows that a party in a contractual agreement would not be able to deliver according to the terms of the contract due to exigencies. The country’s crude oil production has, in the last few days, been suffering significant disruptions following a turbulent week in the country’s oil-producing Delta region. Shell said yesterday that it declared force majeure on exports of Nigeria’s Bonny Light crude following the closure of one of two export pipelines; the Nembe Creek Trunk Line (NCTL). Amenam, operated by Total, is also under force majeure, trading sources said. Both grades of crude are light and sweet, typically suitable for gasoline production. The Bonny Light-exporting Nembe Creek Trunk Line closed on April 21 following a fire, operator Aiteo said, and Shell said it had declared force majeure on April 25. Bonny Light exports, a data from Reuters showed, had been planned at 222,000 barrels per day (bpd) in June and 184,000 bpd in May. “But trading sources said they were awaiting new loading plans,” Reuters reported yesterday. Shell said the export terminal continued to run. The oil-well shutdowns, on the other hand, had reduced Amenam’s daily production and led to force majeure. Exports of Amenam are typically around 100,000 bpd, and trading sources said loadings had been delayed by roughly 25 days. Mr. Bamidele Odugbesan, Manager, Media Communications for Shell, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos, that the Bonny Light-exporting Nembe Creek Trunk Line was shut at 12:00hrs on April 25 although the trunk line was closed on April 21 following a fire outbreak. His counterpart in Total, Mr. Charles Ebereonwu, told NAN that he could not confirm when the closure on Amenam field trunk would be lifted. Two Shell oil workers were kidnapped last week in Rivers State, an escalation that helped prompt state police to step up security operations. With a reference level of 1.738 million bpd, Nigeria was given a new production quota of 1.685 million bpd by Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). In February, the country pumped 1.88 million bpd, 190,000 bpd above its cap, according to S&P Global Platts’ survey of industry officials, analysts and shipping data.