Some awe-inspiring musical performances, spiced with thought-provoking storytelling await Nigerians this season as this Easter’s edition of Queen Moremi the Musical stage play makes a comeback to Lagos.
Slated for the Terra Kulture Arena, Victoria Island, Lagos, prominent personalities in the society, royalty, business, politics, theatre and drama have been confirmed to participate in the event, which runs from April 18 to May 5, 2019.
His Imperial Majesty, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, will headline a distinguished audience of traditional and community leaders to the event on April 22, in affirmation of his passion to support women in leadership, as symbolized by the exploits of Queen Moremi over 1,700 years ago.
Executive Producers of the event – the House of Oduduwa Foundation, Rejevenee and Bolanle Austen-Peters Productions – in a statement, said arrangements had been finalized to ensure a breath-taking event.
Besides reinforcing the fact that performance is central to human experience, underlining the event is the re-enactment of the life and times of Queen Moremi which illustrates the pivotal role of women in societal development and to enable the younger generation, especially women, to recognize and aspire to leadership roles in society, which stood the Queen out in the history and liberation of Ile Ife town.
Queen Moremi Ajasoro, it will be recalled, was a courageous, selfless beautiful woman from Ile-Ife.
Moremi the Musical is a story of love, faith, honour and the ultimate sacrifice. Screen stars are set to take over the stage with their electrifying performance which is known to have fully enthralled the whole of Nigeria in the previous season.
The Moremi of Yoruba Land, Chief Mrs. Olufunso Amosun, says: “I know fully well that I am not worthy to hold a candle to the magnanimity of the Queen Moremi heroine being celebrated. I therefore take solace in the belief that promoting the legacies of Queen Moremi proves to unanimously acknowledge and celebrate all women that believe in and represent core values of womanhood, women that exemplify and promote integrity, dignity, courage, hard work, sacrifice, contentment, justice, humanity and love.”
She added: “The purpose and aim of this project is to celebrate women and to proudly showcase our history and project our vibrant rich culture to the entire world; to keep our identity, values and traditions alive especially amongst the youth, our upcoming next generation.”