Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) said it rejects the All Progressives Congress (APC) choice of Senator Ahmed Lawan as Senate President, saying he is a stooge of the south-west. The youths in a statement in Kaduna on Thursday disclosed that haven zoned the position to the northeast, the APC should allow stakeholders and senators to choose who is the best among the aspirants. The group in the statement signed by its National President Yerima Shettima said it would be shameful for the North to “sit back and a watch a single Southwest politician deciding for the Northeast in particular and the whole North in general”,  who should be the senate president from the zone. He also described as situation as “totally undemocratic and therefore unacceptable to true Northerners”. The youths said “allowing the imposition of Lawan to stand will portray the North as a mere manipulative pawn in the hands of one man, who has no business deciding for the North what it deserves”. Yerima explained that “much as it was decided that the Senate President should come from the Northeast, the Zone must be allowed to decide on the most acceptable choice, which is now obviously Senator Ali Ndume”. The statement also challenged “anyone with convincing reason as to why Senator Lawan would not be acting the script of a Southwest politician who single-handedly imposed him on Nigeria, to come forward with such facts”. According to the youths, the growing concern over Senator Lawan’s imposition “is all about the political future of the North and especially the journey towards 2023 and therefore we won’t tolerate any one-man agenda”. The statement said. group of youths from the North- East part of the country yesterday stormed the National Assembly to mount pressure on Senator Danjuma Goje, to join the Senate Presidency race by publicly declaring his intension to run for the exalted office. Already, Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, had been adopted as… In “News” The Senate in plenary, expressed concern that Nigeria's corporate existence is under threat of disintegration emanating from various secessionist/ethnic agitations as well as tension across the country. A coalition of Arewa youths had a fortnight ago issued a three-month ultimatum to Igbos resident in Northern Nigeria to vacate the region… In “Politics” The Senate in plenary, expressed concern that Nigeria's corporate existence is under threat of disintegration emanating from various secessionist/ethnic agitations as well as tension across the country. A coalition of Arewa youths had a fortnight ago issued a three-month ultimatum to Igbos resident in Northern Nigeria to vacate the region… In “Politics”