The 2019 general elections have come and gone. While some political camps are ecstatic about the results, others are still sulking over the outcome. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE writes on some new power brokers that emerged from the polls  The just concluded 2019 general elections have altered the political equations in the country. Some of those who used to hold the ace in terms of power fixing and allotment are currently out in the cold. The tsunami of uncertainty that pervaded the elections swept them away – stripping them of their influence or in some instance finally getting retired from the turf. Just like life in itself where there is no vacuum, some sets of new power brokers got inducted and installed at the end of the electioneering process. Interestingly, these new sets of power brokers whose growing clout featured prominently on the positive outcome of elections in their domains cut across political parties and age grades. They are found in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), All Progressives Congress (APC) and even among the fringe parties. However, many of them are not limited by their party affiliation as they also possess the diplomatic tact to sway fellow politicians and the electorate to their sides. Expectedly, the arrival of the new power fixers is bound and already producing fresh permutations starting from the National Assembly leadership, cabinet members and of course the 2023 elections. Given the prominence and attention that power brokers attract, it is hardly surprising that their presence is bound to stir some nervousness especially from their rivals. These new power brokers are here to stay and they will try to stay relevant by invading the territory of their opponents and plundering it. While concerns about the possible overbearing acts of the new power brokers are genuine, it is apt to amplify that the people can keep them in check through occasional appraisal and scrutiny. While it may be arduous spelling out the names of all the new power brokers, Sunday Telegraph still attempted to pick out some new political fixers who may influence the polity in the next few years.  Nyesom Wike Governor Nyesom Wike’s ascendency to political leadership started when he was sworn in as Chairman of Obio-Akpor Local Government for eight years during the tenure of Governor Peter Odili. Upon Rotimi Amaechi’s election in 2007, Wike became the new governor’s Chief of Staff from where he was appointed Minister of State for Education. Since his election as Rivers State governor in 2015, he has been playing a leading role in the opposition PDP. On more than one occasion, he caused the convention of the party to be held in Rivers State and has been a stabilizing force in the PDP. Wike also almost single-handedly installed Prince Uche Secondus, the National Chairman of the party, and ensured the PDP put up a good fight, by rallying round other governors in the last elections. Today, the party has reclaimed more states, and despite stiff opposition, Wike, noted for his sterling infrastructural development ability which earned him the pseudonym, ‘Mr. Projects’, is as good as winning re-election to the chagrin of his traducers in the oil-rich state.   Kayode Fayemi When he assumed office as the Governor of Ekiti State, little did anyone know that Dr. Kayode Fayemi will end up as the ‘Mr. Fix It’ of the South-West! Aside changing the political template in his state, the former Minister of Mines and Steel also brought to bear his influence on elections in other states of the South-West for the APC. Aside leading the charge of his party to its 100 per cent victory at the 2019 general elections, Fayemi was also at the forefront of his party’s quest to seal alliances and settle internal wrangling among members of his party in Oyo and Ondo states. The governor had literarily masterminded the alliance that secured APC’s victory at the last Osun State governorship election rerun in 2018. With his increasing influence in politics, not a few are already picking him out as one of the best feet that the southwest may put forward should the APC narrow its 2023 presidential ticket to the zone.  Rashidi Ladoja After the exit of the “Garrison Commander” of the Oyo State politics, Late Alhaji Lamidi Ariyibi Adedibu, who bestrode the political landscape of the state like a colossus, perhaps one of the newest miracles to happen to the state is High Chief Rasidi Adewolu Ladoja, the Osi Olubadan of Ibadanland. Ladoja led a coalition of forces of about four major opposition parties which has conferred the title of political godfather on him. Ladoja’s former Deputy Governor, and Ogbomoso political warlord, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, who for the purpose of not wanting the 2015 experience (where the APC defeated other opposition parties including the PDP), to repeat itself, had initiated the coalition by co-opting his boss into the arrangement of making the underbelly of the APC’s fish to glitter at the smiling sun in the March 9, gubernatorial election. With the election of Seyi Makinde, Ladoja has written his name more indelibly in the annals of history as a leader of a coalition that not only prevented a sitting governor from installing a successor but also ensured that Ajumobi lost his bid for the Senate.  Ibrahim Gaidam (Yobe) Alhaji Ibrahim Gaidam is not your typical politician. Unlike his ilk who go to the rooftop to air their personalities, the Yobe governor is not one given to such. He is considered as one of the longest serving government officials in the country after serving out in government for about 10 years. He served as deputy governor to late Governor Mamman Ali before he took over the Government House following the demise of his boss. For many, he is now the de facto landlord in Yobe. Gaidam, who is about completing 10 years in office as governor, was able to establish a political structure that helped him win two successive general elections in 2011 and 2015, addition to the tenure of his late boss which he completed in 2011. He has successfully tested his political strength by having a say in almost all those who secured tickets for various offices. The governor literally picked MaiMala Buni as his successor, ditto for almost all APC candidates in other elective offices. With himself picking one of the three senatorial seats, Gaidam is sure one of the new power brokers the 2019 elections was able to produce. For the records, he has been able to force the opposition PDP into political oblivion, just as he was able to keep the North-East state off the radar of intra-party acrimony. With the uncertainty on where the pendulum of the 2023 presidency of the APC may swing, Gaidam is a factor to consider should the party looks at the northeast zone.  Kashim Shettima Against all odds, Governor Kashim Shettima has succeeded in demystifying his onetime godfather, ex-governor Ali Modu Sheriff in the politics of Borno State. For many, Sheriff, who has a record of enthroning and dethroning kings in the state, was the most powerful politician in the North Eastern state, but his erstwhile godson has changed that narrative. Interestingly, Shettima has also humbled many politicians in the state, including former ministers, ambassadors and many others with high profile influence in the corridors of power in Abuja. Shettima succeeded in the last APC primaries to have his candidate Prof. Babagana Zulum as the gubernatorial candidate of the APC; he picked the APC senatorial ticket for Borno Central and ensured that Senator Abubakar Kyari and Ali Ndume picked theirs, as well as being instrumental to the emergence of all the House of Reps and State Assembly candidates. His sense of choices paid off as he delivered for the APC and not even the presence of Sheriff could derail the moving train of Shettima. As it stands, Shettima, who many considered as a loyal party man, has carved a niche for himself in politics as he has also tamed the PDP in the state.  Orji Kalu Regarded as a man that sees possibility in every task he lays his hands on, former Abia State Governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has once again brought to bear his towering influence that has made him tick since the return of democracy in 1999. With his party, the APC, Kalu won the Abia North Senatorial seat and he is poised to represent the people of the district who see him as the only one who can give them adequate and quality representation based on his distinctive pedigree while serving as governor of the state. Kalu, candidate of the APC, polled 30,203 votes to defeat Senator Mao Ohuabunwa, his closest rival and candidate of the PDP, who garnered 20,801 votes. Ohuabunwa is the current occupant of the seat. Over the years, “OUK”, as he is fondly called by his admirers, has built a large reservoir of knowledge and bridges across the country. For him, no day passed away, without proffering feasible solution to the Nigerian socio-economic and political conditions. Despite being a billionaire, Kalu has maintained his grassroots sense of politics, and he has over the time evolved erudition and versatility in many spheres of Nigeria’s life.
On this and more, political analysts see Kalu’s credential as one fitted for a major power broker.  Whilst it’s not a new status for him, it is only left to be seen how the erudite businessman will navigate his influence.  As the days go by, the leadership role of others like the Minister of Power, Housing and Works, Babatunde Fashola; Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; former governor Segun Osoba, are also manifesting. Chief Osoba played a major responsibility in the election of Dapo Abiodun in Ogun State against Adekunle Akinlade, the man backed by incumbent governor, Ibikunle Amosun; even as Mohammed ensured the crash of the Saraki dynasty in Kwara State.