group of youths from the North- East part of the country yesterday stormed the National Assembly to mount pressure on Senator Danjuma Goje, to join the Senate Presidency race by publicly declaring his intension to run for the exalted office. Already, Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, had been adopted as the preferred candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with the party leadership, threatening to deal with anybody who would go against the decision of the party. However, calling the bluff of the party leadership, Senator Ali Ndume, had declared his intention to run for the office last two weeks, saying that the decision of the party was arbitrary, unconstitutional and undemocratic. While Lawan and Ndume had publicly made their intentions known, Senator Goje had not made a public declaration to that effect, in spite of insinuations in the public domain that he was being quietly backed by the outgoing Senate President, Bukola Saraki and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senators-elect. Urging Goje to come out publicly and declare his intention to join the contest, the youth group led by Mr. Bello Ambo from Bauchi State, said that neither the endorsement of Lawan by the national leadership of the APC nor expression of interest by Ndume, should prevent Goje from joining the race. He said the group was mobilising and canvassing for Goje’s emergence as the Senate President of the 9th Senate because as far as public service experience was concernedGoje stands far above the other two, having controlled a whole state for eight years between 2003 and 2011 and been in the senate since then with required parliamentary experience. “The position of Senate President requires administrative and parliamentary knowledge enormously possess by Goje as against the two other contenders from the zone,” he said. When reminded that the APC had officially adopted Lawan last week Monday, Coordinator of the group said that senators- elect were matured people who could decide who their leader should be and should be allowed to do so. “Our party (APC) is a party of the people and not few leaders, the party should allow the people in this case, senatorselect, to decide whoever they want as their leader in whatever capacity.