President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said that Nigerians across the country were appreciative of his government’s efforts to make things work in the country. The President said the mammoth crowd that witnessed his campaigns during the just-concluded presidential election was a testimony to this fact. He stated this while receiving the Board of Trustees (BoT) and Advisory Council of Gidauniyar Jihar Katsina (Katsina State Development Fund) led by Justice Mamman Nasir, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to the President, his campaign to all states of the federation was an eye opener. He assured Nigerians that he would put in more efforts to ensure the best for the country and her citizens, when he commences his second term in office on May 29, 2019, while also appreciating all those that voted for him during the election. The President said the crowd that welcomed his campaign train in each state was more than anyone can possibly ‘induce,’ attributing the turnouts to people’s appreciation of the efforts of his administration. “Thank you for supporting me. I assure you that I will do my best during the second term. We will work for Nigeria and her people,” he said. Buhari noted that he was the chairman of the Katsina State Development Fund for 17 years, during which period a lot was done to support education, healthcare and agriculture in the state, especially for those that were less-privileged. In his remarks, Galadima of Katsina, Justice Nasir, said the foundation returned gratitude to God and all Nigerians for giving President Buhari the opportunity to serve another term in office. “We are most grateful to almighty Allah for bringing you back for another term in office. Our happiness and gratitude goes to Nigerians for electing you,” he said. President Muhammadu Buhari says he will put in his best for the country and her citizens during his second term in office on May 29, while appreciating all those that voted him during the elections. The president stated this when he received the Board of Trustees and Advisory Council of… In “News” As the candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, respectively, criss-cross the country canvassing votes ahead of the February 16 presidential election, it is a plethora of promises to citizenry, FELIX NWANERI reports… In “Politics” President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to shun violence on February 16 Presidential elections. He said that he wished for a country devoid of violence and wanton destruction of human live. "The sanctity of human lives should be protected no matter what because that is what I bargained for as… In “News”