A female teacher, who allegedly sent the Senior Prefect of Ijo Mimo High School, Akure, Ondo State, Temitayo Oluwole, to pluck mango for her, resulting in his death, has fled. Oluwole fell from the mango tree located on the premises of the school on Saturday. He died on the spot. But the teacher, identified simply as Mrs. Kura, is said to be on the run, for fear of arrest or being lynched by protesting students and parents. Sources in the school said Kura fled because of the fear of backlash from students and members of the Parent- Teacher Association (PTA) who were aggrieved by Oluwole’s death. Since the incident of Saturday, the whereabouts of the teacher had remained unknown, fuelling speculation that she has fled the state. But the police command said they would declare Kura, who teaches Physics in the school, wanted if she did not show up before Tuesday. Oluwole’s death was said to be the fourth. Three students had earlier fallen from the mango tree and died after being asked to pluck the mangoes by their teachers. Oluwole had on Saturday gone to school for tutorials. But after lectures, Kura reportedly asked him to pluck some mangoes for her. The prefect slipped, fell and hit his head on the ground. He was rushed to three separate hospitals before he gave up the ghost at the Trauma Centre in Ondo town. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, said the command would declare the suspect wanted by today if she did not report herself to the police. The PPRO disclosed that the school Principal, Mr. Olaoye, had reported and was interrogated by detectives. He said: “We would declare the female teacher wanted if she failed to show up tomorrow (today) to come and tell us her own side of the story. ““The school principal had volunteered statement to us and we are yet to see the female teacher who asked the deceased to help her pluck the mangoes. “Our detectives visited the school and if not for our timely intervention the students were about to mob the teachers. “We succeeded in calming frayed nerves and normalcy has returned to the school. But we are still expecting the female teacher who sent the boy to help her pluck mangoes before he died.” The Commissioner for Education, Mr. Femi Agagu, said the Ministry of Education had sent representatives of relevant education agencies, associations and bodies to Oluwole’s parents and the school. Agagu said the matter would be thoroughly investigated by his ministry. The commissioner said government would get to the root of the incident to guide against future occurrence. Oluwole’s father, Pastor Bode Adegoke, said that “as a man of God I have left everything to God. “The Ministry of Education has taken over the matter, so please speak with them.” On when it was likely that the deceased would be buried, he said that as soon as the Ministry of Education was ready. Efforts to speak with the Principal, Olaoye, were abortive as he was said to have being directed by the ministry not to grant press interview.