‘The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, but expecting different results’
– Albert Einstein, German-born theoretical physicist who developed the theory of relativity, one of the two pillars of modern physics (1879-1955)
Unfortunately the above quote made by the famous German-born theoretical physicist, Albert Einstein more than six decades ago appears to be what is presently afflicting our beloved Nigeria. Or how does one explain the situation of things in the country, which are more often than not man made problems!
Let’s start with the rising rates of insecurity affecting large swaths of the nation.
Of course the problem is not a recent phenomenon as one can realistically trace the rise in violent crimes to immediately after the Civil War when such notorious criminals like Babatunde Folorunsho and Ishola Oyenusi, also known as ‘Doctor rob and kill’, captivated the attention of the country because of the brutal and callous manner they carried out their robberies.
Oyenusi’s arrogance was also legendary. When he was finally arrested and handcuffed by a police officer. As the policeman was ordering him around, Oyenusi thundered: “People like you don’t talk to me like that when I am armed. I gun them down!”
The last robbery that did him in was when he and his gang attacked the WAHUM factory in Ikeja in March 1971, where they stole the princely sum of £28,000, which was unprecedented in those days. A police officer was also killed in the process.
Then in the 80s we had Lawrence Nomanyagbon Anini aka ‘The Law’, who reigned supreme in the old Bendel State, now Edo and Delta
So brutal and callous was his reign of terror, that at the conclusion of a meeting of the Armed Forces Ruling Council in October 1986, then military President, General Ibrahim Babangida reportedly asked his Inspector-General of Police, Etim Inyang: “My friend, where is Anini?”
But these pale into insignificance compared to what is the situation in the land now – be it kidnapping, piracy, armed robbery, insurgency and other anti-social vices, Nigeria has never had it so bad.
Virtually daily we are treated to gory tales of carnage in states like Zamfara, Benue, Sokoto, Yobe, Southern Kaduna and other places, were bandits roam free killing and maiming at will and then “disappearing” leaving sorrow, tears and blood in their wake.
The impunity with which these armed gangsters operate leaves many scratching their heads wondering what exactly those charged with securing lives and property of the citizens are actually doing?
Growing up, I have witnessed the evolution of the police force, which is traditionally saddled with this responsibility. Those old enough will still remember the ‘Olopa’ (Yoruba word for policeman) of old moving around with just their ‘kondos’ (Yoruba for batons).
But as the bandits became more deadly so did the equipment of the police and so out went the ‘kondos’ to be replaced by automatic weapons to match those of the ‘bad guys’ they are now confronting.
However, from all indications even this “upgrade” is no longer enough as we have seen the military taking up more and more of the traditional work of the overwhelmed police force.
Nonetheless, even the more visible nature of the military has not been enough to checkmate the scourge as the daily headlines of brutal killings across the land clearly indicates.
So the million naira question on the lips of many is “why is this still so?”
Sadly, the answer appears to be it is because like Einstein said we are “doing the same thing over and over again, but expecting different results!”
We may change the personnel but so long as we fail to change our approach to the problem then nothing will change.
I still remember in the late 80s when one of the nation’s finest crime reporters, Ben Aparanta (sadly now late) in an effort to prove that the police were working hard to keep us safe, brought a young man to the office.
Wearing jeans and a t-shirt, the young man would have blended easily in the crowd undistinguished with others going about their business at the various bus stops across Lagos.
But this man was actually an undercover police office attached to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the force and was assigned to the popular Ojuelegba area of the city and was to help keep a lid on those who may have wanted to ferment trouble.
In the small bag he kept nonchalantly under his arm pit was a 9mm berretta pistol, which he could use if push came to shove. In fact that still remains the only time that I have ever held a pistol.
So if as far back as the 80s the police could flood trouble spots with undercover operatives in an effort to clamp down on crime, why can they no longer do so now or try to infiltrate these criminal gangs?
Of course such a person will have to be a good “actor” in order to be able to blend in with “his gang members”. Whatever information he (or she) is able to gleam on their modus operandi can then be used to curtail future attacks and pick up their sponsors if they exist.
Since the 9/11 attacks, the United States has revamped its intelligence gathering in order to ensure that they will never be caught unawares like they were when the Twin Towers were brought down in an al-Qaeda inspired attack some 18 years ago.
Since then numerous plots have been nipped in the bud courtesy of improved intelligence, better equipment and enhanced training of those saddled with the responsibility of keeping Americans safe.
Even before 9/11, crimes existed in the US but in an effort to tackle it head on the government set up the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as the domestic intelligence and security service of the nation, and its principal federal law enforcement agency.
We have repeatedly been told that both the police and military have Special Forces but one wonders why they are still finding it difficult to check the rising levels of insecurity across the land.
It is, however, one thing to have Special Forces, but like I pointed our earlier without proper intelligence to back them up there is very little such elite forces can do.
It is like going to fight in the dark without night vision goggles to help the forces see the bad guys in the gloom.
The security outfits will also need to cultivate the respect of the local people, who are the best sources of the intelligence they will need to battle the bandits.
Government on its part should also provide the proper funding in order to allow the forces (police or military) be better equipped in order to tackle the bandits.
In addition, those putting their lives on the line in order to make us safe should likewise be given special privileges not only as a way of enhancing their productivity in this very dangerous game of life or death they are engaged in, but also make them more committed to the cause.
It is high time that we are not only bombarded by promises of what government is doing to keep us safe but should actually be noticing improvements!