Book Title: Protecting Your Children From Sexual Abuse 
Author: Bisi Adewale
Publisher: Living Home Ventures, Ikeja, Lagos
Year of publication: 2019
Pages: 168
Reviewer: Tony Okuyeme  The menace of child sexual abuse has become so alarming that one can only imagine what would happen next. Besides the fact that statistics about child sexual abuse keeps increasing every day for the worse, equally worrisome is that most of the victims have been abused by people known closely to their families. Bisi Adewale’s latest book, ‘Protecting Your Children From Sexual Abuse’ is, therefore, timely, especially as it not only addresses this menace but also proffers ways to nip it in the bud.  The book, divided into 23 chapters, opens with 51 heartbreaking and real-life stories of past sexual abuse victims. Many of these victims, now adults, shared stories of what happened to them when they were younger. Some were as young as four years old. The book reveals what sexual abuse is and how a child can be abused. It also gives the differences between sex education and sexualisation, recent statistics on child sexual abuses and shows reasons why parents should be careful about people they trust with their children’s upkeep. As the author notes, “A study revealed that about 80% of sexually abused children have been abused by people known closely to them (Uncles, Cousins, Aunties, Teachers, spiritual leaders, Neighbours, Nannies, baby sitters etc.) Indicators or signs that a child is being sexually abused are also revealed in the book while factors that predispose a child to sexual abuse are also mentioned.” The author further that sexual abuse is very real today, stressing that, “it is too common to be ignored, too close to pretend we are unaware and too devastating if we fail to prepare against it.” According to him, the book was borne out of an urgent need to mitigate this great problem in our society today.  “I got provoked to finally write this book after someone sent a video of little school children performing oral sex for each other in their school compound. It was really disgusting! I knew that I had to do something right away, having delayed for years. “It’s a monkey business most of the time. Most times, people that want to molest your children will come close as if they have intentions to help and better your lot but may leave you with tears and sorrow. That is why you have to be very careful and watchful lest you fall into the hands of monkey merchants.” Parents, he emphasises, need to know about sexual abuse; they need to know how to prevent it and how to coach their children; also, they need to know what to do if abuse happens. “Somebody needs to tell them and I think I am in a vantage position to do this having put about twenty years into training families, equipping parents, helping people to raise good homes and godly children. So, I am putting all these experiences into this book to help you raise a child without blemish. “Protecting Your Children From Sexual Abuse has been written to help in dealing with the menace of child sexual abuse in our society. A study revealed that 1 in every 10 children would be sexually abused before age 18. The book seeks to open the eyes of parents to the need to protect the lives of their children from paedophiles in our society.” In the book, readers will be exposed to mistakes parents make that exposes their children to sexual abuse; what to do when a child is sexually abused; how to prevent abuse and how to protect children from abusers. While the focus of Chapter 2 is “Understanding Child Sexual Abuse”, Chapter 3 looks at indicators of sexual abuse”, and in Chapter 4, the author explains the factors that increases the possibility of sex abuse. “30 Myths and Facts About Child Sexual Abuse” is the focus of Chapter 5, while, in Chapter 7, the focus is on “Why Would An Adult Abuse A Child” and the long term effects of child sexual abuse. In Chapters 8 and 9, the author presents the mistakes parents make about sexual abuse and offers practical ways to protect your child from sexual abuse. Chapter 10 dwells on how and when children tell about sexual abuse. Here, the author notes that while some children may tell their parents as soon as they have been abused, other children may not do so, and that often, some children wait to tell for an indefinite period of time; while others live with it all the days of their lives. He also lists reasons why children may not report sexual abuse. Among these, he explains, include the fear of what parents might say or do; fear of rejection by parents; fear that nobody will believe them; distance between parents and their children; being too ashamed to talk; and that the absence of parents from home may also prevent a child from speaking out. In Chapter 11, the author discusses 14 Ways to Handle Child Sexual Abuse; and in Chapter 12, he explains why sex education is not sexualisation. Danger of Lack of Sex Education and Sexual Predators Are Closer Than You Think are the focus of Chapters 13 and 14. Significantly, the author explains the benefits of sex education for children including teenagers, in chapters 15 and 16, while Chapter 17 is on the things to teach your children about sex early in life. While Practical Ways to Teach Your Children About Sex Abuse is the focus of Chapter 18, the latter chapters of the book – 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 – expose how to give an age-grade sexual education by giving a practical guide on how to educate toddlers, pre-scholars, grade-scholars, pre-teens and teenagers.