The Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University (LASU), Prof. ‘Lanre Fagbohun, has approved the appointment of Dr. Olufemi Obayori, the Acting Dean of Students’ Affairs as the Convener of the university technology innovation hub.  The Technology Innovation Hub team, according to the Vice- Chancellor, has among its terms of reference to build community of Information Technology (IT) talented students; discover and assemble a team of students, who are Information Technology savvy for innovation hub; serve as the core technology innovation hub for the university towards attracting and winning the sponsorship of such innovations by the Access Bank; and offer guidance to the assembled team.  The team, which also has as part of its responsibility to open up windows of opportunities for students with Information Technology skills and entrepreneurial drive innovation hubs; is expected to aggregate students of the university that interact and collaborate to market new ideas that can solve social challenges; as well as to come up with competitive innovations that are Information Technology driven.   Besides, the committee is to identify and display acceptable technology innovations and facilitates competitions for selection of the best innovations by Access Bank Plc; and develop detailed implementation plan for attainment of the set objective.   The management also flayed allegation of misappropriating N198 million staff pension to buy luxury cars, saying that the university borrowed the sum of N474 million from its provision to meet past service obligations. According to the university, the Pension Fund for members of staff of the institution, who are yet to register with Pension Fund Administrators, which is less than N100 million, is intact.  The university’s Coordinator, Centre for Information, Press and Public Relations, Mr. Ademola Adekoya, noted in a statement: “In taking the above step, the university obtained approval of the Governing Council, while the Office of the Special Adviser on Education to the Governor, and the Governor/ Visitor to the university were duly carried along.   At no time did the Pro-Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor violate the provisions of the Financial Guidelines of the university,” it noted.  The Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the university, Prof. Adebayo Ninalowo and Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Lanre Fagbohun were accused by a publication of diverting N198 million staff pension to buy luxury cars and to fund accreditation of the institution’s academic programmes.  But, Adekoya, however, added: “It is instructive to state that the Lagos State Pension Commission (LASPEC); the body that regulates and supervises effective administration of pension matters in Lagos State pays regular working visits to the Lagos State University and in a recent letter commended the university for its efficiency in the remittance of pension funds to Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs).  As a matter of practice, the LASU does not default in the payment of its obligations to either the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) or its retirees.   “It should be further noted that Lagos State University in the 2018 NUC accreditation exercise recorded over 95 per cent success in the programmes presented for accreditation and as at today, all programmes at the university are duly accredited by the National Universities Commission.