 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday raised the alarm about an alleged plot by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to compromise the Niger State governorship election tribunal. According to a statement made available to New Telegraph in Minna, PDP said: “We know for a fact that Niger State APC has made approaches through several fronts, including enrolling past judicial officers to link up to the panel members.   “While we in the PDP have tremendous confidence in the judiciary, we have no reason yet to suspect that the members have compromised in anyway or form. We have absolute confidence they will not.”  The statement signed by the Director of Communications, Umar Nasko Governorship Campaign Organisation, Yahaya Mohammed Usman said: “The suspicion of the PDP had been further reinforced by persistent claims by some leaders of the APC, who have continued to insist that nothing will come out of the tribunal, we have power and will do as we want.”  He, however, said that the PDP “will continue to build a water-tight case that will ensure that our stolen mandate is recovered and given back to the rightful owner. “We are very much aware of all the electoral malpractices and electoral frauds perpetrated during the sham governorship election; at the commencement of sitting, all the facts will be tendered before their lordships.”  He therefore called on the “tribunal members to remain resolute and ensure justice is served so as to write their names in gold.”  But in a swift response, APC dismissed the claim of the PDP with a wave of the hand, describing it as the “figment of the imagination of a drowning party.”  APC, through the Special Assistant to Governor Abubakar Sani Bello on Media and Communication, Mr. Jide Orintunsin said: “The PDP was known for fake news and propaganda, we will not join them in the illegal act.”  He, however, said that the APC; and in particular, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello “has no reason to try to compromise the tribunal, because we won the election clean and clear.”  The governorship election tribunal after its first sitting, during which it directed substituted service on Governor Abubakar Sani Bello, adjourned sitting to May 6, this year. The three-man tribunal had Justice Halilu Yussuf, as its chairman.