CREATIVITY
Winner of best affordable housing design in each category goes home with N1 million, N750.000 and N500,000.   If entries of candidates in the design competition being championed by the Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA), Lagos chapter, are finally screened to pick the best for implementation, the institute and Sterling Bank will be entering into a joint venture (JV) on affordable housing project, New Telegraph has learnt. Speaking with our correspondent in Lagos, Lagos Chairman of NIA, Mr. Fitzgerald Umah, said the joint venture between the Institute and the bank was to ensure that all proposals in the design as regards affordable housing are realisable through physical implementation. He said that the best design from the competition would be passed to the necessary stakeholders for processing. “It is going to be for the Ethopian group, a community where the rich, average and the poor live together,” he said. “It is going to be a complete community with the same infrastructure such road network, water supply and drainage system.” The design competition, Umah said, would be opened to young professionals not more than 35years and students studying architecture in tertiary institutions in Lagos State, explaining that the winning entry would be implemented through Sterling Bank’s support. According to him, the design challenge was meant to bring out ingenuity of participants and set the pace for affordable houses and materials in order to promote affordability among the target groups. Implementation of adopted design, Umah said, would be in locations with firm soil such as Ikorodu, Ipaja and Ayobo, but that the budget has not been decided. To provoke thoughtful and creative idea from eligible young professionals and students entering for the competition, Umah said that N1 million price awaited first position, N750,000 for second and N500,000 for third positions. In the students category, N750,000 awaits first position, N500,000 and N250,000 for second and third positions respectively. The Lagos NIA boss emphasised that all these were being powered by Sterling Alternative Finance. The initiative, according to him, was part of response to past Lagos Architects Forum (LAF), aimed at providing solutions to some of the urban challenges such as housing problems, increased slum settlements and incessant building collapse confronting the state. On how to achieve cheap houses for the generality of Nigerians, Umah said a prototype building would be made available during LAF 10.0, scheduled for May, 2019, adding that the institute was working on the pilot scheme. He said: “We really don’t need to build with sandcrete, concrete and the rest since there are other alternative that are cheaper such as container building. The forum will provide opportunities for partners to meet key players and stakeholders in the construction industry.” He challenged the Lagos State Government to implement its programmes on urban renewal to make the city livable. According to Umah, if government needed to pay compensation, it should go ahead to ensure implementation of urban renewal scheme in the state. He pointed out that Lagos State did not lack master plans but implementation of such blueprints, urging government to adopt business model to implement all its master plans for the city. “If Sterling Bank find the necessary stakeholders, it will do it,” the NIA boss said. On historic buildings already listed in the metropolis, Umah said that architects would be partnering owners of such edifice to restore them. According to him, the institute was researching into these legacy buildings in order to preserve them for future references. He said that architects would be helping families or owners of the listed buildings in preparation of their drawings (if not found) for the purpose of documentation and restoration. Some of these old buildings with architectural master piece are located in Lagos Island, Ikoyi, Government Reserve Areas (GRAs) and mainland. On how to curb nuisance of building collapse in the state, the Lagos’ NIA boss said the Institute had already submitted a document to the state government, adding that if proposals contained therein are considered and implemented, they would rid the state of menace of structural failures. “The Lagos Building Control Agency (LABCA) and Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development already have this document and government is presently reviewing it, “Umah said. According to the General Secretary of the institute, Abiodun Fatuyi, it was a good thing for every house to have an architect, noting that most of the three, four and five storey buildings that collapsed in Lagos Island did not have the inputs of professionals. He said that no building on outer Marina, Lagos that are of 20 or 30 floors, which were built by core professionals, collapsing. He urged residents to ensure the engagement of right professionals in their building production process.