…conceals submissions of investigative panel ●Suspended CJN: I never received car gift, bribe from lawyers The National Judicial Council (NJC), yesterday, said it has forwarded the outcome of its investigation into corruption allegations against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, to President Muhammadu Buhari for action.
The Council, which made this known in a statement that was signed by its Director of Information, Soji Oye, said it convened an emergency meeting to consider the report of the five-man committee it constituted to investigate allegations of misconduct that were levelled against Justice Onnoghen and the Acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad.
The NJC, however, noted that it decided to refrain from considering the allegation that Justice Onnoghen failed to declare his assets on the ground that it would amount to subjudice since the matter is in court.
The statement read in part: “The National Judicial Council reconvened today in an Emergency Meeting to consider the Report of the Five-Man Committee constituted to investigate the allegations of misconduct made against Hon. Mr. Justice W. S. N. Onnoghen and Hon. Mr. Justice I. T. Muhammad.  “Council decided that the allegations relating to assets declaration that were levelled against Hon. Mr. Justice W. S. N.Onnoghen were subjudice and therefore abstained from considering them.
“Council reached a decision on the petitions written by Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and others and conveyed its decision to President Muhammadu Buhari.
“Council also resolved that by the nature of the decision reached, it would be inappropriate to publicise it before conveying it to Mr. President.”
The NJC had on February 13, said it was satisfied that corruption allegations against the suspended CJN deserved to be investigated. The Council equally okayed probe of the Acting CJN, Justice Muhammad, on the allegation that he engaged in misconduct by making himself available to be sworn by President Buhari as Onnoghen’s replacement. Pursuant to Rule 20 (1) of the Judicial Discipline Regulations, the NJC constituted a five-man investigation panel headed by a retired justice of the Supreme Court, Justice S. A. Akintan, to look into various petitions that were lodged against both Onnoghen and Muhammad. The council equally directed the Investigation Committee “to work expeditiously, determine all the petitions and responses and report to Council for a final decision.”
Earlier, in his response to the NJC, Onnoghen queried the competence of two petitions the EFCC lodged against him.
The CJN, who was suspended from office by President Buhari on January 25, accused the EFCC of raising “malicious and speculative” allegations against him.
The investigative panel had directed the embattled CJN to respond to corruption allegations the anti-graft agency raised against him. Specifically, EFCC had in its petitions, alleged that Onnoghen received car and monetary gifts from lawyers, some of who, it said, had pending cases in court. For instance, the agency, said its “intelligence report” indicated that Onnoghen received a Mercedes Benz GL 450 valued at N7 million from a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Joe Agi.
The anti-graft commission said its investigation disclosed that the senior lawyer subsequently appeared in a case that was handled by a Supreme Court panel that included the CJN.
The commission maintained that the car gift was aimed at persuading the suspended CJN to pervert the course of Justice to favour Agi. Likewise, EFCC alleged that Onnoghen collected various monetary gifts from five other SANs, among whom it said, include the current President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro.
It gave names of other lawyers, whose fund transfers were traced to accounts of the CJN as Mr. Emeka Etiaba, Dr. Onyechi Ikpeazu, Mr. Eze Duru Iheoma and Mr. Ogunsanya Adewunmi. According to the EFCC, the funds, which ranged between N250,000 and N300,000, were deposited into Onnoghen’s accounts sometimes in 2015, before he eventually became the CJN.
More so, the petitioner alleged that Onnoghen had on different occasions, received huge amount of dollars as estacodes. It insisted that the estacodes which were handed to him in cash were above the approved limits.
In a bid to justify its claim that the embattled CJN siphoned public funds under the false pretence that they were estacodes that accrued to him over time, EFCC told the NJC that Onnoghen had between 2017 and 2018, received a total of N24,169,452 from one Ngozi Nwankwo, who it identified as the Chief Protocol Officer at the Supreme Court. The agency said it decided to file the petitions before dragging the suspended CJN to court, considering that the NJC is the body with the statutory powers to okay the prosecution of serving judicial officers.
It alleged that funds that were traced to accounts of the respondent were suspected to be part of proceeds of illegal transactions. Following NJC’s directive, Justice Onnoghen, in his response to a query that was issued to him, debunked all the allegations, insisting that he was been unnecessarily witch-hunted.
Contrary to EFCC’s allegation, Onnoghen, said he never received any car gift from Agi, saying he bought the car from the lawyer, who according to him, has car dealership license in America.
He noted that Agi had also testified before the NJC panel to the effect that he was duly paid for the car.
He equally insisted that the car was never a gift to sway him to compromise in the discharge of his judicial duties. Onnoghen further maintained that it was not tenable that he could collect a car gift to pervert justice in a case that was decided by a five-man panel of justices that included the immediate past CJN, Justice Mahmud Mohammed and the current Acting CJN.
He gave other panel members in the case EFCC claimed that Agi later brought to the apex court as Justices Francis Fedode Tabai (now retired) and Christopher Michell Chukwumah-Eneh (now late). Though the CJN admitted that he indeed received monetary gifts from five lawyers, he insisted that it was not a bribe, but a goodwill gesture and an unsolicited support that was extended to him during the wedding ceremony of his first daughter in 2015.
To substantiate his claim, Onnoghen tendered the wedding invitation card in evidence before the NJC, contending that gifts that followed were part and parcel of the customs and traditions of the people he said, judicial officers were by law, allowed to receive.
According to Onnoghen’s defence team, by Rule 13.5(2) of the Revised Code of Conduct for Judicial officers (Published February, 2016), a judicial officer is permitted to accept “personal gifts or benefits from relatives or personal friends to such extent and on such occasions as are recognized by custom.” The CJN further argued that linking the gift to cases that were handled by the Supreme Court was baseless since he did not even sit on one of the cited cases. He gave names of justices that handled the case EFCC referred to in its petition, as Musa Dattijo Muhammad (presided), Clara Bata Ogunbiyi, Kudirat Motonmori O. Kekere-Ekun, Ejembi Eko and Sidi Dauda Bage.
More so, Justice Onnoghen noted that whereas the goodwill gesture was extended to his daughter in 2015, the said case was decided by the Supreme Court in 2017.
He further noted that one of the cases in which he was accused of collecting gratification was concluded four years before his daughter’s wedding, even as he gave names of other justices that handled the said case in 2011 as Aloysius Katsina-Alu (then CJN), Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, John Afolabi Fabiyi, Olufunlola O. Adekeye, Suleiman Galadima and Bode Rhodes Vivour. He argued that linking the “customary gift” he received from the NBA president, Usoro, to a member of the panel of seven justices was “in conflict with common sense.
Likewise, the suspended CJN said he only received estacodes that were due to him, after it was calculated by relevant accounting officials. He said it was the practice of the apex court for judges to be paid estacodes, stressing that no judge was in the position to determine what should be paid to him, though they sign to collect it in cash. Onnoghen’s claim was backed by the Director of Finance at the Supreme Court who also testified before the NJC to the effect that it was a regular practice for Justices to collect their estacodes in cash.
He equally maintained that he did not violate any law, adding that all justices of the Supreme Court, both serving and retired, were always handed their own estacodes in cash.