Pedestrian walkways are designated paths on the roadsides separated from the motor vehicle lanes by a space or barrier. In Abuja, many of these pathways have been blocked for many years, but there is a move to re-open them as CALEB ONWE reports  In major cities around the world, pedestrian walkway is an integral part of the road infrastructure and is designed to enhance the free movement of people on foot without the risk of being knocked down by automobiles. In the Central Business District of Abuja and other built up areas of the city, the roads were built with sidewalks to ease the movement of pedestrians. However, many of these walkways have been blocked or cordoned off in many places, due mainly to security concerns. The case is even worse in the areas around security institutions, such as the Headquarters of the Nigeria Armed Forces, Ship House, Ministry of Defence Building and Eagle Square near the Cenotaph. Other places where the walkways have been blocked include the NNPC Towers, CBN Headquarters and the Embassies of some countries. Usually, any attempt for a pedestrian to use such walkways is deemed as a trespass and could attract stiff penalties, including molestation, arrest and detention by security agencies. At other points, the walkways have even been encroached upon by artisans and petty traders, who are doing their businesses by the road side. Minister of the FCT, Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello, recently ordered an immediate dismantling of all barriers mounted on all the pedestrian walkways in the city. Bello frowned at the attitude of some individuals and organisations that block pedestrian walkways and convert them to their personal use. He described it as an unlawful act and directed all the relevant agencies and departments of the FCTA to immediately recover all the blocked walkways and revert them back to their original use. “These walkways or pavements are there not only to beautify the areas but they also serve as footpaths for residents taking strolls, running for exercise purposes or even dog walking,” he said. Inside Abuja learnt that the new directive would be given the force of law, as it was issued during the FCT Executive Committee meeting. The minister, who was not satisfied with the standardisation of road markings and signs in the FCT, also directed that all the relevant Departments and Agencies in the FCT should collaborate with the Transportation Secretariat during the planning and execution of road markings and signage projects. He directed that all the relevant agencies and departments should with immediate effect step up the enforcement of all extant rules and regulations guiding life within the city. He reminded the heads of the various Secretariats, Departments and Agencies that with elections now over, there was a need to clean up Abuja by removing all posters and other such electioneering materials that tend to litter the city. Bello said that with the inauguration of the President coming up in May, Abuja is expected to play host to many dignitaries, many of whom will come from outside the country. He reminded them of the need to ensure that the FCT looked its best not just during that event but at all times. Inside Abuja’s findings on the issue from some of the residents revealed that some were aware that blocking of pedestrian walkways were not right but an abuse of the law. A hotel manager, Mr. Lawrence Alumona, who works in one of the three star hotels in Wuse 2 Area, said that most of the places where the pedestrian walkways were blocked, could be due to security concerns. He said that the management of the hotel decided to barricade the walkways in front of the hotel , when both customers and visitors were parking vehicles indiscriminately in front of the hotel. Another resident, Engr. Samuel Tanimu noted that blocking of pedestrian walkways was an act of impunity perpetrated mainly by people who think they are above the law. “The Federal Capital Territory (FCT ) is a place where the good, bad and the ugly fester in abundance. As plans to make the city beautiful, and even compete favourably with other Capital cities of the world, there seems to be negative forces militating against the effort. “The city is said to have been planned according to the master plan designed by the visioners of the city, and is said to be pursuing the status of one of the most beautiful Capital cities of the world,” he said. According to him, it was a cherry news that the Minister had given a directive that all the barriers and restrictions placed on pedestrian walkways should be removed. However, he said, It would be a good thing to assess the level of compliance in the next few days.   