•As court frees suspects of church massacre •Three corpses expected home  Against speculations that Chief Aloysius Ikegwuonu (aka) Bishop of Ozubulu has been assassinated by a business rival in South Africa, Sunday Telegraph has confirmed that he is hale and hearty and is not currently in South Africa.
Reports had it last week through the social media that he was gunned down along with a certain girl friend by a rival group that allegedly executed the massacre at the Ozubulu Catholic Church which led to the death of his father and some other members of the congregation on August 6, 2017. But when this reporter visited Ozubulu town in Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State a few days ago, most people approached to speak contended that they are not aware that Bishop was dead. “I saw him two days ago and he was exchanging pleasantries with villagers and he even gave out some money to people. So who is saying that he is dead?” One of them said.” Also speaking a young man, who gave his name as Chiemelie Nwosu from the same Amakwa village with Ikegwuonu (Bishop), confirmed having shared some quality time with the philanthropist at his residence a day before the news that he had been killed. “People should stop telling funny stories and carrying rumours. I was with him last night and we spent quality time with him and other friends; so how is it possible that he would also be in South Africa at the same time?” He, however, could not confirm the report that the young man that was killed at Sand Hotel in South Africa is the manager of Bishop’s hotel, contending that the video pictures that went viral on social media did not show the face of the man that was gunned down. “Which Manager? You know that a man of his status will not have just one manager controlling the whole business empire. He would definitely have several managers working for him. So which of the managers was killed?” he asked But it was confirmed that the unknown young man gunned down in South Africa is also a businessman from Ozubulu and a total of three persons were gunned down in South Africa under similar circumstances.
It was also confirmed that the three corpses are being expected to arrive Ozubulu town for burial in no soon time. This is also coming on the heels of the Nnewi High Court judgment which last week, discharged and acquitted two persons accused of master minding the Ozubulu Catholic Church Massacre two years ago.
According to the trial judge, Hon Justice Fidelis Aniukwu while delivering the judgment which lasted up to three hours, he ruled that he is setting the accused persons free since the prosecuting counsel could not prove the allegations leveled against the defendants beyond reasonable doubt.
Aniukwu further observed that the prosecution team failed to prove the necessary elements needed to ground a conviction in a murder case; hence he discharged them. It would be recalled that the accused ‘Mr. Chiedu Akpunona (aka) Oborocho and Onyebuchi Mbanefo’ were allegedly fingered over the Ozubulu church massacre last two years on the grounds that they allegedly belong to a rival drug cartel opposed to that of Ikegwuonu as was being peddled. Speaking shortly after the judgment, defence counsel, Mr. Festus Keyamo (SAN), who was represented by Mr. A.A Igwebuike, commended the trial judge for the well considered judgment and critical analysis of evidence brought before the court.
At Ozubulu town, youths in the area blocked major roads in the community celebrating the judgment and discharge of the two accused persons chanting festive songs that “the money man has come home.” “We are happy over the judgment of the court and we are happy that our two brothers are free. We thank God Almighty for vindicating them.”
“This is to tell you that God has always been with us in our town and only the enemies of progress are against us,” they said. Reacting to the judgment, the two expressed happiness, the adding that God remains the greatest.
“We have forgiven all those who accused us of murder and we ask God to also forgive anybody or persons that had anything to do with our arrest and detention in the last two years.” Efforts to speak with the Bishop of Ozubulu, however, proved abortive both on phone and at home as the security guard told this reporter that he was out on visitation to a friend in a near by town. But he had earlier told reporters that he is an honest business man with a visible means of livelihood, adding that he has no hand in any illegal business. “Honestly I do not know anything about the incident otherwise I could have prevented it but only God knows. Honestly I wept over the death of my father and all those that were killed in the church because it is only God that knows how painful it was for me to bear the loss
“People who know me can testify, I do not owe anybody. I have a registered business in South Africa. I do not have any criminal record there or here in Nigeria from my childhood. But even if someone even says I betrayed him or her, he should petition, sue me as I am not above the law,” he said.