An Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos yesterday rejected the bail application of two dropouts of Babcock University, Don-Chima George, 25, and Olusegun Rasak, 28. George and Rasak are standing trial before the court for allegedly drugging and gang-raping a 24-year-old woman in a hotel in Lekki, Lagos. They are facing a two-count charge bordering on conspiracy and rape. Ruling on their bail application, Justice Abiola Soladoye,  said the applicants failed to provide sufficient proof to warrant their being granted bail by the court. “It is without a doubt that a defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty as provided for in Section 36(5) of the 1999 Constitution as amended. “Notwithstanding this, the court is still vested with the duty to consider the weight of facts in the affidavit placed before it viz-a-viz the charge and proof of evidence placed before the court. “In exercising my discretion, I am, therefore, of the considered view that the applicants have not placed any compelling or exceptional circumstances to warrant this honourable court to exercise its discretion. “Bail is denied to the applicants and this honourable court shall give this case accelerated hearing,” Justice Soladoye said. George and Rasak allegedly gang-raped their victim on February 3 from 5.00a.m. to 7.00a.m. at Delankaster Hotels, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. The defendants, while at a nightclub, mixed the complainant’s (name withheld) drink with a substance that rendered her unconscious. The duo also allegedly took the victim to George’s father’s hotel, where they allegedly took turns to rape her while videotaping the sexual offence. Meanwhile, during the last proceedings on March 27, the State prosecutor, Dr Jide Martins,  had urged the court to deny the defendants bail due to the nature of the offences. Martins told the court that there was a likelihood that the defendants would interfere with the witnesses if they leave prison custody. “An allegation of rape for a victim is bad enough, then the allegation of rape against two people well known to the victim who gang-raped her is absolutely condemnable. “I just want to reiterate that the two defendants will not answer the bail but will flee”, he argued He also told the court that the defendants have not placed anything before the court to warrant their being granted bail on health grounds. “There is no life-threatening medical condition with which the defendants can justify the court’s discretion to grant bail in their favour. “There is also a video recording of the offence. We urge your Lordship to refuse the bail application because it lacks merit”, he argued The defence counsel, Mr Tunji Ayanlaja (SAN), however, in a bail application dated March 12 prayed the court to grant the defendants bail. Ayanlaja argued that the DPP in its counter-affidavit only objected to the defendants’ bail application because of the social status of their parents. He said the counter-affidavit served on the defence showed that the prosecution only wanted the applicants to suffer on account of their parentage. According to him, the prosecution did not disclose any facts in their affidavit to prove that the applicants may tamper with the witnesses. He assured the courts the parents of the two defendants are in court and would ensure their sons attend court proceedings. Justice Soladoye thereafter adjourned the matter till May 15 for the continuation of trial.