Enado Odigie started acting from childhood but got into Nollywood professionally in 2014. The Edo State-born actress had previously worked with the telecom giant, Globacom before going into the make-believe industry. In this interview with EDWIN USOBOH, the pretty actress shares her passion and the kind of man she likes to date  How did you start acting and how far have you gone? Well, I started acting as a little child – from school to church and everywhere in between. I often would watch a movie or read a book and would go back into my closet to reproduce the act. I would even go as far as adopting the personality of my favourite character for a few weeks. But in Nollywood, I would say between 2012 and 2014. I got tested in 2012 but I wasn’t sure I wanted to continue. In 2014, I finally made up my mind to continue. It’s been a long journey and I have grown tremendously. I would say as an actor, there have been a lot of lessons learnt from different directors, producers and even co-actors. I am happy with my growth and where I am. There are lots of work that people should watch out for.  Before delving into Nollywood, what were you doing? I was a corporate person; I had worked at organisations like Globacom; that was my line of career before Nollywood and I also went into event planning but I had passion for acting and decided to give it a try.  How did you get your first role? I have been talking to a couple of friends that I wanted to act and take acting serious. So on this fateful day, a friend of mine had told me there was an auditioning coming up and gave me the address. I went for the audition, on getting there, I was accidentally auditioned for the lead role because someone gave his script to a wrong person and later I was told that one was taken, so I auditioned for the supporting role. But, few days later I was called and told I have been chosen for the lead role. That’s how my first movie came about, ‘Stupas’ made by Africa Magic Original films’ SPIC in 2014.  Any regrets dumping your corporate world for Nollywood so far? Absolutely no regrets! The thing is everyday we want to be bigger but when you sit down and look at where you are, you will realise there is so much to be thankful for. There is no bad experience in life, there are only lessons to be learnt. I have learnt a lot and I am very happy and looking to the future.  What would you say is the greatest sacrifice you’ve made to become an actress? This is one career you sacrifice for everyday; a lot of times you don’t have time to yourself, no weekend, no public holiday and most times you work very late on set etc. Sometimes, for+ a production that is very tedious, you can have injuries and accidents. But I would not change it for anything. Another bad side is you don’t get to participate in the things you would have loved to be involved in like friends and family weddings, events, family programmes, reunion etc.  What would you describe as your most memorable moment so far? There have been many. For any actress, it is having a movie that goes to the cinema, that is seen by an audience. They are paying to go see your movie is a high point for every actor and I have had a couple of movies going to the cinemas.  How were you able to put yourself to the character in the movie, ‘Joba’ even as a single lady? Yes, it was difficult, but that is my job as an actress. The character involves one who is sad at all times and if you’re not sad as a person, it becomes even more difficult. Sadness can be very tiring; it was emotionally, mentally physically draining because it requires a lot of scenes back to back. But in ‘JOBA’, it also pushed me to know what my limits are, because being one with the character started from the moment I read the script and getting to the set. I have a director who will almost take you by the hand and lead you to tell you what is expected of you, so you can’t but begin to feel emotion at that point.  Do you have support from your loved ones, especially from your parents? It been a tremendous journey, I have a very supporting family. Of course naturally they have reservations but knowing fully well they have raised you well and done everything to invest in you, support and educate you. And sometimes, when I make mistakes, my family is there to encourage me. I would just say I have a great support from my family and friends.  What was your childhood like? I grew up in a family where I was adored. As a last child, I was the object of everyone’s affection. As an old soul, I understood older people more and was a lot less comfortable with my peers. I kind of didn’t fit the mold, so I was a loner. I was also multi-talented, so I participated and thrived in all kinds of activities – from social to sports and to academics. I was raised in a home where laughter was our thing. I was also raised to have integrity and put God first. God is our ‘North star’. Growing up, I wanted to be a bunch of things at different times. But at every given time, I knew I was going to be a media personality and a guiding light for other people. I also knew I was going to be a non-conformist.  What is your passion? I am passionate about acting, I love food, I love to cook, fashion, traveling and above all I like to laugh. All these I have mentioned, if I don’t have opportunity to laugh and have a good time, I don’t think I will be ok.  What is your fear in life? Getting to the end of life and realising I didn’t touch the things I was meant to have achieved. So, I wouldn’t say it is fear but a driving force to ensure I don’t get to the finish line and say I could have done better. I hope to keep growing and improving myself and ensure I become a bigger and a better person.  If you are to hate one thing about yourself, what would that be? My inability to pretend. It would seem like pretense is a tradable currency nowadays. I’m never able to do it.  There has been a lot of stories on sexual harassment in the film industry, what is your experience? I can tell you categorically, I’ve never been sexually harassed. Nobody has ever said to me come and do this in other to get this. Of course, people would always make passes at you as a woman, it is interesting I only feel people want to know you by doing that. But sexual advances as an exchange for role is absolutely no.  How do your loved one feel seeing you being kissed in movies? Naturally, the first response is discomfort for your family and your love one. However, when they also realise it’s like when you have a gynecologist whose responsibility is to search the body part of a person you’re not related to. It is part of the job knowing well that the individual person is disconnected; it is acting and not real. However, the society that we live in, we try as much as possible to create a balance.  Has this cost you a relationship? No, I am not going to lose my family because I’m acting.  Are you married? No.  Describe your dream man. He’s a man who has character, understanding, reasonable and patient. As a lady, a man who shows you respect, is generous and of course, God fearing. If he doesn’t have fear of God he will not have respect for you.  If you have to act with someone with mouth odour, how will you cope? The person will have to go and brush, that is a person assault on me. I will simply call the director to address that.  When you are not on set, how do you spend your time? I spend a lot of time reading, planning and attending to personal things, spend time with my family.  Who is your crush in the film industry? A couple of years ago, I use to like Sean Connery and Chris Hemsworth.  How do you like your man to look like, fair or dark? I like a fine man; either fair or dark I don’t care, preferably taller than me. 