Faced with stiff opposition from the North-Central and lawmakers from minority parties in his quest to become speaker of the 9th Assembly, House leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, has begun making overtures to candidates contesting for the position from the geo-political zone. Gbajabiamila, widely believed to be the anointed candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), New Telegraph learnt, has offered the position of deputy speaker to both Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase (APC, Plateau) and Hon. John Dyegh (APC, Benue). The embattled five-time Lagos lawmaker, who is facing the worst opposition of his life, is said to have made desperate attempts to convince lawmakers from North-Central to back his candidature to no avail. A member of the Gbajabiamila’s campaign team told New Telegraph in confidence that the majority leader had earlier at a meeting brokered by Kaduna State governor, Nasir el- Rufai at the Villa ceded the deputy speaker position to Hon. Wase in order to take care of the North-Central. According to him, the choice of Wase, however, ran into trouble following the agitations by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and other groups for faith-based balance in the sharing of offices. The lawmaker disclosed that in the meeting at the Presidential Villa was Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello and his Nasarawa State counterpart, Tanko Al-Makura and other party stalwarts. “Leader had, at the meeting at Villa, offered Hon. Wase deputy speaker and Wase agreed in principles to drop his ambition for speaker and run alongside him as deputy speaker. “But the statement from the CAN president just a few days after that decision caused some confusion in our camp. And this decision was taken not out of disrespect for Christians, but there was no Christian candidate contesting for speaker from the North- Central. “A few days after yielding the position of deputy to Wase, we got to know that his (Wase’s) campaign director general, Hon. John Dyegh from Benue, had joined the contest. So, when the campaign to consider a Christian in one of the presiding positions became intense, we had to review our position. “Last week, two of our respected members were delegated to reach out to Hon. Dyegh to accept the position of deputy speaker. We are still expecting his response, but we hope he will reason with us,” the lawmaker said. Speaking further, the lawmaker from Kano said: “Hon. John Dyegh is a gentleman and very easy going. We believe he will accede to our proposal so that this campaign can roll. Incidentally, he is the only ranking Christian lawmaker of the APC stock from the entire North-Central. We need him to pacify both Christians and the North- Central.” On the third North- Central candidate in the race for position of speaker,Hon. Umaru Mohammed Bago, the source confirmed that Gbajabiamila and his team held talks with the Niger State lawmaker at his Transcorp Hilton Campaign Office. He said the talks were inconclusive but “there is a ray of hope.” Attempts to get Gbajabiamila or his director general, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, to confirm these developments were unsuccessful as calls and text messages sent to them could not elicit any response. Similarly, all efforts to reach Wase and Bago were fruitless. Bago’s campaign director general, Hon. Bimbo Daramola, a former lawmaker, simply said “that’s not” in response to a text message for him to confirm whether Gbajabiamila had visited Bago or made any offer to him. Dyegh, who is yet to officially declare his intention to seek the office of Speaker, was also unreachable to confirm whether Gbajabiamila contacted him. But in a related development, the North-Central caucus in the House has sent warning signals to the alleged anointed candidate of the APC for speaker’s seat, Gbajabiamila, to seek for another position as the post of speaker cannot elude the geopolitical zone. A member of the caucus who disclosed this to New Telegraph revealed that lawmakers from the region held a meeting at the weekend and resolved to ensure that one of their own emerged as speaker. He said the caucus has done so much for the APC and will not want the party to “give her due to another region”. “We contributed the third highest number of votes in producing the president, after North-West and North-East. Why should they take Senate President and Speaker from us? We are not even being considered for Deputy Senate President. It is an insult to us and we cannot allow the position of speaker to pass us by,” he said. Continuing, the lawmaker said: “We are sending strong signals to the APC and Hon. Gbajabiamila that the idea of zoning the post of speaker to the South-West cannot sell. If Gbajabiamila wants to be relevant in the next Assembly, he should contest for deputy speaker and we will consider him, but saying he wants speaker, that is dead on arrival. They have cheated us for too long.” The APC lawmaker warned the party not to make the mistake of 2015. “We are, for the umpteenth time, calling on the party and appealing to Mr. President to leave speaker for us (North-Central). We have competent and agile candidates that can fit into the position. We advise Adams Oshiomhole not to cause honourable members to play into the hands of opposition. “We acknowledge the contributions of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to APC. But he should consider the larger interest of the nation. The South-West cannot have vice president and speaker at the same time, when other regions that have played active roles in the party stand aside and watch. “We are the hub of this nation. We are the centre. We hold Nigeria together and deserve to be treated fairly. Since the party is yet to decide on speaker, let it zone it to North-Central. We have already backed out of Senate Presidency. Senator Abdullahi Adamu has withdrawn in line with the party’s arrangement. So, let the House speaker be given to us,” he declared. On Gbajabiamila, the lawmaker noted: “We know he is intelligent and an excellent lawmaker. But everything has its own time. This is not his time to be speaker. We supported him in 2015, let him reciprocate that gesture now.” New Telegraph also gathered that as at the weekend, only seven candidates were still in the race for speaker as some had reportedly stepped down. Those still in the race include: Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila (APC, Lagos), Hon. Abdulrazaq Namdas (APC, Adamawa), Hon. John Dyegh (APC, Benue) and Hon. Umaru Mohammed Bago (APC, Niger). Others are Hon. Aliyu Betara (APC, Borno) and Hon. Yusuf Yakub (APC, Adamawa), and Hon. Nkeiruka Onyeajocha (APC, Abia).