Dangote Refinery and Petrochemicals will absorb not less than 2000 people in various engineering fields when it fully comes on stream, thereby reducing the unemployment crisis plaguing the nation. Group Executive Director, Strategy, Portfolio Development & Capital Projects, Dangote Industries Limited, Mr. Devakumar Edwin, made the disclosure at the weekend. Disclosing this while playing host to officials from Petroleum Trust Development Fund (PTDF) who paid a visit to the head office of Dangote Group in Lagos, the executive director said opportunities for thousands of indirect jobs was huge, given that there is fertilizer and petrochemical complex within the refinery. He explained that the 650,000-barrel per day refinery, currently under construction, was 50 per cent bigger than the current largest single train refinery in the world while also having the latest technology to challenge any such plant in Europe and anywhere else. He also noted that because of the technology deployed in the construction of the refinery, the personnel had to be trained from scratch, with the engineers sent to India and South Africa. According to him, “From Nigeria, our people have gone throughout Africa and beyond for training. They are trained and equipped, they can do exceedingly well. In oil and gas, there is an advantage because there is already some level of expertise there.” Concerning the refinery workforce, Edwin said: “We adopted the highest level of employment standard from both Europe and America. On our manpower requirement, we got thousands of applications, and the applicants were put through a rigorous process and sent in batches to India and other countries for training.” Giving an overview of the refinery to the visitors comprising Head, Press & External Relations, PTDF, Mr. Kalu Otise, and Mr. Lawal Ibrahim of the same unit, Edwin said: “Although most refineries abroad tend towards mass production of diesel, Dangote Refinery is designed to produce more gasoline than diesel, which is unique to us. “Also, for every barrel of crude that goes in, we want to extract the maximum number of products to boost return on investment. Our refinery products can be sold in any part of the world.” Commending the PTDF for the quality of its graduates, Edwin, who noted that the company needed close to 2,000 engineers, said: “In any company, the human beings are the most important and the success of any organisation depends on the team work. I believe in the importance of the people.” They disclosed that 10 engineers, who trained at the PTDF academy, were part of the workforce currently engaged at the refinery. ...mulls 25.4m litres excess petrol in-country production     Nigeria's 40 million litres per day average petrol supply template has been altered by the Dangote Oil Refinery Company (DORC) through which fuel in excess of over 25.4 million litres are billed to be produced in-country, New Telegraph has learnt. Group… In “News” FG realises N35bn from tax recoveries, sets up tribunals   The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has supported the Dangote Group with N75 billion, in foreign exchange, to import equipment and other facilities to facilitate completion of the company’s refinery. Governor of the apex bank, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, disclosed this… In “News” The 650,000 capacity oil refinery being built by Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, plans to start selling gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel by early 2020.   The $10 billion refinery, set to be one of the world’s largest is expected to be near full capacity by mid-2020, Group… In “Business”