Everybody loves good health. Unfortunately, not everybody has the time or resources to maintain that desire. St Vincent De Paul, a Catholic missionary group, organised a free medical outreach in one of the suburbs, to mark this year’s World Health Day. REGINA OTOKPA reports   Facing a medical doctor with one of his children on his lap and the other standing in between his legs, Mohammed Isah, came all the way from Nasarawa State with his entire family to join hundreds of residents from Kubwa and Dutse to access free but quality health services.
Although he has been a regular face at the hospital where two of his children were born, Isah like many other Nigerians would do, wasted no time in jumping at an opportunity to obtain healthcare consisting of various basic tests, medical consultation, checkup and free drugs at no cost.
Before 10am, the new site of the hospital was already filled with people from Kubwa and environs, seated patiently to follow the laid down process and procedure of registration, blood pressure check, important tests such as sugar levels and hepatitis test, consulting with a doctor or specialists as the case maybe, and getting the needed drugs prescribed by the doctor.
Speaking with Inside Abuja, the hospital coordinator, Rev. Sis Mary Okoro, explained that anyone with an advanced case would be referred to some more doctors and consultants in the hospital for follow up, in order to ensure they obtain the needed medical attention.
She added that the week-long programme has a target of reaching between 600 to 800 patients on the first day and if possible, every other day till the end if the outreach.
“Daughters of Charity see the people of Nigeria as God’s people and because we saw a dilapidating health system, we decided to raise a structure where we can provide a holistic health care to Nigerians. We saw that many people around Kubwa the poor especially, cannot afford to go to the hospital where they will get heath care and Daughters of Charity seeing the poor as representing God and those who need basic health system, decided to organise today as a health day where we provide free screening, deworming of children, free medical care for the men and women, young and old people of Kubwa and environs, to help them enjoy health as God has destined for all of us.
“We are providing free tests for vital signs we call it blood pressure, blood tests, hepatitis, sugar tests and the basic laboratory test that can help people to know their health status and follow up. We are also treating children for malaria, deworming and other ailments,” she said.
Mr John Tajah, one of the beneficiaries who lives in Dutse Makaranta, was overwhelmed with joy. Having suffered from poor sight for many years, he was able to access free eye treatment and some advice on how to maintain a healthier life style.
“I would have paid a lot of money though I don’t know how much but as their name, Charity, implies, they are really doing the work by helping the poor. Some people have the money but they still came here to access this charity. I appreciate all that they have done and it is my prayer that God continues to bless them; the workers, doctors, nurses and the sisters. I am happy to be one of the people that benefitted from the programme but I hope they will continue from time to time so that many people will benefit.”
Reading the mind of the beneficiaries, Sis. Okoro disclosed that the hospital now fully equipped and upgraded to an ultra model health facility, the best of its kind within the axis and is committed to providing free health services during every major health day celebrated by the government and the international scene.
Bound to take its services forward, St Vincent De Paul Hospital desires a deeper collaborative effort with the government, to ensure care is delivered to many more Nigerians
“We are supporting what government is doing and we are requesting government to support us so that we can reach many more Nigerians either to second our staff. If they pay salaries of doctors and nurses, it will be possible for us to provide a cheaper cost of treatment and health care to the less privileged.
Over the years, St Vincent De Paul hospital also known as Daughters of Charity hospital, has shown so much care and concern especially for the less privileged without the means to access healthcare at private facilities where people pay dearly. An international organisation grounded in serving and providing succour to the poor, the organization, which delivers health, social, education and pastoral services was founded by St Vincent De Paul and St Louis De Maria in 1633 in France.
With its presence strongly felt in 27 states in Nigeria, the hospital desires nothing more than reaching as many people as possible. However, in recent years, it has been confronted with one challenge or the other.
In 2016, the hospital then only located at Byazhin had suffered a major setback when one full complex was demolished to pave way for the Abuja/Kaduna railway tracks that were being built. But it was lucky after series of interventions by various stakeholders, to get a compensation though lower than expected from government, including a part of the land where the new ultra model facility is presently located.
Taking Inside Abuja through the dark moments of the hospital, the Deputy Chairman, Hospital Advisory Council, Dr . Patrick Ezie, said after the demolition incident, the hospital could not function properly for a long time. But after securing a new site, the hospital is faced with another challenge of accessibility.
The hospital though close to the old hospital, which still runs some skeletal services, is still very far for those at the hospital, staff and the teeming population of Kubwa residents, especially those within the Byazhin axis.
Rather than pay N50 bike fare, those living within Byazhin axis are forced to pay N300 bike fare.
INSIDE ABUJA checks revealed that the reason behind the lack of access by both sides of the town was a deep flowing river. All pleas to get the Federal Capital Development Authority to construct a bridge which was meant to have been built decades ago, have proved abortive. But again, this cannot be farfetched from the busy schedule of politicians during the electioneering period.
According to Dr. Ezie, the lack of bridge constituting limited access was a major obstacle affecting a multitude of people who desire continued access to quality and affordable health care.
“We have an access road between here and the main unit at Byazhin. It is not connected. So, people find it difficult to access care. We are praying the contractor and government look into it and complete it within reasonable time, so that people can access the facilities that are here because the hospital is being upgraded into a specialist hospital.”
With the elections gone and relevant authorities more stable, the teeming population of health seekers are praying and hoping that the bridge connecting FO1 Kubwa extension and Byazhin be constructed so as to ensure no life is lost in the process of embarking on a merry go round journey to access prompt healthcare.