Traders in most markets in Lagos on Thursday said that they have consistently record stability in the price of foodstuffs, though patronage is yet to improve almost over a month after the general elections.  The traders, who spoke at Ikotun-Egbe, Ojo-Alaba, Suru- Alaba, Orile, Iyana Ipaja, Oyingbo and Ketu markets, said though they have been recording low sales since after the election, prices of most the foodstuffs they sell have been stable.  At Ikotun Market, Mrs. Chinazo, who sells varieties of foodstuffs, said: “One good thing that has happened is that price of goods, imported and locally produced ones alike, have remained stable since after the election, despite that, I can tell you that sales has not been encouraging. These days we come to the market seat out there without any serious business till the end of the day. Sometimes, I start to wonder if people are no longer eating.”  Traders spoken to at Iyana Ipaja Market said customers were not coming forward to buy as expected. “We expected that customers will be rushing to buy after exhausting what they bought during the elections, after all man must whack.”   Speaking, Iya Modinatu, said she believed that people no longer have enough money to spend. Everybody prayed all issues concerning the elections be resolved so that they can continue their normal life.”I believe things will start getting better.”  At Ketu Market, traders said though they did not change the pre-election prices of foodstuffs and other household items, the rush witnessed preparatory for the elections has changed for low patronage. Mr. John Isiguzo, a dealer in rice and beans and other foodstuffs at the market, said: “Sales are is not good, low patronage. People are not buying. It seems people finished their money during the elections. We hope the situation will change for the better soon as the elections are over now.”  He said that the price of foreign rice which slightly came down to N17, 000 for a 50 kilogramme bag is still selling at the price.  According to him, locally produced rice is still scarce in the market, adding that the only trader who has few bags of Olam Rice, one Nnamdi Onumajuru does not sell in bags because he does not have enough in stock, rather he sells in cups and pans measurement.  Also, the Sunday Telegraph Market Survey team observed that the percentage fall in the price of beans has in the New Year has remained unchanged. Survey of the prices of goods at the Sabo Market, Ikorodu (a Lagos suburb) earlier on Wednesday, indicate that the price of rice and beans has remained unchanged; this   is even as customers spoken to said they expect the prices down to the 2017 levels as the elections are over now. Prices of rice  According to Iya Muri, a trader at the Ikorodu Market, the demand for rice and beans is high but the price though stable, is not yet attractive, “we are, however, expecting that the price of beans in particular, should be falling after the elections as the price of beans is normally low by this time of the year.  She said: “By this time of the year, the price of rice and beans crash, like early in 2017, and by the same period in 2018, the price was manageable and favourable to both the buyers and sellers.  Mama Gold, one of the best premium rice sells about N18000 for 50kg. The difference is too much for us the retailers and the buyers will always complain about the price before buying which is not good for the business. Customers are our only source of income. The same also goes for the local rice i.e Ofada Rice with a bag (25kg) sold from N10, 000 to N15, 000”.  Prices of beans Beans are the most expensive with the various species   going for different prices. Oloyin Beans (50kg) – N32,000 (depending on the market) Oloyin (25kg) – N15,000 – N19,000; Olotun (50kg) – N29,000 – N36,000, Olotun (25kg) – N14,000 – N17,500.  Noodles  Meanwhile, at the Garage market, Mrs. Ime Elele, told Sunday Telegraph that the price of noodles has been stable as a carton of Indomie Noodles (small size) former ly sells for N2100. She said since the price went up, it has not come down, saying the amount of money that would have easily bought fifteen cartoons can only buy eight cartons nowadays.  She also decried low patronage where customers who normally buy in large quantities now buy in bits, a development she said has made the gains from such sales not enticing again.