For quite some time now, some communities in Ekiti South senatorial District have been facing challenges of power supply. Adewumi Ademiju reports  Communities like Omuo, Aisegba, Ijan, Ilu Omo Oba and others it was gathered have been in perpetual darkness for more than four years. Residents of the communities allege carefree attitude of the stakeholders on the development. An Ijan Ekiti Community Leader in Gbonyin Local Government Area of the state, Chief Victor Olakiitan, decried the situation and condemned the government on what he described as ‘negligence.’ He said: “The government has not been forthcoming and even the BEDC (Benin Electricity Distribution Company) that supplies electricity to us is inactive. Business activities are paralysed. We are waiting endlessly. ” Another community leader from Omuo Ekiti, headquarter of Ekiti East Local Government, Mr. Ayodele Adegbuyi, said there is no light in the entire local government. He added that the implication of the darkness is that people are not informed physically and spiritually; they have been kept in dark. “No thanks to the federal/ state government and the BEDC, the implication is that commercial activities have been paralysed. The area used to be crime free before; some artisans who have no electricity to work with have taken to crime. The poor electricity has heightened rural/urban migration. The community has been deserted.” Mr. Adegbuyi added that, “despite all efforts by the stakeholders, community leaders, the appeal has fallen on deaf ears of the government but since no other alternative, our appeal goes to the Federal Government because electricity is under the executive legislative list; only the Federal Government has the power. Nevertheless, we are appealing to the state government to have mercy on the communities. If we have committed any offences, we should be forgiven. It’s not an offence that we come from the communities. Governm≠ent and BEDC should give us light. “BEDC has given one of the flimsiest excuses on why the communities are in darkness. The excuse is that the light was disconnected due to the indebtedness of the areas. Is it only the communities that are in debt? We have been performing our civic obligations. Government should also perform its duty on the provision of uninterrupted light in those communities. ” Meanwhile, the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on March 14, while inaugurating an Electricity Regulatory Act, to prevent theft and wishful vandalism of electricity equipment and installation in the state, promised adequate solution on shortage of electricity supply in the affected communities. The electricity regulatory act stipulated that the government would mandate the establishment of electricity committees in all the communities within the state to monitor suspicious activities on any electricity installation or equipment and report to distribution companies. Fayemi at the inauguration was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji. He stated that the Act was enacted to protect both the suppliers and consumers of electricity. “This regulation was made to protect suppliers and users of electricity. If you tamper with your metres or do anything untoward to the transformers, you are liable.” The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of BEDC , Mrs Funke Osibodu , revealed that distribution companies lose about N30 billion daily due to the activities of vandals and theft. She commended the government for enacting the law, saying it would help in boosting power supply to Ekiti. Osibodu, represented by a staff of the company, Barr Lucky Ayomoto, added that BEDC, which controls light distribution in Ekiti, Ondo, Delta and Edo states, have taken giant strides in ensuring that the economies of those states were given impetus through improved electricity supplies since assumption. “Ekiti State Electricity Regulation Act 2015 therefore seeks to curb and deter illegal and unauthorised use of regulated electricity supply as well as to protect electricity infrastructure. “According to the Nigeria power baseline report of 2015, Nigeria was estimated to have daily technical losses of 12 per cent and nontechnical losses of 34 per cent , giving a combined total of 46 per cent in aggregate technical and nontechnical losses.” Osibodu added that the BEDC , as part of its responsibilities, has increased power supply to Ado Ekiti capital city from five hours to 9 hours daily, while other towns like Ido, Otun, Osun, Ira , Igogo and others in Ekiti North now enjoy 18 hours daily supplies. “Ode Ekiti in Gbonyin Local Government Area that has been in total darkneßss has now been reconnected to national grid while work is ongoing on Omuo, Ijan, Aisegba, Iluomoba Ikogosi, Erinjiyan and Ipole Iloro electricity.” The chairman of the Ado Ekiti Residents Electricity Consumers Association, Dr. Ibukun Ogundipe, the chairman of the Council of Traditional rulers, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju and the Elemure of Emure Ekiti, Oba Emmanuel Adebayo, said the only problem causing friction between the BEDC and the public in Ekiti has been that consumers are under metered. “What they use here is estimated billings; people should be given meters the way it happened in Lagos. There is no way the consumers won’t react when the BEDC brings exorbitant bills every month. “But if they are given meters and whatever they used as electricity are properly measured and billed, they will be ready to pay.”