The Federal Capital Development Administration (FCTA) has invaded a popular night club, Caramelo, located at Utako district of Abuja, demolished part of the structure and arrested 30 nude dancers. The Coordinator, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) , Mallam Umar Shuaibu, said that operators of the night clubs contravened the law by converting residential buildings for other purposes. Shuaibu said the Department of Development Control had to demolish the fence of the compound as another form of warning to the owners of the club, while the arrested dancers would be handed over to the Social Development Secretariat for rehabilitation. He said: “It is a flagrant abuse of the city plan and violation of the relevant clause (Viii ) of the building plan approval granted, and clause No.2 (ii) of the letter of Offer of Grant on this plot. The contravening activities will cease henceforth and the allottee will revert the use of the building to the health clinic so designated and approved.” He further said: “In response to security reports and complaints from the residents of area adjoining the location of Caramelo Night Club on plot 630 Cadastral zone B05, along T.O.S Benson Street, within Utako District , the authority deployed its officers to carry out surveillance in order to validate the complaints. The outcome of the surveillance revealed that the complaints are genuine and real. Please note that the substance of these complaints, include noise nuisance from loud party music, nude/strip dancing club activities, intractable traffic challenge resulting from uncontrolled patronage to the commercial nightclub within the residential precinct. “You may wish to note that the plot under reference is zoned as health clinic on the Utako District Land use Plan, and in line with this plan, the building plan approval granted was for the development of the health clinic. Accordingly, the property was developed as a health clinic. However, the use of the building has been changed to a commercial night club.” Shuaibu noted that the authority has repeatedly engaged the operator of Caramelo and other operators across, on the need to quit the operation of night club within residential precinct, to no avail. He vowed that the administration will not renege on its duty to protect and maintain the sanctity of the Abuja Master Plan, and will continue to ensure that the city remain a safe place for living, working and recreating for all its residents and citizenry. The Acting Secretary, Social Development Secretariat (SDS), Hajia Safiya Umar, said the owner of the club would be punished according to the law, considering the calibre of girls arrested. Umar said that preliminary investigation showed that the nude dancers were from wealthy homes. It was also discovered that some of them were married and have children. She disclosed that the dancers have been taken to Wuse General Hospital for medical checkup, after which they would be taken to FCT rehabilitation centre in Lugbe. They would expected to stay at Lubge for three months in order to learn basic trades.