Five Nigerians have been arrested by the Sharjah Police in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for allegedly robbing a Bureau De Change less than 48 hours after entering the country. The Nigerians, who entered the country using a visit visa each, were arrested less than 48 hours after the robbery. The suspects were reportedly carted away Dh2.3 million, equivalent of about N226,182,000. The whole money was recovered intact. It was learnt that four of the suspects, on March 20, invaded the exchange office, while one waited in a car outside. The suspects entered the country on March 18. A CCTV captured the robbery. The footage has since gone viral on the Internet. The footage captures one of the suspects shattering the glasses of the Bureau De Change after gaining access into the office. It also captures another member of the gang hurriedly gathering the money. The Sharjah Police explained on Sunday that the suspects stormed the Bureau De Change and smashed the glass barrier between the customers and the staff, stole the money in multiple currencies and fled. “Two employees were injured as they resisted the robbers. One of them managed to notify the police,” the police added. The Sharjah Police coordinated with forces from Abu Dhabi, Ras Al Khaimah and Ajman to pursue and arrest the suspects from four emirates within 48 hours after the robbery was committed. The incident was reported at Al Ansari Exchange in Al Tawoon area. “The suspects came to the country on visit visas on March 18. For two days, they studied the exchange office before deciding to commit the robbery around midnight – just before the shop was to close. On March 20, four of the suspects stormed the exchange office, while one waited in a car outside. After the four suspects rushed out with the money, they fled in the car,” a top police official said. The Commander-in- Chief of the Sharjah Police, Major-General Saif Al Zeri Al Shamsi, said the whole amount had been recovered. He added: “The police team reached the site within seven minutes after the robbery was reported. The injured staff members were rushed to the hospital, where they were discharged the next day.” The police lifted forensic evidence from the site and formed a team to crack the case. “Arrest warrants for the suspects were circulated at all ports of the country to prevent them from leaving,” he said. The police got the number plate of the car in which the suspects fled. Following this lead, they arrested one of the suspects in Sharjah. This suspect led the police to the others – two in Ajman, one in Abu Dhabi and one in Ras Al Khaimah. The suspects, who confessed to the crime, have been referred to the public prosecution.