…as Group B leaders seek away win  Since the start of the 2019 Nigeria Professional Football League, Enugu Rangers have only tasted one defeat, a 2-1 loss to MFM, and since then, the club has gone 12 games without defeat.
Currently leading the Group A table of the abridged league, Rangers will be up against MFM this weekend at the Nnamdi Azikwe Stadium, Enugu and will hope to return to winning ways on their home ground after Lobi Stars forced them to a 1-1 draw in a rescheduled game during the week.
However, MFM are thinking of achieving the double against the seven-time NPFL champions as they plan to approach the game without fear of their opponents.
Speaking with League Rendezvous, one of the experienced players of the Lagos team, Jonathan Zikiye, said they are battle ready for the game.
He expressed his disappointment in the team’s recent form, especially at home where they dropped four points in their last two games against Enyimba and Lobi Stars.
He also said a win would be a double celebration for the Media Manager of the team, Olawale Quadry, who christened his daughter on Friday.
“So unfortunate that we drew our last two games at home, but going to Enugu, we are ready for the game,” he said.
“We have been preparing for the game knowing full well that our opponents are yet to lose at home this season, but after dropping points against Lobi Stars during the week, we have confidence of achieving something too in the game.
“We are aiming for the three points at stake but if not, then we are going to be grateful for one point, but we are not going there without giving them a big fight.
“Ninety minutes will decide the game and the most important thing is for us not to lose our heads and also try as much as possible to give it our all.
“We have not done badly for ourselves since the start of the season, despite having one of the youngest teams in the league and not to forget that we lost some of our big players to other clubs at the start of the season, so for us, we have done well beyond people’s expectations.
“Apart from the fact that the result will boost our position in the table, it will also be a double celebration for our Media Officer, who named his daughter on Friday.”
Rangers on Wednesday had their momentum affected after drawing 1-1 with Lobi Stars and will be looking forward to getting back to winning ways.
Other matches in Group A will see Rivers United host Sunshine Stars in Port Harcourt while Katsina United will be the guests of Wikki Tourists in Bauchi.
Top three hopefuls, Lobi Stars and Enyimba, will be up against each other in Makurdi as relegation-threatened Bendel Insurance and Kwara United battle it out at the Ilorin Township Stadium, Ilorin, same as Remo Stars and Niger Tornadoes in Sagamu, Ogun State.
Meanwhile, all the three clubs topping Group B will be away this weekend with the hope of consolidating on their positions as the season draws to a close.
Akwa United will be up against former champions Plateau United in Jos while second-placed team, El-Kanemi Warriors, will be playing away to Nasarawa United.
After their elimination from the Federation Cup in Anambra State, FC IfeanyiUbah will be looking forward to a quick response when they play against Yobe Desert Stars in Damaturu on Sunday.
Other games in the group will see Go Round host Heartland in Omoku, Rivers State while Delta Force will also be at home against Abia Warriors, as Kano Pillars’ quest to break into the top three will see them playing at home to Gombe United.
All matches are scheduled for Sunday, April 21, across various centres in the country.