The gospel music industry in Nigeria has grown tremendously in recent years, from an industry struggling to gain mainstream recognition to one filled with promise. Today, it is no longer relegated to the background but a promising career path. Gospel artistes in Nigeria are now appreciated as much as top Nollywood actors. VANESSA OKWARA brings to you top female gospel artistes in Nigeria that have received international acclaim  Tope Alabi Tope Alabi is an icon of Nigerian gospel music, who has blessed us with many great songs. The singer’s catchy gospel tunes first gained prominence more than a decade ago and to this day, people consider her as one of Nigeria’s gospel music geniuses. The history of Tope Alabi climbing up the career ladder and becoming a widely recognised gospel singer is truly inspiring for all of us. This lady is known all over Nigeria for her enlightening and relaxing gospel songs that have already become her brand. Tope has appeared in great stages across the world to showcase her talent and has become a regular feature at the popular yearly gospel event ‘Experience’ organised by the House on the Rock. She has won many awards for singing and composing. Her songs show us that there is always hope for the better. Tope Alabi is also a loving wife and mother.  Ada Ada Ogochukwu Ehi is a singer, songwriter and performing artist who inspires by her music. The lady easily cheers up and gives positive emotions with her tracks. Ada’s songs are striking in their purity and brightness. Her loud voice conveys the depth of the meaning of the lyrics in her hits. She got a title of a ‘Best Western Nigerian Singer’ on Groove Awards in 2017. She was placed on the list of ‘100 Most Influential People in Christian Ministry in Nigeria’ in 2017. Her hit songs, ‘Jesus (You Are Able)’ and ‘Only You Jesus’ has over 20million views and 40 million views on You Tube respectively. She perfectly manages to combine modernity with serious theme of Godliness.  Sinach Osinachi Kalu, popularly known as Sinach is a Nigerian Gospel music singer and songwriter who hail from Ebonyi State. She is a senior worship leader at Believers’ Loveworld International. She is the second daughter in a family of seven. She studied physics at the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Sinach is an award winning songwriter, vocalist and one of the most anointed international worship leaders of our time. As a songwriter, she believes in writing from her heart and has written over 500 inspiring songs such as: ‘This Is my Season’, ‘Awesome God’, ‘For This’, ‘I stand Amazed’ , ‘Simply Devoted’, ‘Jesus is Alive’, ‘I Know Who I Am’, ‘The Name of Jesus’ and many more which have become anthems in many churches and homes all around the world.  Her writings and music have ministered to millions bringing healing, hope, encouragement and strengthening their faith. She organises the ‘SINACH LIVE IN CONCERT’, a series of worship concerts which has taken place in Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Amsterdam, Cameroon, USA, and in different parts of the world with her team. In 2016, she was the first recipient of LIMA Song Writer of the Decade Award, recognizing her outstanding and undeniable contribution to gospel music in the past decade, with her songs being sung in many countries, translated to many languages, on all continents of the world. Sinach became the first Gospel singer from Nigeria to record over 100 million views on a single video on Youtube, and the third Nigerian to achieve that feat, next to Davido and Yemi Alade. Sinach is married to a Christ Embassy Church pastor, Joseph Egbu.   Lara George Lara George began her music career at the University of Lagos, where she joined the campus fellowship choir. She was a member of the disbanded musical group KUSH, which included TY Bello, Dapo Torimiro and Emem Ema. Her debut album, titled ‘Forever In My Heart’, included the hit single, ‘Ijoba Orun’, which was released in 2008. The album earned her several awards and nominations. In 2008, she won ‘Voice of the Year’ at the Nigeria Music Awards. She emerged the winner of the Best African Female Gospel Artiste category at the 2011 African Gospel Music Awards. Lara George says that her deep faith in God greatly helps her to release her influential songs. She is proud of calling herself a gospel artiste and says that she makes her music empowered by the word of God. Other great songs by Lara that have received international acclaim include: ‘Dansaki’, ‘Ijoba Orun’, ‘Halleluyah’ ‘Ko Le Baje’, among many others. Apart from her stage fame, Lara George has succeeded in her family life as well. The singer is happily married to a lawyer, Gbenga George, who is also a music entrepreneur and they are blessed with two children – a daughter called Tiaraoluwa and a son called Adeoba Alexander.  Lara George’s greatest ambition is winning a Grammy Award for her high-quality music and video releases, and knowing how this woman always puts her whole heart and soul into everything she does, we can only wish her success in all her endeavours.   Chioma Jesus Evangelist Amaka Okwuoha is the real name of gospel singer, Chioma Jesus. She is a famous female gospel singer who hails from Imo State. She became popular with her song ‘Chioma Jesus’ in 2003, and since that time, her name plays a big role in the gospel music world.  Chioma Jesus came into limelight in 2010 after being nominated for a category in the Delta Yadah Award. The Delta Yadah is the annual concert which is usually held in Asaba, Delta State. It features the anointed, seasoned, and professional gospel music ministers who are proudly some of Nigeria’s finest.  Chioma Jesus is also known for using the Igbo language to sing and write her songs; however, her first song was written in the Yoruba language. She has shared the stage with gospel giants like Fred Hammond, Israel Houghton, Don Moen, Ron Kenoly and a few others at major music platforms one of which is The Experience that holds every December, hosted by House on Rock Church. A lot of people look forward to hear her songs even though not everyone understands them because they are mostly written in Igbo Language. She started her singing career at the Scripture Union Fellowship about nineteen years ago. Before her fame, Amaka Okwuoha used to be a trader, working in the food industry. The most popular of Amaka’s songs called ‘Praise’ was released in 2011. It reached the top of the gospel charts in Nigeria. During her career, she cooperated with other gospel singers such as Samsong, Sinach, etc. She is married to Evangelist Callistus Okwuoha and the union is blessed with three wonderful children. Senior Pastor of House on The Rock, Paul Adefarasin, raised the bar this year at one of the world’s largest gospel musical jamborees, as The Experience 2017 held last Friday at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos. So vast is the reach of the annual show that it has attracted some… In “Show Biz” Former member of popular gospel group known as TY Bello, has joined forces with frontline Yoruba gospel act, Tope Alabi, to release a joint album titled The Spirit of Light. The collaborative work by the two great singers, was released on Wednesday and contains 17 tracks of spontaneous worship. TY… In “Show Biz” Obi Biola no doubt is a talented gospel musician in the class of celebrated artistes like Tope Alabi who she described as her role model. If there is anything that this young, beautiful gospel singer now dreams of is how to take her fledging music career beyond people’s expectations, “A… In “Body & Soul”