 The insecurity situation, which tailed off towards the 2019 general election, has resurfaced again with much venom. In almost all parts of the country, no day passes without a piece of news of killings of innocent Nigerians. In Lagos, for instance, there have been killings of some innocent citizens by the police. That raised uproar. There was also a kidnapping incident involving a director of the state Fire Service. Of recent, there have been violent bank robbery in Ondo and killing of citizens in Ekiti State by herdsmen. All across the country, the situation is being replicated in one form or the other. Even in Anambra State, a former local government chairman and town union leader was murdered last week.  While that of Lagos and others are isolated and could be counted on the fingers, the same cannot be said of some states in the North, where insecurity has assumed a terrifying dimension. In states such as Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna, Benue, Nasarawa, mass killings, kidnapping, cattle rustling and even armed robberies have become a daily issue to the chagrin of not only citizens of the state but to Nigerians at large. The Abuja-Kaduna road has of recent become terrorists’ route, where kidnapping and killings are now daily issues. In Kajuru in Kaduna State, the killings are yet to abate. What of Zamfara, where the whole state awaits the next news of where killings have taken place. Same with Katsina and other surrounding states. Killings in Benue have, sadly, become part of the state. Just two weeks ago, a leading broadcast journalist, Kadaria Ahmed, did the unexpected. She led a protest on the streets of Abuja to awaken the Federal Government on the need to tackle the daily killings in Zamfara State. By her accounts, many citizens of the state can no longer go home for fear of being killed or kidnapped. She was emphatic that President Muhammadu Buhari needed to act fast to arrest the rot in the state. Many Nigerians were shocked that Kadaria, who recently played a prominent role in the 2019 elections, could so quickly turn around to protest against Buhari. We believe that her protest is enough indication to the Buhari government that all is not well with the security set up of the country. The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) last week tasked the president on arresting the insecurity in the country. Addressing journalists in Zaria, Kaduna State, spokesman of NEF, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, said the group demands “a decisive, comprehensive and fundamental governmental action against poverty, underdevelopment and insecurity.”  He said: “Today, the North still lives under horrendous Boko Haram threats, a situation which has been aggravated by threats of banditry, kidnappings, armed robbery, marauding youth gangs, herders and farmers’ mini-wars, and seemingly overwhelmed or indifferent governments.”  If the position of the NEF, which endorsed the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, could be termed political by the Federal Government, that of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), which endorsed Buhari for the election cannot be classified as such.  ACF in a communiqué, last week, asked the Federal Government to save the North and the country from insecurity. It said that emerging security scenario in the country was disturbing. The group noted that the increasing insecurity in the North, especially in Zamfara, Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto and Taraba states, has made life unbearable for the people. It called on the Federal Government to take drastic measures that would restore normalcy, peace and harmony in the affected states.  The northern group also cautioned Nigerians to stop sowing seeds of discord, citing the recent crisis between the Tiv and Jukun communities in Benue and Taraba states as an example. It further noted a similar communal clash between Mada ethnic group and Fulani settlement in Akwanga Local Government Area of Nasarawa State was also taking place.  We are aware that politicians equip youths with different arms and ammunition during elections. We are also aware that soon after elections, there are usually pockets of violence in various states and areas, being an aftermath of the elections.  But we are worried that the scale of insecurity the nation is battling with now is more than election-related violence. It is pure criminality that is thriving across the country. The security agencies appear overwhelmed by the massive insecurity that is blazing throughout the country.  We note that apart from the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, who was recently brought in, the President has since 2015 maintained the use of the same security chiefs, even when it is clear that it is either they have run out of ideas or are tired of going through the same routine, which eventually has not solved the problems.  We believe, and very strongly too, that as the president begins to wind down on his first term and prepares for his second term, he needs to take a deep look at the security situation in the country. His conclusions after a painstaking assessment would not be different from those of many Nigerians. He needs a new strategy and strategists to tackle the insecurity situation in the country. It is beyond the fight against insurgency in the North-East. Let the President do the needful now in the interest of the country.