Police yesterday arrested three suspects in connection with the robbery attack on a first generation bank at Idoani in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State. After the robbery on Monday, a suspect was arrested close to the scene of the crime by the combined team of the soldiers, vigilantes and policemen. Yesterday’s arrest brought to four the number of suspects nabbed so far.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, did not confirm the arrest. However, a senior police officer told New Telegraph that  four suspects had been arrested.  The officer said the suspects were arrested when they wanted to escape to Edo State through the border towns between the two neighbouring states. He added that the d suspects had confessed to the crime while they confirmed that other members of the gang were still at large. However, Joseph said the command was on the trail of the hoodlums with an assurance to bring them to book.  According to him, detectives have been combing the area in a bid to arrest the criminals. The PPRO said synergy had been es-  tablished with sister security agencies to ensure the arrest of the robbers. He said: “We will not relent in the search until the hoodlums are apprehended and face the wrath of the law. I am assuring you that the command is working round the clock to rid the state of criminals and crimes.”  Joseph warned banks not to site their offices in isolated areas as this, according to him, allows robbery operations to thrive like the Idoani.  This development came as the Alani of Idoani, Oba Olufemi Olutoye, said the robbers also attacked his palace.  The monarch told the government’s delegation led by the deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi, that the bandits invaded the palace, damaged the main door leading into the palace. However, he said the hoodlums had to withdraw from the palace when they discovered it was a fruitless exercise. The monarch appealed to government to strengthen the security in the state.  He also called on government to assist families who lost members in the robbery. Ajayi, who represented Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, charged security agencies to fish out the robbers.  The government promised to strengthen security around the state to prevent similar occurrence. Seven people lost their lives when the robbers attacked the only commercial bank in the community and injured several others.