The Healthcare Providers Association of Nigeria (HCPAN), has urged the Federal Government to make the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) compulsory for citizens, saying that was the strategy to achieve Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC), which has long been overdue for Nigerians. Also, HCPAN has called on the Federal and state governments to review the tariff, which is paid to providers for service provision, adding that the upgraded tariff must be in line with current economic realities in the country. Speaking at the association’s extra ordinary National Executive Council, NEC, meeting that held in Lagos recently, the National President of the HCPAN, Dr. Adeyeye Arigbabuwo lamented that the scheme which has been in operation in the last 13 years, was still weak and politicised and this has led to low uptake which is currently less than five per cent coverage across the nation. Arigbabuwo said the association wants NHIS to be more focused on its regulatory functions and the roaring sea of political turmoil in its setting to come to an end so that it can be stable. He said: “Once NHIS is stable, the universal healthcare coverage will be a dream realised. NHIS is the captain that can drive all these. All eyes should be focused on peace attainment in the scheme to have a team that will carry Nigerians along.” Speaking further, HCPAN President identified other issues bedevilling the scheme such as low awareness of the scheme across communities nationwide, out of pocket payment, poor funding, impoverishment of providers, poor distribution of enrolees, apparent undermining and uncared for stand-alone secondary provider facilities by the present structure of some state supported Health Insurance Scheme, some HMOs practicing with impunity with most of them owing providers for several months, teaching hospitals taking over the bulk of enrolees and primary cases, among others.  He regretted that benefit package, tariff and operating guideline in the system is not in tune with present economic realities and the sustainability and survival of providers, noting that any Capitation less that of NHIS (750) will amount to under insurance and short changing the providers/Enrolees.  He said: “For all the states heath insurance programmes across the country, we appeal to the operators, various state governments that we have the mandate of all the groups in health sector that we should do appropriate pricing of healthcare delivery . “What is being offered now as payment inform of capitation, when matched with payment package, there is great disparity and the gap needs to be filled so that Nigerians will not see a failed system,” Arigbabuwo said. The association also wants government to encourage reverse medical tourism by finding ways to bring back health workers in the Diaspora by and creating enabling environment. Arigbabuwo, however, reiterates that if Nigeria must achieve UHC, the above issues must be tackled and all stakeholders must come together and work together to achieve result in the health sector.