President Muhammadu Buhari has directed that the State House Medical Centre (SHMC) be reverted to original status as to a Clinic. Permanent Secretary, State House, Mr. Jalal Arabi, announced the decision yesterday in a statement issued by Deputy Director (Information), State House Media Unit, Mr. Attah Esa. The Permanent Secretary said: “Without prejudice to what is currently obtainable at SHMC, the intention to revert to a clinic is a Presidential directive. This is to make sure that the facility is functional and serves the purpose for which it was established, ab initio,” he said. Arabi had appeared before the Senate Committee on Federal Character and Inter-Governmental Affairs for the 2019 budget defence. Arabi explained to reporters after the budget defence that the reversion of the Centre to a Clinic was a case of “cutting one’s coat according to your cloth.” He said: “It was initially meant to serve the first and second families and those working within and around the Villa. “The overstretching of facilities at the Medical Centre by patients is some of the challenges the Centre have been going through. It wasn’t meant for that purpose. Nobody was charging anyone for any services and relying on appropriation means we will depend on subvention when it comes to run the Centre. “Whatever comes is what you utilise and if the last patient comes in to take the last drugs based on the last budgetary release, that is it and we have to wait till another release is done. “But this new development means that services will be streamlined to a clinic that will serve those that it was meant to serve when it was conceived.” Arabi said that the Centre had a total budget of N1.03 billion in the 2018 appropriation, with N698 million as capital expenditure and N331.7 million as overhead cost. According to him, the total overhead expenditure released for the Centre from January-December 2018 is N331.7 million, representing 99.9 per cent while the capital releases on projects is N231.9 million, representing 33.2 per cent. In his remarks, the Chairman of the Committee, Senator Danjuma La’ah (PDP-Kaduna South) welcomed the proposal to make the SHMC fully functional and ensure that members of the first and second families used the facilities at the clinic. La’ah promised that committee will support full funding for the Clinic and commended the 2018 budget performance in State House, compared to previous years, despite revenue challenges. The Centre was a focal point during the two-hour presentation and budget defence by the Permanent Secretary before the Senate Committee. The State House 2019 budget proposal of N14.3 billion is slightly lower than the 2018 Appropriation of 15.47 billion by 7.1 per cent. The Presidency yesterday confirmed that it has, so far, received N1,195,257,022.13 (representing 30 per cent) of the total budgetary allocation for the State House Medical Centre (SHMC) in the last two years. A statement signed by Mr. Attah Esa, deputy director in the media department at the presidential villa, Abuja… In “News” The House of Representatives recently resolved to investigate the deplorable condition of the State House Medical Center (SHMC) apparently, on the prompting of an outburst by the wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari and her daughter Zahra. Anule Emmanuel examines some reforms being adopted by the presidency to revitalise… In “Politics” President Muhammadu Buhari is considering the option of commercializing the State House Medical Center ‎(SHMC). The decision is to enhance the services of the center and boost its revenue base. Permanent Secretary in the presidency Mr Jalal Arabi confirmed in a statement that the management of the center will also soon augment the… In “Top Stories”