 Before the general elections in Rivers, some residents had expected a real contest between Governor Nyesom Wike and the other heavyweight candidates. And when other candidates started showing interest in the governorship position, many described it as a welcome development that would entrench democracy in the state. With their eye catching posters and billboards, some of the candidates of the lesser known parties looked set to mount a strong challenge to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Rivers State. A few of them had even gone the extra mile by launching various social media platforms to pass their message across. The ones that are media savvy, made strategic radio and television appearances, and almost set the state on fire with criticisms. But when the time for the election came, most of the governorship candidates had abandoned their political ambitions, preferring to join others in supporting or working against the ruling party. As far as Rivers politics is concerned, there are two main political parties battling for dominance. The PDP under the leadership of Governor Nyesom Wike was the party to beat in the 2019 general elections. And the party that could have done the deed was the All Progressives Congress, APC. Because the APC failed to manage its internal challenges, it fell by the way side. The lack of internal democracy within the party, and the disagreement between Transport minister, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and Sen. Magnus Ngei Abe would land at the Supreme Court, which judgement made it clear that the party’s candidates were ineligible to contest any political seat in the 2019 general election. Up until the final days of the campaigns, Arch. Tonye Cole, who emerged the governorship candidate from the camp of Amaechi was hopeful that the Supreme Court would change its mind on the party’s governorship primaries. That was never the case. So, no single APC candidate appeared on the ballot throughout the election. Just like Cole, the governorship candidate of the Accord Party, AP, Chief Sumo Lulu-Briggs was also barred from contesting the election by the court. The state chairman of AP, Sir Precious Baridoo had challenged the emergence of Lulu-Briggs as the party’s governorship candidate, arguing that Lulu-Briggs did not emerge through a primary that was conducted in the state. Lulu-Briggs had dumped the APC when it became glaring that Cole was the preferred choice of Amaechi for the party’s governorship candidate. Having joined the party long before Cole, he had hurriedly joined the Accord Party. In the Kalabari, and indeed the Ijaw axis of the state, Lulu-Briggs is popular, and has been in politics albeit not consistently since the 2002 when then governor, Dr. Peter Odili was preparing for his reelection. That inconsistency, in not remaining in a party party for long, somehow, worked against him. In 2015, he was among the candidates that showed interest in the governorship ticket of the PDP, which Wike eventually won. The eventual disqualification of Cole and Lulu-Briggs, while creating the scenario of a smooth ride for Wike, equally opened the door for serious minded candidates from other political parties to challenge Wike. It turned out that no other candidate could pull the kind of weight that Wike pulled. At least two years earlier, Wike had been campaigning across the state, using the launch of projects in the state’s 23 local government areas to campaign. With extensive grassroots network through local government appointees, who maintained rapport with the people, it was very difficult for any other party to make inroad. Most political parties must have understood this fact and wasted no time in endorsing Wike. This started in January, two months before the election when the chairmen of 89 political parties under the Inter-Party Advisory Council, IPAC, visited Wike in Government House, Port Harcourt and endorsed him. The Chairman of Rivers State IPAC, Sir Precious Baridoo announced that IPAC had recognised Governor Wike as “the Face of Politics in Nigerian Democracy.”
“We have decided to adopt Governor Wike as our sole candidate for his outstanding projects delivery which has earned him several awards. “Eighty percent of our active members of IPAC in the state are ready to work with you. You have done well. You are a leader in whom we are well pleased. Our involvement in the forthcoming gubernatorial election on March 2, 2019 will not only be total, but all inclusive to ensure your victory.” However, there were other parties that did not endorse Wike, who they alleged was planning to cause violence during the elections. The parties that did not support Wike came out openly after the elections had come and gone; when there was a political standoff over the governorship result of the election. A statement issued by Pastor Warigbani Ezekiel Zebulun, the CGCPC Chairman and APDA governorship candidate, and Honourable Chibuzor Anele, the CGCPC Secretary, said they had studied the political terrain and recent events in Rivers State and had “frowned at them”.
They said: “We wholeheartedly disassociate ourselves from the concocted, misguided and shameful endorsement of Barr. Nyesom Wike as sole governorship candidate by a purported coalition of 58 political parties. Such endorsement is watery and belated.  As tension mounted over the result of the election, another drama occurred when Akpo Yeahh wrote the governorship candidate of African Action Congress, AAC in Rivers state, Biopkomabo Awara, announcing his resignation from the party over APC alleged hijack of the party’s structure. About three days to the election, Amaechi had endorsed Awara, announcing that the APC would support AAC. Indeed, on the day of election, APC chieftains in Amaechi’s camp supported Awara, who would later claim he was leading in the governorship at some point before the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC announced Wike the winner. Before then, Yeahh in his letter advised Awara to liberate himself from Amaechi’s stronghold. Yeah also accused the Minister of Transportation of pursuing a selfish political agenda. In the letter, Yeah said:, “I write to most respectfully to notify of my resignation from the membership of the African Action Alliance (AAC) with effect from today, 25th March 2019 and subsequent defection to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
“Please note also that by this notice, I cease to be the Deputy Governorship Candidate of our Party, the AAC, for the 2019 Governorship Election in Rivers State. “My decisions were informed by the complete hijack of the structure and administration of our Party by a faction of the APC in Rivers State led by the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, for his personal political ambition. “Furthermore, the Rotimi Amaechi led faction of the APC is not letting in its determination to subvert the will of Rivers people and cause crisis in the State using the platform of our promising Party.” Awara’s AAC would have exemplified what a fringe or small political party can do in terms of pulling surprises during elections, but the manner in which the party was endorsed and the huge victory it claimed to have scored during the elections raised concerns in some quarters. At a stakeholders meeting organized by INEC after a panel had been set up to investigate what really transpired during the elections, Wike and Awara disagreed. While Wike ccused Awara, other members of AAC and their APC backers of promoting violence and scaring investors from Rivers, Awara accused INEC of doctoring the result of the election. Awara said: “I am surprised that the leaders of political parties involved in the elections were not asked questions by members of INEC’s five-man fact-finding committee. I doubt the reliability of the doctored result sheets and other electoral materials with INEC in the last three weeks. We have record of some of the results being mutilated, particularly that of Akuku-Toru LGA. “REC of INEC in Rivers State has refused to give reasons for charging the four compromised electoral officers of the commission, who lack integrity for being card-carrying members of PDP. “If the violence made the March 9 elections not to be credible, according to INEC, where did the commission get results for the seventeen LGAs, of Rivers 23 LGAs in the INEC’s possession?  Wike, however, accused the AAC’s governorship candidate, members of his party and his backers in APC of being economical with the truth.
Wike said: “I do not agree that Rivers is a violent state. Rivers State has never and it will not be a violent State. Why are they raising too much alarm? What causes violence? Why is there violence each time there is election? The only way to have peaceful elections is when the security agencies refuse to interfere or manipulate any process.” The elections have come and gone and the winners and losers announced. Peace has since returned to the state, and economic activities continue to pick up. It, however, appears that the fringe parties have gone to sleep instead of building on whatever gains they made in the last elections. 19 governors battle opposition to retain seats APC targets A’Ibom, Abia, Gombe, Sokoto, Benue, Kwara PDP unsettles Tinubu in Lagos, seeks to upstage APC in Plateau, Oyo, Imo   Apprehension has enveloped most of the states, where governorship elections will hold tomorrow. That is as various political parties, especially the… In “Politics” ...as Okorocha, Amosun defy Oshiomhole     There is palpable fear in the All Progressives Congress (APC) following last Friday's suspension of two serving governors, a minister and the head of a strategic federal agency by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the ruling party. Those suspended included the Governor… In “News” In this analysis, BIYI ADEGOROYE, examines the legal quagmire which culminated to the failure of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to allow the participation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the elections in Rivers and Zamfara states and the value of internal democracy in the parties   With… In “News”