Barely 41 years after the Land Use Act had been in operation, housing stakeholders said that most of the problems the law was meant to cure have resurfaced. Dayo Ayeyemi reports  When the Land Use Act was enacted in 1978 by the then military government, many Nigerians were of the opinion that most of the problems associated with access to land for housing development, industrial and agricultural purposes would be a thing of the past.  However, 41 years down the line, most of the people, especially built environment professionals , who hailed the authorities for the promulgation of the land law, are now calling for its abrogation. If total abrogation of the law is not possible, others are rooting for its review or amendments of some identified provisions of certain sections of the law to meet current realities. Some of the sections of the Land Use Act reeled out by housing stakeholders for possible review or amendments include section 1, 21, 22, 15, 16, 28 and 29 of the law. According to President, African Regions, International Real Estate Federation (FIABCI), Mr. Chudi Ubosi, abrogation of Land Use Act is not negotiable, pointing out that the land law has failed the objectives it was set out achieve. He said the law had made land ownership and title transfer tougher. For starters, Ubosi noted that bitter controversies and conflicts still existed over title to land, adding the Act has definitely not made it any easier for citizens to own land. Ubosi, who is also the Principal Partner, Ubosi Eleh and Co, recalled that objectives of Land Use Act were no doubt lofty and well-intentioned but that they have turned out to be defective in many respects, calling for its review in tune with current realities.
According to him, the land law is fettered with institutional failure, dearth of political will and inherent defects. “Notwithstanding, the desire for economic development through effective, fair and equitable utilisation of land and land resources can still be attained if the law is holistically amended to overturn certain anachronistic and antithetical provisions and replaced with realistic and effective policies that would put Nigeria on the part of economic progress,”Ubosi said. He pointed out that sections 21 – 22 of the Act, which prohibits alienation of either a customary right of occupancy or a statutory right of occupancy via an assignment, mortgage, transfer of possession, sub-lease, or otherwise without the consent of the governor, have resulted in a plethora of issues relating to transfer of property transactions. He mentioned that the process of obtaining governor’s consent was too expensive, adding that many states have seen it primarily as a revenue generating activity. “Even though there have been improvements to the process in some states, it still takes a long time to obtain the consent, which significantly delays the completion of land related transactions,” he said. Additionally, he stated that requirement to seek the governor’s consent for mortgage transactions had proved to be an impediment in the introduction of financial tools such as mortgage backed securitisation, which requires an element of certainty in terms of the rights to the underlying securities in the mortgages to be securitised. As a result of the above stated issues, Ubosi noted that amendments had been proposed to alleviate the burdens currently faced by investors in the real estate market and to provide property investment incentives but that not much has been achieved in this regard. “According to a survey carried out in 2012, the second greatest challenge facing 22 per cent of Nigerians that want to invest in real estate is reported to be the difficulty in obtaining titles. This is followed by 18 per cent that cite cost and time involved in regularizing real estate transactions,” Ubosi said. Lack of understanding of the laws and procedures surrounding real estate and real estate transactions, the real estate guru said was borne primarily out of the poor workability of the Land Use Act. He said the Act had failed to curtail the activities of land speculators, as one of its objectives, noting that large tracts of undeveloped lands were still not under the control of the governors of the states, as land speculators have been cashing in on this seeming lapse by holding down vast lands out of use until such a time, as it would be very profitable to dispose on the market. This practice, he said, hampered development in diverse ways. Publicity Secretary of NIESV, Lagos Branch, Mr. Richard Olodu, corroborated Ubosi, calling for the repeal or amendment of section 1 of the law, which vested land in government of the state, saying governors have abused the power. “Today the power has been abused. The land is not even available to the masses claimed to be holding in trust for. The governor does whatever he likes with his power on the land and no section or clause of the Act cautions or penalises the governor for abuse of power or office in terms of land allocation,” he said. Besides, Olodu alleged that there was too much exploitation by the governors, pointing out that costs of transfer of title and securing governors’ consent have become too expensive. “Meanwhile, the same government collects annual ground rent, after premium paid for the land. To me, it’s amount to robbery in disguise,” he said. Puncturing the time frame for acquiring land from government, he said it was too lengthy, ambiguous and made ownership difficult. He noted that the land law had not been able to solve the problems of Omo-oniles it was enacted to resolve. He said: “Out of all the issues raised here and the one that are not raised, the power given to the governor without provision for checks of his activities is the most annoying part to me. And must be repealed or amended. And lest I forget, the Act needs to be removed from the constitution of 1999 as amended.“ Richard added that compulsory acquisition of land through public overriding interest was mostly jeopardised as most lands compulsorily acquired were not used for the purpose they were meant. In a report, the presidential candidate of the Young Progressives Party in the recently concluded general elections, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, said the country’s Land Use Act had created a debt profile of $300 billion for the country, as such, should be repealed. According to him, the Act has created a massive bureaucracy that prevents investment with economic efficiency in the housing sector. Also, a renowned Lagos-based estate surveyor and valuer, Chief Kola Akomolede, advised the National Assembly to, as a matter of urgency, review the Land Use Act, which the country has been operating for the past four decades. Akomolede, who is also the Principal Partner, Kola Akomolede and Co., stated that the amendment would, among other things, reduce the inconveniences and illegalities contained in the Act, and give Nigerians more access to land and landed property. He noted that the Act, having been promulgated by Decree 6 of 1978, and made part of the constitution one year after, had never been reviewed despite the inadequacies in the law. Akomolede noted that calls for the removal of the Act from the constitution had all fallen on deaf ears, adding that the law had more negative effects on Nigerians than the order of election. Chairman, Presidential Technical Committee on Land Reform (PTCLR), Professor Peter Adeniyi, in an interview with New Telegraph, said the Land Use Act has pauperized Nigerians, calling for its removal from the constitution for possible review and amendments. He recalled that attempts were made during the administration of late President Umaru Yar’Adua to review the law, saying the process was truncated due to the death of the former president. “He pointed out about 14 sections of the law that were not working for the people but unfortunately, he died. Ever since, several efforts have been made,” he said. Again, he alleged that because the state governors were profiting from the law, they were frustrating the process of its amendment. He said: “We are slaves to our own law. I have never seen a country where the citizens are slaves to their own laws. You made a law, the law is not working, and you say it is in the constitution, but when you send amendments to the Houses of Assembly the governors work on their legislative people because they are the ones that bring in majority of the people. “And because they are enjoying that aspect of the law, when the House sends it to the state for amendment, they will bring it down.” While reviewing activities in the housing sector, Managing Director, Northcourt Real Estate Company Limited, Mr. Tayo Odunsi, noted that professionals have sought to ease the process of amending the law by seeking its removal from the larger Nigerian constitution where it’s currently ensconced. This, he said would make it easier to amend, not requiring the Senate majority required for a full constitutional amendment.  Last line If Nigeria must make progress in land administration for economic prosperity and development, the authorities should look into some of the issues raised by experts concerning the 41-year old land law and necessary machinery set up for its review.