Dr. Abayomi Ajayi is a consultant obstetrics and gynaecologist and Managing Director, Nordica Fertility Centre. In this interview he discusses burden of endometriosis on Nigerian women in a country with poor knowledge about the condition and plans to advance its management with a view to reducing its ordeal on women to the barest minimum. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  Why put endometriosis discuss on front burner? Why do we continue to talk about endometriosis? We discuss the condition because the symptoms of endometriosis are varied and many doctors continue to miss its diagnosis.   Symptoms The symptoms could be as varied as even to present like epilepsy, as convulsion, which is very rare but the commonest we know is that it could be abdomen pain or pelvic pain and usually all the problems that come with endometriosis are worst during the menses or during menstrual period. The problem we have most of the time is that people present with things that doctors cannot and sometimes do not seem related to menstrual period unless the doctors asks the patient: “When is your menstrual period?”  We have seen people who are coughing out blood as symptoms of endometriosis. In this environment when anybody that coughs out blood is tuberculosis (TB), we believe it is tuberculosis; that is what we are taught in school. But, we now know that if we are able to link it with menstrual period, it could be endometriosis, and that is the reason why all over the world, the month of March is regarded as Endometriosis Awareness Month.  Length of time to diagnose endometriosis  In the United Kingdom, (UK), for example, it takes them about 10 years to make a diagnosis of endometriosis from the point when the symptoms start to when diagnosis is made. That has now, because of awareness reduced to about seven years. We don’t know what length of time it takes to diagnose the condition in Nigeria because we still don’t have the figures for Nigeria.  However, we want to be able to know the average age that endometriosis can be diagnosed in this country. The only way we can do that is when we continue to have discussion on this topic; when we make it to be on the front burner and not an uncommon disorder in this environment.  Racial links with endometriosis About 30 years ago, we were taught that endometriosis does not occur among blacks, but all of us know now, that it is not true. The occurrence is the same in both the white and blacks. Hence, race has nothing to do with occurrence of endometriosis.  Diagnosis One of the things you will ask me is that, how to make the diagnosis of endometriosis? Are we getting better with that in Nigeria? We know that Nigerian doctors are very intelligent people. The problem is that, sometimes they don’t have the facilities to work with but even in endometriosis, what we are trying to say now is that you should think of it. Somebody said the eyes does not see what the mind has not conceived. So, if you do not conceive it first, you can’t see it.  Therefore, when you are thinking very strongly that this is endometriosis, then you can send it (refer the patient) to somebody who can make the diagnosis. But, also all over the world people are making the diagnosis to look simpler because we know that the commonest place that endometriosis stays most is on the ovaries and we can see ovarian metrioma with the scan. So, if your scanning is good enough or it is CT-scan that you can do, you should have a strong suspicion of endometriosis. So, all this we can know when we continue to discuss things happening in other places. You know in other places now, all the emphasis is on diagnosing endometriosis very early in school girls, because we know that endometriosis starts in teenage years.  Getting teenagers to be conscious of this. That can only come from us reporting more on and more on endometriosis. One of the problems we also have in Nigeria is that we rarely see people speak out about the condition, which they suffered. There are some people who have been treated for this condition, but don’t want to talk about endometriosis. Some of them have children but still don’t want to talk about endometriosis. So, it very few people who discuss it, not to talk of young girls who are not even married. Many of such girls will say: “Who will want to marry me if I tell them I have endometriosis?”  So, we have some of these problems in Nigeria. Until, we start talking so much about it, that is where The Press come in, to help us disseminate this information so that people will know that it has nothing to do with promiscuity; you don’t have endometriosis because you are promiscuous. It is the way that God in his infinite mercy created some people. The condition is so common that it is up to about six to 10 per cent of women that have endometriosis.  So, unless we are talking about it, unless we are making the diagnosis, unless people are aware of this, the situation may not change. As I said, until we start thinking about endometriosis, until the doctor starts talking about endometriosis, then, we might not just get to the end of it and I hope that for this year as usual, we have planned so many programmes. We have done the school essay which fortunately we had about 32 applications for the school essay, and we are choosing a winner. The competition for journalists also is still on going, and I think that is going to end in May. And off course, we are going to crown the face of Endometriosis Support Group (ESD) as well. Also, one of the things we are trying to do this year is to look at not confining activities to Lagos State alone.  Survey plan on diagnosing endometriosis We are trying to do a nationwide survey for school girls. We looked at literature and the last literature that we had when girls start menstruating in Nigeria was in 1976 is the study that we had then. We think that is out dated and that we should go to schools all over Nigeria, and we aim to talk to 20,000 girls and we divided into different states to be able to do that. but we are not only talking to them we filling a survey form on how they treat their menstrual hygiene. When they are menstruating, what do they do? We know that some people still use rags so that we can also talk to them on menstrual hygiene but also at the same time looking at what percentage of those girls have incapacitating pain during their menstruation. This might just be the first precaution to the diagnosis of endometriosis, so that we can start spotting them on tracing the diseases of endometriosis in Nigeria.  The theme for this years is ‘Time To End the Silence’. We want everyone out there to know that it is important for everyone that has endometriosis to be able to speak out. We know a lot of people in the developed countries who have endometriosis and they are calling on people to support them.  The Nigeria maybe because culture, they don’t want to talk about anything. And off course you know the challenges we face is that people don’t want to talk. Endometriosis is a very bad thing and it is something we want them to tell people about their experiences. A lot of people might say I know someone who has this may be because of the awareness that we are creating now. So, it’s time to end the silence. 