Mrs. Seyi Enitan-Olubode is the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Public Communication to Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, she speaks on women in politics, the 2019 general elections, among other issues   How has it been serving as the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) Public Communication to Governor Ibikunle Amosun?  It is providence that has brought me this far. I thank Almighty God for the grace to be alive and relevant in the Mission to Rebuild Ogun State under the leadership of a unique, selfless, witty gentleman and a thorough Ogun State indigene, Governor Ibikunle Amosun. I was appointed Special Assistant to the governor in June 2011 after serving as Media Aide to him when he was in the Senate in 2003. It has been very challenging because our captain and team leader, before coming into office, had a clear vision to turn Ogun State fortune around and ensure we live the state better than we met it. He has done a lot to transform the state since he took over mantle of leadership on May 29, 2011. We met a lot of challenges on ground and we tackled it one after the other by finding lasting solutions. For example, the first challenge was insecurity in the nook and cranny of the state and with the support and cooperation of the good people of the state, captains of industries, security outfits, community associations, religious associations, financial institutions and traditional leaders, peace and security returned to the state. As SSA to Governor Amosun on Public Communication, do you think your principal has met the yearning and aspiration of Ogun people in the last eight years? As a Public Relations Practitioner with more than two decades professional experience in politics and a thorough Ogun State indigene, my principal is doing his beat and the MITROS team has been harnessing all resources to meet the need of the good people of Ogun State. In the last eight years, the state has been peaceful and people have witnessed the transformation from a civil service state to industrial hub. Many youths are proud to associate with development strides in various fields in the socio-economic and political aspects. The state’s rating has improved from down the ladder to one of the best states to reckon with in Nigeria today. Due to our ability to think outside the box, Ogun State Internal Generated Revenue (IGR) has been improving steadily and we have visible development strides to show for it. The state population keeps increasing as people are relocating from neighboring states to enjoy the abundant resources in the state. As more people find a haven in the state, the government is facing more challenges to serve the teaming growing population. As the saying in Economics: Human wants are insatiable. With the limited financial resources available, we are serving the people and we hope to leave the stage with smile on their faces. We are indeed humbled that under the leadership of Governor Amosun, Ogun State is being known for positive narratives all over the world. How do you see the gang up against Amosun by some political gladiators in Ogun State to stop him from producing his successor? Ogun State has become a beautiful bride because Governor Amosun and his team have been able to move the state to an enviable position among others states in Nigeria. Many are quick to accuse, judge and crucify him for the same action and step they have imbibed all their political life. I will like to use this medium to appeal to our political gladiators that we should do unto others what we want to be done to us. Many of them are past governors of their respective states and they influenced the choice of their successors while others have been able to fix their children, relatives and professional associates in choice political positions. The world is watching and the younger generations are moving on the fast lane of life. We should be mindful of the legacies we are leaving behind. Government is a call to selfless service to humanity hence we should always pray for our leaders. What is your take about women participation in politics? Former Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Anan once said, “When it is done by both men and women, it is better and the result is greater”. Women are doing their bits in other area of human endeavour in Nigeria but a lot still needs to be done in the elective process of politics at the presidential, governorship, National Assembly and federal appointments levels. The Beijing Conference Resolution of 1995 and reinforced by the UN 2002 35 per cent affirmative action for women is still a mirage in Nigerian politics. Once again, let me seize this opportunity to commend Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s fairness in the appointment of more than 40 per cent women in the Ogun State cabinet. He also facilitated Ogun States women appointments to head various political federal, state and local government positions. Rome was not built in a day; we will get there someday. What do you think Governor Amosun would be remembered for in Ogun State after he bows out of office on May 29 after eight years of uninterrupted government? The legacy is everywhere in the three senatorial districts. MITROS has turned the fortune of the state around for the better as the state is forging ahead in developmental strides. When you google Ogun State’s activities from 2011 to 2019, you will be amazed by the feedback you get. The achievements are not hidden and posterity will judge us.