One of the leading mobile solutions providers, Autusbridge Consulting Limited, is set to host businesses in Nigeria at a one day seminar on Business Mobility. The event according to a statement, is being organised in partnership with another technology giant from Spain, Telynet. The seminar, which is aimed at exposing Nigerian businesses to latest technology solutions that can enhance their performance, is scheduled to hold Lagos later this month. Speaking on the importance of the Business Mobility seminar, Chief Executive Officer of Autusbridge Consulting, Mr Olugbenga Johnson, noted that technology would continue to have huge impacts on businesses as it enhances productivity. “Technological support for businesses is no longer limited to the office setting,” he said. “ Field activities ranging from sales, technical services, logistics, courier, marketing, POS merchandising etc can be managed remotely in real time. This technological intervention or concept is called Business or Enterprise Mobility.” Johnson explained that business mobility is an approach to work in which employees can do their jobs from anywhere using a variety of devices and applications. “Enterprise mobility is thriving on the heels of increasing Internet penetration, availability of low-cost smart devices and increasing adaptability of the various solutions to different business operational models,” he added. According to him, Autusbridge as the best Mobile Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software and other Mobile Solutions services provider in Nigeria, has a deep understanding of business needs in the country, and this informed the need for the conference. He added that Autusbridge has also been helping companies to be in constant contact with their customers and business representatives on the field. On partnership with Telynet, Johnson said Autusbridge will be leveraging the technical competence and continents-wide experience of the Spanish technology company, which has over 30 years’ experience in the development and deployment of Mobile/Office solutions for customer relationship management and field force automation.
Highlighting the track record of the company, he said Telynet had successfully implemented and managed numerous projects across various industries ranging from FMCG, Pharmaceuticals, Logistics in over five continents. Phillips Consulting Transforms Banking in Nigeria with Introduction of Intellect Digital Solution Leading management consulting firm, Phillips Consulting Limited (PCL), has transformed the financial technology sector by introducing cutting-edge technology, Intellect Digital Core Banking Solution, to Nigeria. Phillips Consulting collaborated with Intellect Design Arena Limited, a global leading company that… In “Business” FPG Technologies & Solutions Limited, one of Nigeria’s foremost IT companies has been named ‘Tech Consulting Company of The Year’ in the Nigerian Technology Awards 2018. The Nigerian Technology Awards (NITA) according to a statement, is organized to celebrate technology excellence, reward technology companies, entrepreneurs, innovators, inventors, academicians and policy… In “Business” Swift Networks Limited has launched a suite of information and communications technology products customized to support Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the country. According to the firm, these bundled solutions will reduce cost and give small businesses better control of their operations to drive efficiencies and growth. To operate… In “Business”