The second edition of the NewBrandsXPO, an experiential expo for new and emerging products and services, has been slated for July 19 and 20 at the MUSON Centre, Onikan Lagos. According to Tony Usidamen, Lead Consultant of Uburu and co-promoter of the NewBrandsXPO, this year’s edition will also feature workshops for Small and Mediumscaled Enterprises (SMEs). “Spurred on by the success of our maiden outing last June, we have decided to include workshops on several important subjects, from branding to financing, as part of events for NewBrandsXPO 2019. Thus, offering exhibitors and other participants practical insight and tips to help grow their businesses,” he said. On the importance of the expo, Lanre Samson, Heventin’s Activations Director and joint promoter of New- BrandsXPO, said: “Brands who build community will have staying power while those who don’t will fade. Whether it is with other exhibitors or the one-on-one time you’ll get to spend with prospects, NewBrandsXPO is a great platform to create rapport and build valuable relationships. “There are many benefits for visitors too, as they will get to sample new products and evaluate suppliers, make instant purchases at hugely discounted prices, follow latest trends and innovations, develop valuable personal connections and generate critical business contacts.” Like last edition, exhibitors at the 2019 edition of New- BrandsXPO, a one-stop shop for organisations seeking to launch new products & services into the market and get instant consumer feedback, will cut across different sectors including IT & Telecom. Over 10,000 Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) are projected to attend this year’s edition of SME-eBusiness Fair organised annually by Connect Nigeria. Scheduled to hold at Eko Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos early next month, the fair is reputed as the largest gathering of SMEs on the African continent.… In “Business” Hundreds of runners from all walks of life including important personalities from within and outside the sports industry on Tuesday thronged the Molade Okoya Thomas Hall at the Teslim Balogun Stadium as the 2019 Access Bank Lagos City Marathon Expo got underway. Marathon Expos are an integral part of big… In “Sports” Following the commitment made by the Zimbabwe government to fund this year’s Sanganai/Hlanganani World Tourism Expo 2017, the host of the yearly travel and tourism trade exhibition, Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA), has announced the commencement of preparation for the expo now billed for September 27 - 30 in Bulawayo International… In “Travel and Tourism”