 The Shipping and Freight Forwarding branch of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) has called on the Federal Government to urgently revive the Eastern ports to encourage shippers from that part of the country start patronizing them Speaking in newsmen in Lagos, branch president of the union, Comrade Ekpeyong Etim Ekpeyong commended the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), for its efforts at finding a solution to gridlock and congestion at the Lagos ports; including reconstruction of port access roads, Truck Call-up System and plan to revive rail linkage to the ports. He, however, stated that the medium and long term solution to the problem is the immediate revival of the Eastern ports, to solve the problem of over-capacity of the Lagos ports. It added that the Eastern ports will take the excess cargo coming to the Lagos ports and allow the businesses killed in Apapa by the gridlock to reopen and contribute to national economic growth. Comrade Ekpeyong said the Onne, Warri, Harcourt and Calabar ports should be made busy by the government through constant dredging of the channels to pave way for big vessels to call at the ports; as well as give incentives to shipping companies to start to patronize the Eastern port Explaining the numerous advantages the country stand to gain from reviving the Eastern ports Comrade Ekpeyong said there will be many job opportunities and end youth restiveness in the region, boost economic activities, including manufacturing in the South South and South East geo-political zones of the country. He said that pirate attacks, kidnapping and unemployment could be a thing of the past, further calling of the Federal Government to provide adequate security along the corridor to boost the confidence of importers that may wish to use the ports.  He, however, pointed out that the over hyped kidnapping crimes and maritime piracy is national problems that can no longer be localized as a Niger Delta problem alone. “There are cases of kidnapping in Lagos and elsewhere in the country, piracy is a Nigerian maritime industry problem that is threatening shipping in the Gulf of Guinea, but it has not stopped shipping in to Lagos, so it cannot be given as an excuse why the Eastern ports should not be revived immediately for national economic growth,” he said. He added: “The only thing is to make the ports busy, the more busy the ports are, the more activities will increase and when activities increase, there is tendency for job creation.  “There are no two ways about it because the advantages of those ports working again outweigh whatever disadvantages the authorities are seeing.He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to deemphasize politics who voted for him or who didn’t vote for him in looking at the matter, saying “the issue here is Nigeria’s economy.  “The only option they have is to dredge the channels because the shallowness has made it impossible for big vessels to sail into the ports. “It is the duty of government to make sure that the ports are functioning well and if those facilities in the east are functioning well, Lagos ports will be decongested and Apapa gridlock will come to an end.” According to him, there is nothing wrong if government gives tax rebate to importers who use the ports just to encourage them to use the ports “because 70 to 80 per cent of importers are from that axis.” Comrade Ekpeyong stressed the need for good roads and railway lines to be constructed to link the ports with the city adding that by so doing, importers in Aba, Onitsha and Nnewi would not have need to come to Lagos to clear that consignments. Nigeria and Benin Republic are competitors in the maritime business. The two West African countries are competing to be the Load Centre, otherwise known as transshipment base in the sub-region. PAUL OGBUOKIRI reports that not less than 60 per cent of Nigerian bound goods in recent years enter the country… In “Business” SAACGOC tasks incoming govt on port access roads As Nigerians wait for the announcement of her new president after yesterday’s Presidential Election, the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporation and Government Owned Companies (SSASCGOC), Maritime branch, has said that there is a truth in the recent report that the country… In “Business” Nigeria and Benin Republic are competitors in the maritime business. The two West African countries are competing to be the Load Centre, otherwise known as transshipment base in the sub-region. PAUL OGBUOKIRI reports that not less than 60 per cent of Nigerian bound goods in recent years enter the country… In “Business”