 A law firm, Charles Mekwunye and Co. has asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to immediately stop giant telecoms firm, MTN from listing its shares in the Nigerian stock market.
In a letter dated 18th March, 2019, the law firm stated that MTN cannot list its shares in the Nigeria stock market due to an ongoing suit before the Supreme Court over divestment of its assets.
The firm alleged that MTN had been unfair to the Nigerian public and regulators by not disclosing the pendency of a civil matter over its shares when it recently announced its proposed initial public offer.
The firm in the letter said: “We are disappointed that you have refused and/ or failed to call MTN to order in light of recent publications relating to its proposed Initial Public Offer (IPO) without any reference whatsoever to the appeal pending before the Supreme Court involving the massive divestment of its assets.
“We consider the move by MTN as unfair, misleading, and calculated attempt as usual to defraud the Nigerian economy and the Nigerian investing public.
“Please be advised that under the Nigerian law and jurisprudence, MTN cannot disrespect the Supreme Court by interfering with the subject matter of litigation before the apex court in the land.”
Dr. Charles Mekwunye, had in 2008 dragged MTN, Lotus Capital and Stanbic IBTC Asset Management, IHS Holding Ltd. and INT Towers Ltd. before a Federal High Court in Lagos over an alleged breach of contract in the massive divestment of MTN assets.
Mekwunye claimed at the lower court that MTN through its appointed nominee, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management and LOTUS Capital allegedly defaulted in a share investment agreement with him.
He urged the court to restrain MTN from listing its shares in the stock market pending determination of the suit.
But ruling on a preliminary objection raised by MTN on the competence of the suit, the trial Judge, Justice Mojisola Olatoregun asked parties in the suit to explore the arbitration clause embedded in the contract.
Dissatisfied with the ruling of the lower court, Mekwunye filed a motion on notice on 26th February, 2018 at the Court of Appeal, arguing that an arbitration clause in agreement between him and MTN would not be used to determine the suit involving IHS Holdings Ltd and INT Towers Ltd who were not parties to the arbitration clause.
The Court of Appeal in its ruling also asked parties in the suit to pursue arbitration earlier pointed out by the lower court.
Still not satisfied with the ruling of the Court of Appeal, Mekwunye took the matter to the Supreme Court, insisting that the crux of the matter was the failure of the respondents to list MTN shares in NSE in 2011 as agreed by parties until the suit was properly determined, MTN ought not to be allowed to list its shares in stock market.