…to capture 4,320 applicants weekly  As part of the comprehensive passport reform policy of the Federal Government, the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has begun the issuance of a 10-year validity passport. The reform is expected to reduce the incidence of counterfeiting, damage, as well as forgery. Conducting journalists round the issuance facility at the headquarters, the NIS spokesman, Mr. Sunday James, a Deputy Comptroller, said National Identity Number (NIN) was compulsory for all applicants seeking the new document. Officials of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) were seen capturing applicants, as pre-condition for the issuance of the passport. According to James, the presence of NIMC at the Immigration headquarters has been replicated in passport offices across the country, to ease the difficulty occasioned in going to NIMC, before proceeding to passport offices. “The inclusion of the NIN on the new enhanced passport is a validation for the new enhanced passport without which you cannot get the passport. Each applicant must come to NIMC, a provision made by NIS in all the service windows. “All our passport offices have this provision so that Nigerians will not suffer going to NIMC offices to get the same facilities within the passport office at the immigration command and headquarters,” James said. He added that: “After getting your NIN, you go to the capturing centre. We have 12 enrolment points. Each enrollee/applicant takes just two minutes to be captured. But first, we have to confirm the information given by them. It might not exceed four minutes. “Each work station can capture 60 applicants. In a day, you can capture 60 times 12. That is in a day you can capture 720 persons; in a week you can capture 720 times six working days. Which is 4,320. “The new enhanced polycarbonate passport booklet, which was launched by Mr. President on the 15th January, 2019, is part of a comprehensive passport reform approved by the government to improve the quality and security of the travel document with a 10-year validity passport that reduces incidence of damage, counterfeit, and forgery.” Also speaking, Comptroller of Passport, Mrs. Edith Onyemenam, declared the readiness of the Service to ensure success of the reform. She said: “We are ready to roll out. We have worked to ensure that this is a huge success. So, I don’t think there is anything stopping us from rolling out today. “The public are advised not to rush for the new booklet as the new enhanced passport will run concurrently with the old one.” Meanwhile, the Service has clarified that applicants with six months passport validity, were not eligible for the new booklet, even as it advised them to make payments online. “Applicants holding a passport with more than six months validity are not eligible for the new booklet except in the case of damage, change of data and those whose passport booklets are exhausted,” NIS said. As part of the comprehensive passport reform policy of the Federal Government the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), has begun the issuance of a 10-year validity passport. The reform is expected to reduce the incidence of counterfeiting, damage, as well as forgery. Conducting a select group of journalists around the issuance… In “National news” The Federal Government yesterday said there was no going back on the April 29 date for the integration of the National Identity Number (NIN) with the new passport.   The Comptroller-General (C-G), Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), Mr. Muhammad Babandede, made this known when he paid a courtesy visit to the… In “News” The Nigerian constitution stipulates that one can be a Nigerian by birth, registration and naturalization. While this seems straight forward enough, the constitution also defines a Nigerian as anyone whose parent is from an ethnic group indigenous to Nigeria. For instance, Yoruba race is an ethnic group indigenous to Nigeria… In “Perspectives”