At least, 20 persons including women and children have been killed in a new wave of attack by gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen in Kaduna. The attack took place in Bonono community in Ungwan Aku, Kufana ward, Kajuru Local Government Area of the state. Our correspondent gathered that the attackers invaded the community on Monday at about 6:30a.m., shooting indiscriminately at houses and killing anyone that tried to escape. Some of the houses were also set ablaze as the villagers abandoned their homes and ran into the bush to escape with their dear lives. Several others were said to have been injured from gunshots  . A resident of the community disclosed that the attackers were dressed in military uniform and armed with different types of guns, machetes and sticks. He also said they were communicating in Fulani language.  The resident, who did not want his name in print said: “They were shooting indiscriminately and everybody started running into the bush. They were pursuing us as we ran to the bush. Some people were killed in the bush. “Some of them were wearing military uniforms with bulletproof vests and they were communicating in Fulani Language. I saw them from where I was hiding,” he narrated. He also disclosed that following distress calls, the police arrived the village in Hilux vans, but refused to pursue the attackers into the bush.  “The police came in eight Hilux vehicles, but instead of pursuing the bandits, who ran to the bushes, they just turned back and left. People told them where they followed but they (police) just turned and refused to follow the gunmen,” he alleged. Meanwhile, residents of Birnin-Gwari, headquarters of Birnin-Gwari  Local Government Area of Kaduna State yesterday took to the streets in their numbers to protest the unabated killings ravaging their area.   The protest was organized by the Coalition of Birnin-Gwari Associations, which have been campaigning against the killings in the area. The protest also coincided with the visit of Governor Nasir El-Rufai, and the Inspector-General of police, Mohammed Adamu, to Birnin-Gwari to see things for themselves following increasing attacks in the recent past.