Actress, Grace Ama’s comeback is giving her the desired leap after a career lull. The delectable thespian spoke about being a single mum and her resolve to give love a chance again in this interview with LANRE ODUKOYA.  What was it like coming back to the industry after the hiatus? Coming back to the industry wasn’t easy, but the good thing is that we are all playing different roles and interpreting roles differently. My fans were excited to have me back. That is a good one and a plus for me. It’s a good thing we have new acts, I was also a new act at the time I came into the industry .I had senior colleagues; I still have senior colleagues, so it’s a good thing. I am back for good and coming back again with something huge. When you were younger, you played roles of a young girl, but lately, you act as a wife or a mother. How does that make you feel? When you play a character very well, they tend to want to see you in other movies like that, forgetting the fact that you are an actor and you are versatile. You can interpret any roles. Nothing has changed in my height and size, the only thing I can say is that I am a mother now. Maybe that is the reason I play mother roles and they now see me as a more matured woman and I can play something different. Does that mean if you hadn’t become a mother, you will still be stereotyped? Like I said nothing has changed in my height and size, except that I have added weight a bit. The role I am playing in ‘It’s a crazy world’ is a different role entirely. That is why I am finding it exciting. Juggling acting and motherhood, how has it been? Coincidentally, my son joined me recently because they are on break. I have a house-help and my mum is also available. He stays with them when I am on set. Would you love him to be an actor? That will be dependent on him, it’s his choice. I have got several offers seeking to make him act as my son. I wouldn’t want to force him into anything he won’t want to do. I don’t see him in that light anyway. Someone will definitely take after one, may be the children to come. You said may be one of your future children will take after you. When are they coming? I have always been a low-key person in terms of my relationship. I don’t put my relationship on social media. I don’t think it’s an ideal thing with the industry I find myself in. It’s better to stay out of it and be safe. For the wedding bells, I will send the invitation when the time comes. What would you say about celebrities who put their personal lives on social media? Funnily enough, it’s their choice. Everybody is entitled to whatever they want to do and especially my female folks. I am not just the person that puts my life on social media. We are now in the age and time where everything you do has to be on social media to be able to either get endorsements or followers. It’s a good thing to put your work out there, but for me putting my relationship on social media is a no-no. My work can be on social media, but not my private life. What has being a single parent make you discover about yourself? I have always been strong, but it made me a stronger person. It made me see life from a different point of view. Years back I could throw caution to the wind, but today, I cannot do that. There are times Iwant to take some decisions, but when I think of the fact that I am now a mother and I have someone who is looking up to me, I tend to have a rethink about it. It has taught me a lot, it is still teaching me. I am still learning and putting in my best to be a better person. Have you given up on love? Why should I give up on love? You don’t rule out things just because a particular step you took wasn’t the right one or didn’t favour you. I love to love and whatever has happened hasn’t taken love away from me. It has not, to be honest with you. How long did it take you to come to this realization that you won’t allow the experience you had hurt and haunt you? Don’t let me go into details because whatever happened wasn’t like things went bad, the only thing is that we didn’t go to the altar. At the right time, what will play out will play out in terms of marriage. What is that one thing you are most proud of about yourself? The fact that I have a son, a handsome son. What is responsible for your glow and fitness? To be honest, I don’t have any regimen, God has been awesome, I don’t do ‘this is what I do when I wake up’. I am not a makeup person. I tend to go natural as often as possible. When you see me outside when I am not shooting, I am just myself the way God created me except that I have clothes on. It’s just been God. People ask me this question a lot. I don’t  drink, I don’t smoke .I stay away from things that will make me age. What advice do you have for young talents coming into Nollywood? I will say established Nollywood stars make fans desperate. I don’t want to mention names; they only follow what they see. The industry I looked forward to coming into was an industry of potential. When I got into the industry my vision was to be a role model to the younger ones. I also got into the industry because I wanted to fend for myself and my family. Fast forward to this moment, there is a whole lot of competition among my colleagues, especially the females in the industry; you want to outshine yourselves, you want to outshine others, you want them to feel ‘I am the best, this is me’. I attended auditions when I came into the industry. Sometimes I wake up as early as 6am, go back home, go do my house chores and then go back for the auditions proper. After 20 auditions, you don’t get to see your name. When you look back at those days knowing God has smiled on you today, you don’t want to throw those years away. Some of us got into the industry on a platter of gold, may be you were just walking on the road side and someone puts you on a movie. Lo and behold, the movies do well and you become a star. When they see that their senior colleagues are doing these things, they tend to want to go nude or do things in a bid to outshine others. The competition is so high and we need to cut it down because we are not encouraging our younger ones at all. We are making them not to see life as it should be, step by step, taking it one step a time. They just want to come in and become stars overnight. That is what I can say about it. We need to help our up and coming ones; we are also guilty of it. Could you describe your role in the series ‘It’s a crazy world’? I am playing the character Kemi, the second wife of Chief Don Chucks and It’s been fun so far .The script has a lot of content, its quite interesting and has a lot of comic relief as well. It’s been sweet with the research I have put into the character, making me want to play it so well. The character I am playing is a Yoruba lady who goes all the way to get what she wants. How has it been playing the role of a Yoruba lady? I am not Yoruba, I am Igbo, but I was born and brought up in Lagos. Like I said some days ago, I am surprised I am flowing this much with Yoruba on set. It’s been good.