Dr. Uzoamaka Okeke is a seasoned teacher. The former principal of United Christian Senior Secondary, Apapa believes that the value system in Nigerian society has broken down to a point of no return. As such, negativity, she says, has become order of the day. She spoke with OLUWATOSIN OMONIYI   What will you consider your reward as a teacher?
I don’t know the word to use but it was extremely satisfying, I’m really happy that I was a teacher; I still want to continue as a teacher. I don’t just want to leave teaching because when as an elderly person you now see things go wrong, immediately you analyse the situation and know what to do in such a situation in order to put things right. Sometimes, somebody might ask what’s your own, why are you bothered? Your own is let me say it, in my language they’ll say, “not saying it, is the fault of the mouth, not hearing is fault of the ear, say it first that is your duty as an elderly person in a situation even in your family, but if you don’t say it, I don’t know about others but that guilty conscience that you did not say, that you did not do something at that moment to solve that problem will keep pricking you. Your conscience will be pricking you that Ah! If I had done this, if I had said this, maybe… What will you say about the seemingly alarming rate of wayward children in the society, especially children who grow up to stealing girls pant, grow up to become Yahoo boys?
Everybody including parents, society, and government has a hand in it. How?
Now, let me start from the family; Parents in most cases don’t have time for their children. I remember in those days whenever you’re coming from school, you are sure mummy will be at home, daddy will not be there because daddy will go to work but mummy will be at home, and the food must be there. In those days we don’t carry food to school because we must take breakfast in the morning before going to school. In fact, I can’t remember carrying water in those days because there was a running tap. During break, all of us would wash our hands and put our hands under the tap to drink directly, whether it was hygienic, we didn’t know and there was no sickness. There was nothing like during break you must eat; you must give the child money to buy really in the school. Why? Food vending was not in the school, it was not a driving business in those days. The most then, was snacks and not real food. But civilisation has spoilt many things these days. In other words, the society is also contributing factor…….
Who is the society? It is the family that makes up the society, so what happen is since we cannot manage ourselves, we make do with whatever we see. Somebody can come up with anything tomorrow and I’ll look at it and say that ok let’s play along, we have to do something but is it right. When the foundation is destroyed, they say what will the righteous do. The foundation is not even right, the families are not doing it rightly. So, it is the family that gives the society what it has. It is what the family produce that is poured into the so called society and because of that, it appears that the negative part outwait positive. The society now adopts negative as the right which actually is the wrong. So what happens to our value system?
That is what I’m trying to say; in fact most families don’t have values again. And the economy is not responsible. At least, today we are not poorer than our four fathers’ in the sixties and fifties, but then they had values, they had things that they held unto with their usual adage- “know the son of whom you are”.
Right now I wouldn’t know if in our population is overblown but the point is that we don’t even value values again, we don’t know what value is again. A child will see an elderly person and you will say stand up and greet and he will say mummy ‘Hi’. And mummy will accept it because of modernity! What kind of modernity is that? And that is how the change value system continues. What will you now give to the society? If eventually, such a child now meets a teacher or an elderly person somewhere else who insist that the child must greet properly, and he says what rubbish and of course they are so insulting these days. Family is what we really need to look into, parents has to sit up. Now let’s look into the Yahoo guys who are stealing girls pant to make quick money…..
It’s also part of it. These things have been there, we were part of it before, we worship money in Nigeria once you have made it, and how you made it nobody cares to know! That is people who ordinarily would not have looked your way but they will all come, we easily get moved by money.
When they use their pants, for example it is the fluid from the body that they use. But I believe there must have been something they discovered from that fluid which does not come about when you use a man’s pant, that’s why they are concentrating on the woman. That shows how powerful we are as a woman…….
That is it, so the focus is on the woman because from her, they make a lot of you know the society has gone totally bad. All these things are from the pit of hell, the society has gone so bad that there is no scruple again and that’s where we still come back to value, the woman herself has not valued for herself as a person. Why has woman, her body parts and what she wears (pants) become main target of ritual and crime?
First, a woman naturally is not weak, she has a strong will. As women, we help them to make us look weak naturally. A boy of 25 could raise things up now at least a little bit above the ground, but the woman cannot do it. Physically the men are stronger, they have stronger bones, they are always taller, broader chest and their waists are always firm unlike the woman. Yes, spiritually it will appear like the men too are spiritually stronger but that is not correct. My uncle would in those days say, “when they go for meeting of chief’s because he was a chief and when one of them is compelled to do certain things, he would tell his fellow chief’s tomorrow I’ll give you people a feedback, he was going to consult his wife. It is what that his wife said that he would carry to the meeting the next day. So spiritually, we are in control, but the point is that we as women don’t recognise that power we have because the men come and they intimidate us, they make us believe that look they are stronger. We now give up the power God has given unto us, that is part of the problem. In the case of father raping daughters, is it part of parental care
Yes, the value system has been devastated totally, because even the father that would rape the daughter too was not brought up very properly. So, it does not attach any value to it. It is an animalistic tendency. Dog do it, Hen do it, Monkeys do it so because we are human beings, some people don’t reason beyond their animalistic reasoning, once they have the urge, they can’t hold themselves, that is why a teacher will rape a student, do you understand? How should women protect themselves against the valueless society?
Stick to your guns, don’t join them, be different, standout, be what you are, remain there, even if the whole world goes that way and you know deep down your mind it is wrong, don’t join them, it is said one with God is majority. I was always attacked; teachers would attack me at times like ‘this woman, is her own different, why is your own different? Yes, my own is different, see it has to be done this way because that’s the reason, I cannot join them to do what I know is wrong, (laughing). When I join them to do the wrong thing, it is when I am now doing the wrong thing that somebody will now come and catch me, others will do it and get away with it but me I will enter into trouble.