 The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, has said that the Commission is ready to drive the process of attaining 70 per cent broadband penetration in the next couple of years, if that is set as the new target by the Federal Government.  Delivering a goodwill message at an investment summit of Kaduna State Government, KADINVEST 4.0, he expressed optimism about the commitment of the agency toward taking the broadband penetration to the next level. “When I was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015, broadband penetration was only 8.5 per cent. It has now risen to 33 per cent, an equivalent of 63 million Nigerians enjoying the services. I am particularly thrilled y to see that the rising trend has not only been sustained, but the NCC is now ready to take it to the next level,” he said.  According to the telecom regulator, Nigeria attained its 30 per cent broadband target in 2018 through measures and strategies put in place by NCC. Speaking further, however, Danbatta urged Fleek Network Limited, the licensed Infraco for the North West, to quickly mobilise to site with a view to deploying broadband infrastructure in the region.  The regulator has licensed six infrastructure companies (Infracos) to drive the deployment of broadband infrastructure across the nation’s geopolitical zones and Lagos State, which is a zone on its own due to the sheer size of its market. The licence for the north central region remaining is currently being processed, according to the commission.  According to a World Bank study, a 10 per cent point increase in fixed broadband penetration will increase GDP growth by 1.21 per cent in developed economies and 1.38 per cent in developing ones.
Nigeria had in 2013 set a penetration target of 30 per cent by 2018 through the National Broadband Policy (2013-2018).  While some stakeholders were pessimistic about achieving the target due to infrastructure challenges in the country, the telecoms regulator announced that 31 per cent was achieved in December, thereby surpassing the target. Analysis of NCC’s data on broadband growth pattern over the last one year showed that penetration in the country was 19.9 per cent in January 2018. However, by January 2019, the penetration had reached 61.7 million people to hit 32 per cent.  Earlier, while announcing the new penetration level for February this year, Danbatta expressed optimism that Nigeria could achieve 70 per cent broadband penetration milestone in the next five years, even though a new national target of the penetration has not been made public yet.  “We exceeded expectation of Nigeria as the broadband penetration was 31 per cent as at December last year. The good news is that we are steadily seeing increase in the penetration. As at February it was almost 33 per cent.  “There is a new target, though no official pronouncement has been made, but we are hearing stakeholders saying it is possible to hit 70 per cent in the next five years. When you divide 70 per cent by five that will give you an idea of what we are expected to hit on annual basis. “So far, no official pronouncement has been made by the supervising Minister who is the custodian of the National Broadband Plan including the one that has just lapsed,” he said.