A Yola Magistrates Court has remanded a middle aged man, Adamu Abdurahman, in prison for allegedly abducting two boys and infecting them with HIV. The victims, ages 16 and 17, were said to have gone missing while travelling to Yola last month. While the 17-year-old victim is now with a guardian, having been diagnosed of HIV, the 16-year-old victim is still missing. It was gathered that sometimes in March 2019, at Ungwa Magaji Ward in Yola Town, Adamu Abdurahman abducted the young boys and took them to an unknown destination. He allegedly offered them intoxicating drugs and later had sex with them through their anus. It was further gathered that the 17-year-old boy was found sick few days later and admitted into the Specialist Hospital in Yola. Abdurahman was arraigned in court on April 10, 2019. Phillip Wasa, guardian of the 17-yearold victim, said that both victims were out of school and came to Yola in search of menial jobs. They were looking for the house of the Ward Head of Angwan Magaji in Yola Town, Yola South Local Government Area, when they met Abdulrahman. The accused lied to the boys that he was the ward head and subsequently drove them to his house where he drugged and sexually violated them. He was also alleged to have pursued and caught the 17-year-old victim, when he tried to escape. It was, however, learnt that the accused person was in the habit of luring young boys into his trap in order to defile them. The Court refused a bail application filed by the accused. Counsel to the accused, Friday Charles, pleaded in his application for bail, that the offence was bailable. He stressed that the accused is a Yola resident, who had undertaken a plea not to jump bail. The police prosecutor, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Abdullahi Abubakar, urged the court to reject the application for bail, contending that if the accused was granted bail, it could jeopardise police investigation. The presiding magistrate, Jummai Ibrahim, ruled that the offence was not bailable. Ibrahim therefore ordered that the accused be returned to prison custody. The case was adjourned to May 22, 2019.