In consonance with the Vision 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted at an epoch-making UN summit in 2016, China has set in motion what she calls China-Africa Cooperation Project part of which is “Access to Satellite TV for 10,000 African Villages”.
Concerted efforts in this direction will further bridge the gap between the rich and the poor and fight poverty to a standstill in the next 15 years by creating employment opportunities and unmitigated access to the digital TV experience for African rural dwellers while high level of efficiency is targeted in the scheme.
The Chinese government is prepared to support each village with two StarTimes Projector TVs, one 32 inch Digital TV set and 20 DTH decoders and satellite dishes. Projector TVs and Digital TV uset will be equipped with solar power systems and DTH access units.
Plans are in top gear to mount the projector TVs and digital TV sets in the public area of the village like the schools, clinics and markets to enable villagers, especially kids, to enjoy the wonderful digital TV programs.
For the 20 families who accept the DTH access equipment free of charge, they can watch more than 30 TV channels with a minimum subscription fee, which will include news, sports, entertainment, music, cartoon, education, documentary, etc. And all subscription fees will be fully used in maintaining the operation of the project, covering costs of man power, transportation, after-sale service and other functions.
The implementation of the project will avail African rural families the rare opportunity to learn about what happens outside their world. This intervention, to a large extent, opens fresh windows to learn how technology, science, contemporary economics, arts, and native knowledge have impacted the world thereby helping to mold more geniuses from remote African communities.
It’s in light of the foregoing that the Chinese President, Xi Jinping, announced on December 4, 2015, at the Johannesburg Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation that China would implement satellite TV programs for 10 thousand African villages and Nigeria would get 1,000 of the allocation, it was a news well received by the Nigerian government.
The world of the residents of the 1,000 villages who benefited from this project has been lit with enduring excitement. And same explains why in an interview with Bako Auta, a teacher and resident in one of the villages, Hulumi Village, in Abuja, echoed his joy, “For me personally, having access to satellite TV is a thing of joy because before StarTimes implemented the project, we were almost in the dark. This access has given me and many of our people in this village the opportunity to see beyond our four walls and made us see how things are done by other cultures in Nigeria and even outside of the country. There are so many areas of enlightenment for us through this project.”
On other impacts of the intervention in his community, Bako said, “what I have observed is that it brings people closer to each other. This is because after the installation was done for us in 2017, we would all come together on some Thursdays or even weekends and watch movies in our Hausa language. Very funny and interesting movies that entertain us. It also brings peace to our community. Some of the movies we watch have taught about the impact of violence and why it is better to always go for a peaceful way to resolve disputes.
Even His Royal Highness, Dimas Daniel, the District Head of Hulumi Village, also shared similar sentiments with lots of fondness; “The people of this community are more informed that they were many years before the installation was done. In the area of personal development, language speaking, home improvement, cooking, sports activities, farming and even how we dress sometimes. People are generally happy each time there is electricity and they have the chance to watch TV. I can say that this project has changed the life of our people positively more than we even expected when the project was launched in 2017. Everybody is pleased with it, including children, women, men and even myself.
About the same amount of joy reverberated through the length and breadth of the rustic village, Kpaduma, in Abuja, where Yusuf Dio, the prince of Kpaduma and a beneficiary of the direct broadcast satellite terminal system, described the innovative project as ‘the talk of the town’.
The satellite television provides the opportunity for locals to watch digital television programs with both local and international contents. Every evening, up to 20 locals who had no television or lacked electricity gather to watch the digital television programs together with his family.
Dio said he enjoyed watching football and news channels the most, while his wife and three children love channels with entertainment contents.
“We are very happy to have this (digital television) in our household. It has brought so much joy and pleasure to my family.”
In his remarks, Chinese ambassador to Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian, reaffirmed the commitment of China to implementing the outcome of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, saying China would work closely with Nigeria to ensure people’s access to information through television and satellite technology. Zhou said the implementation of the digital television project would also go a long way in delivering the China-Africa Cooperation goal of connectivity, especially people-to-people connectivity, one of the core objectives of the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative.