 Wife of Ondo state Governor, Mrs Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu has called on government to provide opportunity for women to participate in the annual United Nations Commission on the status of women (UNCSW).
The wife of the governor who was sharing her experience from the 63rd session of UN Commission on the status of women (UNCSW63) held in New York told stakeholders to domesticate the ideas. According to her, “any government that is serious about uplifting her women from obscurity, ignorance and poverty must endeavour to provide the opportunity for them to participate in the annual UNCSW.”
Akeredolu said the exposure was ‘fantastic.’ You need to experience the moment. Ondo state women must not be left behind.” She enjoined federal ministry of women Affairs to have a desk Officer for proper documentation of Nigerian participants at international conferences for networking.
Her words “Federal ministry of women Affairs should have a desk Officer provided with a computer/laptop, create a portal on federal ministry of women Affairs website for participants to submit a biosketch. Information is shared and those who are attending network among themselves, know their levels of participation – e. g. presentation at the general assembly or side events. So we get prepared and support each other at such international forum.”
She advised that it would be nice for the Nigerian embassy to host Nigerian participants to a cocktail or dinner. That’s what other countries do to their Nationals which elicit a sense of pride and patriotism.”
Mrs. Anyanwu-Akeredolu said UNCSW63 was an event that brought together participants from diverse backgrounds to share their experiences and see how to collectively improve gender equality. The wife of the governor informed that this year’s 63rd session of the United Nations Commission on the status of women (CSW63), is the UN’s largest gathering on gender equality.
While saying women have voting strength in Nigeria, the first lady charged them to translate it to having more women in political offices. She said “Here in Nigeria, we are embarrassingly too few considering our population and the fact that more women come out to vote. So we have the voting power. Let’s use it and put more women in the legislative houses and in position of authority.”
The Senior Special Assistant to the state Governor on women Affairs, Mrs Titi Adeyemi said the UN meeting was an annual event to assess the progress and gaps in the implementation of strategies aimed at advancing the cause of women and girls.
The event had various women groups, academia, wives of traditional rulers, top Government functionaries, professional bodies, NGOs among others in attendance.
Participants later went into brainstorming session where issues bothering on women were discussed and solutions proffered.