Obiano places N5m reward Gunmen believed to be assassins have killed the President General of Nimo Community in Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State, Chief Tony Igboka.
The incident occurred at 8.13p.m. on Tuesday at Oye Nimo Market, Igboka’s country home.
This came as the Governor Willie Obiano announced a N5 million reward to anyone who could provide information that could lead to the arrest of the killers.
Igboka was a member of the state House of Assembly and former chairman of Njikoka Local Government Area.
He was said to have had his dinner at an eatery at the market square and entered his car to leave when four gunmen emptied over 25 bullets into his body at close range before they fled.
The former lawmaker had in the last five years survived three attempts either to kidnap him or assassinate him in Awka.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Haruna Mohammed, confirmed Igboka’s murder. He said: “Police patrol team attached to Nimo Division rushed to the scene and discovered Chief Frank Anthony Igboka on the driver’s seat of his Chevrolet SUV, lying unconscious in the pool of his blood. His body was riddled with bullets.”
According to him, the victim was rushed to Beke Hospital, Nimo, where he was confirmed dead by a medical doctor and the corpse was later deposited at the hospital morgue.
The PPRO said preliminary investigation revealed that the victim was shot at a close range by four armed men who escaped in a pickup van towards Abacha-Eziowelle Road.
He added: “Twenty-five expended 7.62 mm ammunition was recovered at the scene. “The state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Mustapha Dandaura, has visited the scene and ordered a full scale investigation to ascertain circumstances surrounding the incident and bring perpetrators to justice.”
Mohammed appealed to the public to avail the command with useful information that could help in arresting the perpetrators of the dastardly act, using a police emergency number: 07039194332. Meanwhile, the state Commissioner for Information, Chief Don Adinuba To this end the Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, announced the N5 million reward in a statement.
He said: “Governor Obiano consequently announced a N5 million reward to any person who can provide useful information on the identity of the killers.
“The governor has also directed the Commissioner of Police in Anambra State to personally lead a team to apprehend the killers immediately.
“He has, in addition, directed the Department of State Services (DSS), intelligence officers in the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Navy as well as the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to join the Nigeria Police Force in the task to bring the culprits quickly.” Adinuba said the governor described the killing as utterly heartless, noting that Igboka’s elder brother, Chief Charles Igboka, a former Nigerian diplomat in Europe, died only two weeks ago and was yet to be buried. He added: “It is a shame that the killing of Chief Igboka should take place in the week leading to Easter when men and women of goodwill throughout the world are reconciling themselves with God and fellow human beings.”