The Co-Chairman, Lagos State Accountability Mechanism for Maternal & New Born Child Health (LASAM), Barrister Ayo Adebusoye has urged the Governor-elect in Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to ensure the prompt release of budget allocated to health as a strategy to reduce maternal and child deaths as well as to boost the quality of lives of mothers and children. Also, Adebusoye who is also the Chairman, Public Health Sustainable Advocacy Initiative (PHSAI) called on the Lagos State Governor-elect, to ensure speedy take-off of the Lagos State Health Insurance Scheme, lamenting that out-of-pocket payment was the major challenge hindering milions of Lagosians from accessing needed healthcare when they need them most, often resulting in untimely death. To this end, he suggested that the incoming administration in Lagos must prioritise both health budget increase and timely release of allocated funds so as to translate these into improved service delivery for citizens in Lagos State.
He spoke during the LASAM Bi-Annual Meeting which held in Ikeja, Lagos recently.  While lamenting that maternal and child deaths remain high in Lagos, Adebusoye lamented: “It is not useful that we have billions on papers in the budget if we don’t access it. “Don’t forget that the health budget is talking about lives. It is also about life-saving commodities that have to be purchased, the training of health professionals who are going to save lives. To this end, he said the incoming government should think about increasing health budget, adding, “A lot funding is actually available now: the Basic Health Care Provision Fund is available now, which is up to N1billion at the federal level.” Hence, Adebusoye advised Sanwo-Olu to position the state to access it by ensuring that the Board of the Primary Health Care Board and the Local Government Health Authority were inaugurated.” These are prerequisites for being able to access the fund,” he added.  While advising the incoming administration in Lagos to work out the rapid take-off of the state health insurance scheme, he noted that due to out-of-pocket payment while accessing care in both public and private hospitals, many less privileged Nigerians were unable to access treatment. “For most people, their first port of call is patent medicine vendors. Unless they are pressed and when their condition is critical before they go to hospitals, and these are occasioned by funding issues.” He therefore said there should be access for healthcare for people in their neighbourhood, saying they don’t have to go to the general hospitals before they can access care. Recalling the success story, Abiodun Oroja – Giwa, a Super Activist of E4A Mamaye from Alimosho Local Government, said she was able to assist a lot of mothers who patronise Rauf Aregbesola Flagship Primary Health Care to deliver safely as a trained maternal mortality and child health care Expert. Oroja-Giwa noted that being at a border community, the facility enjoyed patronage, especially by pregnant women from other South West States like Ogun and most times free of charge. She stressed the need to sustain the knowledge passed by Mamaye through various trainings of the Volunteer Health Workers. According to her, over 500 Family Planning activists were trained by Mamaye, urging Lagos State Government to further empower the Super Activists, equip and encourage them as required to keep the good work going. She observed remarkable behavioural changes among the health workers at the Alimosho Flagship PHC in making sure every mother and child was alive. 