  Dr. Chinedum Eluogu is a consultant cardiologist. In this interview with APPOLONIA ADEYEMI he blames rising cases of hypertension in the country on increased obesity, smoking, excessive sugar consumption, junk food, among others   Why high blood pressure persist in the country The reason why hypertension persists in Nigeria is that most of the risk factors or the drivers of hypertension are still very present in our environment and not enough efforts are being done to reduce them. As long as we have these risk factors in our environment, hypertension is going to persist. For instance, if anyone has the genetic factor, the fellow has the propensity to develop hypertension. You now have other factors: obesity, which is on the increase; people are eating junk food; they are not exercising and are just gaining weight. Similarly, another factor that is driving hypertension is excessive stress. Often, a journey of 20 to 30 minutes could end up to become one to two hours.  A lot people are afraid of losing appointments as well as losing their jobs. It gives some people a lot of mental stress. This is also giving people high blood pressure. In addition, many people are not exercising as our fathers used to because they have cars and most of activities are now computer-based; machines help the people do these work. We used to carry files to offices, but now you can be in your office and a whole office can be in a laptop. Files are moved anywhere  without necessarily moving them physically. Furthermore, smoking is on the increase. Surprisingly, it is thought that it is going down, but actually the practice is on the increase and people are smoking different things now, not just cigarettes. They are smoking shisha, gums and a lot of harmful things that drive hypertension. The same thing applies to alcohol. People are still indulging in excessive alcohol consumption. Some of our diet that were not problem before are now being highlighted to be a problem. Now, you will find out that a lot of our diets contain a lot of sugar. For instance, the juice we take and some of the soda drinks contain excess sugar. These are some of the factors that help the development of hypertension in our environment.   What can we do to address the challenge of hypertension?  In managing hypertension, there are different modalities. Sometimes, there is primary prevention and management, secondary prevention and management as well as the tertiary prevention and management of the condition. Addressing it can also be divided into drug therapy approach and non-drug therapy. That primary prevention includes preventing the things that can make one to develop hypertension such as those risk factors. For instance, avoiding one from being obese, preventing many perceptions of stress. Also, we should try to have exercise most days of the week for 30 minutes and not less than three times when we have to sweat for about 30 minutes. There are also non-drug measures, which includes reducing or stopping smoking, reducing or stopping alcohol consumption and reducing excessive sugar consumption. These are the use of non-drug measures to reduce or prevent hypertension. From previous studies it has been shown that a lot of people didn’t even know that they had hypertension when these studies were done. So, the government needs to step up efforts in its awareness campaign, telling people the things to do to reduce or prevent hypertension from manifesting in their lives.  Morbidity and mortality With regard to morbidity and mortality, hypertension has been documented in different studies to be the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in our environment. That is why it is of global concern, not just in Nigeria, but in Africa and other parts of the world.    Making drug use in fighting hypertension effective The common scenario in the country is that when lot of people find out that they have hypertension, they visit propriety medicine stores, laboratory scientists and traditional homes for the care of hypertension. Some of our care professionals claim to know how to cure everything including all manner of illnesses. So, the patients go and take the medications they offer and at the end of the day, these substances end up damaging not just the hypertension, but different organs of the body. They now get back to the hospitals with complications for the treatment of not what they started with. So, awareness should be increased so that people can go to the right source and talk to medical doctors because in drug management, there should be proper use of the drug and the dosage. There are some drugs that are specific for females, pregnant people, elderly, etc. The people that are not medical personnel don’t know that. When patients visit them, they worsen their hypertension and help the complications to manifest immensely in them. That is the drug aspect. So, when people find out that they have hypertension they should visit the appropriate medical personnel, the medical doctors in hospitals so that they will get appropriate drug treatment for their hypertension. Similarly, for those that have hypertension and already have complications including stroke, heart attack, and peripheral arterial disease and have problems with their legs or have other associated factors and illnesses like diabetes, they should visit appropriate hospitals. If the problems are not simple, they can also visit the professionals such as cardiologists. The people that have diabetes can see endocrinologists; those that have stroke should see neurologists to help manage the complications they have already developed as a result of the hypertension. Prevalence of hypertension in this environment Some studies have been done to find out the prevalence of hypertension in our environment. A doctor called Adeloye et all did a systemic review, this is what is called a meta-analysis. What this means is that they reviewed all the data on the prevalence of hypertension in Nigeria in 2015 and found that the overall prevalence of hypertension in Nigeria was 28.9 per cent. In that study, the prevalence of hypertension in males was 29.5 per cent while the prevalence of hypertension in female was 25 per cent. They also found out that the prevalence of hypertension in the upper environment was 30.6 per cent while that in the rural environment was 26.4 per cent. Also, they found out that the awareness of hypertension was 14 per cent among the population then. There are also some regional studies in the south east state of Anambra by Ezekwesili et All did a study in 2016 on the epidemiology of hypertension and in their study, they found that the prevalence of hypertension was 22.1 per cent. They did not see any difference between the male and female. In addition, Ajayi et All also did another study in the south west in Ibadan in 2016  and found, that the prevalence of hypertension in the south west was 33.1 per cent. Of all those that had hypertension in the south west, only 11 per cent reported that they had hypertension, those taking drug for hypertension was 5.1 per cent. So, generally they found that the prevalence of hypertension was more in the elderly than in the middle age and in adolescents. Sudden cardiac deaths (SCD), also known as sudden heart death, is rising in the country with many unrecorded cases, as well, worsening the nation’s health indices. Most of these deaths, grouped as heart related are, however, preventable through healthy diet and lifestyle. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports A story of apparently healthy… In “Health” h rising cases of hypertension in Nigeria, medical experts are focusing on the effective control of elevated blood pressure to save lives. APPOLONI A ADEYEMI reports. Gone were the days when hypertension affected the elderly population mostly. Today, the story of those living with the medical condition has changed to… In “Health” A cardiologist has advised Nigerians to quit smoking, saying it was a major risk factor contributing to heart attacks. Dr. Chinedum Eluogu who gave the advice in Lagos recently, also said excessive consumption of alcohol was highly detrimental to health adding that it contributed to heart attacks.. He spoke… In “Health”