•Says Nigeria did same to Ghanaians  Nigerians resident in South Africa, may face harder times if the opposition party, the Democratic Alliance (DA), wins the elections scheduled to kick off in the ‘Rainbow Nation’ next month, as the party has vowed to expel them. The South African Independent Electoral Commission has scheduled the month-long poll to begin on Wednesday, May 7. At a political rally held on Wednesday in Turffontein, Gauteng Province, DA candidates vowed that many Nigerians and other foreign nationals living flamboyant lives in the country would be deported if the party is voted into power. Addressing the public at the gathering tagged, ‘Secure Our Borders’, the DA’s Gauteng Premier (Governorship) candidate, Solly Msimenga, pointed out that Nigeria did the same to Ghanaians some years ago. He said that since Nigeria could deport Ghanaians, South Africans could do same to Nigerians currently staying in the country.  Ostensibly, Msimenga was referring to the early 80s, when the then government of Alhaji Shehu Shagari asked thousands of immigrants without proper immigration documents to leave the country or risk being arrested. Most of those affected were West Africans and mainly Ghanaians. The DA’s Gauteng Premiership candidate said some of the decisions of the “Party may be tough at the beginning but it will benefit South Africans in the long run.”  Msimenga said Nigerians stay in beautiful houses and live flamboyant lives by pumping South African ladies with drugs and turning them into prostitutes and vowed to get such criminals arrested and jailed if the party is voted into power next month.  The guber candidate lamented that out of 10 babies born in a public hospital, four will be by foreign nationals, three of whom will be undocumented foreigners. The DA member, however, claimed that does not mean he or the Party do not welcome foreign nationals into the country, but they must come in through legal means and be law abiding.  In his own speech, Mayor of Johannesburg, Herman Meshaba, said that under successive ANC administrations, South Africa has developed some of the most porous borders seen anywhere. He said while the ANC has shown it has no plan for addressing this failure, the DA has set out a clear plan for securing the South African borders, ensuring the rule of law is respected while protecting vulnerable groups who fall prey to crime and abuse as a result of poor immigration control by government.  “When national government fails to do its duty, the effects are felt by all – South African and foreign alike. My administration grapples with this on a daily basis.  “As the Mayor, I’ve only ever demanded that laws be respected so that we are in a position to know who is in the city, and more importantly, ensure that national government provides the city with the resources it needs to provide services to all our residents,” he said. Meshaba said it is time South Africans demand change: “To demand that national government and Home Affairs ensure that undocumented persons be properly processed cannot be said to be xenophobic,” he said. The Mayor said DA believes that South Africa has absolutely every right to decide who to let into the country and who to keep out.  Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa, who has been under pressure from other countries to end xenophobic attacks on their citizens, has condemned violence against foreigners in South Africa and has called on law enforcement agencies to act against those who commit xenophobic crimes. Although the attacks have been targeted at citizens of neighbouring countries, including Zimbabweans, the bulk of the incidents have been mainly against Nigerians in recent time.  Only recently, two Nigerians were stabbed to death during a renewed wave of xenophobic attacks that swept through Johannesburg and Cape Town on April 5 and April 6, respectively. Mr. Odefa Ikele, the Assistant Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Union in South Africa (NUSA), confirmed the sad news to journalists last week.  “Mr Bonny Iwuoha, 48, from Ihitte/Uboma, Imo State, was stabbed to death at about 11:45pm on April 6, 2019 in Johnnesburg, South Africa. “We gathered that his assailants followed him from 152 Hay Street Turffontein, and thereafter stabbed and killed him in front of his gate at Turf Road, Turffontein.  The killing was witnessed by Mr Izuchukwu Nwokocha, also known as, Nwa Father.” Ikele said the killing had been reported and a case of murder opened at the Booysens Police Station in Johannesburg. He said another Nigerian, Goziem Akpenyi, had been killed in a similar circumstance a day earlier. “Akpeyi was allegedly stabbed to death by three unknown coloured South African men after an argument with the deceased,” he said. “The incident took place at Cape Town at about 1pm on Friday, April 5, 2019.  These latest killings add to four other Nigerians who were shot dead in March. Three of the victims were murdered in Sunnyside, Pretoria, and one in Balfour Park, Johannesburg.” Also, last Tuesday, local residents raided the homes of some foreign nationals, forcing them to seek refuge at nearby police stations and mosques. Following growing disaffection with the performance of the current administration of Muhammadu Buhari from almost all fronts, political parties, groups and individuals have been putting serious consideration to options ahead of the 2019 elections.   Their grouse is what they described as near collapse of governance as manifested in… In “Politics” It is an interesting year for Africa as no fewer than 20 countries will be going to the polls for presidential, parliamentary or council elections. WALE ELEGBEDE reports on the electoral activities, the personalities in the race and the issues that will shape the polls   The age long perception… In “Politics” 19 governors battle opposition to retain seats APC targets A’Ibom, Abia, Gombe, Sokoto, Benue, Kwara PDP unsettles Tinubu in Lagos, seeks to upstage APC in Plateau, Oyo, Imo   Apprehension has enveloped most of the states, where governorship elections will hold tomorrow. That is as various political parties, especially the… In “Politics”