…as family takes possession of 398 acres of land   Following a legal tussle that lasted almost 42 years between the Akinole-Oshiun family and Lagos State Government along with some interested parties, the family yesterday took possession of 398 acres at Agidingbi, Ikeja in Lagos. The members of the family, accompanied by security agents, moved to take possession of the land around 7:30am yesterday by posting a Caveat Emptor Public Notice and “ID/923M/99 Possession taken today 26.4.19 by Court Order” on all the buildings within the sprawling 398-acre land owned by the family. The 398 acres comprise about 2,000 houses, companies, office spaces, churches, banks, hotels and restaurants among other property situated in Agidingbi and parts of Acme Road in Ikeja. The family, therefore, asked “all illegal occupants” to immediately contact its solicitors, Ayo Opadokun and Co. “with whatever documents they have to rectify their title with payments for immediate ratification within the next seven days of the notice.” According to the family, “failure to adhere to this notice strictly will amount to forfeiture of the said land.” Confirming the possession of the land to Saturday Telegraph when contacted, Mr. Ayo Opadokun, said the land was possessed based on the ruling of various courts, which were in favour of the Akinole-Oshiun family. Also speaking to Saturday Telegraph, one of the lawyers in the team of Opadokun, Barr. Hassan, said their expectations were for all the affected occupants to contact solicitors acting on behalf of the Akinole-Oshiun family. “What we expect from people is for them to come to us and show us evidence of payment and we will take it from there,” he said. The possession of the land was taken by the Akinole- Oshiun Family based on the Execution Order of the High Court of Lagos in Suit No. ID/216/77L and ID/923M/99 and according to the Caveat Emptor Public Notice posted on all the buildings, High Court of Lagos State, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court have all delivered judgements in favour of the Akinole-Oshiun family prior to the order of the High Court of Lagos directing taking of possession. The Caveat Emptor Public Notice reads in part: “This is to inform the general public and in particular, all illegal occupants of that piece of land measuring 398 acres, situated, lying and being at Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos State that the said land has been variously confirmed up to the Supreme Court of Nigeria as legally belonging to the Akinole-Oshiun Family, a land area which is more delineated in the Judgement Survey Plan No. CK/LS/272 dated 22/12/17 drawn by Abolade Coker, Licenced Surveyor; that the family has by the above court judgements taken possession of its legitimate land immediately. “The title of the said parcel of land has been variously re-affirmed in favour of the Akinole-Oshiun Family in the following cases namely: “1. By the judgements of High Court of Lagos State in Suit No ID/216/77L delivered by Hon. Justice B.O. Martins on 19th August 1983 and re-affirmed on 26th March 1993; 36 years and 26 years ago respectively. “2. Appeals/Applications at the Court of Appeal to set aside the above referenced judgements by the Attorney- General of Lagos State in Appeal No. CA/L/517/99, were struck out on 23rd September, 2003; 4th July 2005 and 14th April 2008 respectively, and in Appeal No. CA/L/649M/2006, another Application was struck out on the 26th of April 2007. “3. Further Appeals to the Supreme Court in Suit No. SC/173/2009 dated 24th May 2010, was dis-missed thereby reaffirming the judgements of the High Court and the Court of Appeal respectively. “4. That pursuant to the various Certificates and Warrants of Execution for Possession issued by Particular Lagos State High Courts to the Akinole-Oshiun Family dated 28thJuly, 2000 and 3rd October 2006, the latest being that which was issued on 3rd November 2016 after the favourable judgment secured by our family in Suit No. ID/923M/99, the family was again frustrated through a curious appeal filed by a non-party to the cases, which sought to relitigate the case already decided by Supreme Court in our favour since 24th May 2010. The Court of Appeal sitting in Lagos on 29th March, 2019 has finally dismissed the Appeal No. CA/L/776/14 “Therefore, by the above Lagos State High Court and Court of Appeal favourable judgements, the Akinole-Oshiun Family has taken effective possession of our land, the 398 acres of land at Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos State.” Days after it was sued for allegedly taking over of an expanse of land belonging to DN Tyre Plc. A new generation bank at the weekend said the allegation was not only false but had determined to prove before the court that the tyre firm was on a ‘digging’… In “Law” Kamorudeen Lamina, the Lagosbased socialite arrested by the Lagos State Land Grabbing Task Force on the allegation that he is a notorious Omo onile kingpin terrorising the people of Ikorodu has been refuted by his close aide According to Alhaji Dauda Asikolaye who is a manager in his company: "Sir… In “Metro and Crime” •‘Oluwo is not a notorious land grabber'     The Lagos State Government yesterday arraigned a suspected notorious land grabber, Chief Kamorudeen Lamina, before a Special Offences Court sitting in Oshodi over alleged forceful dispossession of residents from their legitimate rights to land ownership. Lamina, popularly known as ‘Sir K’,… In “News”