The National Assembly polls have come and gone, but the elections have created no little rancor in Idemili North Federal Constituency, threatening its peace, writes BIYI ADEGOROYE  The last may not have been heard of the crisis rocking the commercial city of Obosi in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State as the political crisis which emanated from the last National Assembly rescheduled supplemental poll in specific wards within the council area including Obosi, has escalated and is now threatening the traditional ruler’s stool. The political crisis, which has now dovetailed into community/traditional stool crises, had seen the brutal killing of two young male political activists from Obosi, when the supplementary election between the two top contenders for the Idemili Federal Constituency-Chief Obinna Chidoka of the Peoples Democratic Party and son of the community and Chief Ifeanyi Ibezi of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Like what happened in many parts of the country on that day, the election was said to have been very violent as massive shooting took place both on the March 23, 2019 and the date of the supplementary poll all over the constituency. Chidoka lost the chance to return to the National Assembly where he is currently the Chairman Committee on Environment, for a record third time. Apparently angered by the loss of Chidoka in the election in addition to the loss of the two sons, angry youths from Obosi who accused their monarch, HRH Igwe Chidubem Iweka of political meddlesomeness which alleged led to the ugly losses stormed his palace where they dumped the two corpses. In a quick reaction and describing the action as sacrilegious, the palace announced immediate suspension of three palace chiefs suspected to have had a hand in the ugly incident. They included Chiefs Osita Chidoka, elder brother of Obinna; Linus Ngbakaogu and Hyacinth Udemba- “…for their act of sacrilege and the abomination they committed against the revered age old customs of the people and ancient Obosi Kingdom.” So, in a meeting, the Okpo na Ezeani family, kinsmen of one of the allegedly suspended traditional chiefs, Chief Linus Mgbakogu (Attah Obosi) resolved to denounce and formally condemn the action of the traditional ruler.
In a written resolution, signed by Nze Goddy Onubogu, chairman of the family meeting, the kinsmen expressed concern over what they saw as the numerous crises, killings in Obosi community which they said aggravated since the enthronement of Igwe Chidubem Iweka III. They said the palace’s action was unacceptable to the family. “The so-called suspension of our highly revered Attah Obosi is illegal and unacceptable to us. More so, the suspension of Ndi-Ichie is sacrilegious in all ramifications, because the customs and traditions of the community bestowed a kind of immunity on them that they cannot be said to have committed ALU in Obosi land, hence they are “Ome abu Nso”. May be the Igwe is not aware of this. “The family is also totally disappointed, disillusioned and utterly saddened that the death of our sons, which should evoke a solemn and sober reflection, is being used by Igwe to further heat-up the polity and aggravate the endemic crisis in his cabinet.  “The family regrets that this particular crisis was accentuated by partisan political position held by the Igwe. This made the situation to be handled without discretion and caution,” the statement said. But the Igwe had already presented his position after an emergency meeting held at the palace, a prepared resolution signed by one Prince Bennett Mozie was presented to journalists and read by Mozie. Handing down the suspension, Mozie said: “After due consultations and deliberations with all the relevant ancient traditional bodies of Obosi, the Igwe-in-Council hereby announce the indefinite suspension from the Igwe’s Royal Cabinet of the above mentioned Ndi-Ichie Obosi- Chief Osita Chidoka, Chief Linus Ngbakaogu and Chief Hyacinth Udemba for their act of sacrilege and the abomination they committed against the revered age old customs of the people and ancient Obosi Kingdom.”
But another faction of the council swiftly denied that there was ever a meeting where the action leading to the resolution was decided. The Onowu of Obosi, Chief Anthony Eze Nwabude, said that there was never a meeting held in respect of the resolution, adding that since the killing of the two Obosi sons, the Igwe-in-Council had not met on the matter let alone taken any position on the issue in contention.  “Since after the incident that claimed the lives of our two young men, the Igwe-in-Council has not had any meeting where the matter was discussed before making any resolution on the matter. That is why I am against what the Igwe and some members of the cabinet did by suspending the three members of the cabinet. In fact I am not in support of the resolution,” he said. The suspension also opened a can of worms about the validity of lgwe Chidubem Iweka’s throne as according to one of the affected Ndi Ichie, Chief Linus Mgbakogu, the throne is still in dispute and there are several litigations in the court challenging his emergence as the Igwe of Obosi.  “The resolution is a kangaroo one and there was never a time that the Igwe-in-Council met on that. He has no right to suspend any member of the cabinet. I have been the Attah of Obosi for 10 years and the emergence of the Igwe of Obosi is still in contention because there are several cases in the court challenging him.”  “We have already lost confidence in him because since he became Igwe in the last five years we have witnessed series of shootouts leading to the death of … Obosi youths,” “He has been relating with the APGA candidate who contested against our brother, Obinna Chidoka even when the boy stormed the Awada polling units with thugs who were shooting indiscriminately and five of the cabinet members escaped death by the whisker on that election day.”
“I reported the incident to Igwe and he did nothing about it and the following day, the APGA candidate was at the palace of the Igwe, holding meetings and …our traditional ruler has not said anything about the shooting or killings in our community.”  One of the members of the cabinet Chief Charles Umolu, in a telephone chat with newsmen said the suspension is illegal, adding that the signatory to the resolution is an impostor who is not a member of the cabinet and has no right to speak or sign any document on behalf of the cabinet members. “The issue is not about dumping the bodies in the palace because the youths were angry over the killings; that is why they took the dead bodies to the palace,” he said. Efforts to speak directly with any or both Chidokas failed as none picked his call or responded to the text messages. But one of their media aides described the crises as beyond Chidoka family as it is presently. That it’s a matter for the community and the people.