Another round of crisis is brewing in the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) following Tuesday morning take-over of the state secretariat of the party by a chieftain of the party, Otunba Segun Adewale (Aeroland). The Secretariat, located at the GRA Ikeja, area of the state, has been a bone of contention between Adewale and the party’s state Chairman, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, in the past few weeks. Adewale, who was the governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) at the last governorship election in Ekiti State had laid claims to the chairmanship of the party just after the 2019 elections in the state. Entering the party secretariat amid tight security around the premises, Adewale, along with his supporters were seen dancing and jubilating over the takeover. However, there is no member of the State Working Committee on hand to counter the entrance of Adewale and his supporters. Adewale was welcome to the PDP Lagos General Assembly with loud ovation, in the midst of singing and dancing, some placard-carrying members were seen with inscriptions such as “O TO GE BODE GEORGE”, “AEROLAND OUR NEW LEADER IN LAGOS PDP”. Adewale, fondly called Aeroland said that he is so happy that there are still genuine members who want the party to move away from its unproductive current State, stressing further that, he won’t disappoint them as they move towards reclaiming victory for the party in 2023. He lamented that it is so shameful for PDP Lagos not to be able to win ordinary Senate, not even one since 1999 in Lagos not to talk of governor, because there are so many saboteurs working against the interest of the party, and that some people who want to remain slaves are still supporting those who made it impossible for the party to win. “We must all wake up from our slumber and put on our thinking caps, the era of senseless fighting or thuggery should be over, we need to think, build and rebuild our party before 2023, he charged members. ” We are all going to select our candidates, capable, with good character and capacity to win elections in 2023, we would take over Alausa and win Senate seats and House of Reps in 2023, it is not negotiable, PDP will take over Lagos State in the next election, he assured members.”