The Anglican Bishop of Lagos, Dr. Humphrey Olumakaiye, has charged the Governor-elect of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, not to forget his vows to the people of the state nor abandon God who gave him electoral victory. The diocesan Bishop, who gave the charge during the Governor-elect’s thanksgiving held at St. Andrew’s Anglican Church, Okepopo, Lagos Island, also prescribed the nuggets for Sanwo-Olu’s success as Governor of the Center of Excellence. His words: “What is your vow to the electorate? I know that you vowed to serve them. Remember to serve the people. “Let me tell you as your Bishop and your pastor, if you serve these people diligently and selflessly with all your heart, they in return serve you forever. “If you served them with sincerity of heart, forever till Christ come; they will continue to serve you; and that will be your portion in Jesus name.” The Bishop added: “Carry them along in all your programmes. One tree does not make a forest. Fellowship is important to leadership. You must be the sample of the truth for you to be a successful leader. Respect every person under your leadership; you will pay your vows that you will be a governor with a genuine heart for service.” Olumakaiye went down scriptural lane to buttress his point, citing the book of Joshua 1:8 and 9: “The book of law shall not depart from your mouth; you will meditate on it day and night so that you be careful to do according all there in and then you will make your way prosperous and then you will have success.” The Bishop enjoined the Governor-elect to be very courageous saying: “Have I not commanded you Babajide; be strong and courageous; do not tremble for the Lord our God is with you wherever you go. He explained that to be successful he (Sanwo-Olu} must do the right thing, moment by moment day by day.”  In the same vein, he also reminded the Governor-elect to remember the testimony Sanwo-Olu shared with the Bishop of what God did when he joined the diocese 21 day fasting and prayer last year. “Never abandon that God. He is always ready to answer your prayers; great leaders are leaders that pray. They don’t become great because of brilliance but they command the power of God through prayers,” Olumakaiye pointed out. “Our beloved Governor-elect, I know that God will stand by you. He will never abandon you. In all, the angels will respect your knee, any time you cry unto the Lord, the Lord will answer you in the name of Jesus,” the Bishop prayed. Responding, Sanwo-Olu, urged everyone to be steadfast in God, saying that God answers prayers. “God is real, whatever you are asking God hold on to him. God answers prayers. I know that so much is expected from me by 20 million Lagos resid ents. “I pray and hope that God will take Lagos to a greater height,’’ he said. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the three-day visit of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to the party’s senatorial leaders, where various issues were raised ahead of 2019 general elections   Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the battle for who occupy various public… In “Politics” Oba Rilwan Akiolu, the Oba of Lagos has urged Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) to work for the people of Lagos through good governance that will improve the quality of their lives. Oba Akiolu gave the advice when Sanwo-Olu paid him a courtesy call… In “Politics” In a period of three weeks, the political space in Lagos was charged up. The sound of electoral beat reached a crescendo. It was not the usual cacophonic sound that often characterises political campaigns. It was a well arranged sound; the type you get in an orchestra! Sanwo-Olu featured… In “Opinions”