A car wash centre owner, Emmanuel Nwachukwu (23), has been arrested after he stole a customer’s car that he was supposed to wash. The Toyota Camry car, marked KTU 721 EJ, was stolen at Ijebu Ode, Ogun State and recovered in Abia State. Nwachukwu and other suspects were presented to journalists yesterday by the Abia State Commissioner of Police, Mr Ene Okon. Fielding questions from journalists, Nwachukwu said: “I regret my action. I’m even shocked at my daring escapade. I still can’t believe that I drove the car all the way from Ijebu Ode to my town in Olokoro, Umuahia, in Umuahia South council area. When I got to Olokoro, I didn’t know what to do with the car. I was still in this confused state when policemen came to arrest me. I work in a bar in the car wash centre. I used to feel ashamed of the kind of job I do, especially since I’m educated. That was why I decided to take the car.” Okon explained that on 10th April, acting on technical intelligence, operatives of the State Intelligence Bureau (SIB), Abia State, led by Chinonso Epuzoaju, raced to Olokoro, Umuahia, where the car was recovered and the suspect arrested. The CP further said: “Diligent search of the vehicle revealed the identity of the owner as Oluwadare Akingbola, residing in Lagos State. It was the owner of the car that confirmed to police that the suspect is the owner of the car wash centre.” The CP further disclosed that his command also recovered a Toyota Corolla car, marked 39ABSG, property of Abia State Government, being used as cab. The car was recovered from Aaron Chidi and Njoku Emmanuel Chibueze. Okon said that on 14th April, police arrested Joseph Sunday. Narrating his involvement in the crime, Sunday said: “It was Chidi my friend, that connected me. He said I should assist him to get a buyer. He said that the owner of the car brought it to him because he’s an auto mechanic to find a buyer. Chidid told me that the owner of the car needed money to augment the one with him in order to travel. The car was offered for N250, 000. Since I have lived in Etche, I felt I would be able to find a buyer.” Chidi, however, said: “The buyer we got paid a deposit of N150, 000. I was in the process of completing the payment when we were arrested.”