al-Bashir goes the way of Africa’s maximum rulers  Omar al-Bashir’s exit as Sudanese leader, which launches the nation into a new era, marks a historic moment that will echo across Africa, where he was one of the continent’s longest-serving heads of state to be forced out of power, FELIX NWANERI reports   Before the Arab Spring in 2011, there were 16 African leaders, who had been in power for nearly two decades or more. Even after last year’s exit of Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe, there are still a handful of such leaders in the continent with tenures ranging from 16-38 years. So far, three patterns have emerged for compelling the exit of such long-term serving leaders: Popular revolt as witnessed in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Burkina Faso; threat of use of force by a sub-regional organisation to achieve compliance with electoral outcome as in The Gambia and military intervention as in the case of Zimbabwe. Each of these patterns has involved some degree of violence or the threat of use of violence. The latest of these sit-tight leaders to kiss the dust is Omar Al-Bashir of Sudan, whose fall will reverberate across Africa, where hundreds of millions still suffer the authoritarian excesses of rapacious, ruthless rulers. They include Obiang Mbasogo (Equatorial Guinea, 39 years); Paul Biya (Cameroon, 36 years); Yoweri Museveni (Uganda, 33 years), Dennis Nguesso (Republic of Congo, 32 years), Idris Derby (Chad, 28 years) and Isaias Afwerki (Eritrea, 25 years).
al-Bashir’s exit also swells the ranks of African sit-tight leaders, who have been forced out of office by peoples’ power in recent times. They are Algeria’s Abdelaziz Bouteflika, Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe, The Gambia’s Yahya Jammeh, Egypt’s Hosni Mubarak, Ivory Coast’s Laurent Gbagbo and Libya’s Muammar Gaddafi.  al-Bashir: Presided a govt that changed shape many times Sudan joined the growing list of African countries that kicked out maximum rulers through force, last week, when President Omar al-Bashir was ousted from power after nearly 30 years in power.
He was overthrown and arrested by the country’s military, which said it has decided to oversee a two-year transitional period to be followed by elections. The country’s Minister of Defence, Awad Ibn Ouf, in a notion-wide broadcast, also said a three-month state of emergency was being put in place. Al-Bashir’s fall follows months of protests, which began last December as economic conditions worsened in the North-East African country, culminating in an almost week-long sit-in outside the country’s army headquarters.
The 75-year old seized power in a military coup in 1989 and he had since then brutally crushed successive waves of dissent against his government. Among his were civil servants and labour union leaders, whose leaders were thrown in jail without trial. Others were religious minorities, particularly Christians, who were persecuted in the first years of his regime through application of the Sharia law.
After these, he turned to exploiting ethnic and tribal conflict to consolidate power, with bloody ethnically targeted wars in Darfur and other parts of the country, earning al-Bashir an International Criminal Court (ICC) indictment for war crimes and genocide and making Sudan’s name synonymous with ethnic cleansing. Beyond these, al-Bashir presided over a government that changed shape many times. It started as a hardline Islamic party-engineered coup under the leadership of the late Hassan al-Turabi, with al-Bashir as a military puppet and face of the regime.
During the Turabi years, the government’s religious political adventurism recklessly turned Sudan into a playground for the region’s fragmented terrorist groups. It hosted Osama bin Laden, at one point and allegedly handed majority of arable in the country land into his control. Those wild-west years landed Sudan on a United States list of sponsors of terror and brought the punishment of economic sanctions, locking the Sudanese people in with the all-powerful regime, as it went through yet another metamorphosis – hardline Islamist leaders were ousted and Bashir began to build a security state.
At a time, Bashir’s tenure seemed certain to continue indefinitely, but his  fatal mistake was to fail to keep the economy steady as his people were oppressed. There was nothing in it for anyone any more by the time people took to the streets in December, unable to even withdraw basic salaries from banks or secure bread as inflation skyrocketed and subsidies were lifted.  Bouteflika: Quits before 28 April Bouteflika, 82, has served as Algeria’s president since 1999, but will step down before his mandate expires on April 28. His decision to quit early this month was after weeks of mass protests demanding his resignation. As a result, he had dropped plans to seek re-election for a fifth term. The elections have been postponed and the government has promised to organise a national conference which would discuss reforms to address the discontent. Many believe that the octogenarian’s health has declined to such an extent that he is now being used as a front by a group of businessmen, politicians and military officials known as “le pouvoir” (the power), who do not want to give up their influence.
This group dominates the National Liberation Front (FLN), which has governed Algeria since independence from France in 1962.  Mugabe: From hero to villain Son of a carpenter in the British colony of Southern Rhodesia, Mugabe rose to lead the fight against Rhodesia’s white-minority government, which unilaterally declared independence from Britain.
When he came to power in 1980, Mugabe was a self-identified Marxist-Leninist whose intellect and political flair brought him support from across the world. In 1983, then United States Vice President George H.W. Bush called him a “genuine statesman.” In 1994, he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II. But, his government’s descent was swift and dramatic. In the early 1980s, he was accused of backing the murder of 20,000 people of the Ndebele tribe, whom he considered dissidents. In the 1990s, economic mismanagement brought hyperinflation to Zimbabwe, resulting in the printing of bank notes of 100 trillion Zimbabwean dollars. In the early 2000s, in an effort to satisfy his political allies and reaffirm his anti-colonial bona fides, Mugabe presided over the violent seizure of farmland belonging to white Zimbabweans. Much of that land sat fallow after it was redistributed. The country once called “the breadbasket” of southern Africa was forced to start importing food. As Mugabe grew older and frail, opposition to his presidency mounted. Zimbabweans began talking openly about how his reign might end. For years, rumors circulated that he was critically ill, but Mugabe always reemerged, giving cogent, if meandering, speeches into his 90s. But, he often trailed off into anti-colonial rants that made it seem like Britain was preparing to invade. “Zimbabwe will never again be a colony,” became his trademark rallying cry, which meant little to young Zimbabweans who found it increasingly difficult to find work. The unemployment rate soared over 50 per cent. More than two million Zimbabweans moved to South Africa in search of jobs as their country’s economy collapsed. Mugabe’s fall was predicted many times, but he always confounded his many critics until, when he bowed out in shame at 93 after the army and his former political allies moved to end his four decades of rule.  Jammeh: Forced out by regional coalition The Gambia’s authoritarian president of 22 years suffered a shocking defeat in his country’s presidential election on December 1, 2016. He was defeated by property developer, Adama Barrow, who won more than 45 per cent of the votes. Jammeh came to power through a bloodless coup in 1994 and ruled the country with an iron fist. He once said he would rule for “one billion years” if “Allah willed it.” The West African nation has not had a smooth transfer of power since independence from Britain in 1965. Human rights groups at a time accused Jammeh, who in the past, claimed he can cure Aids and infertility, of repression and abuses of the media, the opposition and gay people. In 2014, he called homosexuals “vermin” and said the government will deal with them as it would to malaria-carrying mosquitoes. His excesses also saw him declaring the country with a population of about two million people an Islamic Republic in 2015, in what he called a break from the country’s colonial past.  On voting day the internet and international phone calls were banned across the country. Observers from the European Union (EU) and the West African regional bloc ECOWAS did not monitor the pro    cess. Gambian officials opposed the presence of Western observers, but the EU said before the poll that it was staying away out of concern about the fairness of the voting process. The African Union (AU) only dispatched a handful of observers to monitor the exercise. Barrow, a member of the United Democratic Party (UDP), who contested the election on the platform of Independent Coalition of Parties, won 263,515 votes (45.5 per cent), while Jammeh of Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction (APRC) took 212,099 (36.7 per cent). A third party candidate, Mama Kandeh, won 102,969 (17.8 per cent). While Jammeh surprised the world by accepting that he lost election to the Barrow and promised to set up a transition committee to work towards smooth transfer of power to the opposition, he made a detour when he rejected the result of the election. Citing “abnormalities,” he called for a fresh election. Barrow reacted swiftly, accusing the incumbent of damaging democracy by refusing to accept the result. He subsequently announced he had annulled the result, pending a new vote. He then filed a petition with the Supreme Court of the Gambia to contest the result. The court began hearing the case on 21 December, 2016, but the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) warned on December 23, that it would militarily intervene to uphold the results of the election if Yahya didn’t resign by January 19. The African Union (AU) additionally stated that it would stop recognising Jammeh as president by January 19, 2017. He attempted to have Barrow’s inauguration blocked, but the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court refused to rule on the matter. On January 17, he declared a 90-day state of emergency, prohibiting “acts of disobedience” and “acts intended to disturb public order.” Various ministers resigned and about 46,000 civilians fled the country. Senegal, which was selected by ECOWAS to lead the operation to remove Jammeh moved its troops closer to the border with The Gambia on January 18, 2017and Jammeh was warned to step down by midnight. He, however, refused to step down even after the deadline passed. On January 18, 2017, the country’s parliament voted to extend his term by three months, but Barrow was still internationally recognised as president. The Senegalese troops entered The Gambia the following day, while rhe United Nations Security Council approved a resolution backing Barrow. On January 21, he announced on state television that he was stepping down and left the country same day for Guinea from where he proceeded onward to Equatorial Guinea.  Mubarak: Bowed to popular uprising In 2011, a furious wave of protest swept Egypt’s President Hosni Mubarak, who became president of Egypt in 1981, following Anwar el-Sadat’s assassination, from power after 30 years of one-man rule. Mubarak, the second Arab leader to be overthrown by a popular uprising, handed power to the army after 18 days of relentless rallies against poverty, corruption and repression caused support from the armed forces to evaporate. The son of a government official, Mubarak began pursuing a military career path at a young age. He completed his studies at the Military Academy in 1949, and furthered his education at the Air Force Academy, where he learned to be a pilot. During his time at the Air Force Academy, Mubarak traveled to the then Soviet Union to get some hands-on experience with their aircraft, which was also used in Egypt. After graduating from the academy, Mubarak worked as a flight instructor. He rose through the ranks in the Egyptian Air Force, eventually becoming its director in 1966. In 1972, President el-Sadat appointed Mubarak as chief commander. In 1975, he was selected to serve as Sadat’s vice president. He was sitting next to Sadat when he killed by Muslim extremists during a military parade on October 6, 1981. He was elected president of Egypt the following week. As president, Mubarak was an influential force in the Middle East, helping with negotiations on several issues. He supported Egypt’s peace treaty with Israel and United States efforts in the region, including the Persian Gulf Crisis. Within Egypt, however, Mubarak faced growing unrest during his time as president. Many objected to his restrictive regime, and sought greater personal and political freedoms. He survived two assassination attempts in the 1990s.  In January 2011, Mubarak faced increasing pressure to step down from office. Crowds of protesters filled the streets of Cairo, demanding for the end of his presidency and for democratic reforms. His regime attempted to end the protests through force, resulting in the deaths of several civilians. Then American President, Barack Obama, was one of the world leaders who offered his support to the protesters. He called for Mubarak to step down as Egypt’s president, saying “an orderly transition must be meaningful, it must be peaceful and it must begin now.” After weeks of intense pressure, Mubarak finally agreed to resign on February 11, 2011. He and his family left Cairo and sought refuge at their home in the resort town Sharm el-Sheikh.  Gbagbo: Gave up after international pressure Laurent Gbagbo surrendered power following a fierce assault by forces loyal to his presidential rival Alassane Ouattara in 2011. He refused to cede power after his country’s 2010 presidential election. Gbagbo defied international pressure to give up the presidency after an election that United Nations certified results showed Ouattara won. Born in 1945, Gbagbo rose to power after 20 years in opposition. He came to power in 2000, after attempt by the then military leader, Robert Guei, to rig elections were defeated by street protests. He cut his political teeth in the trade union movement and was the main opposition figure to former President Felix Houphouet-Boigny’s one-party state. But, in a case of history repeating itself, Gbagbo was himself forced out office in April 2011 after he was captured in a bunker at the presidential palace by UN and French-backed forces supporting Ouattara. He was later transferred to the ICC at The Hague, where he became the first former head of state to be tried there. Over 3,000 people were reportedly killed during the standoff. Gbagbo in his defence, maintained that he was a victim of a French plot. Ivory Coast, he said, was a nation blessed by God, and neo-colonialists wanted to control it for its cocoa and oil fields. However, this argument did not prevail and the African Union backed the UN’s finding that he lost the election and should stand down.  He suffered from post-traumatic stress in prison, but judges in 2015 rejected his request to be temporarily released on health grounds. However, the court recently acquitted him almost eight years after his arrest for crimes against humanity.  Gaddafi: Snuffed out by new generation of revolutionaries A self-styled revolutionary, he presided over affairs of the desert country Libya with vast oil reserves and just six million people for 42 years (1969 to 2011). He was initially ideologically committed to Arab nationalism and Arab socialism, but later ruled according to his own Third International Theory. Born near Sirte, Gaddafi became an Arab nationalist, while at school in Sabha, later enrolling in the Royal Military Academy, Benghazi. Within the military, he founded a revolutionary cell, which deposed the Western-backed Senussi monarchy of Idris in a 1969 coup. Having taken power, Gaddafi converted Libya into a republic governed by his Revolutionary Command Council. Ruling by decree, he ejected both the Italian population and Western military bases from Libya, while strengthening ties to Arab nationalist governments, particularly Gamal Abdel Nasser’s Egypt and unsuccessfully advocating Pan-Arab political union. An Islamic modernist, he introduced Sharia as the basis for the legal system and promoted “Islamic socialism.” He nationalized the oil industry and used the increasing state revenues to bolster the military, fund foreign revolutionaries, and implement social programmes emphasizing house-building, healthcare and education projects. But, for years, he was an international pariah blamed for the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jumbo jet over Lockerbie, Scotland, that killed 270 people. After years of denial, Libya acknowledged responsibility, agreed to pay up to $10 million to relatives of each victim, and Gaddafi declared he would dismantle all weapons of mass destruction. While that eased him back into the international community, an uprising inspired by revolutions in Tunisia and Egypt began against his regime in 2011, but Gaddafi vowed to die as a “martyr” on Libyan soil. The demonstrators were met with military force, and the uprising escalated into a civil war, with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO)-led forces later siding with the rebels. On June 27, 2011, the brutal actions of the government were referred to the International Criminal Court, and an arrest warrant for Gaddafi was issued for crimes against humanity. Gaddafi repeatedly blamed the unrest on al-Qaeda and a “colonialist plot.” He called those opposed to him “rats” and alleged that they had been influenced by “hallucinogenic drugs.” The war raged on for months, with slow gains for the opposition. Eventually, the rebels entered Tripoli in August and on October 20, 2011, Gaddafi was dragged from a drain pipe, tortured and killed. 