The Police Service Commission (PSC) yesterday, said it had approved the recommendation for dismissal of two Superintendents of Police, four Deputy Superintendents of Police, as well as four Assistant Superintendents of Police. The Commission further disclosed that approval had also been given for the reduction in ranks of six officers, while 10 others were reprimanded for same alleged offences. Head of Press and Public Relations, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani, who made the disclosure in a statement said the approvals were the highpoint of the PSC’s 5th plenary meeting, which held between March 26 and 27. Though the statement said nine officers were affected, a total summation of 2 SPs, 4 DSPs, as well as 4 ASPs, brought the number that suffered the fate to 10. Those dismissed, according to Ani, were: Abdul yahaya Ahmed, a superintendent of Police, who will also be prosecuted; Adamu Damji Abare, another SP, who also had his promotion from SP to CSP withdrawn before his dismissal. Other dismissed officers were; DSP Osondu Christian, DSP Samson Ahmidu and DSP Pius Timiala who will be prosecuted, and whose promotion from DSP to SP was withdrawn. Also affected were four ASPs: Agatha Usman, Esther Yahaya, Idris Shehu and Usman Hassan Dass. The dismissal, the Commission emphasised, was with immediate effect. “The Police Service Commission has approved the dismissal of nine senior Police Officers for gross misconduct. “The dismissal takes immediate effect. The Commission also approved the reduction in rank of another six Officers for different cases of misconduct. “The Commission’s decisions were part of the outcome of its 5th Plenary Meeting which held in Abuja on 26th and 27th of March, 2019 and presided over by its Chairman, Musiliu Adeola Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police. “The Commission also approved the punishment of severe reprimand for 5 Officers and reprimand for another 5. One Officer, CP. Austin Agbonlahor was however exonerated”, Ani said. This was as he added that the Commission had forwarded a request to the Inspector General of Police (IGP), to “furnish it with information on the punishment awarded to other officers mentioned in the Police Investigation Reports involving SP. Abare with regards to irregularities in the conduct of the 2011 Recruitment Exercise”. Acvording to Ani, Oluwatoyin Adesope and Mansir Bako were reduced in rank from SP to DSP, while Gbenle Mathew; Tijani Saifullahi; Sadiq Idris and Alice Abbah were reduced from the rank of DSP to ASP. “The Commission’s decisions have been conveyed to the Inspector General of Police for implementation in a letter signed by Nnamdi Maurice Mbaeri, Permanent Secretary and Secretary to the Commission”, he stated.