Be careful how you end a relationship. Be careful how you exit your parents’ home for marriage. Be careful how you leave the job. Be careful how you end that friendship. Be careful how you deal with human beings. Friends, be careful how you shut the door behind you.
When you no longer need someone in your life, be careful how you end your relationship with them; if not for anything, remember there was a time they were relevant in your life; and who says you will never need them again?
Do not be like one Emeka who used a ladder to climb the top floor of a 12-storey building. After finally getting to the top, he was extremely happy, believing that that was the end of the world. Out of excitement, he pushed the ladder away, saying he doesn’t need it again; after all, he was already at the top. After some hours, Emeka discovered he needed to eat, no water at the top floor, no bath or restroom there. Emeka now required the same ladder to get some vital stuff downstairs.
Don’t be like Kunle who left his job without properly resigning. Because he was sure of his new job, he started becoming rude to his boss, and at some point, insulted him to his face. Little did Kunle know that an appraisal letter would be sent from his new place of work to his former boss; one whose comment about him (Kunle) would determine if he would be finally confirmed as a staffer or asked to leave. Don’t be like Patricia, who because she found a new love, started misbehaving at home. Aside leaving home on to go and stay with her lover-boy without her parents’ consent, she planned her wedding and all associated activities without involving the same parents – only to found out later what “Parental blessing” is all about. Parental blessing is very important for anyone who is trying to start a new venture, especially marriage. You can have a glamorous wedding, but without parental blessing, the marriage is built on a sandy foundation.
Never burn the bridges to places you have once benefitted from. If you won’t need those people again, remember, you once needed them, and for that, chose to honour them in whatever way you can. The problem of some persons today is nothing related to ‘spiritual’. The solution has nothing to do with fasting for 77 days or having 21 days vigil. Some of these could be as a result of how badly you’ve treated some important persons who are gates to your life. A gate is what you pass through to get to another location. There are people whom God has ordained as gates in our lives; we need to pass through them to get to the next phase of our life. And once you have offended them and they become so bitter towards you, the next phase might not open up till you make peace with them. (Only a deep mind will comprehend this) For instance, your parents or anyone who stands as a parent figure are gates to your life. At no point should you get them (your parents) to regret having you – that feeling alone is a curse in disguised. Your boss in the office, your pastor or guardian are gates to your life; treat them well. Sometimes, you chose to treat them well not because they deserve it; but because you want to go far in life. If there are persons you feel you’ve wronged in your life, and have been having the urge to go make peace with them, this is a confirmation of your feelings. Make peace. Forgiveness is not for the person who offended you; forgiveness is for you to move forward in life. If there are bridges you once burnt wrongly or relationship you know you didn’t end well, this is a good opportunity to make amends. Pick that phone, apologise, and send that mail, that text; just make peace. That could be the only instruction needed for the outburst of your miracle.
I trust you. I believe in you. I know you will do the right thing.
Happy Easter.