 Super Eagles’ coordinator, Patrick Pascal, has declared that the team is ready for a great outing in the forthcoming African Nations Cup will not in any way underrate any of their group opponents in the championship coming up in June in Egypt. Pascal admitted there was a tendency to relax, as the Eagles are set to play two debuting teams, Madagascar and Burundi, as well as out-of-favour Guinea, but promised that the players would not be complacent. Rather than relax heading into the championship in June, Pascal stated this on a Lagos-based radio station on Wednesday that the players would take all their opponents seriously and accord them due respect. The former Wikki Tourist of Bauchi and Shooting Stars of Ibadan full back, who was part of Nigeria’s gold medal-winning U-23 team at Atlanta ’96 Olympics, added that the players knew the dangers of taking any opponent for granted. Although he pointed out that Burundi and Madagascar were minnows, ‘PP’ said further that, they should be taken on the same level with every other team that qualified for the championship.
Pascal said: “It’s true that our group looks easy, because we have minnows there, but that does not mean we will take them for granted.
“The fact that they have qualified means they deserve respect, and that’s what we will do. “We will not underrate any team and we will not be overconfident. We are ready to mingle, and we will roll together with everything we have.” As Nigeria know AFCON 2019 opponents today Super Eagles will today know their group opponents as the draw for the 2019 African Cup of Nations takes place in the city of Cairo but the team’s coordinator Patrick pascal has said they are not afraid to face any country. Nigeria is… In “Sports” Former internationals Garba Lawal and Peter ijeh have warned the Super Eagles against complacency, saying they could be stunned by their African Cup of Nations Group B opponents if they fail to hit right form. Nigeria is in the same group alongside Guinea, Burundi and Madagascar, and many pundits have… In “Sports” … prays for injury free end to season for players   Super Eagles goalkeeper trainer, Alloy Agu, has said the national cannot afford to underrate any of their group opponents the Africa Cup of Nations scheduled for Egypt from June 21 to July 19. Nigeria on Friday was drawn against… In “Sports”