The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has brought to an end the 2019 general election by declaring Governor Nyesom Wike as winner of the March 9 governorship election in Rivers State. Wike defeated his closest challenger, Mr. Awara Biokpomabo of the African Action Congress (AAC) by 886,264 to 173,859 votes. Awara was backed by the All Progressives Congress (APC).
Wike’s victory was a landmark, not only with the margin of over 715,000 votes he defeated Awara but also because it was a victory that came in the face of brutality by the Nigerian Army and a combination of other security agencies, who were pandering to the whims of a top government official.
While we congratulate Wike for his victory, which signalled the triumph of the will of the people and INEC for being bold enough not to subvert the will of the people, we boldly state that the time has come for the Federal Government, the security agencies and even INEC to walk the talk and bring all those indicted for electoral offences to book.
Our position stems from the fact that the 2019 elections, though concluded, took with it the lives of so many Nigerians, mostly innocent voters and policemen, who wanted to exercise their franchise of voting candidates of their choice or those providing security for the elections.
Twenty years since after the return of democracy to the country, we cannot say with any iota of seriousness that we are advancing in a positive direction in terms of conducting elections. Rather, the 2019 elections were a setback on democracy with the number of deaths recorded.
In states like Lagos, Imo, Benue, Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Kogi, Delta, Bayelsa and similar states, violence was unleashed on citizens by either security agencies or thugs loyal to politicians, who had a pre-determined direction they wanted the results to go.
It is instructive that in Rivers and Bayelsa states, Panels of Inquiries have been set up to find out the root causes of the violence that followed the elections. The Nigerian Army has also set up similar ones to unravel the involvement of its men in the undemocratic practices.
But we cannot forget that few days to the Presidential and National Assembly elections, President Muhammadu Buhari had drawn the ire of most Nigerians and especially the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), when he said that anybody that snatched ballot papers would do so at the risk of his life.
Thus, there were massive deployment of the army and other security agents in all parts of the country to ensure that peace reigned before, during and after the elections.
Despite all the militarization of the elections, the country had serious incidences of abuse from both the military and the civilians loyal to politicians. At the end of the day, not less than 50 Nigerians paid the supreme price for mere elections.
In Akoku Toru Local Government Area of Rivers State alone, about 15 people lost their lives during the elections. So many other people died in other parts of the country.
We are left therefore with the question: Now that winners have emerged from the elections, who will restore the lives lost? The answer is obviously nobody.
During the February 23 Presidential and National Assembly polls, a total of 323 electoral offenders were arrested, according to the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu.
While it is not possible to resurrect the dead, we know that there are provisions of the law to deal with the living, who erred during the conduct of elections.
For instance, Section 15(a) of INEC’s electoral offences and penalties specified punishments for those who threatened a person with violence or injury to compel such a person to vote for a particular political party. The provision of the law on that is very clear. It also provided for “preventing any political aspirant from free use of the media vehicles, mobilization of political support and campaign at an election. A fine of N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of 3 years.”
That provision derives its powers from Section 131 of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended.
One thing is sure. Nigeria is not lacking in laws to deal with different offences. But it is certain that based on the whims of the enforcers, offences are prosecuted and punished in the breach.
We state boldly that for Nigeria to advance to the level of other advanced democracies we copied, there must be sanctions for breaches of the Electoral Act. There is no question of selective punishment in this case as the two major political parties, the APC and the PDP, are both involved in electoral offences.
Hence, we call for the prosecution of those arrested for various electoral infractions during the 2019 elections. This will go a long way in restoring sanity in the electoral process.
We expect that in the coming days, both the INEC and security agencies would make an example of some individuals found culpable in electoral offences, so as to lay the ground norm that it is no more business as usual going into the 2023 elections. We must not only be serious, but be seen as serious enough to grow our democracy. It is only when we act that we can be seen to be serious. ...defeats Amaechi's AAC in 13 of 15 LGs   Rivers State governor, Barr. Nyesom Wike, seems to be coasting to victory in the state’s governorship election as he has so far defeated the governorship candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), Engr. Biomakpabo Awara, in 13 out of the 15… In “Politics” A group of Ijaw youths under the auspices of 'Ijaw Nation' has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to declare Rivers State governorship candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), Biokpomabo Awara, winner of the March 9 election in the state. The group's spokesman, Chief Anabs Sara Igbe,… In “News” •AAC rejects result   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday declared Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP the winner of the state's March 9 governorship election. Wike scored a total of 886,264 votes to defeat Engr. Biomapkabo Awara, the governorship candidate of the African… In “News”