Lagos State added a total of 740,146 jobs between July 2017 and June 2018, thus becoming state with highest number in employment creation, latest employment creation report of National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has shown. According to the report, only nine states were able to reduce unemployment and underemployment rates between the third quarter of 2017 and the corresponding quarter in 2018. The states include Lagos, Akwa Ibom, Enugu, Imo, Kaduna, Kogi, Nasarawa, Ondo and Rivers, while six states also recorded the highest gains in net fulltime employment between Q3 2017 and Q2 2018. The states are Lagos which added a total of 740,146 net full-time jobs; Rivers (235,438), Imo (197,147), Ondo (142,514), Enugu (122,333), and Kaduna (118,929). According to the NBS, people often move from state to state seeking job opportunities. This, it said, could create a false impression of the status of states at a particular time by reducing the unemployment figures in some states and increasing it in other states. “States with a higher propensity for women to be housewives or stay home husbands or that have negative attitudes to working tend to have lower unemployment rates, as they are not considered part of the labour force in the first place. “These states tend to have a higher proportion of their economically active population outside the labour force thereby reducing the number looking for work and hence the number that can be unemployed,” the report read in part. Also, out of the five states with highest unemployed population, Lagos State recorded the lowest rate of 14.6% during the period under reference. According to NBS, “Unemployment and underemployment rates vary across states according to the nature of economic activity predominant in each state. States with higher focus on seasonal agriculture tend to have higher rates of underemployment compared to unemployment. This may swing from high full-time employment during periods of planting and harvest, when they are fully engaged on their farms, to periods of high underemployment and even unemployment at other periods in between. “States with a higher propensity for women to be housewives or stay home husbands or that have negative attitudes to working tend to have lower unemployment rates, as they are not considered part of the labour force in the first place, and as such have no bearing on the rate of unemployment,” NBS explained. Let me start by declaring that I am not a statistician. I am not an economist. I am a Nigerian who is interested in the development of all component parts of this country. My interest in development drew my attention to the statistics released by the National Bureau of… In “Opinions” Lagos State accounted for N283.46 billion or 35.68 per cent of the total N794.50 billion Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) generated by the 36 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) between January and September 2018, findings by New Telegraph show. In fact, a breakdown of the… In “Business” The thirty- six states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT)Abuja, generated the sum of N579.4 9 billion as Internally Generally Revenue (IGR) first half of 2018 compared to N453.83 billion recorded in half-year 2017, indicating growth of 27.7% year on year. A data of National Bureau of Statistics ( NBS)… In “News”