As Nigerians grapple with economic realities, New Telegraph’s EDWIN USOBOH take a look at entertainers and how they are investing their time and energy into other endeavours, including clothing line, club, fashion as means of alternative incomes   Tuface Innocent Ujah Idibia popularly known as 2Baba, is a singer, songwriter, record producer and entrepreneur. He is one of the most decorated and successful Afro pop artists in Africa, and is also one of the most bankable artists in Africa. The Idoma, Benue State artiste is not only known for his musical exploit, he has been in the news for different reasons. In 2002 Tuface experienced neardeath events, including gunshots from an armed robbery near Oshodi, Lagos. He moved to Lagos in 1992 and started performing with rapper Ahmedu Augustine Obiabo aka Blackface who he met while attending IMT and also Chibuzo Oji (Faze), and they went on to form the trio band, Plantashun Boiz. Aside being an artiste, Tuface is known to run one of the biggest night clubs in Lagos, ‘Rumours Night club’ in Ikeja, Festac Town, and recently, he opened another branch on the Island. In 2014, the African Queen crooner, we learnt spent about N250 million on the 1000 guest capacity club around Mile 2, FESTAC Town, Lagos. On why he delved into the club business, the CEO of Hypertek Records and Entertainment, Tuface said: “I am not only an artiste, I’m also an entrepreneur.” He further revealed his plans to have the “Rumours Night Club” in major cities in Nigeria and in Africa. “I want to make the night club a model like Jay-z’s Club 40/40. I want to have my clubs in major cities in Nigeria and one in South Africa, Europe and the US,” he said.  Genevieve Nnaji Genevieve Nnaji has seen it all in Nollywood. She won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role in 2005; honored with Member of the Order of the Federal Republic by the Nigerian government for her contribution to Nollywood. She became the “Face of Lux” in Nigeria in a highly lucrative sponsorship deal. The official “Face of MUD” in Nigeria, sponsorship deals with Amstel Malta, Etisalat, Jumia, etc. She is arguably one of the most popular and richest Nollywood actresses. She landed her first official acting job on the TV soap opera ‘Ripples’ when she was only 8 years old, and also featured in several commercials, including one for Pronto beverage and Omo detergent. In 1998, at the age of 19, she made her debut in Nollywood film, “Most Wanted”. Nollywood, then a budding movie industry, allowed her minor and major roles including “Last Party,” “Mark of the Beast,” and “Ijele”. Her performance in Ijele is championed as one of her best epic performances to date. From there she grew her brand and became a household name in Nigeria. Her performance in the 2002 movie franchise, Sharon Stone, catapulted her into international stardom and introduced Genevieve to the rest of Africa and the world. In 2009, she was referred to as the Julia Roberts of Africa by Oprah Winfrey. She has produced and directed movies, which have also received high acclaims. In 2018 her directorial debut “Lionheart” was acquired by online streaming service Netflix, making it the first Netflix original film from Nigeria. The award-winning actress launched her clothing line in 2014 at the Social Place, Victoria Island, Lagos. With her charming and ever-young look, Genevieve Nnaji would always have the hearts of her teeming fans. She re-unveiled her brand but this time she disclosed it will be sold exclusively on Jumia Fashion. “The brand name is St. Genevieve and I hear it’s going to be finest of clothes,” she said.  Wizkid Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun popularly known as Wizkid is one of the top entertainers in the country. He was ranked 5th on Forbes and Channel O’s list of the Top 10 Richest/Bankable African Artistes in 2013. A year later, he became the first ever Nigerian musician to have over 1 million followers on Twitter. The artiste who grew up in Surulere, Lagos, in a family of 12 siblings, dropped out of Lagos State University (LASU) to focus on his craft. He later attended Lead City University but dropped out after completing two sessions. Wizkid’s music was influenced by the likes of Fela, Bob Marley and King Sunny Ade. The singer also mentioned Naeto C as one of the people who mentored and coached him when he was 15 years old. The artiste is known to be on the billboard of some multinational companies, amongst these are Pepsi, MTN Nigeria, Glo, Guinness etc. But the Caro crooner also runs his Starboy Clothing Line. He recently unveiled his Starboy merch, making a long overdue inroad into the fashion industry. Pop-up stores are a popular trend where sales spaces are opened for shortterm sales to create a long term, lasting impression with potential customers. The Starboy pop-up store has on sale hooded and graphic T-shirts, bomber jackets and hats with the line, ‘Made In Lagos’ and ‘Ojuelegba’.  Bimbo Thomas Bimbo Thomas is a popularly face in the Yoruba genre of the movie industry. She shot into limelight after her exploits in Funke Akindele’s film, “Omo Ghetto”. The plus size actress run a popular wine shop, Bimbally Wine ‘N’ Liquor on Unity Road, Ikaja. Few years back there was the rumour of how she got herself a rich boyfriend who allegedly lavished her with a whooping N45million. She reportedly spent N5million to stock the store while she spent the rest on logistics, store fixtures and rent. In an interview, she admitted being a hustler from her days in University of Lagos (UNILAG): “I have been a hustler right from my days in UNILAG. I sell things just to get extra funds, even as an actor. I have a side hustle because you can’t depend on one source of income in Nigeria. Alibaba Atunyota Alleluya Akpobome, popularly known as Ali Baba, is one of the most sort-after comedians in Nigeria. He once confessed he started making his millions as a stand-up comedian in the late 90’s when the profession was still in its developing stage in the country. The Warri, Delta State, born artiste began his professional career performing at corporate events, appearing on television shows with Patrick Doyle, Charly Boy and Danladi Bako, and making cameo appearances on radio shows with Bisi Olatilo, Sani Irabor and Mani Onumonmu. Ali Baba maintains the philosophy that his business is big enough for all who want to make comedy their chosen profession. As such, he supports, mentors and presents several comedians, helping to ensure that standards are maintained and professionalism encouraged. In 2018, Alibaba expanded his frontiers even further when he flung open the doors to his newly launched lounge which he aptly named Ediye in the Lekki area of Lagos. The centre which provides services such as aerobics, retail store, makeup lounge, restaurant, open-air-patio, games arena, played host to quite a number of important personalities when it was launched. The launch of the lounge came few months after he announced, via his social media, his plans to float a radio station creatively named XQZ Moi which is already in its final stage preparatory to a formal launch. Alibaba, whose first daughter recently graduated from University, is now more into mentoring budding entertainers on the business side of showbiz as well as his resolve to groom the next generation of comedians via his Alibaba Spontaneity programme. Ruth Kadiri Nollywood has a lot of wonderful talented actresses that dazzle the audience with their beauty and skills. One of such actresses is the amazing Ruth Kadiri. Ruth was not born with a silver spoon in her mouth. Her family was not poor, but they were far from rich. So Ruth knew a bit about money. She was brought up as a Christian, and she has stayed true to her faith till this day. A Nollywood actress cum scriptwriter, Ruth believes that life is simple. For her, the attraction to the world of the arts began from her secondary school days. There have been a lot of rumours about her marital status, but according to her, “Any marriage that demands me giving up my career is not worth it.” Aside acting, Ruth also sells hair, Ruth Kolors…. “I love colours a lot and a lot of people are into hair business and I thought to start a coloured hair business, so I started it.” Odunlade Adekoya Multiple award-winning actor, Odunlade Adekola is currently the richest and the most successful Yoruba actor in the country. This is evident in the actor’s busy schedule, hardly any Yoruba movies these days without the handsome dude. Born in Abeokuta, Ogun State, he started showcasing a passion for the movie industry in his early days, which earned him a reputation in his church as a child play writer and actor. Although, Odunlade made his reputation in the Yoruba movies, he has featured in English Nollywood movies, most notably “Wives on Strike”, “Taxi Driver” and “New Money”. In 2018, Odunlade graduated from University of Lagos with a bachelor degree in Business Administration. He is a popular figure on twitter for his memes. His facial expressions are comical and loved by users on the social media platform. No doubt, Odunlade serves as a role model to upcoming actors because he is a versatile artiste. Aside acting, he is also the founder of Odunlade Adekoya Film Productions. In 2015, the tall, dark actor delved into the hospitality industry in the ancient capital city of Abeokuta. The venture is called D3 Executive Concept, which has a unisex beauty salon and a boutique stocked with quality products. Some of his colleagues in the Yoruba movie industry frequently patronise him. Kunle Afolayan Kunle Afolayan is not only a famous, award-winning actor, producer and director, but also a CEO. Born to famous theatre, film director and producer, Late Adeyemi “Ade Love” Afolayan, Kunle has film running through his veins. He is the brother to Gabriel, Moji and Aremu Afolayan, all actors. However, he didn’t start his professional acting career till 2005. Before then, he had received a degree in Economics and started work in a bank. In 1998, he made his debut in Tunde Kelani’s film Saworoide, but went back to his bank job. In 2005, he quit his bank job and attended New York Film Academy. Afolayan has been quite active in the Nigerian film scene as an actor, producer and director. In 2009, his critically acclaimed film, “The Figurine”, premiered at the Rotterdam International Film Festival and received 10 nominations and won five awards at the 6th Africa Movie Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Heart of Africa, Achievement in Cinematography and Achievement in Visual Effects. He has endorsement deals with Globacom Nigeria and Air France, the French flag carrier. Afolayan who has always been a man that promote culture and tradition, in 2018, he started Kunle’s Kembe as a way of showcasing a modern way of wearing traditional pants. “Kunle’s Kembe” is under the parent company, Ire Clothing. According to him, “It is one of the things about our heritage that has captured the pop culture. The motive is trado-modern, and I am glad to be promoting it. This attire is one of the products that I intend to also use to promote Lagos. It is one of the souvenirs that tourists will have to take away from here subsequently. And I must add that all fabrics are locally sourced and so are the hands used in piecing them together. It is hundred percent Nigerian.” The Kembe is already popular among celebrities like Richard Mofe-Damijo, Ali Baba, Desmond Elliot, Faithia Balogun, singer Simi and BBN’s Tobi Bakre. Empress Njamah Nollywood actress, Empress Njamah, is one actress that will always give fans that wow feelings when on set due her interpreting skills. Though, the actress has been associated with some scandals in the past, but she has not allowed that affect her in any way. She once dated the self-acclaim Egberi Papa 1 of Bayelsa, Timaya, but the relationship ended after being a subject of discuss on social media. Interestingly her face is not all that frequent in movies, but she is still relevant as she sometimes goes out of the box to associate with her fans or do some things as if she was not a celebrity. The actress is known for her love for roadside foods as she was once spotted eating roasted yam along the road. She has also been spotted pushing a wheel barrow loaded with sugar cane. Empress once wrote that she is a fan of local food which makes her a true African woman. “I am a fan of local chopping stuff, please join me.” The gorgeous actress is also the CEO of House of Empress (HOE) clothing line based in Abuja, and modeled some of the nice pieces from the collection. She also has a spa and a saloon to her credit. Traveling is a hubby for Empress. “I’m an adventurous and an industrious person but the little time I have I make sure I spend it well. But I also make sure that I have enough rest,” she said.