Politicians are what they are – always making a mountain out of a molehill. The recent jamboree over the presentation of Certificates of Return to elected officials by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has generated dust from Nigerians, who feel the burden of leadership should be the primary focus of political office holders and not the conspicuous reveling. WALE ELEGBEDE reports   According to the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), once a person has been declared winner of an election under section 68 (1) (c) of the Act, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), should comply with the provisions of section 75 of the Act.
Section 75 (1) of the Act states that: (1) A sealed Certificate of Return at an election in a prescribed form shall be issued within seven days to every candidate who has won an election under this Act.”
Given this provision, INEC is duty bound to issue a certificate of return to a person who has been adjudged winner of an election. The Act further imposes a time limit of 7 days to conduct the exercise, thereby making it a mandatory issue which INEC has no discretion in.
Given that the motive of the Electoral Act is good because it wants to confer legitimacy on the winner of any election with a tangible evidence of a certificate to show, the electoral law, perhaps, never envisaged the incredible “innovation”of politicians in turning what ordinarily should be a formal event to a beehive of celebration, jamboree, parties and sometimes as a tool of disparage to their opponents.
From the catalogue of scenes witnessed across the country, a new dimension of politicking and jamboree was improvised after the 2019 general elections by a number of victorious politicians with the INEC’s presentation of the certificates of return.
While the electoral body is still battling with a retinue of unresolved issues arising from the issuance and non-issuance of certificate of returns, the essence of the issuance to the elected officials appears to have been misconstrued as politicians now use it as either a tool to affirm their loyalty to their godfathers and kingmakers or as a weapon of politics by other means.
With the likes of Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha; All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in Zamfara State and some others still sulking over non-issuance of certificates of return to them, those already issued with the certificates see it as an uncommon recognition that must be celebrated to the high heavens.
However, many Nigerians, who voted for these politicians just few weeks back, believe that the merriment associated with the issuance of the certificates was needless because the burden of work ahead of the elected officials is huge and daring.
One these concerned Nigerians, Toyese Oladipo, said it is apparent that many of the elected officials don’t really care about the masses and what they are going through.
“They rolled out drums to celebrate ordinary Certificates of Return and to boost the ego of their godfathers. Are they not supposed to bury their heads in their rooms to see how to fix their states and the country? It’s apparent they don’t care about us, the search continues,” he wrote on his Twitter handle.
Perhaps, some of the chilling issues of importance that Oladipo thinks the elected officials should pay more attention to as they assume office should be Human Development Index (HDI), security, good governance and demystification of some age-long social issues, among others.
According to reports, Nigeria has the largest extreme poverty population. There are about 86.9 million Nigerians living in extreme poverty and that represents nearly 50 per cent of the country’s estimated 180 million population.
Another bleak reality that newly elected government officials should have started looking for means to tackle instead of jamborees associated of Certificate of Return is the appalling number of out-of-school children in the country.
According to a survey by UNICEF, one in every five of the world’s out-of-school children is in Nigeria.
Although primary education is officially free and compulsory, about 10.5 million of the country’s children aged five to 14 are not in school. Only 61 per cent of six to 11 year-olds regularly attend primary school and only 35.6 percent of children aged 36 to 59 months receive early childhood education.
Decrying the state of the country and calling for urgent fix of the continued categorisation of Nigeria among nations with worst indices in many areas of life, renowned lawyer, Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), said the derogatory indicators painting the country in a bad light, is a product dysfunctional leadership.
The Senior Advocate of Nigeria, who is the Founder and Chancellor, Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, spoke in a goodwill message, which he delivered during the conference of the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools, in Owerri, Imo State.
He said: “What is the situation like today? Nigeria ranks among the most corrupt countries in the world. It is one of the worst places to be born; a place of high infant and maternal mortality; one of the leading countries with the least school enrolment and a member of the countries with the most impoverished population; as well as one of the countries with the highest polio virus prevalence.
“There are some other seemingly attractive, but derogatory indicators, like Nigeria being among the leading private jet owners, a country with the highest importation of rice and wheat, despite its vast arable land; a country least conducive for setting up business and a country with the highest crude oil theft.
“It is also the country running the most expensive democracy in the world, with each of the country’s senators currently drawing a scandalous N180m/annum (at N45m /quarter) in allowances while each of the 360 members of the House of Representatives gets a princely N144m/annum (at N36m/quarter) allowances, either of which towers above the $569,000 (about N91.04m) annual emolument of the American President.”
With the Fourth Republic already 20 years, many Nigerians, like Aare Babalola, could only count the retrogressions at both the state and national levels, and for them, they could only hope for good governance with the newly elected public officers who they insist must get their priorities right.
But like the popular maxim, the morning shows the day, the way the newly-elected officials in the just concluded general elections glamorised their receipt of certificates of return as the basis of their mandate leaves little to savour from what they would actualise when they assume office.
A major reference that became a talking point both on the social and traditional media on the perceived demeaning and customisation of receipt of certificate of return was that of Bashiru Dawodu, the winner of the February 23 National Assembly election in Oshodi/Isolo federal constituency 1, who after receiving his certificate of return, presented it to a chieftain of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Musiliu Akinsanya, better known as MC Oluomo.
Dawodu was among the federal lawmakers that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) presented certificates of return to in Abuja.
The Rep-elect, who is a United States-based medical practitioner, visited MC Oluomo at his residence to thank him for the role he played in his victory.
In his response, Oluomo said he would support Dawodu to become a senator in 2023 by “God’s grace.” He said: “Maybe after this, we will be going to the Senate by God’s grace.”
Oluomo had in January been stabbed by rival members of the NURTW, who invaded the Skypower Ground, Ikeja venue of an APC rally with dangerous weapons.
Also, not a few Nigerians were miffed, when they saw some elected governors presenting their certificate of return to some religious leaders and also some political godfathers.
The Ogun State governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun, led the pack of those in this category following his courtesy visits to the general overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God and the general overseer of Mountain of Fire.
Abiodun, who was elected on the platform of the APC took to his official Instagram page to share a photo with Pastor Enoch Adeboye, whom he presented his certificate of return to.
He wrote: “This afternoon, I paid a courtesy visit to Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, General Overseer, The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG). During my visit, I also presented my Certificate of Return to the foremost man of God. @pastoreaadeboyeofficial”
The governor-elect also paid a visit to Daniel Kolawole Olukoya, the founder of Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministries. Sharing a photo with Olukoya, he wrote: “When I paid a courtesy visit to Dr. Daniel Kolawole Olukoya, the founder and General Overseer, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries – MFM.”
Similarly, the Imo State governor-elect, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha and His Deputy Hon. Gerald Irona, paid a visit to the Most Rev. Anthony J. V. Obinna, the Catholic Bishop of Owerri Archdiocese and presented their certificates of return to the cleric.
Speaking on the development, Executive Director, Centre for Public Accountability (CPA), Olufemi Lawson, said the public shows over the certificates of return show how low, elected public officials in the country have reduced serious business of governance to.
He said: “It is amazing that not only have they injected unnecessary fanfare into mere collection of certificates of return, we have also seen very high profile politicians organising all sorts of religious thanksgiving and social ceremonies even before being sworn into office. It clearly vindicates many of us, who are of the opinion that many of those that find themselves in position of authority today, see it as an avenue for personal enrichment and self glorifications.
“It is very unnecessary as one would have expected that these people use the opportunity of the period of their elections and swearing in to embark on serious individual and collective retreats to design plans and strategies of making governance profitable to the electorate, who are the owners of the mandates they have on their hands. But unfortunately, more of their time is being invested on frivolities and fanfare.”
Also speaking, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Engr. Adedeji Doherty, said a lot of people are celebrating their victory on unusual manner because they believe that vying for a position during an election is about you putting money in ones pocket.
“It does not make sense. APC has made Nigerians to believe that vying for a position during an election is about you putting money in your pocket; it is not about you serving anymore. They are making it look like as if you just want a jackpot. They are making it look like once you win a governorship seat, you win a jackpot. They are making it look like once you win a legislative seat, you are now a millionaire,” he said.
Bearing his mind on the issue, the Deputy President of Campaign for Democracy (CD), Deacon Bayo Oguntuase said: “This ugly scenario clearly show the level of decadence in our political calculation in Nigeria. It points towards the direction of a politics of godfatherism.
“This new development has clearly shown that there is no individual, no matter how the person may have depth knowledge or passion for human growth and infrastructural development, that can win any election in Nigeria without an affiliation to a political caucus or represent a political godfather.
“It is however, necessary, for a boy that was sent an errand to report back to his father that sent him message. You will agree with me that this new practice, has clearly defined the future of our country with the elected and appointed political leaders that will subject themselves to the dictation and control of godfatherism.”
On his part, the Executive Director of Centre for Convention on Democratic Integrity (CCDI), Comrade Olufemi Aduwo, said the commission should have adopted other means of issuing certificates to the winners of the election, rather than the fanfare adopted.
He said: “It is an embarrassing scenario; I believe we shouldn’t be wasting time and money at this period of time of our lives. I think INEC should also be blamed for hyping the whole process by even securing airtime coverage on television. It is appalling and I didn’t expect such wastage from an electoral commission under the leadership of an erudite professor as Mahmood Yakubu.
“I think it is just the usual way the civil service operates, which is, money has been budgeted and it must be spent. For crying out loud, this jamboree is not necessary; this certificate of return could have been sent to the e-mail of elected candidates. They can even go and collect it at the INEC office in their local governments. Why making it a jamboree, wasting time and resources?”