 CHALLENGE Despite his excellent performance as the Best PhD Thesis graduating student of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Ayodele Ajibade lamented the funding challenge that confronted his research project, and called on the government to institute special research funds for doctorate students   “Most times I faced the challenges of lack of finance to fund my research project and sustain myself during the programme, especially when I wanted to work and I didn’t have what I needed at my disposal. But, the remarkable thing is that through the help of God, my family, sacrifice from my supervisory team, diligence and perseverance, I was able to attain this height. “This, among others, made it possible for me to face the research project squarely even as a full-time scholar.” These were part of the words of the 37-year-old Dr. Oluwaseyi Ayodele Ajibade of the Department of Metallurgical and Material Engineering, who led the pack as the Best PhD Thesis Graduate of the University of Lagos (UNILAG). He came top with the best thesis among the 150 PhD graduates produced by University of Lagos at its 50th convocation for 2018 academic session. His Thesis is on “Development and Optimization of Dual Particle Reinforced Polymer Composition for Automobile Brake Pad Application.” The former student of the Lagos State University (LASU), where he obtained his First Degree in the Department of Mechanical Engineering with Second Class Upper Division, recalled that he enrolled after his first degree at UNILAG in 2009/2011 academic session for his Masters and later doctorate programme in the De-partment of Metallurgical and Material Engineering. Explaining his project, he said the research was centred on developing automobile brake pad using unconventional materials which he packaged in a scientific way with some novel methods. Ajibade, who said his plan is to continue his academic career by taking up a lecturing job as well as to enhance him to further his postdoctoral position, noted that presently since his PhD programme was a full-time research he is still churching out works and publications from the PhD Thesis. “With the PhD in the kitty, I hope to ensure that the research project could be adapted for the society. The brake pad could be used to meet the country and people’s daily automobile needs. And, I hope to inspire younger generation of students to pursue their academics to a stage where they can carve a niche for themselves to pursue it to the highest goal,” he stressed. But, going by the challenge of funding he faced, he appealed to the government to come to the financial assistance of research students, especially for PhD students, so that they could be supported with finance as much as possible. Apart from this, Ajibade urged the government: “Much should be done by the government to interface PhD programmes or research projects with the needs of the society and the industry so that the private or corporate sector and the likes could identify their needs and patent such research outcome. “The industry and the government should collaborate to fund research projects adequately since through funding of education, especially at the postgraduate level the research outcome could be adopted along the needs of the society.” For his brilliant performance, Ajibade went home with various prizes and awards. Meanwhile, the President and Visitor to the university, President Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by the Executive Secretary of National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, lauded the institution for reaching 50 years milestone in its existence. He congratulated the graduating students for their drive and tenacity, saying there is a great task ahead of them in the national development. While assuring them of the government’s commitment to protect the youths and support them in all spheres of their exploit as entrepreneurs, employers of labour or in securing public service jobs, he said it was in line with the Federal Government’s desire that universities become breeding grounds for entrepreneurs similar to what obtained in other developed world. “Our administration believes in the sanctity of sound education for national development and we challenge our institutions to undertake cutting-edge research that will trigger development and contribute to the growth of our country,” the President said. The Visitor, who expressed the Federal Government’s belief that the development of the country would be driven by a robust human resource base, added: “Education is our primary goal for developing Nigeria’s large human population. Therefore, it is our collective task to develop a stable future for Nigeria through education.” Towards this end, the President promised that the Federal Government shall continue to interface with the various workers’ unions in the system by ensuring a stable higher education sector that contributes to global competitiveness. “We shall continue to attend to our universities to forge colossal relationship with the industry to bridge the gap between theory and practice with a view to addressing some of the required needs of our nation,” the President added. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, while welcoming the guests, including top government functionaries, traditional rulers, members of diplomatic corps, members of the academia as well as captains of industry, among others, said that plans had been concluded for the take-off of the University of Lagos Business School. According to him, the School, when fully kicked off, would run short executive courses and professional degree programmes with highly experienced industry personnel as facilitators. While giving further breakdown of the graduating students, the Vice- Chancellor, said the three-day convocation culminated in the graduation of a total of 12,843 students with 7,438 students to be awarded first degree and 5,405, postgraduate degrees, among whom 271 graduated with First Class Honours. He, however, the best graduating students in the first degree category as Adeniyi Adeyeye (B.Sc. Insurance), Chinaedum Ogbechi (B.Sc. Business Administration) both of Management Sciences, and Joedicta Ekeh (B.Sc. Pharmacy), who emerged best graduating students with Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.96 points. On the various developments in the university in the last one year, Ogundipe recalled that the institution had made appreciable gains in enhancing teaching, research and community service. “I am glad to inform you that we are on the path of making the university greater than the best because we have pursued uncompromising academic standard, local and global networks, innovative fund raising mechanism, transformational and transitional leadership, and accountability in all university processes,” he said. Through these efforts, the Vice- Chancellor noted that over N1 billion had been won in grant by various academic staff apart from the World Bank award of African Centre of Excellence under the ACE Impact to the Centre for Drug Discovery, Herbal Medicine Development and Regulatory Science. To commemorate the ceremony, the university Senate conferred the Honorary Doctorate Degrees (Honoris Causa) of the university on three eminent Nigerians, who are former Minister of Works and Housing, Alhaji Olufemi Lateef Okunnu (SAN), Chairman of Zenith Bank, Mr. Jim Ovia and Founder/ General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries and Proprietor of Mountain Top University, Dr. Daniel Kolawole Olukoya; while the university also conferred the Distinguished Professor and Emeritus Professor on former Dean of Students’ Affairs, Prof. James Dele Olowokudejo and former Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Administration), Prof. Sulaiman Adeniyi Adekola. Also, for the first time in the history of the university, the institution graduated a 77-year-old retired grandmother, Okonji Bridget Obiageli, who received her scrolls for the award of firstdegreeinEducationFoundation, Faculty of Education. Worried by the poor quality of the university system, the Pro- Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr. Wake Babalakin (SAN) sought a synergy among all critical stakeholders in the education sector, saying that private sector should join hands with the government to properly fund education as government alone could not fund the sector. Rather than depending solely of government subventions, he, therefore, added that universities should create value by investing and generating income so as to stop relying on the government for funds. He described quality education as inestimable necessity, saying there should be nothing like Nigerian standard since quality is a universal phenomenon throughout the world Responding, Mr. Jim Ovia, who also lamented the current level of education development in the country, reiterated that the sector required the intervention of private sector in the provision of qualitative university education. This was as he called on the Federal Government to approve the establishment of more private universities to encourage private investors to come in and invest in the education system to complement government’s effort in order to create more access for Nigerian youths to acquire university education. He, however, urged private sector operators to support in the rebuilding of the education system since both the federal and state government alone could not properly fund education. Also, Okunnu, in his remarks bemoaned what he described as poor standard of education, and urged the government of northern states to rise up to the challenge of giving their children western education to educate them. RESEARCH EXCELLENCE 39-year-old female PhD graduate at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Dr. Bolanle Ibrahim, has won the best thesis for her research on anti-cancer plants   Beginning from tomorrow, Wednesday May 9, 2018, till Friday, May 11, a total of 12,638 graduands will be awarded their degrees, diplomas and… In “Education” Lecturer dumped Nigeria for U.S after nine-year attempt, says ‘some supervisors not willing to read’ Professor Akindahunsi: Intellectual capacity of supervisor, supervisee very important     Doctor of Philosophy, commonly known as PhD, is the highest academic degree a candidate can achieve, and is considered a major qualification for a… In “Features” Come November 11, Prof. Rahamon Bello, who was named the 11th substantive Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka on November 11, 2012, will exit office, five years after rigorous service of repositioning the university in line with the dream and aspirations of the founding fathers. In this interview,… In “Education”