Officials of the Ogun State Ministry of Housing on Wednesday demolished 40 houses at the Regal Estate, Magboro, leaving many families homeless and weeping. The demolition came after the first was carried out on March 22, 2019. The officials on April 1, 2019, stormed Ganun village and demolished a church and houses, one of which belongs to Mrs. Bukola Shittu, a widow. Several other residents and landowners were also affected. On that fateful March 22, resident, whose houses were not demolished, thought they had escaped the caterpillars. But they were wrong. On Wednesday, the officials swooped on the community again and pulled down about 40 houses. The demolition was carried out in conjunction with Mission to Rebuild (MISTRO) and Ogun State Properties Investment Corporation (OPIC). When our correspondent visited the community, some of the victims were trying to salvage their belongings. Most these property had been damaged by the rampaging caterpillars. The General Managing of Ambassage Properties Limited, owners of Regal Estate, Mr. Amobi Olawale, said: “The pulling down of the buildings in the estate is unfortunate. “We came into the community to buy the land for building of the estate. We paid all necessary things we were asked to pay. We also got an approved surveyed from the Urban and Regional Office. The large chunk of payment was made to the Ministry of Housing, and we were promised free hands. I was in the office when I received a phone call that some officials from MISTRO and OPIC were in the estate, demolishing buildings. “To avoid further problem, we wrote to the Urban and Regional Planning to have audience with the commissioner for housing on the issue. We were on our way to Abeokuta on Wednesday when I received a phone call that they had entered Regal Estate. Most of the structures were six units of semidetached buildings and terrace. We have lost about N2 billion to demolition. Aside from that, we also sand-filled the place when we bought it because it was a water-logged area.” The head of the Gan-un village, Chief Nureni Farounbi, said that he found it difficult to believe that the buildings had gone. He said: “It was our fore-fathers that settled in the village, even before we were born. And there was no time we were told that the land belongs to government. It was a surprise to me when the government officials came into the village to demolish houses. What we noticed first before the commencement of the demolition exercise was that a signboard was erected in the whole community. We took them to Ifo High Court before Honourable Justice Jobodu. It is unfortunate. We didn’t have water, electricity and good roads in the community. I heard that the ministry said it had given us compensation. My reaction to that is that they should come forward and show us the paper they used in paying us.” One of the owners of the affected buildings, who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said: “I don’t know where to start from. We have invested all our life savings into these buildings.”