BABATOPE OKEOWO reports that gale of killing of girls by their boyfriends has sent parents into panic mode. Two boys under the age of 30 have been sentenced to death by hanging while the third is facing trial over alleged killing of his girlfriend  Over the years, young boys and girls have been relating as boy and girlfriends some of which sometimes ended in marriage irrespective of which level they met. Some met at secondary school while others become friends at tertiary institutions. But with recent events with boyfriends killing their girlfriends for ritual purposes, the question many people are now asking is if it is desirable to have girlfriends. Would parents allow their mature girls to have boyfriends? For instance, two young men in their late twenties are to die by hanging on the order of an Akure High Court for killing their girlfriends for ritual purposes. The duo of Adeyemi Seidu and Chukwudi Onweniwe were sentenced to death within 24 hours by Justice Ademola Samuel Bola for the murder offence. The victims of the ritual killings were graduating students of their respective institutions. While Nifemi Adeyeoye was a graduating student of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, Khadijat Oluboyo had wrapped up her long essay, a precondition for graduating students. The killing for ritual purposes, especially by young men has thrown many parents in Akure into panic as they do not know who to trust their female children with. The parents of Oluboyo and Adeyeoye were aware of the relationship with the killer boyfriends, yet the men did not blink when killing their longtime friends. Chukwudi had strangulated his girlfriend, Adeyeoye, an HND student of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic to death in Owo Local Government area of the State. The mother of the deceased who testified before the court stated that her daughter had told her she was going to visit her friend on the day she went missing. She said that she did not know the accused person, though he was said to be her daughter’s boyfriend. She narrated that she did not see her daughter again until policemen invited her to come to the mortuary to identify a corpse whether it was her daughter. The father of the accused person, Mr. Nwosu Onweniwe told the court that the deceased was his son’s girlfriend who had been very helpful to him. He stated that the deceased do follow him to the farm and often washed his clothes. On a fateful day, he claimed that the deceased had come to their house to check on her boyfriend, Chukwudi and had left for her parents’ house when she learned of his absence. Chuckwudi was said to have abducted the deceased and taken her to a farm near Alayere, Ogbese, raped her and then snuffed the life out of her by choking and strangulating her to death. Two motorcyclists who saw the duo together on a fateful day also testified in the case and one of them told the court that he carried them to a spot in town. The police witness, Inspector John Aderibigbe also said that one of the motorcyclists who testified in the case had come to report the suspicious movement of the accused person and the deceased at the police station. Famoriyo stated that the accused person had confessed to the investigating police officers and took his team to the spot where he hid the corpse of the deceased. The witness said the accused person had pointed to the spot where he kept the corpse and it was taken to the mortuary while the stone found near her head with which he had purportedly bashed her skull was taken to the police station as an exhibit. Famoriyo had further testified that a search of the accused person’s room had revealed the deceased’s belongings such as a school bag, wallet, some GNLD products, her phone, and 22 passport photographs. After examining all facts of the case, Justice Bola held that in three out of the four counts, the prosecution had proven its case beyond a reasonable doubt except for the third count which was rape. Similarly, both parents of Oluboyo, a former Deputy Governor of the State and that of Adeyemi, Mr. Seidu Siyanbola, a bricklayer knew about the relationship between the lovebirds and were expecting that the friendship would result into marriage. Both parents share Islamic faith and the father of the boy was looking to a time he would become an in-law to a top politician in the state. While both parents were looking towards marriage between the duo, Adeyemi had another plan. His plan was to use his lover for a money-making ritual. Khadijat as she was fondly called was strangulated to death by her boyfriend, Adeyemi, who buried her remains in a shallow grave in his room in Okearo area of Akure, the state capital. The decomposing body of Khadijat, who until her death was a final year student of Adekunle Ajasin University in Akungba Akoko (AAUA) was found in Adeyemi’s room in June last year. The brother of Adeyemi told Justice Bola that the family got wind of the killing of Khadijat when Adeyemi confessed to him that the deceased was dead and buried in his (Adeyemi) room. He confessed that Adeyemi begged him to get a sack for him to dispose of the corpse but he (witness) reported to their father who ordered him to report the matter to the police. The father of the convict corroborated his younger son’s testimony while testifying in court, that he knew the deceased as his son’s girlfriend and had been in a relationship for three years. He stated that his son confessed to him that some men had killed Khadijat and buried her inside his room and threatened to wipe out his family if he told anyone. Justice Bola in his verdict said it was established, through the autopsy report that the deceased did not die a natural death. He said the court did not believe the defendant’s claim that two men killed the deceased and he was asked to bury her in his room, without informing the police. He said the prosecution has proven its case beyond reasonable doubt that the deceased was intentionally killed by the defendant. The judge thereby sentenced Adeyemi to death by hanging. The judge in his verdict said: “You Seidu Adeyemi is hereby sentenced to death by hanging, may God have mercy on your soul.” Apart from Adeyemi and Chukwudi who have been convicted, another boyfriend, Adejimola Ebenezer, was still standing trial at an Akure High Court for allegedly killing his girlfriend; Oluwaseun Ajila last year. Ajila, 20, according to police report was met in the pool of her blood. On close observation, it was discovered that she was stabbed to death by an unknown assailant(s). She was said to have been raped before she was eventually killed. Her boyfriend Ebenezer age 22yrs    of 62, Cannan Land, Ijoka Akure, was arrested as the mother of the deceased claimed to suspect him as a result of his frequent telephone calls to know the location or whereabouts of Ajila few hours earlier. In his advice to parents over the spate of ritual killing Alhaji Oluboyo said: “Parents should monitor their children. If not that we monitored the movement of Khadijat, the guy would have gone away with the murder. Khadijat left school on Thursday. I was able to know that she was not in the school on Friday. “I sent money to her account and she did not call to thank me as usual. That was how I became suspicious. The guy knew that we were able to trace Khadijat to him and he became restless after we asked him about the movement of Khadijat. He told us that he saw Khadijat but that she has gone to Lagos. Khadijat was not a wayward girl, we knew of her relationship with Adeyemi. It was because of this that led to his arrest and eventual conviction.” With many death sentences passed on murder and armed robbery convicts unexecuted, the people were afraid that the killers of their girlfriends may go scot free if the governor delays or refuses to sign the execution warrant. But the State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Adekola Olawoye SAN, said the state would implement the sentence as the state has no plan to abolish death sentence. Olawoye disclosed that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu would soon sign the death warrant of those who have been sentenced to death in the state. Olawoye argued that it was very imperative for a law to take its course and that anybody who kills should also be killed. His words: “Life is not a property of anybody, nobody has the right to take the life of fellow men, except as allowed and permitted by the law. “Like the judgment, we heard somebody killed his girlfriend and removed her body parts and buried her in his room. How do you expect us to abolish death sentence with that? This is the rule of law; no sentiment about it. “When a case of this nature gets to the Supreme Court and it is confirmed that such a person should be killed, then the aspect of the governor, who has the constitutional right to confirm and sign the death sentence, will come into play. We have so many of them that have been convicted, but I want to assure you that my ministry will do things proactively to see that these convicts will be executed. Mr. Governor will sign their death warrant.”    