The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has denied the allegation that he paid $30,000 to hire a US lobby group to persuade the American Congress to stop the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari. Atiku in a statement by his media adviser, Paul Ibe, described such allegation from Buhari campaign group as “total fabrication”, and a dirty propaganda against him. He, however, said he was not surprised by the group’s allegation “because lying has so far become their only bragging rights of competence. “Lying has become a culture to the APC administration and therefore, we are not surprised by their latest diversionary allegations.” According to the statement, “since Atiku resisted pressure not to go to court, the APC has been behaving like a cat on hot bricks because the outcome of the 2019 elections has exposed and shattered the facade of their dubious integrity.” Instead of fabricating fake news, Atiku advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate to focus on defending themselves in the court. “For a party that has broken the worst record in election rigging, the APC doesn’t have any iota of integrity to be taken seriously by anybody,” the former vice president added. He noted that the court case has become their biggest burden because it exposed their integrity as “a sham, and instead of defending their stolen mandate in court, they are now using fake news to divert public attention from the historic electoral heist they have committed against Nigerians.” Atiku stated that no amount of diversionary propaganda and fake news campaign by APC would stop him from continuing the court action he instituted to reclaim his alleged stolen mandate. A support group for the People's Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Vote for Atiku Initiative (VAI) has called on the All Progressive Congress’ (APC) national leader, Ahmed Bola Tinubu to be more circumspect in maligning Atiku as he was still in the political debts of Atiku Abubakar.… In “News” Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is the strongest opposition to President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term ambition in 2019. Hence, Atiku has literarily become a nightmare for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). That is evidenced in the various darts of… In “Editorial” The Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has mocked the federal government over its failed bid to get the United States government to deny him visa, saying with or without a trip to the US, the PDP will dislodge the President Muhammadu Buhari led All… In “Politics”