Coping with parental responsibilities has turned sour for a father of four in desperate need to save the sight of his five-year-old son who became blind after being severely flogged by his teacher for not paying school fees. The 54-year-old man, Mr Inyima Kalu, is a father of two boys and two girls. He is an indigene of Ohafia Local Government Area in Abia State. Surviving daily as a petty trader in Lagos, Mr Kalu and his wife, an unemployed computer science graduate, who sells fairly used clothes, would labour each day just to provide food, shelter and education for their four children. Life could have got better for the Kalus but their last child, a five-year-old boy, Destiny Kalu, became blind after a failed surgical operation was conducted to save his right eye following the flogging. The trauma began in 2011 when the five-year-old boy, returned home from school with bruises on his back and a swollen, reddish eye as a result of the caning he received from his class teacher. The teacher, one Miss Uduak Sam, had flogged Destiny, a Kindergarten 2 pupil at the time, as a form of punishment for his delayed payment of school fees- the sum of N5, 500. Weeping uncontrollably, the father of four narrates the excruciating pain his five-year-old son experiences daily after the incident which claimed one of his eyes. Expressing his agony, Kalu said that his son’s condition, which has drastically traumatized his family since 2011, has literally turned them into beggars. According to the petty trader, the past eight years have being a journey of borrowing and spending money to visit one hospital or the other in search of a solution for his son’s eye problem. Sharing the predicament with Saturday Telegraph, Kalu who could barely control his emotions said: “For over eight years, my family has been in and out of different hospitals and eye clinics, seeking for a solution. “My son can no longer read well and cannot see well. Now he hates reading because of the pains he feels each time he glances at a book. He feels that we are also punishing him by making him read books despite his condition. “Even when he tries to read, water would start coming out of his eyes. The pain is too much for a boy of his age to bear. Destiny cries bitterly anytime he has to read. Sometimes when he wakes up from sleep, he would say that something has covered his eyes and that he cannot see properly.” The distraught father said he has exhausted all the money he earned from his business on hospital bills without any major sign of breakthrough in his son’s condition. “The main challenge now is that we are looking for money to fly the boy abroad. He cannot read. “The damaged right eye is already a huge pain and the second one, that he’s managing, is now bringing out watery discharge whenever he tries reading with it. “If we have the opportunity to fly him abroad, we will because his future and life is at stake. At least if not for anything, for better treatment and his education,” he said. Speaking on how the condition has affected his family, Kalu said: “Every father would understand how tormenting this is for me. For the past eight years, I have been going from hospital to hospital seeking for cure to my son’s condition while also battling to cater for my family. “We buy drugs every day. My entire family is in trauma. We are just experiencing a huge setback, as we are constantly borrowing and spending money to pay hospital bills and the other children’s school fees without any form of tangible income. I am just a trader and my wife is an unemployed computer science graduate, who sells used clothes. “I have four children (two boys and two girls) and one of my sons, my last child, Destiny Kalu, was flogged by a class teacher because we didn’t pay his school fees on time. What did the teacher hope to achieve? Now she had blinded one of his eyes and he can no longer read well and cannot see properly. “The doctors in the five hospitals we have visited even warned that we should never take my boy to a quack no matter the emergency that occurs, in order not to worsen issues. They said that the surgical operation conducted on him was done through his skull. So we have no option than to regularly visit the hospitals and eye clinics where he has already been registered as a patient. “There are some weeks when it gets tough taking care of him. Last week, the affected eye was swollen and he cried for several hours while screaming ‘Daddy my eye is paining me. “Most times I am driven to tears seeing him in that condition and I just can’t hold it. There is an eye drop and tablets we buy for him which costs a lot of money. “The owner of the school, Pajo Nursery and Primary school, Ajegunle, where Destiny is currently enrolled, gives him extra time to learn, after school hours. He comes back home late because they give him extra time and better attention since he cannot read and write fast like other pupils.” Kalu continued: “When he has to read, he would have to lift the book close to his left eye so that he can see clearly. “I am not so much interested in the money the court ordered the school to pay us, because even the owner of the school has now vanished into thin air. We sincerely need help, anyhow. My boy needs a miracle now to get his life in order. “Honestly, I am more concerned about my son’s total recovery. We have done all we can with the little money we have and including the amount we’ve borrowed; we urgently need help. The left eye is getting worse by the day and I feel so bad because there is no more money to spend on hospital bills and no more money to borrow. I am now owing almost everyone I know. “We have spent several millions throughout this journey. Only The lens in my boy’s eye is about one million, two hundred naira (N1, 200, 000). “But the painful part is that the school, its owner and the girl’s parents abandoned us. It was only during our visit to the third hospital that the proprietress agreed to pay N20, 000 out of a N350, 000 bill by the hospital. And since then she has been claiming she has no money.” Reacting to the N25m cost awarded in his favour against the school, Kalu said, “I am happy about the judgement. It serves them right because they deserve it. I believe justice has been done. Although this cannot equate the troubles my family and I have been through in the past few years. Neither can it compensate for the pain and damage meted on my boy. “My headache is not the money awarded to us but my worry is that the so-called school or proprietress may not even pay us. “Even before judgement of N25m was given in our favour, the proprietress has since relocated the school to an unknown location, making it difficult for us to contact them. “And the class teacher, I heard, is now married and has never visited us since then,” he said. How it all happened: My second son was actually four years when his teacher, one Miss Uduak Sam, flogged him because he didn’t pay school fees. He was in Nursery Two when this happened in 2011. At that time, his school fees was N5, 500. On that day, the owner of the school, Cendom International Nursery and Primary School, Olodi-Apapa, Lagos, Mrs Uche Owen, had earlier flogged my son and thereafter left instructions to the teacher to flog him more. The owner of the school instructed the teacher, who was 17-year-old at the time, to flog the pupils whose school fees were yet to be paid. “She threatened not to pay the teacher’s salary if she did not flog them well and my son was included. “So the teacher took over the flogging and in the process, damaged my son’s right eye; retina detachment “Nobody knew what happened and the teacher didn’t even think of taking him to the hospital but rather she left him behind after school hours and went home. “It wasn’t until his elder brother and sisters came to pick him from their school to my shop that they saw his swollen and reddish eyes. “My other children brought him to my shop, which is very close to the school at Olodi-Apapa, and told me that Aunty Uduak flogged his eyes. “When I asked my boy, Destiny, who he reported to when the teacher flogged his eyes, he said that he told Big Auntie (referring to the proprietress, Mrs Owen). “My boy said that the proprietress only hissed and passed when he told her. And he said that Miss Uduak only said sorry to him before she left the class. “I immediately took my son back to the school but met the husband of the proprietress, Mr Obi Owen and showed him what one of their teachers did to my son. “He apologized and told me to take the boy home. Few minutes later, Miss Uduak arrived at my house and began apologizing. “She said that Mr Owen asked her to come and apologize to me and also admitted flogging my son but claimed she did not intentionally injure his eyes. So I forgave her and told her to go, not knowing how bad the injury was. “But after two days, water began coming out from his eyes and we took him to Ajeromi General Hospital, Lagos, where they said a surgery would be conducted. “Three days after, they told us to move him to Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) for emergency treatment. It was on my way to LUTH that I saw the proprietress at the bus stop. “I told her that one of her teacher’s blinded my son’s eyes and she never bothered to call me or check on her student. “I told her that a pupil in her school had been absent for three days and she was unconcerned. She denied hearing about my son’s injury. And that made me so angry that I called her a wicked woman. “We spent almost two years in LUTH but no much positive change occurred. The hospital said they have done all they could for him and that if they operate on him again, it might affect his second eye. “By that time, the matter was already in court because I went to Tolu Police Station, Ajegunle, to make a statement. The teacher was also summoned at the station where she confessed to flogging my son. She was later arraigned at Court 3 Magistrate court, Agbo Malu. “Though I told them that I didn’t want to arrest anybody, all I wanted was for them to follow me financially throughout the process. I only wanted them to contribute to the medical bills but the proprietress totally ignored us. “The police took the matter to court with the motive of killing the case there since the teacher’s father is an Assistant Superintendent of Police, ASP, at Alausa. “Throughout the hospital visitations at five hospitals, the proprietress and the teacher’s family refused to pick up their phones. “The Magistrate then advised us to go for mediation and settle the matter out of court, after their lawyer manipulated the girl’s statement and told the court that he visited my village where it was observed that my family has a history of eye problem. “Their lawyer insisted that no one flogged my son but the girl still confessed before the court that she was responsible for my son’s mishap. “Following her confession, I agreed to let the girl go but we came to an agreement before the matter was closed at the magistrate court. “It was their nonchalant behaviour that prompted my lawyer, Mr Nnamdi Anih Esq, to file a civil suit against them at an Ikeja High Court, Lagos. Judgement of the court: On March 27, 2019, an Ikeja High Court, Lagos, delivered a judgement against the proprietress of Cendom International Nursery and Primary School, Olodi-Apapa, Lagos, Mrs Uche Owen, in a civil suit. Justice Yetunde Idowu ordered the proprietress to pay the sum of N25 million as damages to the five-year-old pupil of her school, Destiny Kalu, who became blind after he was flogged for not paying school fees. Destiny, through his father, Inyima Kalu, had in 2013 dragged Mrs Owen and his class teacher, Miss Uduak Sam, before the court for flogging and inflicting severe injuries to his right eyes over non-payment of school fees. In his statement, Destiny alleged that on June 20, 2011, Mrs Owen came to his classroom and flogged all the pupils that had not paid their school fees. He stated that the proprietress further instructed their class teacher Miss Uduak to flogged them severely Destiny claimed that while being flogged, his right eye was covered with blood as a result of cane injury inflicted on him by Uduak. He said the act of cruelty left him in pains and tears for several hours unattended to on the school premises Destiny further claimed that without administering first aid treatment, his class teacher neglected him as he bled internally and water gushed out of his right eye all through the school hours, until he was picked up at close of school by his father after every staff of the school had abandoned him and gone home. Destiny was subsequent taken to Ajeromi General Hospital Lagos where he was treated and later referred to Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). At LUTH, the right eye was operated upon without success. Doctor’s report revealed that Destiny’s right eye was permanently damaged and cannot perceive light as a result of severe damage to the eyes. Following the permanent injury sustained by Destiny, his father demanded N30 million as compensation from the school. In her statement to the Nigeria Police after the incident, Miss Uduak admitted that she punished the infant by caning him on the instruction of Mrs Owen. However, in her statement in defence of the suit, Uduak claimed that Destiny might have sustained the injury on his right eye during a fight with another pupil in the school. The proprietress also denied being responsible for the injuries sustained by Destiny. Delivering judgement in the matter after six years of trial, Justice Yetunde Idowu held the two defendants liable for the permanent injury sustained by Destiny. Justice Idowu held that the defendants owe a duty of care to Destiny but breached that duty by flogging and inflicting injury on him. She said: “Caning a child for nonpayment of fees is not only wrongful but illegal. It is trite and universally accepted that caning a child does not have positive effect. Flogging is an abuse of a child and domestic violence against a child. It should be discouraged completely and contrary to all known best practices and unacceptable. “The child was under the custody of the 1st Defendant, on her school premises. The 1st and 2nd Defendants, the owner of the school and the class teacher owe a duty of care to the child. The duty of care was breached when the 2nd Defendant on the instruction of the 1st Defendant engaged in flogging the child. “Vicarious liability basically means that employers are liable for the torts of their employees, committed during the course of employment. A tort is a wrongful act or an infringement of a right (other than under contract) leading to legal liability.