Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abubakar, has filed a suit at the Election Petition Tribunal, challenging the election of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Bala Mohammed. This emerged on a day the APC Senator-elect for Delta Central Senatorial District, Mr. Ovie Omo- Agege, said the court lacks the power to nullify his candidature because he was not a party to the suits cited in various media reports. However, Abubakar in a suit filed by the state’s chapter of the APC, at the tribunal yesterday by its state’s Chairman, Alhaji Uba Ahmed Nana, said they were seeking for justice from the tribunal. He said: “We are here to file a suit on behalf of the APC national challenging the results of the Governorship election in Bauchi State held some weeks ago. What we want is justice, as always, from the Court because we know that the Court will do just that.” Meanwhile, Omo- Agege in an interview with journalists, said he and his major opponent (Olorogun O’tega Emerhor) were not a party to the court cases and were, therefore, not bound by whatsoever decision taken in those cases. He said: “The only case that O’tega Emerhor himself is a party, where my name was brought in came through the Warri Federal High Court, seeking a declaration as the plaintiff that he is the one who won the primary for the Delta Central senatorial election in 2019. “That is the only case where O’tega himself is a party and I’m made a party myself. Of course, we went in there, we joined issues, we filed and adopted our brief and the court adjourned for judgement. “Five days before the court was to deliver its judgement, O’tega Emerhor (knowing full well that he was going to lose) tried to arrest the judgement by filing a notice of discontinuance but we said no. “And when he finally did, the court ruled that as regards the primaries for Delta Central Senatorial district held on October 3, 2018, the only primary that was conducted by the National Working Committee (NWC), the only committee recognised by law (both the constitution and electoral act) to conduct primaries, that the only primary they conducted which was supervised and monitored by INEC in accordance with section 85 of the electoral act produced a winner and that winner is not O’tega Emerhor but Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege.” Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday told Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja that he lacks power to stop the commission from going ahead with the collation and announcement of the Bauchi State governorship election results. The court had, on Tuesday, restrained the electoral body… In “News” Tunde Oyesina Abuja Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday told Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja that he lacks power to stop the commission from going ahead with the collation and announcement of the Bauchi State governorship election results. The court had, on Tuesday, restrained… In “News” Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar, has reacted to the allegation that his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), rigged last Saturday’s Bauchi South senatorial district by-election. He said the allegation was baseless and unfounded even as he said it was fabricated by enemies of democracy. Abubakar, who was reacting… In “News”