Chukwu David reports that intrigues, which led to the removal of one the contestants for the Senate Presidency in the incoming 9th National Assembly, Ali Ndume, as Majority Leader of the 8th Senate may be responsible for his opposition to the position of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on the contest  Indications have emerged vendetta is the major reason why Senator Ali Ndume is defying the directive of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to run against Senator Ahmad Lawan, who is the party’s preferred candidate for the presidency of the 9th Senate.
Investigations by New Telegraph revealed that Ndume, who was the Senate Leader at the beginning of the 8th Senate, is still angry with Lawan for allegedly orchestrating schemes that eventually led to his (Ndume’s) ouster and replacement by Lawan.
This is as inquiries by our correspondent indicate that contrary to insinuations in some quarters that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) might throw its weight behind Ndume against Lawan, the opposition members-elect in the Red Chamber are actually looking elsewhere in the jostle to the Senate presidency.
On Ndume’s grudges against Lawan, an insider in the Senate, corroborated the speculation that he is still embittered over the role Lawan allegedly played on January 10, 2017, in getting him out of office as the leader of the Senate in a seeming parliamentary coup.
The Senate source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that, Ndume, being a loyal party man and ardent supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, wouldn’t have resisted the zoning arrangement of the APC leadership if he was not feeling badly injured by Lawan and his group, for displacing and replacing him.
The source said: “There is no doubt that Ndume’s ouster from office as majority leader of the 8th Senate in 2017 is a major factor pushing him to disregard the position of the leadership of the APC and forge ahead with his Senate presidential ambition.
“We all know Ndume to be a loyal party man; we also know him to be one of the frontline supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari. But you can see that so much effort has been made to convince him to drop his ambition, but to no avail. This shows that he is feeling very hurt inside and he appears to have resolved to take his pound of flesh.”
Ndume was removed as the Majority Leader of the 8th Senate on January 10, 2017, when the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, read a letter purportedly signed by 39 members of the APC Caucus for his removal, while adopting Lawan as his replacement.
In what many described then as a parliamentary coup, the Borno South senator was shown the way out as the Senate Leader and Lawan (Yobe North) nominated to replace him immediately.
Ndume was innocently conducting the business of the Senate on the day of his removal as the majority leader until about 12:45 pm, when he reportedly stepped out of the chamber to observe his prayers within the White House at the National Assembly complex.
Unfortunately for him, by the time he was done with his prayers, he returned to the Chamber to continue with the business of the day, only to discover that the place had been deserted. His colleagues had hurriedly executed their “coup” and quickly vacated the hallowed chambers to avoid any pandemonium in case Ndume returns and decides to reclaim his position.
Lawan, no doubt, was the preferred candidate of the APC and the presidency for the office of president of the Senate of the 8th Senate, a proposal, which its abortion by Saraki’s emergence triggered an impasse that shook the ruling party to its foundation then.
As a contestant for the Senate presidency alongside the incumbent, Saraki, Lawan was recommended by the leadership of the APC for the post of Senate majority leader, following his failure to clinch the Senate presidency, but it was rejected by the APC North East caucus.
After the party’s calculation failed, its leadership and the presidency made several desperate attempts to persuade Ndume to step down for Lawan as Senate leader, but the former insisted that God gave him power and only God could take it away from him.
However, the same APC Senate caucus, which backed Ndume’s emergence as majority leader, pulled the rug off his feet over what the lawmakers described as antagonistic posture exhibited by the Borno senator against Senate’s decisions on critical issues.
Ndume, however, swallowed the bitter pill and moved on with his legislative duties after his removal, but Saraki was then widely accused of trading him off to pacify the APC leadership and Lawan’s supporters in the Senate, who had made the apex legislative Chamber virtually ungovernable for him for emerging the president of the Senate, against the wish of the party and the presidency.
Ndume, though aggrieved with Saraki, his suspicion was that it was the desperation of Lawan that led to his removal, and therefore, appear to have vowed that the opportunity has come for him to take revenge against Lawan.
Meanwhile, another source expressed reservations on the possibility of Ndume getting support from the opposition PDP, saying that the party’s senators-elect are not comfortable with him because of his romance with the presidency.
“Well, let’s see how it goes. But I don’t think that he (Ndume) will make any headway because he will not get the support of the PDP senators. I am speaking to you as an insider because we know ourselves and the politics that is playing out right now.
“You know that when Ndume was the leader of the Senate, he was always in the Villa with President Muhammadu Buhari. Remember also that the PDP is the only opposition that can put a check on the ruling party, to curtail its excesses, so that this country does not degenerate to a state of dictatorship or tyranny.
“If the PDP makes the mistake and supports somebody who will make the Senate a puppet of the executive arm, particularly the presidency, then the country is in trouble because the Senate will be made to rubber-stamp every proposal of the executive, whether it is in the interest of the people or not”, the source explained.
On the other hand, New Telegraph learnt that the PDP senators-elect are backing Senator Danjuma Goje, who the opposition lawmakers are said to have more confidence in, since he is former a member of the PDP, the platform on which he ruled Gombe State for eight years.
A Senate source, who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said that Goje’s silence on the Senate presidency race is a deliberate tactic, suggested to him by the PDP lawmakers, so that his position on the matter would not be known till the eleventh hour, when it would be difficult for the other contenders to know what to do.
It will be recalled that a group of Amalgamated Youths from the North East, had on April 4, stormed the National Assembly, to mount pressure on Goje, to join the Senate presidency race by publicly declaring his intension to run for the exalted office.
This pressure, notwithstanding, the senator representing Gombe Central Senatorial District has refused to utter a word on whether or not he is interested in contesting for the highest legislative office in the country.
Meanwhile, Senator Ben Murray-Bruce (PDP, Bayelsa East) has decried the cut-throat competition for the Senate presidency among the lawmakers, wondering what is actually attracting his colleagues to the office.
Bruce said that position of president of the Senate is being overrated, resulting in the desperate pursuit of the office by lawmakers.
He further cautioned that the presidency and other external forces should not be involved in the process of emergence of National Assembly leadership, stressing that positions of leadership in the apex legislative Assembly are purely internal and should be treated as such.
“The position of Senate president is overrated, and I don’t know why. Maybe, there is something they are seeing, which I am not seeing. Election of National Assembly leadership is purely internal, and so the presidency and the party leadership should not be involved.
“It should be a free and fair thing. It is an embarrassment for parties to get involved, and start saying that this senator or that senator should be Senate president or Senate leader. We are not in the Stone Age; we are in a civilised world, and we should not do anything to that will ridicule us as a nation in the international community,” he advised. …meets Osinbajo in Aso Rock   Former Senate Leader, Ali Ndume, has vowed never to step down for any candidate, including Senator Ahmad Lawan, for the position of Senate President. Ndume disclosed this after meeting with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo behind closed-doors at the Presidential Villa, Abuja yesterday.   He… In “News” Former Senate Leader, Sen. Ali Ndume, (Borno South) has an axe to grind with the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over the adoption of Sen. Ahmad Lawan (Yobe North) as the party’s candidate for the Senate Presidency of the 9th National Assembly. Ndume,… In “News” There are strong indications that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may encounter a repeat of the crisis of 2015 in its quest to install the leadership of the 9th National Assembly, which is billed for inauguration in June 2019. One of the top contenders for the office of Senate… In “News”