The National Council on Privatisation (NCP), the highest decision making organ for all privatisation matters, has approved delisting of Transcorp Hilton Hotel from post-privatisation monitoring by the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE). Another crucial decision by the Council was its approval to Diamond Stripes Consortium, Transcorp Power Consortium and Unicorn Consortium to proceed to the financial bids opening stage for the acquisition of 100 per cent shares in the Afam Electricity Generation Company (Afam Power Plc. & Afam Three Fast Power Limited) having scored 750 benchmark score in their Requests for Proposal (RfPs). The Council also, at its maiden 2019 meeting which held in Abuja last Friday, gave the nod to Quest Electric Nigeria Limited to proceed to the financial bids opening stage for the re-privatisation of the Yola Electricity Distribution Company (YEDC), including appointing Lead Capital Consortium as Financial Adviser for the restructuring, recapitalisation and partial privatisation of the Bank of Agriculture (BOA). The Head, Public Communications at Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Amina Tukur Othman, confirmed NCP’s approvals in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja. Other decisions taken by the Council include: Privatisation of the Nigeria Communication Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT) through a strategic core investor sale and commencement of the process of listing it in the schedule of the Public Enterprises (Privatisation& Commercialisation) Act 1999; and appointment of Vesta Healthcare Partners as consultant to carry out a diagnostic review of the Nigerian health sector. The privatisation of Afam Electricity Generation Company (Afam Power Plc & Afam Three Fast Power Limited) could not be concluded during the first round of the power privatization in 2013 due to issues stemming from gas supply to the plant. Following the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) signed between Taleveras (the then preferred bidder) and BPE in 2016, Council, at its 1st Meeting of 2107 held on 22nd and 23rd August 2017, approved the privatisation of the enterprise based on a strategy to be recommended by the Transaction Advisers. For the YEDC, although it was successfully privatised and handed over to the core investor in 2013, a force majeure was declared in 2015 by the core investor, citing insecurity in the North-East region of the country. Five firms have submitted technical and financial proposals for the acquisition of the Yola Electricity Distribution Company (YEDC) and Afam Electricity Generation Company (Afam Power Plc & Afam Three Fast Power Limited). The deadline of the submission was on Friday, March 15, 2019. According to the Bureau of Public Enterprises… In “News” The banks’ principal exposure to the energy sector has hit an all-time high of $12 billion. ADEOLA YUSUF examines how recovery of larger percentage of these debts have become a tough task for the lenders.   Banks in Nigeria have modified the tactics for energy sector’s debts recovery as their… In “Business” Process for resale of Afam Power Company and the Yola Distribution Company (YDC) is back on track, with 19 firms indicating interest to acquire the electricity firms. The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), which hinted about the development yesterday, said at the close of the submission of bids for the… In “News”