The Nigeria electricity system also known as the National grid on Friday suffered a fresh partial collapse, the second in the last two weeks. The data National System operator, an arm of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), sighted yesterday by Saturday Telegraph showed that this incident occurred Friday. The national grid had last Tuesday collapsed and with the latest occurrence yesterday, the number of system collapse recorded so far this year has been brought to seven. The nation’s power generation, according to the system operator’s data, had earlier fallen to 3,231 megawatts on Wednesday, more than about a week after the latest system collapse occured. Power generation stood at 4,338.9MW as of 6.00 am on April 20. The system operator put the nation’s installed generation capacity at 12,910.40MW; available capacity at 7,652.60MW; transmission wheeling capacity at 8,100MW; and the peak generation ever attained at 5,375MW. The nation generates most of its electricity from gas-fired power plants, while output from hydropower plants makes up about 30 per cent of the total. Meanwhile, the TCN has given an insight into how six power transmission towers along the Delta – Benin and Delta – Sapele – Benin 330kV transmission line routes were allegedly vandalised and some of their tower members removed. This, coupled with the heavy rainfall of March 17 caused the collapse of tower No 61 alone, the company said in a statement signed by the General Manager, (Public Affairs) Ndidi Mbah. TCN noted that as soon as the transmission line tripped, a lines’ patrol team was dispatched to investigate the cause and investigations revealed that tower No 61 had collapsed and aluminum conductors from the tower were on the ground. The patrol team also discovered that tower members of five other towers including the tower directly opposite tower 61 on the Ughelli – Benin line route were missing. According to the statement, the Delta-Benin and Delta- Sapele-Benin 330kV transmission lines evacuate power from Transcorp Power Limited, Ughelli into the national grid. With the collapse of tower No 61 on Delta-Benin line however, TCN is now evacuating the power through Delta – Sapele- Benin 330kV transmission line alone. Although the collapsed tower has not affected power evacuation, transmission lines redundancy is effected until the second line is restored. The statement further noted that, TCN has been facing the challenge of repeated attacks by vandals on this axis since December 2018. The company said it had also made formal reports to security operatives and to traditional rulers in the area, including the King of Okpeland and the Ovie of Oghara, who have equally held meetings with their subjects to address the menace but to no avail.