 The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday continued its intervention in the interbank segment of the foreign exchange market with the injection of another $210 million. According to the figures released by the apex bank, authorised dealers in the wholesale segment of the market, as in previous deals, were offered the sum of $100 million, while those in the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) segment got a boost of $55 million. Customers purchasing foreign exchange for invisibles such as tuition fees, medical payments and Basic Travel Allowance (BTA), among others, were also allotted a total of $55 million. CBN’s Director, Corporate Communications Department, Mr. Isaac Okorafor, confirmed the transactions, reiterating that the banking watchdog will continue to ensure the availability of foreign exchange in order to ensure continued stability in the markets.
In its last intervention on Thursday, April 18, 2019, the bank injected the sum of $254.8 million and CNY34.8 million into the Retail Secondary Market Intervention Sales (SMIS) segment. Analysts point out that the CBN’s frequent interventions in the forex market have been largely responsible for the stability of the naira against the dollar in various segments of the market in recent times.
The local currency yesterday exchanged at an average of N360/$1 in the Bureaux De Change (BDC) segment of the market. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has injected $210million into the interbank forex market, to meet customers’ requests in various segments of the forex market, the apex bank said yesterday. In a statement, the regulator said that in its quest to meet customers’ needs in the various segments of the… In “Business” The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday pumped another sum of $210 million into the inter-bank Foreign Exchange Market, in its continuing efforts to ensure liquidity in the forex market. According to the figures obtained from the Apex Bank, the regulator offered $100million to authorized dealers in the wholesale segment… In “Business” The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday continued its sustenance of foreign exchange liquidity by injecting $210million into the inter-bank foreign exchange market, even as the naira maintained its steady rate against major currencies. Figures obtained from the apex bank show that the interventions were in the Wholesale, small and… In “Business”