In what looked like a scene from Hollywood movie, suspected armed robbers yesterday stormed a first generation bank in Idoani in Ose Local Government area of Ondo State and killed seven people including a policeman posted to guard the bank. After the operation that lasted one hour, the suspected armed robbery left in their trial blood, sorrow and pain. The victims of the bank robbery according to eyewitnesses included four officials of the bank, one policeman and two customers that came to transact business in the bank. The residents of Isewa quarters Idoani where the First Bank PLC, was located rsaid was attacked around 2 pm. Eyewitnesses said the suspected gunmen stormed the area around 2 pm in the afternoon shooting sporadically as they blew open the bank security door with dynamite. During the operations that lasted about one hour, seven people including bankers, a police Inspector and about two  ATM customers were shot dead. Apart from the seven people killed during the robbery operation,  five other persons sustained different degrees of injury While the dead were taken mortuary, the injured were receiving treatment at General Hospital in the town. The source said the armed robbers blew the armoured door with dynamite before gaining entrance into the banking hall. Apart from taking the money at the counter, they also went into the security room and took away an unspecified amount of money. According to eyewitnesses, some of the armed bandits escaped with an unspecified amount of money before the arrival of men of the Nigerian Army. Luck, however, ran against one of them as he was caught by the brave and vigilant soldiers who were drafted into the scene. The Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO) of the Police Command, Mr Femi Joseph who confirmed the robbery incident said they were on top of the situation. Joseph said four of the officials of the bank were killed during the operation. He said the office would have been killed as a result of the frustration of the robbers who were unable to cart away money. He confirmed that one Inspector of Police was killed while only one customer was killed in the bank robbery. He, however, said one of the suspects has been arrested by a combined team of Policemen and army who were drafted into the scene. Joseph said the Police had begun an investigation and the suspects would soon be arrested and made to face the wrought of the law. He said the robbery operation was able to last for long hours because the bank has been overgrown with weeds and located in a border town between Ondo and Edo States territory. He said the Commissioner of Police and crack team of investigators have moved to Idoani in order to arrest the suspects.