Azere Tracy, an alumnus of Delta State University shares her foray into the ‘noble’ profession with JOHN CHIKEZIE  Background
My name is Azere Tracy. I hail from Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. My secondary school education was at the Lagos State Model College Ojo. I attended Delta State University where I obtained a Diploma in Law and an LL.B in 2013. I also attended the Nigerian Law School, Lagos Campus and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 2014. Choice of career
First, for the money. Secondly, the prestige and then the desire to stand up for what I believe is truth. I strongly desire to help those who need legal services or advice and can’t afford same. Law school
During my days at the Law School, I noticed that the pressure and fear was mostly created by fellow students. Their fear of failing usually transcended to panic and when they do panic, they want others to do the same. I knew that my capacity to function effectively would be hampered if I had associated with such students, so I tried as much as I could to avoid them.
Challenges
In my years of practice, there are lots of challenges I’ve faced with clients, especially in terms of demands and sometimes the unreasonableness of their request. Also, public officers especially the police and court’s staff do not make a lawyer’s jobs easy. Lawyers are said to be officers in the temple of justice and as such they have the highest responsibility to uphold justice in their dealings. But unfortunately, this is hardly the case. Corruption has eaten so deep into the system that abnormality is the new norm. Law profession
If I have my way, I would like to institute a system in which the number of cases assigned to magistrates and judges are limited to ensure quick disposal of cases just like the American Court System. That way, a criminal trial can be concluded in months. I always wonder why a criminal case should last more than one year in court when the prosecution already has all the evidence at its disposal. We all seem to forget that justice delayed is justice denied. Judiciary
I remember a very irritating experience I had with a registrar of a court. I had a criminal matter before a magistrate and the magistrate granted bail to the defendants involved in the matter, bail was perfected and before the return date, the magistrate was transferred. The matter was to come up before the new magistrate. Unfortunately, I had another matter in another court room but that same court complex. I had a meeting with my clients and assured them I would return to handle their matter, as my case in the other court would be called earlier.
To my surprise, I was told the registrar had requested for money from the defendants, insisting that their bail would be revoked if they don’t offer money to pacify the new magistrate. I was not happy with the registrar’s action but more disappointed with my clients for not waiting for me to get back before falling for such scam. Child marriage
Our law also prohibits child marriage. The Child Right Act is clear on this. Section 21 of the Child Right Act clearly states that no person under the age of 18 is capable of contracting a valid marriage and such marriage if contracted is null and void. Now going past the prohibition, the law in Section 23 also states that any person who marries or aids the marriage of a child is liable upon conviction to a fine of N500, 000 or imprisonment for a term of 5years or both.
Now, here is the twist, the law in this two sections I just mentioned only speak about child marriage, it doesn’t cover the issue of defilement of the said child that was married off. It is interesting to know that a child who is married off has most likely been defiled and as such the accused person can and would also be charged with the crime of defilement and in Lagos state, such offence attracts life imprisonment. Ignorance of the girl’s age and even consent from the girl is not a defence. The law is trite that a child cannot give consent.