Finidi Geroge was a pivotal member of the phenomenal class of Nigeria’s national team that dominated Africa and made a telling impact at global level in the mid-1990s which was highlighted by their being ranked No.5 in the world by FIFA after the 1994 World Cup (which remains Africa’s best placement ever). In this interview with LUKMAN OLOGUNRO, Finidi spoke on various issues concerning Nigerian football…  What’s your view regarding the chances of the Super Eagles for the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt?
They should believe in themselves because Nigeria is proclaimed as the giant of Africa but we have to take our game to the next level. It’s quite difficult to win games these days because other countries are working hard in physical and tactical aspects of the game and that means you have to do much planning if you are to win games. I believe we have the team; we have the financial strength that can carry us through and bring the cup back home for the fourth time. The AFCON-winning 1994 set has always been used as the benchmark to measure the Super Eagles. What made that particular team tick and why has it been quite difficult to have such team again after over 20 years?
To start from the second question, we just have to go to grassroots football. We have to invest in grassroots football so that we can unearth the numerous talents that are hidden. We have always been blessed with talented and naturally gifted players but bringing them to the spotlight has been very hard and this has to do with the lack of focus on grassroots. The streets produced some of the best talents we had then, as players were spotted and brushed up in tournaments organised at local level with a place like Ajegunle prominent among those communities.
The schools too helped in the discovery of talents and that’s why more tournaments within schools in states and national level should be established. We started the game back home and played very well before moving abroad, which helped us settle down easily because we got there and were playing regularly for top clubs. But it’s rather unfortunate that’s a bit rare today.
The foundation of the game at home must be very solid. I want to believe the Nigeria Football Federation has programmes to take our football to a higher level, sustainable programmes that will help our football grow. You are based abroad but you travelled down to Nigeria for the NFF Awards, unlike some of your colleagues. What motivated you to turn up for this event?
It’s very simple, as I can tell you that I feel honoured to be part of these awards. I’m proud to be part of the squad that achieved a lot for this country by winning the Africa Cup of Nations and also qualifying the country for its first ever World Cup. It’s just wise that one just has to create time to attend an event like this and I give kudos to the NFF for this. Two of your colleagues, Augustine Eguavoen and Sunday Oliseh, spoke emotionally during the recognition of the 1994 Super Eagles. What memories are you leaving with regarding the coming together of this great squad 25 years after your landmark achievements?
They made lots of points and the one that I’m much concerned about is the fulfilment of promises made to us. We took it upon ourselves to go extra lengths to make the country proud and that was why we achieved success and in return we expect the country to pay us back. We were promised houses but up till this moment we are yet to be given the properties. A few of us have died and we that are still alive are ageing, so we would like to have the government fulfill its promise so that we can tell our children that this is what we did for the country and this is what we were rewarded with. We just hope the NFF can table it before the government and I believe it will be done. You are a licensed coach but why have you not coached any of the national teams considering your experience as an ex-international?
I’m not in a hurry and my belief is that if something is not for you, then it’s not for you. I can’t force or push anyone to hire me to handle the national teams. Despite having my license, if coaching won’t work for me so let it be. That’s my belief. I can’t fight for coaching positions. Taking you back to the Super Eagles, you saw them at the last World Cup. What do you think the team need to do to do well at AFCON in Egypt?
Going by their display at the 2018 World Cup, they have the potential to really do well in Egypt. A lot however depends on their mindset towards the tournament. They have to prepare well ahead of the competition; if they have the right frame of mind going into the competition, they stand a very big chance of winning.
Fortunately it’s the same coach that took them to the World Cup that is still in charge, so he too must have been able to identify and fix the weak links in his team. Why is it that the Super Eagles don’t have a particular playing style these days? Your squad back then was strong on the flanks and your coach then built on it with crosses from you on the right and Emmanuel Amuneke from the left resulting in many goals for the team…
The playing style has to do with the quality of the players. I’m sorry to say that our squad had lots of qualities in all departments. From the goalkeepers, defenders, midfielders up to the wingers and strikers all you see is quality. The game is evolving and we need players that can play the modern-day style of football. We need to groom them so that we can get the best out of the players. You were once regarded as the best ball crosser in football. How were you able to cross the ball in such a way that it got to the intended target with perfection?
It had to do with training, going the extra mile to achieve success. I knew I could cross the ball well but I still made sure I developed that aspect of my game to get to the point where I was referred to as the best crosser. It was not a fluke because I trained a lot for it. Your days with Nwankwo Kanu at Ajax were quite memorable as you won the UEFA Champions League in 1995 with the likes of Patrick Kluivert, Clarence Seedorf, Jari Litmanen and the De Boer brothers Frank and Ronald among other talented footballers. Could you briefly relive the memories of that team that played great football under Luis van Gaal?
Wow, you just got me excited because I learnt a lot at Ajax where I also had my best moments at club level as a footballer.
It was great to play with that young and talented team that shocked the world to win the Champions League at the expense of AC Milan, which was a very big club as far as European football experience was concerned at that time. It was so great that I played among the great players because we almost defended the title successfully but fell short in the final against Juventus. What does this award mean to you individually and what impact do you think it will have on sportsmen, particularly footballers?
It’s better late than never and this is a recognition that is long overdue. Those that were watching would appreciate it much like we do and it can only inspire others to give their best for the country.
This will also motivate some of us to come back and give back to the young ones. However there must be a platform where we can express ourselves on our quest to give back. What would be your advice to the NFF regarding grassroots development?
There has to be a committed grassroots project by the federation, not the one that you will do for two years and take a break of another three years. It has to be avcontinuous project commitment. Football has gone so big such that scouts are all over the world and talents can easily be spotted. By the time players go abroad and get exposed for three to five years, they will not be scared of any team, then they can be called into the various national teams to compete at global tournaments and bring honours to the country.
We are not dominating as we are supposed to be going by our potential in the game. We have to invest in grassroots so that we can stay at the top for long.
We should bring that mentality back and entrust it in the national teams. How would you describe the team under Gernot Rohr?
The team has promises and if they can work a bit harder, they will achieve success. They should take it up a bit from the level they showed at the World Cup
Like I stated earlier, preparation has to be very good. They should avoid lackadaisical preparation such as going to camp very late. The coach must also be strict with players as regards professionalism. Players strolling to camp late should be totally condemned.
They should also play meaningful friendly matches like the one they played against Egypt recently. The AFCON qualifying match against Burkina Faso in Lagos in 1991 which Nigeria won 7-1 brought you to limelight. What was on your mind going into that match which was your home debut even as a home-based player?
I was very scared because that was my first game and a big game at the National Stadium in Lagos. It was not easy to play in Lagos unlike now when they take players to Abuja and Uyo and a few other states. If you are able to play in Lagos, the fans will let you know where the standard of your game is. Ajax is showing the promise of going all the way in this season’s Champions League going by their remarkable performance against Real Madrid who had placed a stranglehold on the title by winning it three consecutive times; do you think they can beat Juventus to a semi-finals spot?
Of course, if they can beat Real Madrid, it means they can best any other team.
So why not? They are a young team like it was in our time. So far, they have shown they have the right mindset.
My advice to them is that they should not be scared of Cristiato Ronaldo. He is injured and is doubtful for the first leg but he is likely to be available for the second and decisive leg in Italy. It would be a very tough assignment for the two teams. So many people still can’t explain the reason for the celebration that followed your goal against Greece at the 1994 World Cup in the USA. Why did you celebrate like that?
To be honest, I was over excited to score and just didn’t know how to celebrate so I went to the corner, knelt down and raised one of my legs as if a dog was peeing. I later rose up and was rolling as if I was driving a vehicle. It was just that I was overjoyed.
We needed to get a draw in the match after losing to Argentina with the great Diego Maradona so when we scored first we knew we would be in control. Greece were threatening to beat us but that goal made us settle for the second half and Daniel Amokachi sealed it in the dying minutes. Former Super Eagles winger, Emmanuel Amuneke, told CHARLES OGUNDIYA that Nigeria might have defeated Italy at the 1994 World Cup if not for the injury to Daniel Amokachie and himself. Excerpts…   What was the experience like for you going to the World Cup? I was privileged to play at… In “Sports” Super Eagles assistant coach to the FIFA 2002 World Cup in Korea/Japan, Fanny Amun, told CHARLES OGUNDIYA, that Coach Festus Onigbinde should not be blamed for the inability of top players like Sunday Oliseh, Finidi George and others to be part of the team to the Mundial. Excerpts…   What… In “Sports” In this first instalment of Saturday Telegraph’s ‘My World Cup Experience Series,’ CHARLES OGUNDIYA caught up with former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Ike Shorunmu. He revealed his disappointment at missing out of two World Cup competitions and finally making it to the 2002 Mundial as a player and later in 2014… In “Sports”