 Police in Lagos have arrested two persons for allegedly stealing female pants at Mile 2, under bridge area of the metropolis. The suspects, Friday Emmanuel (21) and Obiora Nwabueze (29), were arrested on Sunday, during a fight at Mile 2 under bridge. The suspects were said to have stolen the female pants from where it was spread to dry by an unsuspecting owner. It was learnt that the suspects were arrested when they engaged each other in fisticuffs following the failure of one of them to keep to the terms of agreement regarding the stolen pants. Emmanuel said Nwabueze told him to steal the used female pants for N30,000. He said after he had successfully stolen the pants, Nwabueze reneged on his promise and attempted to forcibly take it from him which led to the fight. During interrogation, Emmanuel said he regretted listening to Nwabueze, who was pestering him to get him female underwear because he desperately needed to become rich. Meanwhile, both suspects were said to have been charged to Magistrate Court 23 on Tuesday on Mbah Road, Ajegunle, Lagos for conspiracy and stealing. A suspect, Ojonugwa Adajoh, yesterday said a prophet of Celestial Church of Christ (CCC) hypnotised him to steal pants belonging to his sister and his in-law. Adajoh was arrested at Uso in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State for allegedly stealing pants belonging to his brother’s wife and his… In “Metro and Crime” Police yesterday arrested two suspects for allegedly stealing pants at the Mission House of an orthodox church in Akure, the Ondo State. The suspects, Samuel Linus and Adekunke Ogundana, who were security guards posted to the church, were said to have stolen the pants of a daughter of the venerable… In “Metro and Crime” Detectives attached to the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Ikeja, Lagos, have arrested two men, who claimed that hunger forced them into crime. According to the police, the suspects, who were initially four, robbed truck driver whose vehicle broke down on the Mile 2 Bridge at the weekend. While two… In “Metro and Crime”