The growing concern of professionals and individuals over incessant building collapse in the country has made it compelling for the Federal Government to empower the insurance regulatory body more to enable it implement building insurance lawfully, Sunday Ojeme writes   With the spate of building collapse getting more serious by the day, more pressure is being mounted on the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to further work on the implementation of building insurance.
Even though the Federal Government appears to have failed in this regard by not properly empowering the commission to deal with the situation, private bodies, especially real estate professionals, are calling on the Federal Government to do the needful.
Although they have always expressed displeasure over building collapse tragedies in the country, their concern was heightened recently following the last incident in Lagos, which led to the death of some school children.
The Itafaji tragic experience, apart from highlighting government’s lackadaisical attitude to the safety of citizens and poor supervisory job of some building professionals in the country, it also added another sore point to Lagos State Government’s approach to mega city dream.
In one of their recent outings, they called for the involvement and collaboration of all professionals in the built sector and related government agencies including the insurance supervisory body to do everything possible to guards against building collapse.
They also called for strict application of building regulatons by the state government and prosecution of developers, owners and builders who fail to adhere to the regulations as required by law.
The professionals include Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA); Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB); Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE); Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP); Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV); Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS) and Nigerian Institute of Surveyors (NIS). Outcry
In one of his outbursts, President of Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers, Mr Roland Abonta, called on NAICOM to enforce the law on mandatory building insurance on all public buildings in the country.
Abonta said that enforcement of the law had become imperative to guard against huge loss of life and assets associated with building collapse.
He said: “The law requires that every public building must be covered by insurance. The insurance covers varied and insurance firms know that the law is based on nature of buildings,” adding that importance of insurance could not be overemphasized.
Calling on NAICOM to take the matter seriously in order to nib incidence of building collapse in the bud, he said: “We need insurance agency, NAICOM, to take the matter seriously by enforcing the law on public buildings such as schools and offices in the interest of Nigerians.”
Building design experts under the auspices of Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA), Lagos Chapter, also called on government to commence full implementation of all enacted laws to curtail building collapse incidents in the country.
According to its Chairman, Fitzgerald Umah, the institute is calling on Lagos State Government to, without delay, genuinely commence full implementation of enacted laws and solutions proffered by the relevant professional bodies over so many years, which were all rendered ineffective due to weak implementation by relevant government agencies, flagrant abuse and deliberate flouting by the general public.
He warned that the tide of avoidable and unfortunate incidences of building collapse in Lagos State must be urgently stopped.
From the series of collapses in the past, and the fact that none of the landlords or developers has been fully prosecuted and sentenced, it is obvious that the state government itself has become complicit in the tragedy. Need for insurance
To prevent all of these tragic moments, the Federal Government had, apart from ensuring standards in building construction, had also made it compulsory for public building and those under construction to be insured.
Insuring such structures would not only ensure victims are compensated if tragedy occurs, it would have also led to the structure being properly supervised and watched by the insurer, ensure it is fit for human habitation in order to guard against huge claims payment.
Under the six Compulsory Insurances, government tends to give Nigerians a sense of belonging apart from boosting the nation’s insurance sector’s fortune. Unfortunately, Most Nigerians have failed to embrace the benefits embedded their. Policies
Specifically, according to one of the policies, Occupiers’ Liability Insurance, the policy is taken up against liability of the members of the public for loss or property damage, death or bodily injury occasioned by fire, collapse, storm, earthquake, storm, flood or any allied peril. The cover is required to be purchased by owners or occupiers of every public building. Under the Nigeria Insurance Act 2003, a building is public when the owner does not use it fully (i.e. 100%) for residency purpose.
Examples of public buildings include hostels, tenanted buildings, residential buildings occupied by lodgers, tenants, etc. Also, a public building is one in which people enter and exit for educational, recreational or medical services such as schools, hospitals, malls, etc. A maximum fine of N100,000 or one-year imprisonment or both is the punishment for defaulters. Sealing-off or demolition of the affected building is the sanctions under the National Insurance Act 2003 and the Lagos State Building Control Law 2010.
Ironically, Lagos State, which has been adjudged by the insurance industry regulator as leading in terms of this aspect of insurance, has had the most cases of collapse incidents with no known form of insurance compensation for victims. Regulator’s effort
The lack of interest shown by the states had propelled the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to open up discussions with some state governors on the need to embrace the policy.
So far, the Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari, had visited some of the states in this regard with the governors promising to be parties to the deal with the commission also inaugurating a technical committee.
The committee was inaugurated by Kari with membership drawn from NAICOM, the Federal Fire Service (FFS) from all the zones and the Nigeria Insurance Association (NIA).
At the inauguration, Kari said it was the responsibility of the committee to advise the steering committee on how public building funds would be effectively and efficiently disbursed in the country.
According to him, under the National Insurance Act 2003, NAICOM has the responsibility of ensuring that public buildings and buildings under construction are insured.
“By public buildings, we mean all schools, hospitals, hotels and offices, and they have the responsibility to show evidence that they have complied with Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003.
“We have the responsibility for collecting of funds, monitoring and also disbursing the funds for the purpose of improving fire activities in Nigeria.
“About 0.25 per cent of premium collected with respect to public buildings are supposed to be accumulated in the fire funds. But over time, these funds have not been forthcoming because the process for collection is not put in place,” he said. Positive step
On its own, Lagos state, which has experienced the highest number of recorded collapsed building incidents, took the bull by the horns about three years ago to ensurie all public buildings in the state are insured.
Although the state government is yet to come out with a position paper on compliance, Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr Hakeem Dickson, while making the decision public, said it was to safeguard against building collapse in the state.
He said that the commission engaged in proactive activities to ensure safety in construction sites by ensuring that materials were properly piled and separated in a safe manner to prevent injuries and accidents.
Another important aspect of the policy is the Builders’ Liability Insurance, which provides compensation to victims (workers and the general public) for loss of property, death and bodily injury. This cover is usually taken up by owners or contractors of structures/buildings under construction of more than two floors.
The policy responds when there is building collapse and other risks related to building construction. Under the laws (Federal and Lagos) failure to comply with the policy attracts a penalty of N250,000 in addition to three years’ imprisonment, sealing and demolition of the affected building. Expert advice
Commenting on the importance of the policy, Deputy Commissioner for Insurance (Technical), Mr. Sunday Thomas, advised stakeholders in the construction industry to take appropriate steps to ensure compliance with the extant laws in order to stop needless loss of lives and property.
“This is not the time for the blame game but indeed a time for sober reflection and a call to action.
“Those who are vested with the power to enforce the laws of the land owe it a duty to ensure that laws are obeyed. What is more? The Lagos State government had domesticated the law on Insurance of Buildings under construction. What remains is for the law enforcement agents to enforce the law.
“The nation cannot afford to waste its citizens and its assets given the robust insurance arrangement opportunities provided by the insurance Act 2003. Enough of this waste! Take Insurance to cover your risks and be assured of better tomorrow in case the unexpected happens,” he said. Last line
As more institutions, individuals and professional bodies get more serious with tackling building collapse in the country, it is also expedient for the Federal Government to empower its agencies in this regard so as to enable them exercise their powers to curb the tragic development.