A group of ex-militants, Niger-Delta Reformed Agitators, have alleged that there is a plan to blackmail the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator, Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Dokubo. The ex-arms men said the plan was conceived by elements who have failed in their bid to profit through illegal and corrupt means from the agency. In a statement made available to newsmen, the group said “Since March 2018, when Professor Charles Dokunbo was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari as Special Adviser and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, some persons have initiated diverse reforms which have continued to irk exploitative elements who have long benefitted from clientelism and socioeconomic unrest that has bedevilled the Niger Delta region. “It was gathered that Prof. Dokubo has severally turned down overtures by those behind the plot, and now to get at him, they have resorted to blackmailing him. “Professor Dokunbo’s managerial ability coupled with his good knowledge of the problems of Niger Delta people and how to solve them so as to create an enduring peaceful coexistence in the region for business to thrive has not only repositioned the agency but has brought life, peace, succor and economic development to Niger Delta region.” They accused Mr Ilem Iyam; the Director of Finance of misinforming the general public about the Amnesty effort of the federal government. New Telegraph cannot independently verify this claim. The statement reads further; “In one of the campaigns of calumny, the blackmailers had reported fictitious contracts to the tune of N1.8 billion being awarded by the office of the Coordinator for the Presidential Amnesty Programme to a company. ” They had previously published unsubstantiated reports and fake news aimed at discrediting the agency, and made attempts and continues to carry out this dastardly act in order to gain public sympathy at the expense of maintaining professionalism and staying true to the guidelines of the Public Procurement Act 2007. The ex-militants, however, urge the blackmailers to stop misinforming the general public and other relevant stakeholders.