    When he died two years ago, many were worried about filling the void he left behind. But the late Alhaji Muhammad Bello Abubakar Masaba, famed for having more than 86 wives, may already have a successor in place. His followers and family members have rallied round the eldest in the family. DANIEL ATORI reports that despite the nonagenarian’s demise, the wives, children and other faithful have remained knitted and ardent as they believe, “Baba told us that God will raise another spiritual leader from amongst us.”  Ever since the exit of the spiritual leader of the Halihumot Nabiyi Islamic Organization of Nigeria, Alhaji Muhammad Bello Abubakar Masaba, members of the family, including the wives have remained intact despite speculations that some of them may have left to remarry. There is also no power tussle over a likely successor. It would be recalled that, the late self acclaimed messenger of Allah who had over a hundred wives was born in April 14, 1924 and died on January 28, 2017, in his hometown, in Bida, Niger State, at exactly 9.22am. He was buried the following day besides his twin three storey building.  The building along Kotaworo-Masaba Area in Bida town, which used to serve as a Mecca of sort, playing multiple functions as a sacred place of unity, worship, evangelism, nourishment, and residence is still occupied by families and followers. The burial of Masaba which was witnessed by a surging crowd that included curious people who thought the nonagenarian with strange spiritual powers would resurrect or a successor would be announced by ardent followers. The late Alhaji Bello Abubakar Masaba was a nonstandard who was seen as a heretic Islamic cleric, teacher and healer, who was well known in Lagos before he eventually moved permanently to Bida with his followers. He lived on the third floor of the Kotaworo-Masaba edifice. Speaking to the New Telegraph, Personal Assistant to the late Masaba, who also doubles as Secretary, Alhaji Mutairu Salaudeen Bello, said: “Baba warned us not to deviate from the right path; that we should remain hopeful and calm, and that if we continue to embrace Allah, nobody has anything to fear. And all the goodness will come to everyone, which will show that God is with us”.  On the late Masaba’s successor, Salaudeen said: “There is no tussle; there is a laid down talk and caution by Baba while he was still alive. This is not like every other society or group where they can select or pick somebody, but pending when Allah will raise a successor, this (referring to Masaba’s Brother, Alhaji Muhammadu Saba Abubakar Bello) is our father and we regard him, and he is the one acting as our leader. For how long it will take us to get a messenger as successor is not an issue, but since we have our father, and I am his Secretary, I have an assistant and we also have our Imam and Alfas. Baba has many followers all over the world and we are all ardent followers. Baba laid down instructions on his successor and that is sacred and important to us.   “Baba was not specific and he did not mention who should succeed him. He only said everyone should wait for Allah, nobody should look or vie for any position except the Almighty Allah chooses. He said it is only the Almighty God that will bring everyone’s position.”  He added that “in December of every year, there is an annual convention for all members and followers. There will be teachings, sermon and admonishment. During the convention, we, that is myself as Secretary, our Father who is the eldest, the Imam and the Alfas have roles to play and we will preside over the meeting.”  The Secretary to late Masaba Bello said “since the demise of Baba, the family has been living very well and without issues and by the special grace of God, that is how it will be forever. We are all living in good condition without chaos or any problems.”  He further disclosed that before Baba’s demise, he preached against division, fighting and disagreement. “Baba was a messenger of Allah and he preached unity. Baba’s teachings were to unite everyone. We, the members of the family and the entire Bida Community have been living together in peace and harmony without rancour.” He told our Correspondent that most of the children are still very much around, adding that “although, some of them are married and some have travelled.”  When asked about the wives the late Masaba left behind, Alhaji Salaudeen Bello said, “they are still very much around, none of them has remarried and they don’t intend to leave. They are all here with their children and even grandchildren. I cannot say the total number of grandchildren but I know the children are over 100. Also, the brother to the late Masaba, Alhaji Muhammadu Saba Abubakar Bello (Sarkun Kudu Raba Nupe) told the New Telegraph that he is currently the leader and that Baba’s legacy will continue until God chooses a successor whom everyone will look up to as spiritual leader irrespective of age or gender.  However, there were rumours that one of the late Baba’s elder daughters, who was very close to the nonagenarian now has some mysterious powers with which she heals people and performs some actions as were done by the late Masaba.  All attempts by our Correspondent to get to speak with her proved abortive as he was restricted to the front yard only. But investigations have it that most of the pilgrims who visit the twin storey building patronise the daughter, whose name was not made known.  Masaba’s brother added that, “we have been living in harmony. There is no problem of power tussle. Since Baba left, we are doing fine. He did not leave anything for us to harp unto, but he admonished us to trust God and the Prophet Mohammed and everything will be sorted out.  “Baba warned us not to trust in any charm, fetish things but that our trust should be in the Almighty Allah and the prophet Mohammed. As the eldest here, I have not done anything spectacular to put the family together but it is God who has been keeping us together. We are trusting on God. While Baba was alive, he did not use any charm and fetish means to sustain us and same thing applies to us and we will continue to pray and rely on Allah.”  When asked whether he is going to toe the same line in marrying many wives, he said, “if Allah wills anything, no man can object to it”. As our Correspondent was however restricted to the front yard, some of the wives were upstairs leaning on the balcony. While some of the children and grandchildren were having their lessons and being taught by a teacher at a constructed shack.  The constructed structure with tarpaulin which had openings for free ventilation welcomes any visitors entering the compound with over 50 children and grandchildren of the late Masaba between the ages of 3 and 15 being taught arithmetic (subject being taught when our Correspondent visited) by a teacher. The eldest son of the deceased, Mahmud Bello Abubakar Masaba Bida, had said that at the last count, the father left behind 130 wives and over 100 children. Findings by our Correspondent have it that, it is very difficult to draw the line between the nuclear family members of the deceased and the followers. They are all working and presenting themselves as one, from the same family. Besides the nuclear family members, Masaba headed a religious sect called Halihumot Nabiyi Islamic Organization of Nigeria and they usually had their annual conventions every December in Bida town.  The chief Imam, Alhaji Abdulraheem Kegbegbe, who did not speak on whether there will be a spiritual head soonest however prayed for continuous unity of the family. One of the disciples, who only gave his first name as Suleiman, told our Correspondent that their leader remains an immortal. “Baba is not an ordinary being like we people; he was a messenger of Allah.” The front lobby of the building has satellite dishes well positioned. There are probably over 50 rooms containing the members of his household, including the male children who are married. Before the late Masaba’s death, it was reliably gathered that, there was no mattress in his room, no adornments, except an Islamic calendar. He would sleep in one corner of the room on a prayer mat and when it rained and strong winds hurled pellets of rain into the room, he shifted his mat to a safer area.  New Telegraph reliably gathered that, the late Masaba could stay in the sparse room for days, devoting his time to prayers and worship. New Telegraph findings, also have it that the day-to-day affairs of the late Bello Abubakar Masaba’s religious organisation is run by his brother, the Secretary, Salaudeen Bello, Imams and Alfas including other layers of actors under the secretary, who function separately to ensure that a complex place like that did not breakdown.  These are Group 15, consisting of followers above the age of 50 and then the Nakabas, mostly youths who ensure that crowd activities such as child christening events, religious crusades, which take place in front of the storey building, the corner stone of the religious sect were orderly, peaceful and comfortable for followers and guests. They clean the ground, set up the canopies and other chores, usher guests to their seat, and manage crowds. A youth leader by name Hafeez was appointed for efficient and effective administration of this group. Thus, the late Bello Abubakar Masaba’s religious organisation runs to perfection, without glitches. He said: “We are living peacefully in this place. Baba himself has shown us how to live peacefully. His message to the world is to embrace God and have strong faith in Him; to trust in Almighty Allah, to love your neighbourhood as you love yourself. You can see this in us.”  New Telegraph further gathered that the late Masaba before relocating to Bida from Lagos, was a Grade Two Teacher Certificate holder, and had worked with the UAC and Bacita Sugar Company for several years. As a traditional healer, he was exposed to all kinds of people who trooped to his Bida home in Niger State, seeking for one spiritual help or the other.