With the filing of applications and replies, the coast is now clear for the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal to commence hearing on the suit filed by former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari in the February 23 presidential election, TUNDE OYESINA reports   Legal fireworks over the February 23 Presidential election have thickened as the two major contenders – President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have all turned in their processes. While Atiku and his party are challenging the election to prove that he actually won, Buhari and his party are defending the claim that he was not the legitimate winner of the poll. Another major party in the petition is the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), which will be proving to the tribunal that the election was free, fair, conducted based on legal provision and that Buhari actually won. The electoral body had on February 27, declared Buhari and his party as the winner of the election, having polled a total of 15,191,847 votes to defeat his closest rival, Atiku of the PDP, who polled a total of 11,262,978 votes. It was based on this that Atiku and his party had approached the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja to challenge the election on the ground that the result released by INEC was not the true position of the election. Atiku, PDP’s grouse Atiku and his party in their petition marked CA/PEPC/002/2019 and filed on March 18 submitted that the APC candidate (Buhari) was not validly elected by the majority of votes cast across the country in the February 23 presidential election. The petitioner also contended that the February 23 presidential election upon which INEC declared Buhari as the winner was invalid as it was marred by corruption. In addition, the petitioner alleged that the election of Buhari is invalid, having not complied with the provisions of the Electoral Act. Also, the petitioner submitted that Buhari was not at the time of the election qualified to contest, having submitted a fake academic qualification to the electoral body. The petitioner in his reliefs, however, prayed the tribunal to declare that Buhari is not duly elected and ought not to have been returned and that the election is null and void. He also prayed that he (Atiku) be declared as the winner of the election having polled the highest number of votes as provided by the Electoral Act. He also prayed for an order of the tribunal to direct INEC to issue a Certificate of Return to him, having been validly elected by the majority of votes cast on February 23. In the alternative, he prayed the tribunal to nullify the February 23 election and order for a fresh presidential election. Those cited as respondents in the petition are Buhari, APC and INEC. The petitioner also listed 400 persons to be called as witnesses to testify to the fact that the said election was marred by irregularities, which led to the declaration of Buhari as winner of the said election. Atiku and his party insisted that the data they obtained from INEC’s server revealed that they clearly defeated President Buhari and APC with over 1.6 million votes. The petitioners alleged that INEC had at various stages of the presidential election, unlawfully allocated votes to President Buhari, saying they would adduce oral and documentary evidence to show that result of the election as announced by the electoral body did not represent the lawful valid votes cast. The petitioners also alleged that in some states, INEC, deducted lawful votes that accrued to him, in its bid to ensure that Buhari was returned back to office and said they will call evidence of statisticians, forensic examiners and finger-print experts at the hearing of the petition to establish that the scores credited to Buhari were not the product of actual votes validly cast at the polling units. More so, in one of the five grounds of the petition, Atiku and the PDP maintained that Buhari was not qualified to run for the office of the President, contending that he does not possess the constitutional minimum qualification of a school certificate. The petitioners serialised results that were recorded from each state of the federation in order to prove that the alleged fraudulent allocation of votes to Buhari and the APC, took place at the polling units, the ward collating centres, local government collating centres and state collating centres. They argued that proper collation and summation of the presidential election results would show that contrary to what INEC declared, Atiku garnered a total of 18,356,732 votes ahead of Buhari, who they said got a total of 16,741,430 votes. The petitioners stated that whereas the actual number of voters accredited for the election was 35,098,162, the first respondent wrongly suppressed and/or reduced the number of accredited voters to 29,394,209 to their detriment. Buhari, APC’s reply Replying to the petition, Buhari and his party (APC) swiftly filed a preliminary objection, challenging the competence of the petition. Their main opposition was that Atiku did not have locus-standi to even participate in the presidential poll. Buhari has however described Atiku as a serial loser, boasting that he had always defeated him in every electoral contest that they took part in. The President insisted that the electorate always chose him ahead of Atiku in both inter-party and intra-party contests, citing the 2014 presidential primaries of the APC as an instance. In addition, President Buhari, queried the powers of the tribunal to nullify his election victory at the poll, contending that the joint petition Atiku and the PDP entered against him was incompetent as it was based on conjectures. He insisted that the reliefs the petitioners are seeking from the tribunal are “vague, nebulous and lacking in specificity.” He equally argued that most of the issues and grounds of the petition were not only “mutually exclusive,” but outside the jurisdiction of the tribunal. He further contended that by virtue of section 31(5) and (6) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), only the Federal High Court or High Court of a state has jurisdiction to adjudicate on some of the issues, among which include the allegation that he lacks the requisite educational qualification. The APC, in its own objection, alleged that Atiku is an alien, insisting that he is not a Nigerian by birth and therefore was not qualified to contest the presidential poll. The ruling party submitted that Atiku is a Cameroonian, and that he was born on November 25, 1946 in Jada, Adamawa, in Northern Cameroon, which makes him a citizen of Cameroon and not a Nigerian by birth. It further told the tribunal that prior to 1919, Cameroon was administered by Germany, adding that following the defeat of Germany in World War 1, which ended in 1918, Cameroon, became part of a League of Nations mandate territory which consisted of French Cameroon and British Cameroon in 1919. The APC further noted that in 1961, a plebiscite was held in British Cameroon to determine whether the people preferred to stay in Cameroon or align with Nigeria. It stressed that while Northern Cameroon preferred a union with Nigeria, Southern Cameroon chose alignment with the mother country, saying it was as a result of the plebiscite that Northern Cameroon, which included Adamawa, became part of Nigeria. It further argued that contrary to Atiku’s claims in his petition, he had no right to be voted for as a candidate in the election to the office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria held on February 23. Furthermore, the party submitted that by reason of Atiku’s ineligibility to contest the election, all votes credited to him and the PDP in the February 23 election ought to be deemed as wasted votes. APC also contended that most of the claims contained in Atiku’s petition have become statute barred, arguing that the tribunal lacks jurisdiction to entertain them. INEC’s position The electoral body, which was joined as the first respondent to the petition had also filed an objection. INEC’s contention against the petition was that the figures Atiku claimed he got from it is invalid. The electoral body, in its preliminary objection, therefore challenged the validity of figures Atiku claimed was obtained from its server. The commission further contended that contrary to Atiku’s claim, it did not electronically transmit results to its server using the Smart Card Reader Machines. It contended that the petition is incompetent and or lacking in merit, frivolous and prayed the tribunal to dismiss it. Specifically, INEC denied the existence of electronic transmission of results as it is unknown to the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and Regulations and Guidelines for the conduct of the 2019 elections and put the petitioners to strictest of proof thereof. Witness statement on oath of one Mr. Chidi Nwafor, an employee of INEC and currently the Director, Information and Communications Technology, averred that “the petitioners are claiming that votes recorded at the various polling units were electronically transmitted and stored in the first respondent’s server. “That the petitioners are also claiming that based on the server contents, they and not the second and third respondents won the presidential election. “That these claims of the petitioners are false as I know as a fact that the second respondent was duly elected by majority of the lawful votes cast at the presidential election and scored at least one-quarter of the lawful votes cast at the election in 33 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, more than twothird of all the states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. “That the petitioners did not win the majority of the lawful votes cast and did not satisfy the mandatory constitutional requirement to be declared winner having polled 11,262,978 and one quarter of all lawful votes cast in 29 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja as against the second respondent, who scored 15,191,847 votes cast and one quarter of the lawful votes cast in 33 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. “That the lawful and recognised computation of results is manually done using Electoral Form EC8 series and not the table pleaded by the petitioners given that the said table is not the result collated and declared by the 1st respondent. “That I know as a fact that the details contained in the table in the paragraph 22 of the petition are inaccurate. “That I know that mode of transmitting/ collating election results is manual, using Forms EC8As, EC8Bs, EC8Cs and EC8Ds and not electronically done. “That I know that the Manual Technologies 2019 and demonstration videos referred to in paragraph 27 are internal training materials. That with particular response to the issue of server and electronic transmission and collation repeatedly referred to by the petitioners, I hereby say as follows: That as at date, there is no legal framework in place for electronic voting, transmission and collation of scores or results of the electioneering process. “That the Smart Card Reader till date was used for authenticating registered voters not for sorting, counting, transmission or collation as these processes are still manually done, given the state of the law. “That the 1st respondent has no server that contains the purported results the petitoners are claiming they got from a purported server. “That in spite of the scheme at the time, counting, sorting, transmission and collation of votes during the 2019 general elections and the presidential election in particular were all done manually and not electronically. “That the purported figure of 37,668,305 being bandied by the petitioners as the actual number of accredited voters is unknown to the 1st respondent and never existed in its record. Atiku, PDP give final reply Exploring his right under the law to give a final reply, the petitioners added a new dimension to the suit as they transmitted the witness statement on oath of about 13 Presiding Officers in Borno and Yobe states, who averred that they transmitted the results of the February 23 Presidential Election in their various units and wards to the official server of INEC. The Presiding Officers, in their respective Witness Statement of Oath in support of the petition challenging the election of Buhari, stated that the election body had during their training instructed them on how to transmit the results to its server. The submission was to lay credence to the petition of Atiku and PDP, wherein they alleged that the INEC pulled down the official result from its server and consequently replaced it with a doctored one to favour Buhari. The position of the Presiding Officers, however, contradicted the submission of the INEC that results were not sent to its server. According to one them, “I was employed as an ad hoc staff and trained for three days by the first respondent at the Government College Maiduguri, Bomo State, to serve as a Presiding Officer (PO) at Waliri Polling Unit with Code 003, of Shehun Barna Ward, Bomo State on the 23rdFebruary, 2019 Presidential and National Assembly (Senate and House of Representatives) elections. “The training covered the duties of all first respondent’s ad-hoc staff at the polling units and the procedure for the conduct of election which includes accreditation, verification, authentication, collation and transmission of results as well as the use of Smart Card Reader (SCR) amongst others. “At the first respondent training, we were specifically instructed that the use of the Smart Card Reader for accreditation, verification, authentication, collation and transmission of results is mandatory and that any election conducted without the use of the Smart Card Reader would be invalid. “I took part in the conduct of the presidential and National Assembly (Senate and House of Representatives) elections of February 23, during which I served as the Presiding Officer and I ensured the use of the Smart Card Reader for accreditation, verification, authentication, collation and transmission of votes in my polling unit. “At the end of voting, the information on the Smart Card Reader, the results inclusive were collated by me in the presence of party agents and other ad-hoc staff of the first respondent after which my Assistant Presiding Officer (AP0-1) transmitted the result electronically in my presence to the first respondent’s server, using the Smart Card Reader (SCR) and the code provided by the first respondent.” Furthermore, the Presiding Officer of Daza Primary School Code 001, Daze Marte Ward of Borno State who was coded as BU stated that he is a graduate of Geography from the University of Maiduguri He stated: “I was recruited and trained for three days as an ad hoc staff by the first respondent at the Kirikasamma Primary School Maiduguiri, Borno State to serve as a Presiding Officer (PO) at Daza primary school Polling Unit with Code 001, of Daza- Marte Ward, Bomo State on the February 23, presidential and National Assembly (Senate and House of Representatives) elections. “The training was in respect of the duties of all first respondent’s adhoc staff at the polling units and the procedure for the conduct of election which includes accreditation, verification, authentication, collation and transmission of results as well as the use of Smart Card Reader (SCR) among several others. “During the training aforesaid,we were specifically told that we must ensure the use of the Smart Card Reader for accreditation, verification, authentication, collation and transmission of results and that any election conducted without the use of the Smart Card Reader would be invalid. “I participated in the conduct of the presidential and National Assembly (Senate and House of Representatives) elections of February 23, where I served as the Presiding Officer (PO) and I ensured the use of the Smart Card Reader for accreditation, verification, authentication, collation and transmission of votes in my polling unit. “Accreditation and voting for both the presidential and National Assembly (Senate and House of Representatives) elections took place simultaneously on February 23. “When voting ended, the information on the Smart Card Reader, the results inclusive were collated by me in the presence of party agents and other ad-hoc staff of the first respondent after which my Assistant Presiding Officer (AP0-1) transmitted the result electronically in my presence to the 1stRespondent’s server using the Smart Card Reader (SCR) and the code provided by the first respondent.” Certificate issue Atiku, also in his reply, insisted that Buhari did not submit any academic certificate to INEC before contesting the election. He added that the claim by APC that he was not qualified to contest the election to the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is spurious and devoid of substance as Buhari never submitted any certificates to INEC regarding his educational qualification. According to him, “having not submitted any certificates to the first respondent (INEC) regarding his educational qualification, the second respondent (Buhari) did not and could not have complied with the requirement of the law regarding qualification for election to the office of the president. “The question of the first respondent being satisfied with the information and materials submitted to it by the second respondent with respect to the qualification of the latter did not arise because the second respondent did not submit any certificates. “The claim of the third respondent at paragraph 498 of its reply that the declaration sworn to by the second respondent before Commissioner for Oaths at the Federal Capital Territory High Court Registry on 8th October,2018, as being distinct and separate from the general form of affidavit explaining the whereabouts/location of the second respondent’s academic qualification documents is utterly ridiculous, especially as both documents were submitted to the first respondent by the second respondent simultaneously and without factual backup by any known certificate qualification of the second respondent. “The petitioner, however, pleaded and stated that it shall rely on the certified true copy of Vanguard Newspapers of Wednesday, January 21, 2015 as well as Vanguard Newspapers of Thursday, November 1, 2018 at the trial. “The issue of qualification of the second respondent to contest election to the office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is a mandatory statutory and or constitutional requirement that cannot be waived by the petitioners as erroneously averred in paragraph 499 (d) of the third respondent’s reply.” Atiku challenged Buhari to produce the originals or certified true copies of his purported certificates obtained from Elementary School, Daura and Mai’adua, Middle School Katsina and Katsina Provincial Secondary School and all other Institutions pleaded in paragraphs 500 and 501 of the third respondent’s reply. Atiku further added that his petition is competent and meritorious and the return of the second respondent by the first respondent is undue and wrongful. He added that the third respondent’s reply does not answer the points of substance in the petition, but same is full of extraneous facts, contradictory, diversionary, evasive, speculative and vague assertions. “Notice, the petitioners shall take objection to paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the third respondent’s reply on the grounds stated hereunder: The said paragraphs being a challenge to the first petitioner’s qualification under section 131 (a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and relating to an election petition matter ought to have been brought within 21 days after the date of declaration of the result of the election under section 285 (5) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and having not been so brought timeously is therefore, incompetent and statutebarred. “The averments in the said paragraphs touching on qualification of the first petitioner cannot be raised vide a reply to a petition in the absence of a petition by the third respondent. The averments in the said paragraphs not having been supported by any relief in the third respondent’s reply are hypothetical, academic, speculative and incompetent. “The petitioners will also contend that the third respondent’s reply under reference is incompetent in so far as the counsel, who signed same has no National Identity Number shown or reflected on the reply contrary to the provisions of the Mandatory Use of National Identification Number, Regulations, 2017, made pursuant to the National Identity Management Commission Act, 2007. “In the unlikely event that the foregoing objections are not sustained, the petitioners plead as follows by way of reply: Contrary to the allegations contained in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the third respondent’s Reply, the Petitioners state that the 1stPetitioner is a citizen of Nigeria by birth and thus qualified to vote and be voted for and returned in the election to the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, held on February 23, 2019 going by the relevant provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “In further response to paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the third respondent’s reply, the petitioners state as follows: The first petitioner was born on 25th November, 1946 in Jada, Adamawa State by Nigerian parents and he is therefore a citizen of Nigeria by birth. The first petitioner’s father, Garba Atiku Abdulkadir, was a Nigerian by birth, who hailed from Wurno in present day Sokoto State, while the mother, Aisha Kande, was also a Nigerian, who hailed from Dutse in present day Jigawa State. The parents of the first petitioner are both Fulani, a community/tribe indigenous to Nigeria. “The birth of the first petitioner in Jada, in present day Adamawa State of Nigeria was occasioned by the movement of his paternal grandfather called Atiku, who was an itinerant trader, from Wurno in present day Sokoto State to Jada in the company of his friend, Ardo Usman. That in Jada, Atiku, the grandfather of the first petitioner gave birth to Garba, who in tum gave birth to the first petitioner and named him after his own father Atiku. “The first petitioner’s mother, Aisha Kande, was the grand-daughter of Inuwa Dutse, who came to Jada as an itinerant trader too from Dutse in present day Jigawa State. That all averments concerning Germany, British Cameroons, League of Nations and plebiscite are false and misleading in relation to the first petitioner and therefore completely irrelevant more so that the first petitioner is a Nigerian by birth within the contemplation of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). “The averments in the aforesaid paragraphs are indeed fabricated, contrived, made in bad faith and designed to embarrass the first petitioner. In response to paragraph seven of the third respondent’s reply, the petitioners aver that the votes of the first petitioner in the election of February 23 to the office of the president are not wasted votes, and the first petitioner being a qualified candidate in the said election indeed secured majority of lawful votes over and above the votes of the second respondent. “In further reaction to paragraph seven of the third respondent’s reply, the petitioners hereby plead and contend that at all times material the petitioner has been a Nigerian by birth and has participated in the following career and political activities and has also received the following awards and honours: “The first petitioner was a civil servant in the Nigerian Customs Service for over 20 years and retired as a deputy director. The first petitioner has been a Nigerian politician for about 30 years and in 1992, he contested the presidential primaries under the platform of the then Social Democratic Party (SDP) alongside the late Chief MKO Abiola and Amb. Baba Gana Kingibe. “The first petitioner contested for and won the 1999 gubernatorial election in Adamawa State under the platform of the second petitioner. The former President Olusegun Obasanjo and the first petitioner contested for and won the 1999 and 2003 presidential elections, respectively as president and vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the second petitioner. “The first petitioner is the recipient of the national honour of Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON). The first petitioner was the traditional title holder of Turakin Adamawa from 1982 to 2017, when he was elevated to Wazirin Adamawa. “In 2007, the petitioner contested presidential election under the platform of Action Congress (AC) and the second respondent contested under the platform of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). In 2014, the first petitioner and the second respondent contested the presidential primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the third respondent for the 2015 presidential elections. “In reaction to paragraph 10 of the third respondent’s reply, the petitioners contend that there was no admission of conspiracy and criminality by the petitioners and reference to admission of conspiracy and criminality is false and unfounded. “In reaction to paragraph 29 of the third respondent’s reply, the petitioners aver that the data and scores in the first respondent’s server were as transmitted by the first respondent’s officials and those scores are valid, and legitimate. “The conduct of Elections and declarations of results by the first respondent is the subject of the present petition. ...says ex-VP not eligible to run       The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday told the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal in Abuja that the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 presidential poll, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is not a Nigerian. According to the News Agency… In “News” At last, the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his party, yesterday completed the process of filing his petition against the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Atiku filed the petition, 19 days after… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have disagreed over the petition filed by the party before the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. While PDP accused the commission of obstructing the cause of justice by refusing to release the election materials used for the conduct of… In “News”