The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) wants the National Assembly to investigate the nation’s debt profile which, it said, has risen from N12.12 trillion in 2015, to N24.38 trillion in 2018.  The party described the development as manifest incompetence and lack of initiative by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government to stimulate and run a productive economy. PDP regretted that APC-led Federal Government relied on heavy borrowings and unbearable tax regimes, which it said, have crippled productivity, caused untold hardship and mortgaged the economic future of the country.  The party, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that since President Muhammadu Buhari assumed office in 2015, there has been a culture of unexplained borrowings leading to a steep rise in the debt stock from N17.5 trillion in 2016 to N21.72 trillion in 2017 and later N24.387 trillion in 2018.  “It is shocking and completely insupportable that our nation’s debt had risen from N21.72 trillion in December 2017 to N24.387 trillion in December 2018, showing an accumulation of a whopping N2.66 trillion in a space of one year,” the party stated. PDP added that the Buhari-led administration has an explanation to make to Nigerians for its borrowing spree, especially as it could not point to any meaningful development project into which the borrowed funds were invested.  “This is particularly against the backdrop of allegations in the public space that the borrowed funds, which were taken as development funds, were diverted to 2019 general elections campaign activities of the APC, a huge part of which ended in private pockets of corrupt APC leaders.  “This is in addition to direct frittering of public funds through the alleged N1.4 trillion sleazy oil subsidy regime, the looted N9 trillion detailed in the leaked NNPC memo, the alleged N33 billion fraud in the handling of funds meant for the welfare of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the North-East, among other sleazes,” PDP said.  It, therefore, called on the National Assembly to commence a system-wide investigation into the borrowings by the Buhari administration, particularly the terms of the borrowing and the handling of the funds. PDP said the National Assembly should also save the nation’s future generation by restricting the administration from taking further loans on behalf of the country until explanations were provided on the terms and handling of the borrowed funds.  “Nigerians cannot afford to continue to bear burden of an incompetent and insensitive administration and that is why they eagerly await the retrieval of our stolen mandate at the Presidential election petitions tribunal,” the statement added.