The Imo state House of Assembly may be paving the way to move against Governor Rochas Okorocha following its determination to ascertain the state’s financial status and economic strength. Following this, it yesterday summoned Accountant General, Mr. Casmir Ozuzu to appear before it to shed light of the true financial standing of the state clarifying issues surrounding actual assets and liabilities of the state. Commissioner for Finance was also mandated to appear alongside the Accountant General. The House, also summoned the Secretary to the Government of Imo state, Mark Uchendu, to appear before it today (Wednesday) over alleged unpaliamentary remarks on the House, regarding the creation of autonomous communities.  The lawmaker representing Ideato North state constituency, Arthur Egwim, moved the motion at plenary yesterday. Also to join the SGI, to the plenary is the Director General of IBC, Ralph Afoaku.  The House also passed a motion summoning 15 local government chairmen to also appear at the plenary to give reasons why they ignored earlier invitations. Some of the local government affected include Aboh Mbaise; Ahiazu Mbaise; Ehime Mbano; Ideato North; Ihitte Uboma; Ikeduru; Isiala Mbano; Onuimo; Njaba; Isu Orlu; Owerri North and others. They added that the local government chairmen should come with their Director of Administration and General Service (DAGS) as well as their treasurers.  This followed a motion raised by the lawmaker representing Ehime Mbano state constituency yesterday at plenary. “Mr Speaker, we have invited the local government chairmen, to interface with the committee on local government affairs but they have refused to honour our invitation.  “This morning 15 of them were invited to interface with this committee and only two came. I wish to state that this house has been undermined by the these chairmen. “These chairmen have disobeyed this house. I don’t know why this honourable house will invite these chairmen and they will sit in their house and refuse to honour this invitation. I want to appeal to my colleagues that they be invited to this house again to explain why they should ignore the invitation extended to them by this House.”  Following the already charged atmosphere, in a motion initiated by member representing Nkwerre state constituency, Chika Madumere, the House unanimously agreed to summon the Accountant General and the Commissioner of Finance, Ugochi Nnanna Okoro, to interface with the House, to ascertain and clarify issues on the financial status of Imo state. G  overnor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has sued the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Ibrahim Idris, over alleged breach of his fundamental human rights following an “invasion and ransacking” of his house in Jos, the Plateau State capital.   The governor, who filed his case before Justice Musa Kurya… In “News” Following commencement of impeachment proceedings against the Imo state Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere, a crowd of anti-Okorocha protesters yesterday besieged the state Assembly, condemning the plot to remove Madumere as Deputy Governor.   The angry protesters accused Governor Rochas Okorocha of masterminding the plot to unseat the Deputy Governor.… In “News” The crisis that trailed the congresses of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday claimed its first casualty. The Imo State House of Assembly impeached the Deputy Governor of the state, Prince Eze Madumere, over alleged gross misconduct. The Head of Service, Mr. Callistus Ekenze, has already been announced as the… In “News”