Dr. Awa Kalu (SAN), former Attorney-General of Abia State, in this interview with EMMANUEL ONANI, bares his mind on the just-concluded general elections, proliferation of political parties and other contemporary issues of national concerns   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared elections in some states inconclusive during the last general elections, especially during the March 9 governorship elections. Does the electoral body have power to make such pronounce, in view of Section 179 (2) of the Constitution, which talks about declaration of winner by simple majority?
Well, it actually depends on the results you are talking about. If it is a governorship election, then it is not enough to say ‘simple majority;’ may be, you call it ‘statistical calculation’ to reckon with the winner getting 25 per cent in two thirds of the state in question. It is when he has won two thirds of the local government areas in the state in question, before you can talk about simple majority. So, for me, I have found the inconclusive part of election in 2019 extremely confusing and uninteresting. As a matter of fact, I have found it controversial.
The reason is because you find that in Bauchi State, the INEC changed its mind and said ‘ok’, we are going to continue with collation and then strange enough, an order came from a court saying don’t continue with your collation of the results. (The court has since vacated its order, and the process completed). Because, what happens when an election is declared inconclusive, and then a party, which participated in the election now approaches a court, not through an election petition, then you begin to wonder what actually is going on. That is my take.
The law as I understand it, is that for purposes of convenience, the electoral process may be divided into three: the pre-election period, which culminates in the election itself, and once the election is held, the only other court you can approach with your grievance, is an election petition tribunal. So, it is important when INEC is still in the process of concluding results, that parties and candidates allow that process to be concluded, so that whoever is aggrieved may then carry his or her complaints to a tribunal, with appropriate jurisdiction depending on which election we are talking about. Does INEC have power to deregister political parties? If yes, what do you think is the appropriate party system for the country, considering the woeful performance of over 80 per cent of the registered parties during the just-concluded general elections?
You first of all have to grant that under our laws and constitution, freedom of association is allowed. So, you cannot legislate or stipulate the number of political parties. What has happened in the past is that INEC stipulates the indices that will qualify an organisation to be registered and recognised as a political party. Once that is done, then that organisation begins to function as a political party. That is the way I look at it. There are those who have argued that a two-party system is ideal for the nation’s democracy, considering the fact that the ideologies of most of the parties appear similar?
That is just a viewpoint. How do you get about the two political parties? Is there anywhere in the world, where you have only two political parties? There are places where the number of political parties have been limited by the experience gained over time. It is not that there is a particular stipulation. In settled democracies, no statutory stipulations say ‘we can only have two political parties.’
We tried it under the General Ibrahim Babangida’s regime to run on a two party system; it was not possible. It did not work. And so, when constitutional government returned in 1999 and guaranteed freedom of association, it got to a point where Chief Gani Fawehinmi, if I remember correctly, approached the court, and the court confirmed that under our system, freedom of association is allowed and INEC was not at liberty to stipulate or not stipulate, register or deregister and so on.
Some guidelines were struck down at the level of the Supreme Court. And, where we are now is that there are 91 political parties; some will not flourish, obviously because, the space is not enough to accommodate all of them. All it allows politicians to do is to move from one space to another. If you do not get nomination from party A, you move on to B, and if they deny you in B, you move to C. And, when you have reached, may be point N, then you return to A again.
So, that is the way it is. It is now called ‘migrational politics;’ you migrate from one political party to another, until you find space, either in government house or in the national or state Assembly. The just-concluded general elections were dogged by allegations of ‘militarisation’ in some states. Could that vitiate the credibility of the exercise?
It has been criticized by all well-meaning Nigerians. We know that we have internal aggression, but it is for the Ministry of Interior. We know that when we have external aggression, it is for the Armed Forces. And so, when you are exercising your civic responsibility, which is what politics is about, the electoral process is a civil process, so I personally do not think that it accommodates the military, unless there are exceptional circumstances. I will possibly concede that in flashpoints, where the police force probably would like to be assisted by a stronger hand, then you can have military presence. But such military presence must be minimal.
We have to accept that there are security challenges here and there; that is not to allow the military to overwhelm the electoral process in certain constituencies, as we have read and heard both in the print, electronic and social media. So, I do not personally think that our military should take pride in capturing the political space. Military should capture enemy and no voter is an enemy. Moving forward, what will be your recommendation to INEC for a better electoral process?
First, is to clear the electoral process of all vestiges of corruption, as known to us since 1999. This is the 20th year of uninterrupted democratic and constitutional governance in Nigeria. The hiccups that have been established in the course of voting every four years are very well known. The National Assembly is aware of such problems; the presidency is aware of such problems and all political parties are aware of such problems.
Steps must be taken to address such areas so that whoever wields power on our behalf, must then be guided that, if he does not do well, we will sack him in four years. That is what democracy is all about. But, when you have a mockery called an electoral process, what it does is to breed impunity, apathy, and to lead to dissatisfaction, which generally, is the conclusion of Nigerians at this point. Specifically, will the alleged militarisation affect the credibility of the polls?
If you are quarrelling with your wife, and there is an armed policeman standing in front of you, will there be credibility in your household? That is the point we are talking about. The electoral process, as I have said, is a civil responsibility; the responsibility of civilians not the responsibility of Armed Forces. There is no emphasis with which that point can be made.
Even the military themselves are civilized and knowledgeable. It is no longer the Armed Forces of 40, 45 years ago. We are talking about civilised military men, who are disciplined officers and gentlemen. So, that is the point. It is not that they don’t know; they do know. And, I believe that this matter will be addressed, from time to time. Do you think the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, would be able to prove their case before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, considering how herculean the task of proving substantial non-compliance is?
It is not a matter for speculation. I have read in the popular press, and I have also read in the social media that the Atiku Abubakar legal team has expressed confidence in the facts that they have. For us as lawyers, we deal with facts. So, the tribunal has now been constituted, the petition has been filed, it is now for the petitioner to satisfy the requirements of the Electoral Act, and to show that there was no substantial compliance. It is not a matter for media speculation. But, considering the nation’s history and the fact that no presidential election had been annulled, how far can PDP and Atiku go?
It is still not a matter for speculation. Muhammadu Buhari, for instance, our beloved President, contested on four occasions and won on the fourth one. So, you cannot say when history will be unmade. Yes, no presidential election had been upturned, but you remember in the litigation between Obafemi Awolowo and Shehu Shagari, it was not that there was no problem; it was simply a matter of expediency. Was it expedient to upturn that election? The Supreme Court said ‘no’. So, you have to wait and see.
If they have a smoking gun, as they say in the United States, you know that a crime has been committed. If there is no smoking gun, our President will enjoy his tenure. That is why the rule of law is so beautiful. It says, if you participated in an election and you are not satisfied with the outcome, approach a tribunal. Luckily, election proceedings do not take time here; time is limited. In six months, we will know whether there is a smoking gun or not.