Senator Fatimah Raji-Rasaki, representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District, in this interview speaks on governance in Ekiti State and the 2019 general election, among other issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports  The All progressive Congress (APC) is now in full control of Ekiti State. What do you think the party should do differently from the immediate past administration of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)?  Since Ekiti State has just emerged from a previous reign of terror and perfidy, which nobody will ever pray for again, it is very pertinent that APC should try to run an all inclusive government, where everybody will have a sense of belonging. Ekiti people witnessed the year of holocaust and uncertainty, when Ayodele Fayose was the governor. This time around, the music has changed for the better, likewise the dancing step.
APC should prove to the people that it is different, that it has a mission and a purpose in government. That purpose should be tenaciously followed, so that all those who worked for the party are integrated. Also, the party should avoid the pitfalls of the past, where hangers-on, who contributed nothing to the success of the party, were parading themselves as warlords. The party should make sure that it has a listening ear to all the needs and aspirations of the people, particularly in the area of employment generation in order to curb poverty and penury in the state. You dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for APC. Do you have any regret? No, I have no regret as long as President Muhammadu Buhari appreciates my little contribution towards his victory. While I was in the National Assembly, we had a group that was supporting the aspiration of the President then, though we were not from the same party. One day, we had a cause to visit the President and l told him that ‘though we are not in the same party, I will always support his aspiration because we are from the same constituency.’ The President is from the same military background with my husband. Therefore, there is a meeting point and l cannot do otherwise. When my husband was contacted, he told me straight that the President was his boss and that I have no choice than to support his political aspiration no matter party affiliation. Politics is a dynamic game and at times all things work for good. What exactly made you to leave the PDP?  The PDP then in Ekiti State was more or less a theatre of war. There was only an emperor that symbolised the governor of the state, who did not want to recognise anything about party politics. He was all in all, nobody could talk to him and anybody who had any meaningful opinion that was contrary to his view was tagged an enemy. There were about four factions of the same party in the state. It was a chaotic situation, no respect for elders of the party because of what the few ones who called themselves executive of the party were benefitting from the crumbs from the table of the master.  Only the governor was dictating, where the party goes; no meetings, no discussion, no dialogue. There was no rallying point. In fact, things fell apart to the extent that the centre could not hold. At that stage, I had no choice than to leave the party for APC. When I joined the APC, some people thought that I was committing a political suicide, but l had made up my mind and there was no turning back. A lot of offers were also made, including the promise of a return ticket to those of us in the National Assembly if we support the political aspiration of the President. That was why immediately I defected; I went home to my constituency because I carried them along as I was negotiating. I told them that l was fully ready to work for the re-election bid of the President. I am happy that I was able to mobilise and actualise this dream.  But during the primaries of your party, you were denied the return ticket as earlier promised by the presidency. How did you feel? As a human being, I felt bad. At that level, I believe that if you give a promise, it should be fulfilled since I did my own part. When I got to my state, it was a different ball game. Some people believed that they are the all-in-all in the party and they are an island and they can do whatever they like. These set of people believe that whatever was agreed in Abuja cannot be binding on them. Unfortunately, this set of people have nothing to offer in terms of contribution and mobilisation to win an election until I joined the party and brought in my political experience, which in a very big way, assisted us to win the gubernatorial race in the state. Everybody knows the political integration of Fayose and my constituency – Ekiti Central, which encompasses Ado Ekiti, the state capital. It was a keen political battle, but with the people at the grassroots as my pillar, we won. The most interesting aspect of it was that when the chips were down, the so-called people, who said they were the owner of the party and that Abuja could not dictate to them were found wanting, when it mattered most. They could not mobilise the people for them to come out and vote, they had to rely on people like us to do that. As a party loyalist, I did not want the President to see me as a spoiler. Therefore, whatever political scheming the party did to me, I took it in a philosophical way that if we could win all our elections, there would always be other positions.  The Senator-elect for Ekiti Central Senatorial District, Opeyemi Bamidele, was not fully on ground in the build-up to the National Assembly election yet he won the poll. What would you attribute his success to? Everybody in the state knew that Opeyemi Bamidele was incapacitated and could not move around as he would have done due to his health condition. But, with the help of the party and my people at the grassroots, who believed in me, we all went out to campaign for him. As a serving senator, l campaigned vigorously that anything they did was for me. Even some of my supporters who thought that I was unfairly treated were of the opinion that I should play a spoiler’s role, but l told them that in party politics, the party’s decision is supreme; no matter how unfavourable it may be. I told them that we should work for the success of the party, so that posterity would be on our side. Thank God that I took that decision and I am happy that the President appreciates my little contribution towards his electoral victory. There are many tendencies within the ruling APC in Ekiti State. What do you think should be done to close the ranks? We should be able to tell ourselves the truth. All members of the party knew that without the contribution of the forces that joined the party at the tail end of the last administration, success could have eluded the party. Therefore, the party should go back to the drawing board, give everybody a common sense of belonging, identify all those that contributed to the success of the party and rally them together for a common aspiration and future electoral success.  Those few people who thought that they are an island and the owner of the party should realise that a tree cannot make a forest. These are the people who were nowhere to be found when the chips were down. If we did not put all the political machinery that we assembled, it could have been difficult to beat the incumbent governor. We need to have a roundtable discussion and tell ourselves the bitter truth, so that we can move forward. 2022 is locking around the corner and there will be another election, the earlier we harmonise and come together as a force, the better it will assist us. How would you describe Fayose’s second term, taking into cognisance that you were once in the same party, PDP?  The people of Ekiti State were unlucky to have witnessed such a draconian era in their history, when Fayose was their governor. It was a whole four years in the wilderness. When he wanted to come back to the party the second time, I was one of those who took him round to sell his candidacy that he had changed. But along the line, he pretended to have learnt his lessons and perhaps coming back to make a difference. But alas, he came back as an emperor and grounded everything that was good in the state. He had no single manifesto to follow; he will just wake up from the bed and whatever idea that came into his head was what he followed. We thought that he would be matured and take Ekiti State to a greater height, but unfortunately he did not understand anything about good governance. The money he spent on the so-called overhead bridge he did could have turned around the fortune of the state in terms of economic viability and the multiplier effect would have been massive. But, he left a legacy of poor governance and political clownishness. If he had a dream of eating corn, behold, immediately he wakes up, he would drag all the state apparatus out and be looking for where they are selling fresh corn. And before you knew it, that was what would be done for that day. In fact, Fayose’s era was like a bad dream that nobody ever prays to experience again in Ekiti. What is your expectation of the Buhari administration’s second term? The President should be ready to take the bull by the horns and go out of his way to pick those people who are competent among those who worked for him to make his new cabinet. There are a lot of hangers-on, who have relocated to Abuja and desperately looking for one position or the other. He should run a security check on all these people, so that they will not be a clog in the wheel of his progress in his second coming. He should try and work with those people who are loyal to him, so that they will be on the same page in order to take the country to the next level. He must look for round pegs in round holes in terms of seasoned technocrats, who can assist him to put the county on the path of enviable glory. Former member of the House of Representatives and Senatorial aspirant in Ekiti State, Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele has cautioned a Senator representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District, Mrs Fatima Raji Rasaki to stop taking actions capable of thwarting chances of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 elections. According to Bamidele,… In “News” ADEWUMI ADEMIJU reports on the scheming by aspirants for National Assembly seats in Ekiti State and the fear in some quarters that there may not be a level playing ground during the primaries     Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the fate of most All Progressives Congress (APC) state… In “Politics” President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, urged voters in Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State to vote for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Kayode Fayemi.     Buhari, who spoke at the party’s grand rally in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, advised Ekiti electorate against allowing themselves to be… In “Politics”