The race for speaker of the House of Representatives is getting more complicated as two lawmakers: the majority leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and chairman of the Committee on Marine Safety and Education, Hon. Umaru Mohammed Bago, yesterday declared their intention to vie for the office. While Gbajabiamila is a fifth time lawmaker from Lagos (South-West), Bago is a third timer from Niger (North-Central). Gbajabiamila and Bago have become the second and third candidates to declare their intention for the position after House spokesman, Hon. Abdulrazaq Namdas opened the flood gate last Tuesday. Making his declaration at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, Gbajabiamila said he has studied and understood the intricate workings of the legislature, adding that there is the imperative need of striking a delicate balance in the relationship between the executive and the legislative arms of government without compromising the latter’s independence. With the campaign slogan: “Nation building, a joint task”, the House leader said that the “onerous task can only be completed if we all come together in line with the legacies of our forebears and ensure that the labours of our heroes past is not in vain.” He added that he seeks the office of Speaker to bring tendencies together and unite the country. He noted that there is much work to be done by way of legislation in many areas of our life, including, but not limited to education, health, power, infrastructure and poverty alleviation. He assured the lawmakers that he is “going to be a speaker elected to do the business of legislature and champion the cause of lawmakers.” At the event, lawmakers such as Tahir Monguno (APC, Borno), Kadijah Ibrahim (APC, Yobe), Alhassan Doguwa (APC, Kano), Ifeanyi Momah (APGA, Anambra), Iduma Igariway (PDP, Ebonyi), Peter Akpatason (APC, Edo), among others, called on Gbajabiamila to ensure that he works to strengthen the relationship between the three arms of government, if elected speaker. Also speaking at the event, director-general of Gbajabiamila Campaign Organization, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin (APC, Kano) said that that the candidacy of Gbajabiamila is not about himself, rather it is about sanitizing our democracy. He added that it is about bringing into effect international best practices into the nation’s democratic experience as is the practice in other advanced nations of the world, notably United States of America, Britain and other nations. But also making his intention formally to seek the office of speaker known at the same Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Bago warned the leadership of APC against imposing any candidate as speaker on the legislators, saying such a move will witness a repeat of the 2015 scenario. Bago said for equity and justice to prevail, APCshould zone the position of speaker to the North-Central, explaining that in the past 20 years, no lawmaker from the zone has occupied the office of speaker or deputy speaker. He said: “Equity is the foundation for stability and it is only fair that the North-Central is given speaker this time. Look at the presidential election result; North-West gave 5,599,651 votes and they have the president. North- East gave 3,238,783 votes and they have Senate President zones there. North- Central gave the third highest votes of 2,465,599, and we are left empty handed. “The South-West contributed 2,036,450 votes and they have the vice president; yet the party is again giving them speaker?” Bago, who said he was in the race to promote and deepen a robust relationship with all arms of government, declared that his ambition was nonnegotiable. “There is no retreat, no surrender. We are into this game and it is non-negotiable. “We will make sure that the doctrine of separation of powers is adhered to. A political party can give direction, but it cannot anoint a candidate. What happened in 2015 will repeat itself if the party insists on travelling that same road,” he warned. According to him, “PDP and other opposition have over 150 members. So, if you divide yourselves, you will be creating room for the opposition to take over.” Bago, a founding member of CPC, one of the legacy parties that formed APC, declared that “nobody can expel us from the party. We have equal rights and no one is more Buhari than us. “We are not going to be quiet about it. Already, my colleagues are excited about my contest, and we hope that the North-Central will be liberated,” he stated. Speaking in the same vein, Bago’s Campaign Director General and a former member of the House, Hon. Bimbo Daramola, stressed the need for the APC to uphold equity in its power sharing arrangements Meanwhile, the North- Central caucus in the House has insisted that the position of speaker must be zoned to the region. The caucus had, two weeks ago, asked the party to zone the position to the region. A member of the group, who spoke to New Telegraph on the sidelines yesterday in Abuja, said: “We in the caucus believe the next level of our party is to make amends and correct the negative perception Nigerians have about President Buhari’s administration and the APC as a party. “If you look at where we are today, the president is a Muslim and head of executive, the Senate President is Muslim and head of legislature, the chief justice of the Federation is Muslim and head of legislature. So, if the speaker is also taken to South-West and given to a Muslim, it means this government has no regard for Christians.” He said both the president and the party must ensure that there is balance in terms of region and religion. “The most unfortunate thing is that the North-Central and, particular Christians, are not even factored into the party’s calculations. I’m a Muslim, but this is unfair and must be redressed. We have to be sensitive to these sentiments if we must get to the next level,” he submitted. New Telegraph investigations, however, revealed that the second speakership contestant from the North-Central (Plateau State) and deputy leader of the House, Abdullahi Idris Wase has been advised by President Buhari to step down for Gbajabiamila. A returning member who disclosed this to our correspondent in confidence, said: “A meeting was held at the Villa last Friday where Buhari impressed on Hon. Idris Wase to drop his ambition for Gbajabiamila. The meeting was attended by Governor Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa and Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State.    Female challenger, Onyejeocha, in the race too   As members of the House of Representatives-elect begin subtle moves in the scramble for leadership positions ahead of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly of the Fourth Republic, seven contenders for the position of speaker may have emerged. This is even… In “Politics” As the scramble for leadership positions gathers momentum in the National Assembly, the immediate past Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Khadijat Bukar Abba-Ibrahim (APC, Yobe) has joined 10 other returning lawmakers in the race for Speaker of the House of Representatives. Another new entrant into the race for… In “News” As the scramble for leadership positions gathers momentum in the National Assembly, the north-central caucus of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House of Representatives has requested the leadership of the party to zone the position of speakers to the geopolitical zone. At a news conference in Abuja, leader… In “News”