The preamble of the 1999 Constitution states: “We the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, having firmly and solemnly resolved to live in unity and harmony as one indivisible and indissoluble sovereign nation under God….” Beginning with the constitutional provision is deliberate; it is anattestation of the fact that the country is governed by rules and regulations and it shows that after 105 years of amalgamation and 58years of independence, the country has come too far to be divided. Indeed, there are other sections of the 1999 Constitution that affirmthe indissoluble nature of Nigeria, despite our ethnic, cultural andreligious differences. Section 2(1) of the same constitution states that: “Nigeria is oneindivisible and indissoluble Sovereign State.” Going by the constitutional provisions, a Nigerian is free to resideanywhere he wishes and aspire to hold any position or politicaloffice, no matter his or her state of origin, in as much as the personfulfils the constitutional requirement. These sections of our laws are to show that no matter the level of ourhatred for one another, especially with the animosity that characterised the just-concluded national elections, Nigerians muststrive, at all times, to remain one, united, indivisible people. One of the dynamics observed in the last election is the fear of apossibility of Nigeria breaking up due to political differences. In fact, Nigeria has never been so divided along ethnic lines, as peopleof different tribal extractions majorly showed preferences forpolitical parties that had their kit and kin in the saddle. However, irrespective of feelings and mood of the nation as at thattime, which could be ascribed to dirty politicking, we must ensurethat the bickering and the xenophobic sentiments are done away with. It will do nobody any good if people of a particular tribe are deliberately fished out for attacks, for not being in the same political parties with their host compatriots. There is no gain saying that there will be reprisals in other parts of the country, aswitnessed in the past. We must not allow the country to be sectionalised along ethnic lines; it is a fact of history that very few nations have survived bitter wars that were fought along ethnic divide. We must say that what happened in the build up to the elections, especially a few days to the Lagos State governorship poll, wasnothing but sheer absurdity on the part of all ethnic chauvinists, whonearly put the country on a cliff.There are many reasons Nigeria must remain one; many things are atstake, so many families would be divided as intertribal marriages hadgone too far to be broken. Many Nigerians can’t even trace theirorigin as they can only lay claim to places they have lived all theirlives, to the extent that they hardly speak the languages of their forbearers. It would be very unwise to ask people to start relocating to their home state, which they know little or nothing of. This will, no doubt,be inimical to the progress of the country and spell doom forgenerations unborn. Many people from different ethnic groups have become in-laws owing tointertribal marriages, many have become landlords and built businessempires in their states of abode, some have even been honoured withtraditional titles in their adopted communities, as such, everyNigerian, home and abroad, must condemn the idea of breakup in itsentirety. We also denounce the sponsors of the xenophobic comments as related to the last election; it is a road Nigerians must never travel again. Those behind the ethnic and xenophobic comments are the enemies ofNigeria. Some of these evildoers are political leaders who are doingit for selfish gains. They are profiteers of evil. Political players must watch their utterances while the politicalparties must call their members to order, because some of them arerole models to their supporters, who are bound to follow the footstepsof their so-called leaders. It must also be noted that there are no mechanisms to tell where avoter thumb prints on the ballot paper, as such, it is needless accusing people of a particular ethnic group of voting a particularparty. Even at that, an individual deserves the right to vote for hisor her party of choice. This must not lead to labelling and ethnic colourations. We enjoin our traditional rulers and clerics as well as all opinion moulders to stand up and be counted at this critical hour. They mustbe seen to be lending their voices to the unity of Nigeria. People of different ethnic groups must also be cautioned to watch their utterances, so as not denigrate the tradition of their host communities. The culture, religion and values of the host communitymust be respected in order for everybody to live in harmony. We however commend those that stood in condemnation of all statementsassociated with violence; we thank them for their acts of nobility,while urging these good and noble Nigerians to remain steadfast intheir commitment towards a united country. Nigerians must remain oneindivisible and indissoluble country. United we stand, divided we fall.