The Senate Committee on Works has issued a two-week ultimatum to truck owners, Nigerian Port Authority and other agencies to remove every truck/trailer causing traffic gridlock on Apapa-Wharf and Apapa-Oshodi roads. Besides, one-week deadline was given to contractor handling trailers’ park at Tincan Port to complete the project for commission and immediate use Also, other agencies handling various logistics operations at the Apapa Port were also issued another on In what he described as ‘a national embarrassment’ for trailers to turn bridges and major roads leading to the port to parks, the Senate Committee Chairman, Senator Kabiru Gaya, warned that after two weeks if he did not see positive response, the committee would take definite action and also compel the Federal Government to do something drastic. The chairman, who led other Senators: Barnabas Gemade, Clifford Ordia and Mao Ohambuwa, on a fact finding mission to Lagos on how to decongest Apapa traffic gridlock, said they have come to sit with all stakeholders to provide immediate solutions to the gridlock. He said: “Let me say for two weeks, we will see positive response. If we don’t, we will take our action and I can assure that the federal government will do something drastic.” On automatic call up system for trailers, Gaya stated that government was trying to get temporary parking spaces for trailers to ease traffic, calling on agencies that are concerned with trucks’ clearance to speed up the process by automating their system of operations. He bemoaned alleged illegal taxes levied on truck drivers for parking, calling on the security agencies to desist from the act. As part of measures to ease Apapa gridlock, Gaya said a small committee has been set up to submit report to the Senate Committee within four days. He wants NPA and other agencies to give waivers to shippers so that other ports such as Warri and Port Harcourt ports could be attractive for use. Engineers: Lagos bridges risk collapse over stationary trucks   Two days after the 48-hour ultimatum issued to truck drivers to vacate the bridges/flyovers across Lagos metropolis expired, the drivers are yet to comply with the directives, New Telegraph has learnt. As at yesterday, the trailer drivers still stationed their trucks… In “News” Motorists’ pain, corrupt security agents, govt officials’ gain   Failure by government and shipping companies operating in Nigeria to provide holding bays for empty containers and trucks become a major blight to workers and businessmen in Lagos as Iganmu, Ijora, Eko and other bridges become permanent parks and homes… In “Insight” Government has temporarily converted the Ijora Container Terminal to trucks’ holding bay to ease gridlock on the Apapa- Oshodi and Wharf roads. Following the evacuation of some trucks from the roads, port users and other motorists using the road witnessed an improved movement of vehicles, especially at the Ijora axis… In “Metro and Crime”