  The yearly Sogal art auction continues as the 2019 edition features renowned artists from West and North African countries.  Organised by Signature Beyond Art Gallery, Ikoyi, Lagos, the yearly Sogal Art Auction is a major Lagos market window for the best of modern and contemporary art of Africa. The 5th edition starts with public previews on May 3 and 4 with sales holding on May 5, 2019, at Signature Beyond Art Gallery, Awolowo Road, Ikoyi, Lagos.  Since 2014 when the first edition was held, the Sogal Art Auction has established itself as one of the leading secondary market outlets in Lagos, and it has grown generating new art enthusiasts every year.  The 2019 Sogal Art Auction will have on display 100 lots, featuring works of Gani Odutokun, Amos Odion, Bona Ezeudu, Shina Yusuf, Raqib   Bashorun, Duke Asidere and Alex Nwokolo, among others. Artists from Ghana whose works are on sale include Ablade Glover, Wiz Kuduwor and Ato Delaquis. From Cameroon comes Djakou Nathalie, Benin Republic are Moufouli Bello, Rafiy Okefolahan and Francis Tchiakpe. The auction also includes work by Egyptian artist, Mohammed Youssef. The auction will also feature new generation of artists such as Dotun Popoola, Dennis Osakue, Babalola Lawson, Kingsley Obasi, John Ogbeta, Raji Mohammed, Seye Morakinyo, Ike Gerald Chiemezie and Yakubu Abdulkareem, Kunle Adegorioye among others.  Among the top estimated paintings for sale is ‘Ubiquitous Warriors’ by Odutokun. Dated 1990, it is one of those rear paintings of the late artist whose brush strokes is known more for abstract contents. Though figurative in expression, the painting however still has that Odutokun captivating flow of colour movement that mostly energises some of the artist’s works. Born on August 9, 1946 and died, February 1995, Odutokun was, among other achievements, known for his contributions in nurturing artists in Nigeria from his Zaria, Kaduna base. His works include wall murals, paintings and book cover designs. Iconic among his works is ‘Dialogue with Mona Lisa.’  Also on the list of expected top sales is ‘Everyday Woman’ by Glover. Rendered in dramatic composition with the central figure of a woman and her fashion, the painting seems to lay more emphasis on natural look. Glover celebrates the regular and natural ‘everyday’ African beauty.  Glover’s art is a familiar kind on the Nigerian art landscape. In fact, he showed during Nigeria’s golden jubilee celebration in 2010 in a group art exhibition titled An Evening with the Masters. Born in 1934, Accra, Ghana, Glover holds NDD, ATD, Med, PhD and FRSA. He had his education in Ghana, Britain and the U.S.  In celebration of young ladies going into adulthood, one of Odutokun’s ex-students, Asidere dedicates a painting titled ‘The 16th’ to teenage girls. Dated 2018, the painting of about six figures, perhaps derives its strength from the innocence look of the combined hues and shades of colours.  Asidere was born in Lagos on October 7, 1961 and trained at the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria from 1985 to 1990, graduating with B.A. (Fine Arts) First Class Honours in Painting. He also obtained MFA in Painting from the same school. Asidere has been a full time studio artist after he quit his job as a lecturer at the Auchi Polytechnic, Edo State, in 1995. Adding sculptural content to the auction is ‘Royalty’, a wood piece in design form dated 2012 by Bashorun. In ‘Royalty’, Bashorun makes bold statement with his mastery of aesthetics depth in wood sculpture. Born in 1955, Bashorun holds an M. Ed. Art Education and MFA from the University of Missouri-Columbia, 1998 and 2002, respectively. He joined Yabatech as Lecturer I, in the School of Art, Design and Printing in 1986. He was a Visiting Assistant Professor, Fine Arts Department, University of Missouri-Columbia, in 2003. Delaquis’ gathering of faces in satirical forms titled ‘Genial Rascals Kpanlogo Avenue’, dated 1992 brings into the auction a master’s touch. Born in 1945 and described as a prolific artist, Delaquis is also known to have worked across medium and styles as one of Ghana’s top masters. Born in 1945, Delaquis is one of Ghana’s foremost artists. Well known for his iconic paintings of horsemen, as well as landscapes and more abstract work, he is also a prolific draughtsman, and has worked in a wide variety of media including printmaking.  