In this analysis, KENNETH OFOMA writes that with the recent visit of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders to the All Progressives Congress (APC), governorship candidate in Enugu State, Senator Ayodu Eze, the stage might be set for the withdrawal of suit against Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, with possible consequences  The 2019 general elections have come and gone in Enugu state with clear separation of the victors and the vanquished. The post election intrigues are setting in with the election petition tribunal getting ready to begin sitting. At the end of the April 4, 2019 deadline for filing of petitions, the tribunal received a total of 13 petitions.  The outcome of the elections including Presidential/National Assembly, as well as Governorship/State Assembly elections showed that PDP won every position with wide margins. The party won the presidential elections, the three senatorial seats, eight House of Reps seats, the governorship position and the 24 State Assembly seats.  The presidential election result shows that PDP candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar scored 355, 553 votes as against that of APC candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari who came distant second with 54, 423 votes.  The senatorial election result shows that Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, candidate of PDP for Enugu West senatorial district defeated his closest rival, Mrs. Juliet Ibeakaku-Nwagwu of APC with 86, 088 as against 15, 187. Sen Chukwuka Utazi of PDP defeated former Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly of APC, with 146, 458 to 22, 229 votes to win Enugu North senatorial district seat; while former Governor of the State, Dr. Chimaroke Nnamani of PDP also defeated Prince Lawrence Ezeh of APC with 128, 843 to 14, 225 votes to win Enugu-East senatorial district election.  Expectedly some aggrieved contestants have approached the election petition tribunal. A source at the tribunal located at the Enugu State High Court Complex, Independence Layout Enugu, who preferred anonymity, said that the petitioners were mainly candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The source said they are challenging the results of three senatorial seats, seven House of Representatives seats, one state Assembly seat and the governorship position as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).  Investigation shows that out of 10 NASS petitions, nine were filed by candidates of the APC while one was filed by a candidate of African Peoples Alliance (APA). The tribunal’s secretariat reveals that two petitions are challenging the declaration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi as the winner of the governorship election.  One of the petitions was filed by the candidate of the APC, Sen. Ayogu Eze, while the other emanated from Action People’s Party (APP). Eze, in the petition against Ugwuanyi, did not join the APC as one of the claimants in the suit just as the APP did not join its candidate as a claimant in their suit.  It will be recalled that the candidacy of Eze in the election was voided by an Abuja Federal High Court but restored by an appellate court two days to the election. He, consequently, appealed for the postponement of the election in the state, citing the prevailing circumstance to enable them to gather their acts for the polls.  However, on the Election Day, Eze announced his withdrawal from the race in protest and directed his supporters not to participate in the exercise.  But just as the tribunal is settling down for work, the political atmosphere in the state got jolted last Saturday, April 6 as the news of the visit to the Enugu residence of Ayogu Eze by a high powered delegation of PDP leaders from Enugu-North senatorial district filtered into the airwaves.  During the visit, Senator Eze, declared publicly that he won’t constitute a cog in the wheel of the progress of the state. He acknowledged that “it is God that gives power”. He reassured his kinsmen that “I will not be a destabilizing factor in Enugu State” or do anything that would jeopardize the progress of the state.  The visit was apparently in connection with the petition filed by Sen. Eze, at the election tribunal and the need for him to discontinue with the post-election battle for the unity and progress of Enugu State.  Speaking, the leader of the delegation, Senator Chukwuka Utazi told Sen. Eze that the visit was necessitated by the cherished spirit of oneness of Enugu people, particularly Enugu-North Senatorial District.  Sen. Utazi added that the visit was therefore for Enugu people to work together as a family and support “our brother, Ugwuanyi, the governor of Enugu State and the governor-elect” to advance the cause of development in the state for overall interest of the people.  Sen. Utazi who described Sen. Eze as “one of the important personalities in Enugu State”, said: “As brothers, we have done elections, and we have concluded elections, and we don’t want to dissipate energy fighting electoral battles in court. We want to make sure that we stay together as a family and make sure that we have enough development for our people, not just in the senatorial zone but in Enugu State as a whole. We don’t want a situation where litigation will distract our governor from performing”.  “We are also here because our brother is important to us. As a very important person, a citizen of Enugu State and son of Enugu North Senatorial District, we cannot progress without him. Yes, we have played politics but let bygones be bygones, because it is God that gives leadership.  Responding, Sen. Eze, who appreciated the visit and told the delegation: “I won’t constitute a cog in the wheel of the progress of our people”, promised to consult with “one or two members of my party” and give them a feedback in a very short while, “on the direction I want to go.” His words: “Politics is just a platform for bringing development to our people. It does not cut the ties that we have as brothers. I want you to know that I did not go to APC because there was any personal problem between me and anybody. I was seeking a platform to bring development to our people.  “But I also know that it is God that gives power; if God appoints one, there is not much anybody can do; all of you gathered here are the key people from my senatorial district, from different local governments, people who   have been senators, who have been local government chairmen, members of the NASS, people who have held different positions. “I am humbled by your visit. I want to assure you that it will be out of place for me to just stand up today that you have come to give you my key response. I will talk to one or two members of my party and you will hear from me in a very short while on the direction I want to go. I will tell them that my brothers have come to me and this is what they brought on the table.  “So, I want to assure you that I will do all within my power to promote development within our State. I will not be a destabilizing factor in Enugu State. I just need to let you know that I won’t constitute a cog in the wheel of the progress of our people.”  Also in the delegation were the member representing Nsukka/Igbo Eze South Federal Constituency and Member-elect, Rt. Hon. Dr. Pat Asadu; Senator Fidelis Okoro; a former PDP State Chairman, Chief Vita Abba; the House of Representatives Member-elect, Igbo-Etiti/Uzo-Uwani Federal Constituency, Hon. Dr. Martin Oke; PDP State Deputy Chairman, Hon. Innocent Ezeoha; Special Adviser to the Governor on Political Matters, Dr. Dan Shere.  Others included: Enugu North PDP Zonal Chairman, Nze Michael Onyeze; Igbo-Eze South Constituency Member-elect, Hon. Emeka Madu; Director-General, South East Governors’ Forum, Prof. Simon Ortuanya; Gen. Godwin Ugwoke (Rtd.); Hon. IG Ishienyi; Chief Mike Ejinima; Chief Albert Edeoga; Hon. Chinedu Onuh; Arch. Innocent Agbo; Barr. Ifeanyi Ossai; Marcel Okwo; Prince Emeka Odoh of State Internal Revenue Service; Chief Crescent Attama and Prof. Ofili Ugwudioha.  However, less than 24 hours after the visit, a chieftain of APC in the state and Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu fired the first salvo. Okechukwu declared that Sen. Ayogu Eze has no valid petition to withdraw from Election Petition Tribunal! In fact he described the 2019 elections in the state as PDP versus PDP.  Okechukwu said he was not consulted by Eze if at all he wants to consult anybody. “I read the statement, in some national newspapers, and one had not been consulted…To be honest, one will first and foremost advise him to first apologise to our dear chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, indeed and most importantly leaders and members of APC Enugu State Chapter for anti-party activity, deception, and divisiveness, which killed the momentum we gathered during the local government election of 2018.   “Ayogu joined few weeks to the 2019 general elections, instead of uniting he further divided and factionalised our great party. He never seriously campaigned; he was most of the time at Abuja and acted more or less like a mole of anti-party variant. I said then that the contest was PDP vs PDP.”  Reminded of Ayogu’s profound statement quote that, ‘Politics is just a platform for bringing development to our people. It does not cut the ties that we have as brothers’, Okechukwu quipped, “I’m for peace and harmony of our dear state and will do anything possible to usher development. I thank him for the love and passion he has for our people. That’s why I’m working in liaison with the federal and state governments to revamp Enugu Coal for our people to benefit from Central Bank of Nigeria Agriculture Anchor Borrowers Program and Enugu Water Scheme.”  Okechukwu added that it was on record that Ayogu had better judgment than his peers in Kano and Rivers states, which waged strident electoral contest.  “What kind of kindred can persuade the Kano PDP gubernatorial candidate or APC Rivers gubernatorial candidate to withdraw from the petition tribunal, with his strong case? Let Eze give us a break.  “Sincerely, my brother Senator Ayogu Eze has no serious petition to withdraw. He knows he has no case, since he withdrew on Election Day. This is a man who refused all entreaties to withdraw PDP’s primary case, in 2014, which he fought for years to the Supreme Court Level. If he had campaigned, didn’t engage in anti-party activity and didn’t withdraw on Election Day, he won’t listen to anybody,” he said.  As the entire state and nation await Sen. Eze’s next move, political watchers in the state believe that it will be a tough decision to make. Should Eze withdraw his petition, he would incur the wrath of his party and may lose favours, especially expected federal appointments that are if he is not suspended/expelled by the party for anti-party activity.  It is, therefore, the conviction of many that for Sen. Eze to withdraw the petition would mean that he would likely be on his way back to PDP, but is only in the realms of conjecture. KENNETH OFOMA reports on factors that influenced the landslide victory of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State in the 2019 general elections   There was no victory for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Enugu State at any level in the just… In “Politics” The test of might between the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) shifts to Kogi and Bayelsa states, where governorship elections will hold later this year after both parties settled for 15 and 14 states, respectively, in the 29 states, where governorship polls held in the just… In “Politics” The Benue State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it has decided to challenge the result of votes obtained by the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the 2019 governorship election tribunal. The party said a team of its lawyers will be challenging those votes following a decision… In “News”