Former Super Eagles captain, Austin Okocha, opens up to journalists, including CHARLES OGUNDIYA, about his Africa Cup of Nations journey and how playing in the German Bundesliga at the start of his career was the best thing to happen to him. Excerpts…   Super Eagles will be playing at the Africa Cup of Nations after missing the last two editions, what are your expectations?
I will speak as a supporter now because I am a big fan of the Super Eagles, it is all about my own expectations. I expect them to go all the way because in football anything is possible. For me, based on experience, it is all about getting it right on the day; if they can do that, they can beat anybody. We are not short of talents, but our preparation is key. We have to make sure we prepare in the right manner and of course we stand a good chance of winning the AFCON. If you were to advise the coach Gernot Rohr, which area would you tell him to work on?
I don’t think I stand any chance of advising him. As the coach, he owns the team and I am sure he is aware of the people’s expectations. Since he has been with the Super Eagles, he has done well for the team. He has been able to stabilise the national team, which is a good one for us as a nation. What will be a good performance for you?
All we ask for is for them to play with passion, for them to represent us in the right manner, for them to play their hearts out on the field of play. If that will take them all the way, great, but if they don’t give their best, that’s when we are going to be having problems. But if they give their best, I think the people will appreciate them. Your nephew, Alex Iwobi, said he is looking forward to winning the AFCON at the first try like you did in 1994. How do you see this young man achieving this?
I think he has done so well since making his debut for the Eagles, and for me the good thing about him is that he can only get better. He’s very humble young man willing to learn everyday and that shows in his performance. He keeps getting better and improving each day, and I hope he will achieve that dream of winning it on his first try. Of course I will try and chip in some advice for him to achieve that. It is a massive opportunity. I was thinking it was going to be easy to win it again after we won it in 1994 but it was not possible for the team until after I retired from football. So it is a massive opportunity and it is good for some of us to pass that information to all these young ones, for them to realise that you might only get one chance to win it. Nigeria is in Group B with Guinea, Burundi and Madagascar. How do you see the Super Eagles’ chances?
You cannot underrate any team any more, those days are gone. If you feel you are better than any country, you have to do the talking on the field of play and not by mouth; you have to stamp your authority because there are no small teams anymore. AFCON has been expanded to 24 teams, do you think Africa is ripe for this considering the facilities available on the continent?
Yes, and I think that was one of the reasons why they took it away from Cameroon and gave it to Egypt. No sentiments anymore; if you don’t have what it takes to host a big tournament of that magnitude, they will take it away from you. Facilities wise, I think Egypt is good enough to host 24 countries and I am sure it is going to be a wonderful AFCON. What did it mean for you to win the AFCON trophy at the first try, one of the biggest pieces of silverware of your career?
Honestly I didn’t realise how big it was then. I was thinking I was going to win it several times, but I started appreciating it more after retirement. As a young man you don’t understand the privilege and opportunity. How did it feel moving to the Bundesliga at a tender age of 17?
I felt fulfilled, because what we were trying to do then was to open doors for other African players to come to the league. At that time we had just four of us, but today about 22 African players are playing in the Bundesliga. This gives me a lot of joy because it is a great privilege and a good place to develop as players because we don’t really have proper youth structures in Africa unlike over there. It provides you the opportunity to excel. Unlike the English Premier League where you must have played 75 percent of your national team’s games before you can play, I went to the Bundesliga without any experience but was given the opportunity to showcase my talents. But we don’t have so many Nigerians among these 22, what do you think is responsible for this?
I think it has to be with our structure here. We don’t have the proper set-up here to allow for scouts to come and get players in Nigeria to go and play in the Bundesliga. But we are doing our best at the moment to do something about that especially with the Bundesliga International. While going to Germany at 17, did you expect to become a big-time professional footballer?
I had in mind to have a career as a footballer. The year I went, Germany just won the World Cup, that also inspired me to go there and pursue my footballing career and at the end of the day, it worked out. One of Nigeria’s promising youngsters, Victor Oshimen, was at Wolfsburg but found it difficult to adapt and later moved to Belgium where he started scoring goals. What do you think could be responsible for this? Could you say Germany is a difficult place to play in?
It is not a difficult place; it is just that you might be exposed if you are not good enough. As a player, you have to challenge yourself because if you want to play with the best, you must have what it takes to be among the best. There is no hiding place in football, so if as a player you cannot cope, maybe you are not good enough, although that is difficult to accept. But if you are honest with yourself, you have to know when to up your game as a player. I won’t say the Bundesliga is a difficult place to play because we used to have several Nigerian players who excelled in Germany. Apart from myself, we had Sunday Oliseh, Chinedu Obasi, Anthony Ujah among others. I think if you are good enough, you will be able to play in Germany. You are still very fit and some even feel you can still feature for the national team. Can you say it was due to what you learned in Germany, especially the tradition?
I will say the discipline. For me now it is a way of life, it’s all about discipline and sacrifice, because in as much as you want to enjoy yourself, you have to do it in a minimal way. What was injected in me while playing in Germany has helped me a lot. Was there a time you were exposed to racism in Germany?
Racism is everywhere, not just in Germany but in England, France, Italy and Spain. Black players are usually abused. Here in Nigeria there are cases of racism too. As a child growing up, when you see a white man, there is a way we look at him and I couldn’t imagine a foreigner coming to marry my sister; we would surely send him away. However, in some places we have more and some less. It’s like a fear of people coming to take what they have. It’s all about you knowing where you belong, what you are going there for and what you are doing there, and know that nobody can take your joy or happiness away from you. One of the highlights of your career in Germany was the wonderful goal you scored for Eintracht Frankfurt against Karlsruhre SC, where you dribbled past so many players including Oliver Kahn in goal? What was going through you mind, especially if you had missed that goal?
The truth is I didn’t plan to dribble past so many players like that; what really happened was I was not happy not to have started the match. While on the bench, I was thinking of what to do with the ball whenever I was introduced. So when I came in and I got the ball, what was going through my mind was how to get rid of all the opposition on my way and get the goal. As I got past the first one, another one would show and I would find my way around the person and so on till I scored the goal. Unknowing to me, the coach of the team, Klaus Toppmöller, already vowed that if I had missed the opportunity to score, that would have been my last game for the club as long as he remained the manager. You played against several defenders during your career, who would you say was your toughest opponent?
Not to sound immodest, I will say I was my own toughest opponent when I was playing. I had that trust in myself that as long as I had the ball, no one could stop me from achieving whatever I planned to do with it. But I will say I had the biggest challenge with my African brothers. We all had this ‘Eba’ structure and body. We all wanted to excel and that made it difficult for us, especially when we are playing against each other. I remember seeing Samuel Kuffour breathing down my neck and I would be like ‘why are you stalking me like this, are we not supposed to be our brother’s keeper?’ He would respond ‘brother, I have work to do’, and that made it more fun for us all. ...says no need for AFCON target for Eagles   Former Super Eagles captain Joseph Yobo has urged Manager Gernot Rohr to prosecute the team’s last African Cup of Nations qualifier against Seychelles with fringe players. The 2013 AFCON winner said it would be needless to field key players like Odion… In “Sports” …ex-international demands focus ahead AFCON tie   A former international, Ajibade Babalade, has advised the Super Eagles to prepare well for the African Cup of Nations qualifying match against South Africa’s Bafana Bafana. Babalade in an interview with New Telegraph said the match must not be taken with levity… In “Sports” Super Eagles forward Alex Iwobi has taken time off Arsenal celebration of their UEFA Europa League semifinal ticket to spare a thought for the Super Eagles, and says he is already thinking big ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations slated for June and July in Egypt. Iwobi disclosed that… In “Sports”