BPE: Farmers to own 40% equity  Ogbeh: We want to create a farmers’ bank  Federal Government may have finally perfected plans for the recapitalisation of the Bank of Agriculture (BOA) to the tune of N250 billion. The exercise is expected to be carried out in collaboration with the Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) and finalised within 90 days. Disclosing this yesterday in Abuja during a stakeholders’ meeting of the bank and other relevant agencies, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, noted that government’s plan was to make the bank a complete farmers’ bank after the fashion of the famous Farmers Bank of China.   According to him, the bank, after recapitalisation, will be a large bank that will ensure that farmers access loans easily on an interest rate of at least five or six per cent.
Ogbeh expressed worries over inability of some high profile borrowers to repay loans to the banks, noting that the ministry would support the bank to minimise failures. His words: “We are bringing into life that which we hope and believe will make the BoA a strong element, to make our agriculture sector stronger.
“We have a new vision for agriculture, we want to create a farmers’ bank and this is the chance for farmers to become owners of the bank. This will give the bank a chance of becoming a large bank in future just like the one in China and the Rabobank of the Netherlands. “Today, the Rabobank accounts for 75 per cent of all the credit given to banks in the European Union and they lend at three and half per cent, but the bigger one is in China with nearly eight million clients. I don’t see why we can’t do the same here. “If this structure we want to put in place now starts working successfully, and we raise a capital base of anything between N200 billion and N250 billion and farmers can access credit at the lower end of the single digit (lower than six per cent and five per cent), we hope to achieve a whole lot of things. “Failures in agriculture have been caused by a number of factors, sometimes the excessive interest rate and sometimes agronomic practices, which are not in place or properly aligned, and then of course there is the issue of management.” While harping on the need to make agriculture the mainstay of the economy, the minister said that currently, Nigeria had saved about $21 billion from food import in the last three and half years while export has also gone up to 500 per cent.
“Two banks in Nigeria announced that we have actually saved $21 billion on food import in three and half years, and the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has affirmed that agriculture export has gone up to 500 per cent since we came in, and we are just beginning,” Ogbeh said. On his part, Director General of BPE, Mr. Alex Okoh, who spoke on modalities for the recapitalisation, said the bank had performed sub-optimally due to myriad of challenges it faced since inception in 1972. Okoh said that farmers would be encouraged to form cooperative societies to facilitate and guarantee loans repayment and achieve noticeable impact, adding that the process would lead to the privatisation of equity of the bank.
“We envisage that the Central Bank equity will be reduced to 20 per cent, Federal Ministry of Finance (incorporated) will be reduced to 20 per cent. The government agencies’ equity in the new bank will be a minority of 40 per cent.
“We will then invite private sector investors who will own 20 per cent and the remaining 40 per cent equity will be owned by farmers and farmers’ cooperatives. That makes it a private sector bank. “This new strategy envisages that BoA will be transformed into a truly agriculture finance bank modelled along the lines of Agriculture Bank of China and Rabobank of the Netherlands,” the director-general explained.
A contract was signed between the BPE and the Lead Capital Consortium for the commencement of the recapitalisation.