The occasion was not a political event, yet it had all the semblance of a political gathering, going by the personalities that graced the event. It was a day the Olu of Itori, Ogun State, Oba AbdulFatai Akamo rewarded an Assistant Editor with Nigerian Tribune, Tunde Busari with a chieftaincy title of Baaroyin, to mark his 15th coronation anniversary. In the history of Itori, an Egba outpost town in Ogun State, never was there a time the indigenes and residents witnessed a convergence of such personalities in one function. March 29, 2019 kick started the anniversary with a Press Conference held inside the Palace of Oba Akamo after which other events such as cultural gatherings, novelty football match, hosting of old students and others also held in the town. Itori is the headquarters of Ewekoro Local Government and emerging major point for the new Lagos-Ibadan railway being constructed by a Chinese multinational known as China Civil Engineering Company (CCEC). Held inside the expansive King’s Court in Itori, the occasion attracted a large number of traditional rulers, including the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Eniitan Ogunwusi, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi, the Alake of Egba, Oba Michael Adedotun Gbadebo, the Elegushi of Ikateland, Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi and others. Busari, who clad in a cream lace, described the chieftaincy title as unexpected but commended Oba Akamo for what he called his gesture, pointing out that it was a call to commit more efforts into his reportorial duty. He added that Oba Akamo had demonstrated his respect for media and media practitioners and urged his colleagues to also look forward to such honour in the course of performing their duties. “I thank Oba Akamo for surprising me with this title. It came as a surprise because it never crossed my mind that he had such a plan in his mind. Kabiyesi is a cosmopolitan traditional ruler who is always at home with everybody, regardless of where they come from. “This has been his selling point and attestation to his enviable exposure to different parts of the world. I wish him many more fruitful years on the throne, while I also assure him of being a good ambassador of his kingdom,” he said. The first traditional ruler that arrived the exquisite King’s Court venue of the event was the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi who was led into the hall few minutes to noon by his palace aides. Asked on what informed his early arrival when many dignitaries were probably in the comfort of their living rooms, Oba Adeyemi smilingly replied: “I have no reason to arrive here later than the time given to me. Once I accepted the invite to be here, the best is to be here on time. That is my way of life, and that is what I preach to other traditional rulers to retain respect of our hosts and their guests. The Alaafin of Oyo was later joined by the Alake of Egba, Oba Michael Adedotun Gbadebo, who is the consenting authority to the Olu of Itori. The Elegushi of Ikate, Oba Saheed Elegushi followed suit while the Oonirisa, Oba Adeyeye Eniitan Ogunwusi arrived in the evening in his usual fanfare that captured the attention of the whole hall. Wife of Ogun State Governor, Mrs Olufunso Amosu was also in attendance among other top shots of the society drawn from different sectors. Representatives of Dangote Group were, in addition, present gladly identifying with Oba Akamo. Aside the above personalities, there was also an array of other traditional rulers and Baales. Remarkably noticed was media presence, including Nollywood stars and musicians led by K1who performed to the admiration of the guests who flocked the stage. Hardly could any guest step into the hall without giving kudos to the organizing committee that put the event together on their choice of design and decoration. It was God and Purple spectacle from the entrance to the podium with state-of-the-art table and seats arranged in royally setting giving guest enough space to breathe.