Delta State Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Chiedu Ebie, told CHARLES OGUNDIYA that the state was working hard to merge sports and education while also developing new talents. Excerpts…   How do you feel after a successful Principals’ Cup despite several postponements due to the General Elections? It’s a good feeling because whenever you accomplish something good, there is always a sense of satisfaction and accomplishment. The most important thing for us as a state is the sustainability aspect of it. That it has come to stay is all thanks to Zenith Bank Plc, our main sponsor, who found the project worthy of supporting and we are happy about it. How easy was it for you to convince the state governor to accept the project? That was very easy probably because the governor loves sports very much and also sees the correlation between sports and education. Also, partnering with a strong brand like Zenith Bank made it very easy for us to start. The most important thing to him was to see the state return to the era of the Bendel State or the Western Region of old, where the state produced great sports men and women. Delta State is known as number one in sports. At the last National Sports Festival, the state won most of the medals and we always come out on top. The target is to see how we can discover the talents from the grassroots and nurture them to stardom. The Principal’s Cup in the past produced some great players for the country and we are trying to replicate the competition in this administration of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. What are you doing to get the NFF involved in the competition? Amaju Pinnick attended the first final in Ozoro, even though the notice got to him very late. He has trust in what we are doing. In his capacity as the President of the Nigeria Football Federation, he has helped us to put our stadium, the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, on the world map with the hosting of the Super Eagles and the U-23 national team and what we are doing now is to take the Principals’ Cup to the next level. We already have the blueprint and it is almost on autopilot, so we need to just improve on what we have at the moment. The next step we are talking about now is to see how the talents can grow. We are looking at bringing coaches from the U-17s, U-20s and probably scouts, let them come and see the talents at our disposal and provide them the platform to excel. That’s where working with the NFF comes in for us. We don’t want to leave these talents to start struggling on their own, we want to do our best for them It has been the private schools winning the last three editions of the competition, would you say they are better than their public schools counterparts? I don’t really know if there are many differences because most of the finals have been evenly balanced. The first two editions were actually settled on penalties, while the last one was won towards the end of the game. It has nothing really to do with public or private schools and not that the private schools are heads and shoulders above their opponents; let’s say a bit of luck and probably they are more focused especially towards the end of the game. Every final has been between the public and private schools with the private schools coming out as the winner, but we will keep working. One of the things we did during the competition was to support all the teams, especially the finalists. We sent coaches to them from the Sports Commission to help in their preparations for the final. What are you doing about lack of facilities in most schools in the state, especially now that the state wants to infuse sports into the education curriculum? We have a new policy in the state whereby to establish a school, you must have proof of having sporting facilities, at least the basic ones. We are not saying you must have a stadium, but some of the things that could encourage sports in the schools. For public schools, we are also trying to make provisions and also as a matter of principle, all schools must organise inter-house sports competitions once in a year. What are you doing to make this competition stand on its own beyond this current administration? Some of the problems with government things have been funding, but we’re already looking beyond the Okowa administration for the Principal’s Cup as well as the Headmasters Cup. To ensure it outlives us, that’s why we partnered with a strong brand like Zenith Bank Plc. The implementation is with the state government, and thankfully Governor Okowa is back for another term. Whoever gets to work in the ministry of Basic and Secondary Education in his new cabinet will have the responsibility of ensuring that they build on what we have started. You saw the Super Eagles play in Asaba, what can you say about the team’s chances in the forthcoming African Cup of Nations in Egypt? We should give them the benefit of the doubt; we had the opportunity of watching them in Asaba and I can say they are doing well. They are a good team, and like every other national team, they need to spend more time together. I just hope that those playing in the top flight leagues will continue to get regular playing time. All we need to do for them at the moment is to give them all the support and that’s why the Delta State Government provided that support to the NFF by hosting those matches in Asaba. I want to appeal to every Nigerian to criticize less, support and encourage the team. They are young guys and need more time to bond and work together as a team.