 Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of an Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos yesterday dismissed a suit filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) involving a serving Senator, Albert Bassey who was accused of collecting N254 million bribe from an oil baron, Olajide Jones Omokore. The defendants had through their lawyers challenged the court’s jurisdiction to try them on the grounds that the alleged bribe took place in Akwa Ibom State. According to EFCC Bassey, 45, who is representing Akwa-Ibom North-East, allegedly received twelve vehicles between 2010 and 2014 from Omokore, when he was the Akwa-Ibom Commissioner for Finance.
The duo of Bassey and Omokore, who were billed to be arraigned before the court, were charged on a 14-count corruption charge. However, during yesterday’s proceedings, Justice Taiwo, in a short ruling, upheld that the defendant’s application and advised the anti-graft agency to file the suit in Akwa Ibom where the alleged bribe took place.
The judge ruled: “The issue of jurisdiction is a fundamental one. In the instant case, the prosecution had failed to give reasons why the suit should be heard within this jurisdiction. “This court lacks jurisdiction to adjudicate on this matter. I hereby strike out this suit for lack of jurisdiction.
“The prosecution should file the charges in Akwa Ibom where the alleged fraud took place”.
Meanwhile, the defendant’s lawyers, Solomon Umoh (SAN) and Olatunde Adejuyigbe (SAN) had earlier filed separate applications contending that the court had no power to hear the substantive case. Bassey’s lawyer, Umoh SAN, had argued that there was nothing before the court to prove that the alleged crime against Bassey was committed outside Akwa-Ibom or in Lagos State.
“There is nothing in the proof of evidence that suggested that any aspect of the alleged crime against the first defendant was committed outside Akwa-Ibom State and in Lagos State.  “Happily, the prosecution has narrowed everything down that it was cars that was delivered to the first defendant by the second defendant.
“So, we want to ask where the cars were delivered to so we can know what Lagos has to do with Akwa-Ibom State but we have provided the answers in our argument, the cars were delivered in Akwa-Ibom State.
“If he (Bassey) received in Akwa-Ibom State, how come they are coming to try him in Lagos State?