Folawe Omikunle is the CEO of TeachForNigeria, a non-profit education initiative. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE met her at the just-concluded Global Education and Summit Forum in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), where she spoke about challenges of education in Nigeria, the alarming rate of out-of-school children and leadership problem, among other issues  Would you shed more lights on what TeachForNigeria is all about? Teach for Nigeria is a nonprofit organisation. It is an NGO, which ensures that children who are from low income background also have access to quality education. And, we do this with a unique approach in which we understand the immediate needs. That is, kids who come from low income background are attending underserved schools and do not have access to quality education. So, first of all, we recruit outstanding young graduates and working professionals. We trained and placed them to teach in these schools for two years as full-time teachers to address the immediate issue, which is mostly poor learning background. The approach is so unique that it is a long-term focus on developing a critical mass of leaders, who through their experience in teaching for two years begin to identify different problems hindering access to quality education for those children. At Teach for Nigeria, we believe that education inequity is so complex, determined and interwoven that we need to put things together. We need leaders and organised leaders to address education issues. We need leaders, who have experiences and who have committed their lives to doing it through two years of committed service. That is what the approach is all about and we launched our programme in 2017 and started with 84 fellows as we called them, who are teaching in the schools across Lagos and Ogun states. We later extended it to the Northern region, specifically in Kaduna. We requited additional 172 fellows and right now we have 88 fellows teaching in primary schools in Kaduna State. We have 106 fellows that are teaching in primary schools in 15 local government areas in Ogun State and we have the rest of them teaching in Lagos State across the local primary schools. Our goal is to continue this programme and expand to all the six geo-political zones of the federation. Why are you only focusing on low cost schools? Well, our focus is to serve the underserved schools. In Ogun and Kaduna states respectively, majority of the schools in the states are underserved and public schools. In Lagos State, we have a unique situation because there are over 18,000 private schools and over 70 per cent of those schools are low cost private schools and there are only about 1,700 public schools. One of the things that we learnt while we were conducting our research was that parents from low background prefer to send their children to low cost private schools for primary education and in secondary school there is low population in the private secondary schools. So, because of this, the group that we are targeting is those children in low cost primary schools. Most stakeholders are worried about the statistics of 13.2 million out-of school children in the country, are you not worried about this? The reason for my involvement in Teach For Nigeria initiative started from stumbling on the UNESCO report that declared Nigeria as the country with the highest number of out-of-school children in the world.  Knowing that by year 2050, Nigerian population would double is worrisome. It is disturbing because there is no deliberate or adequate planning on the nation’s path to invest in our human capital development. With 13.2 million children out-of-school and with a growing population, there is an urgent need for us to pay priority attention to education to improve the standard and quality as well as create access to quality education for all children. We need a critical mass of leaders, who are going to tackle this issue from different sectors. When Teach For Nigeria was launched, we were told that we would not find young Nigerians who will dedicate two years of their lives to teach in disadvantaged schools. Today, there are several young leaders who are teaching as full-time teachers across high need schools. By 2030, we would have created a critical mass of change makers and solution driven leaders who would be ready to address inequity in education from different levels. How do you think we can address challenges of education in Nigeria? One of the ways the media can support our works is by being our voice for the public and I think this will have direct impact in every aspect of the programme. Without financial and human resources, we will never be able to drive what we are doing. We need to change the mindset of donor or development partners to invest in education for long term. There is need for heavy investment in education differently; let us shift from the usual school building, school painting, laboratory set up, buying of notebooks and I-pad and things that have no direct relevance to ensuring that quality of teaching and learning is addressed. My appeal to the donor agencies and international organisations is to consider long-term investments in education and leave all these irrelevant entertainment programmes or events where they invested several millions of naira. They should consider doing significant things for education because they have to invest in education for their human resource capacity needs. This will have direct impact for the entire nation. So, it is expected of donor organisations to make better and informed decision on how they invest their money in education and human capital development. Since it is not an exaggeration that no nation could rise above its teacher’s quality, we, therefore, need to invest in teaching and knowledge. Majority of the kids in schools are learning nothing. You have kids who are in Primary Six, who cannot read and write. Many of the graduates we have today merely passed through the school system, but end up as educated illiterate. You can just imagine the catastrophe this will cause if we continue like this for the next 10 years. Do you think the government is doing enough towards addressing education challenges in the country? Of course I think so much can still be done. I have engaged with federal and local governments in many ways and work with them. In all the states we are working, we have signed Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) with the government and collaborate closely with them. But in a country where 13.2 million children are out of school we are dealing with a serious and complex issue. One of the things I recognize is that while they understand that this is a real issue, many of them don’t understand particular complex situations, in rural areas, in overcrowded schools, and so forth. First, government needs to understand that there’ll be no overnight results or quick fixes. I think the most talked about issue in Nigeria and Africa is human capital development. Personally, I don’t think we can address the education crisis with one single solution and through short-term approach. We need to invest in long-term sustainable solutions and work in partnership with a multitude of actors. We need to do more than just build infrastructure. It might be easier to build schools and laboratories to show people that they are performing. But are we equipping the teachers? I think it’s critical for our government to stop using short-term solutions in addressing this complexity. For example, in addressing the problem of out-of-school children in recent times, the government created the school feeding programme, where free meals are provided to children across disadvantaged schools. Which is important. But also, what we have seen and experienced is that schools that were originally accommodating about 15,000 pupils, now have about 29,000 pupils on its enrolment. And with that situation, we are now dealing with over-crowded classrooms where you have about 250 pupils in one classroom alone. But we haven’t addressed the quality of their learning. You have teachers who are not well-equipped and trained to teach and manage the students. I believe the best way to address education challenge is through long-term investment and investment in leadership capacity—those people who are experiencing the challenges firsthand and can make better informed decisions around policy, schools’ actual needs, etc. In looking to the future we need to cultivate this type of leadership of youth today because they will become the government, the teachers, the school leaders and the business people of tomorrow, and they need to understand the issue and work collaboratively to provide quality teaching and learning in our schools.