TARGET
Finance ministry leads assets liquidation scheme, gets six months deadline  The Federal Government has ordered liquidation of multi-millon dollars unencumbered oil assets – free of debts or other financial liability – that were recovered by Department of Petroleum Resource (DPR) and other agencies. Government, which had earlier directed DPR to, “within three months, complete the collection of assets, including past-due oil license and royalty charges, as well as those due from Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) (a subsidiary of NNPC),” stated in a correspondence between the Ministry of Budget and National Planning and the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, that the Ministry of Finance has been detailed to lead the assets liquidation exercise. “The Ministry of Finance, working with all relevant authorities, has been authorised to take action to liquidate all recovered, unencumbered assets within six months,” the memo sighted by this newspaper on Sunday revealed. This effort, the document showed, was to address the challenges that could lead to deficit for the 2019 budget. “Government will intensify its efforts to improve public financial management through the comprehensive implementation of the Treasury Single Account (TSA), Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) and Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System,” the document read. Other key initiatives, the memo noted, “include the immediate commencement of the restructuring of the Joint Venture Oil Assets so as to reduce government shareholding to 40 per cent; an exercise the president has insisted must be completed within the 2019 fiscal year. “The Department of Petroleum Resource has also been directed to, within three months, complete the collection of past-due oil license and royalty charges, including those due from Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) (a subsidiary of NNPC), which it had agreed to pay since 2017. “The Ministry of Finance, working with all the relevant authorities, has also been authorised to take action to liquidate all recovered, unencumbered assets within six months.” The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), it would be recalled, recovered assets worth over N771 million from some marketers who had under-paid for petroleum products supplied to them from Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) Kaduna depot. Chairman of NNPC Anti-Corruption Committee, Mr. Mike Balami, said the committee, in collaboration with Federal Government’s Intelligence and Anti-Corruption agencies such as the Department of State Security Services (DSS), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, recovered the assets from the defaulting marketers. The Anti-Corruption Committee brought in forensic experts to uncover the shady deals by some of the marketers affected. Balami disclosed that some of the assets recovered include filling stations, water factories and six sports utility vehicles, adding that the forensic investigation would be extended to other depots across the country to stop the bleeding of the national oil company. He noted that it was established that the affected marketers lifted petroleum products from PPMC Kaduna depot without evidence of payment and when confronted with the evidence, they admitted to the offence but failed to pay their liabilities.  He stated that NNPC Group Managing Director, Dr. Maikanti Baru, was passionate about stopping all the leakages in the Corporation, stressing that the forfeited assets would be handed over to NNPC Corporate Asset Boarding and Disposal Committee (CABDC) for immediate disposal. Balami added that investigation into lifting of petroleum products without evidence of payment was continuing, urging all relevant stakeholders to support.