The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the alleged non-remittance of trillions into the federation account by ministries, departments’ and agencies (MDAs). The decision was sequel to the adoption of a motion sponsored by Chairman of the House Committee on Sports Development, Hon. Goni Bukar Lawan (APC, Yobe). Leading debate on the motion, Lawan informed that a few years ago, banks were mandated to collect stamp duties from account holders explaining that while the deductible amount per bank accounts seems small, it cumulatively add up to money in billions and trillions of naira. He said that therefore, there was need to subject it to full disclosure and transparency. Lawan said he was alarmed at the complicit irregularities by which public institutions, including the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigeria interbank settlement system (NIBSS), Nigeria Postal Services (NIPOST), among others have over time failed to remit stamp duty taxes into the Federation Account running into trillions. “Further notes that NIPOST entered into an agreement in 2014 to collect stamp duties and armed with the masters’ service agreement with NIPOST. The school banking honours (SBH) approached the Central Bank of Nigeria for authorization to engage deposit money banks (DMBs) and other qualified stamp duties collection agents and the CBN gave required approval”. He expressed concerns that all efforts to get details of remittance of funds realised from stamp duty taxes through the Freedom of Information (FoI), Act were not successful by domestic and foreign civil society organisations. “Disturbed that these would have been used to pay salaries, provide infrastructure and financing economic development in the country or at least should have generated some interest in the privates, where the fund is domiciled in the commercial bank” “Worried that due to the concern mounting over the non-remittance, it is clearly an obvious disobedience to TSA policy for the stamp duties found to be hidden in commercial banks instead of being remitted to the TSA”, he stated. The motion was unanimously adopted and an ad hoc committee would be constituted by the Speaker to carry out the assignment within four weeks.