Men of the 32 Artillery Brigade yesterday stormed den of kidnappers in Owo in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State and arrested five suspected kidnappers.
Apart from arresting five of the kidnappers terrorising locals in the Owo-Ikare axis of the Ondo North Senatorial District, the troop also freed some hostages abducted by the suspected kidnappers. The Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, Captain Victor Olukoya, said the operation was based on a tip-off, that suspected kidnappers had abducted nine farmers in a farm belonging to Mr. Godwin Ugu at Jugbere village in Owo Local Government Area.
The troops, Olukoya said, made the arrest when they carried out a raid on the kidnappers’ hideout about 1a.m. Olukoya said the troops were able to rescue five of the hostages while four others escaped from the kidnappers den during the raid.
The rescued hostages and some of the suspects, who sustained minor injuries, he said, were presently undergoing first aid treatment at the 32 Artillery Brigade Medical Centre.
Some of the items recovered from the hoodlums included a Dane gun, an axe, cutlasses, live cartridges, a handset and charms.
The arrested suspects, he said, would be handed over to the appropriate security agency at the conclusion of preliminary investigation. This development came as the Commander, 32 Artillery Brigade, Brigadier General Zakari Logun Abubakar, ordered intense patrol to be carried out in both Ekiti and Ondo states to rid the states of hoodlums.
The commander commended members of the public and further appealed to the law-abiding citizens to avail the Army, police and other security agencies with useful and timely information, which would lead to the arrest of other perpetrators of evil in the states. The 32 Artillery Brigade in Akure, the Ondo State capital yesterday announced the arrest of some suspected kidnappers that have been terrorizing the commuters and residents of Akoko in Ondo North senatorial district of the state. The Owo/Akoko axis of the state has become kidnappers’ den with many commuters and… In “News” Babatope Okeowo Akure Soldiers from the 32 Artillery Brigade in Akure, yesterday arrested seven suspected kidnappers terrorising the commuters and residents of Akoko in Ondo North Senatorial District of Ondo State. The Owo/Akoko axis of the state has become kidnappers’ den with many commuters and residents kidnapped on their way… In “Metro and Crime” Daredevil kidnappers on Tuesday evening stormed Akure/Owo road in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State and abducted workers of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO) and Federal Medical Centre (FMC) in the town. Apart from the kidnapped victims, several passengers and residents of Amurin in Owo Council area where the… In “News”