… okays N5bn job creation scheme lEcological Fund projects to gulp N15bn  The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved a promissory note worth N3.4 trillion for the payment of outstanding local debts and contractual obligations of the Federal Government.
Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, stated this yesterday while briefing State House Correspondents after the FEC meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
According to the minister, the local debts are those inherited from previous governments. The Finance Minister listed the appointed transaction partners for the Promissory Note Programme and the contract sums as KPMG Professional Services (N164.65m); financial advisers are Zenith Bank and Zenith Capital (N14.29m); Coronation and Access Bank Plc.(N14.29m); and UBA/United Capital (N14.29m). Legal advisers are SimmonsCooper Partners (N53.7m); Damian Dodo and Partners (N53.7m); and Perchstone and Graeys (N53.7m).
The minister said the N3.4 trillion, which would be sourced from the proceeds of FGN Securities Issuance, will have the Debt Management Office (DMO) issue appointment letters to the transaction parties as well as execute relevant contracts with the transaction partners on behalf of the government.
She listed the benefits accruable from the debt settlement deal to include provision of stimulus to the economy and unlocking of investment across a number of sectors currently having liquidity issues.
It will also have positive impact on the non-performing loan ratios of banks, which will in turn increase their capacity to lend and enable the Federal Government to formally recognise and account for its true liabilities in line with the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS). It would be recalled that FEC had, at its meeting of July 12, 2017, approved the establishment of a Promissory Note Programme for the settlement of inherited local debts and contractual obligations of the Federal Government put at N3.4 trillion.
In December 2018, NASS had approved the issuance of Promissory Notes to two creditor categories from the programme, which saw refund made to 21 state governments for projects executed on behalf of the Federal Government at a cost of N488,743,526,204.77 and payment to oil marketing companies for fuel supply accrued interest and foreign exchange differentials at a cost of N348,003,054,975.00. Breakdown of the estimated debt to be managed by the seven transaction partners include pension liabilities of N400 billion; unpaid salaries and 3rd party deductions of N24.95 billion; staff claims of N270 billion; part of contractors’ claims of N45.36 billion and fuel supply accrued interest and foreign exchange differentials of N514.29 billion. Others are part of state governments’ claims of N487.85 billion; Ministry of Health’s Outsourced Liabilities of N9.04 billion; major contractors’ sum of N596.51 billion; Export Expansion Grant (EEG) Scheme of N350.12 billion; judgement debt of N112.96 billion; DISCOs debt of N26.71 billion and GENCOs debt of N495.67 billion. The minister also disclosed that the council approved a memo seeking the sum of $6.8 million sought as a loan from AfDB to finance inclusive basic service delivery and livelihood empowerment integrated programme for the rebuilding of the North-East.
According to her, there was a previous facility, which included coverage of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Taraba and Yobe states, and some specific institutions were beneficiaries. The minister, who noted that the programme has suffered because of the insurgency in the area, said: “But because of insurgency, it suffered severely. It could not be carried out because of the activities of insurgents.
“Now, what we are trying to do is to go back to the projects, to this particular institution to make sure we are able to rehabilitate the institution and also undertake a complete skill, training and educational project that will mitigate against the challenges that the institution has had.
“The facility is a concessionary loan. It has an interest rate of one per cent and it is payable over a 30-year period and it has five years moratorium.” Council also, yesterday, approved a new scheme that is targeted at creating employment for 60,000 Nigerians aged 18-25 years.
The programme will cost government a total N5.59 billion and will last for a period of nine months.
Explaining the programme, the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Udoma Udoma, said the new scheme called the N-Power Knowledge Multi-Track Youth Empowerment Programme will enrol 12,000 unemployed or underemployed graduates who will be trained and given relevant devices.
According to him, each of the 12,000 trainees will be empowered to train five other persons, bringing the total number of beneficiaries to 60,000. He said the training will be on mobile computing and commonly used electronic devices.
Udoma said the programme, which will be run under the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), is open to all unemployed graduates.
The minister also said the Federal Government will spend N259,000 per youth on the training, while an additional N207,000 will be spent for work tools. In his remarks, the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Mr. Femi Adesina, disclosed that the Federal Government has expended a total of N15.3 billion on 166 Ecological Fund projects across the country.
He said out of this, 93 of the projects, mainly erosion and flood control, have been completed and handed over to the benefiting communities while 20 others are ready for commissioning. “In the life of this administration, 166 projects have been awarded under the Ecological Fund project. So far, 93 have been completed and handed over to the different communities and 20 are ready as we speak. Most of the projects are erosion and flood control works,” he said. Other decisions taken at the FEC meeting was approval of N6.17 billion for augmentation of the contract for the construction of Ikot Ekpene border-Aba-Owerri Road, Section 1, Phase 1 in Akwa Ibom State.
The Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing, Mustapha Shehuri, made this known during the briefing after the FEC meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. On her part, Hajia Aisha Abubakar, the Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, said that FEC approved the revised estimated total cost for the completion of the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development Headquarters in Abuja. ...N2.6bn for infrastructure in Abuja Anule Emmanuel Abuja The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the validation of promissory notes and a debt issuance programme for the payment of Federal Government's obligation to contractors, employees and state governments. The upsetting of the promissory notes and debt programme, which came as… In “Metro and Crime” Tony Chukwunyem     There is hope of significant improvement in banks’ Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) ratios following the Federal Executive Council (FEC)’s authorisation, last Wednesday, that N2.7 trillion should be released to offset outstanding government debts and pensions in the country. Findings by New Telegraph reveal that although the National… In “Business” As the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) on-going intervention in the foreign exchange market brings about a gradual return of confidence to the financial system, some of the country’s big banks have been rolling out new plans to raise capital to boost their operations. TONY CHUKWUNYEM writes Less than two… In “Business”