Exposed badly by Barcelona in their midweek Champions League game, Ole Gunnar Solskjær and his Manchester United will have to bounce back quickly against Everton today if they are not to miss out of featuring in Europe’s top club competition next season, writes Tunde Sulaiman  Following their midweek toils in the world’s top club competition, the UEFA Champions League, which finally ended in heartbreak at the 99,354-seater Nou Camp, the Red Devils are back in domestic action today hoping to keep alive their quest of returning to the competition next season by finishing in the top four in the English Premier League. It was always going to be a tough task for the once dominant force of English football to get anything out of the game against the Spanish La Liga kingpins, Barcelona, especially after the Catalan side won the first leg 1-0 at Old Trafford.
In truth though, on the night at the Theatre of Dreams, it was a surprisingly subdued Barca that was on display but they were still able to leave with the edge courtesy of an own goal by Luke Shaw, meaning that the Red Devils needed to put on the same kind of performance that they did in upsetting PSG at the Parc des Princes last month in order to progress to the quarter-finals. Unfortunately this time around the Nou Camp proved a bridge too far for the 2008 European champions as they went down 3-0 to a much vastly improved Barca, with their star man, Lionel Messi once again showing that he is the man for the big occasion by scoring a brace – with the second leaving egg on the face of David de Gea after he let the Argentine’s soft shot squirm under his body. Speaking to BT Sport, and in his press conference after the game, the boss reflected on missed chances in the early exchanges of the game, the power of Barca’s Argentinian playmaker and turned his attention to Sunday’s return to domestic action against Everton
“We want to play these games again next year, so we have a massive week coming up with Everton, [Manchester] City and Chelsea. They’re disappointed but there’s no point dwelling on what could have been. It could have been different if we had started better and we got the first goal, but now we have to concentrate on next week.” Battle rallying words from the United manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjær, who in the run up to the trip to Spain, had said that his side needs to secure at least 12 points from their last five games in order to secure the all-important Champions League ticket for next season.
But before the trip to the Nou Camp, many United fans were left wondering if their side was really up for the fight after watching their side labour to a controversial 2-1 win over West Ham United. For long swaths of the game played at Old Trafford, the Hammers completely outplayed the home side and but for two contentious decisions by referee Graham Scott it might have even ended worse for the Red Devils.
First, replays suggested Felipe Anderson had a goal wrongly chalked off for offside – Diogo Dalot playing him on – at 0-0 before Paul Pogba gave United the lead in the 19th minute. That goal came from a penalty whose award was also questionable, as Juan Mata may have gone down outside the penalty area and Robert Snodgrass’s challenge on him may have been fair. Speaking afterwards a mightily relieved Ole admitted that his side had “gotten out of jail”.
“We got away with it, to put it that way, and got three points. They deserved to get their goals but we’re allowed to have a good goalkeeper,” he said of David de Gea’s save from a late Michail Antonio header, which ultimately ensured United won the crucial points. Commenting further, the manager said: “We got away with it, got three points, in a few years no one will remember how we played if we finish in the top four. They played better than us; it is fair to say, I don’t think anyone will disagree.”
United fans will definitely not be relishing the trip to the blue side of Merseyside for this afternoon’s encounter with Everton because Goodison Park has often proved a banana peel for the Red Devils. The stats do not make for pleasant reading for United fans because of 91 visits to the home of the Toffees, the Red Devils have been beaten on 40 occasions and have only won there a miserly 29 times, with 22 draws.
Even during the heydays of former manager, Sir Alex Ferguson, trips to Goodison Park often left the legendary Scotsman embarrassed after watching his team being played off the park by the home side. Although on the first of January last year, United did get the better of Everton on the road courtesy of two second half goals from Anthony Martial (57’) and Jesse Lingard (81’) in one of the better performances of the side under the now departed Jose Mourinho.
However, fatigue may be a big issue for Ole and his squad in having to play their third game in the space of eight days. Besides the physical side, the Norwegian handler will also have to overcome the psychological low of the players having just seen their dreams of Champions League glory gone up in smoke. Nonetheless, this may even be the best time to face the Toffees with Marco Silva’s side returning to their Jekyll and Hyde ways. Everton fans themselves must also be as bewildered as the Portuguese manager as to which team will be on display this afternoon – the side which beat Chelsea, Arsenal and West Ham or the team which fell 2-0 meekly to basement club, Fulham last weekend?
The defeat meant Marco Silva’s side stay ninth and miss the chance to move above Watford and Wolves into seventh, which would have given them a route into Europe through the Europa League. Everton went into the game on the back of three successive wins without conceding a goal, but the Merseysiders saw that momentum brought to a shuddering halt with a timid display, with boss Silva left to rue his side’s inconsistency.
Afterwards Silva said: “It was a disappointing result, we did not perform in the way we want. You have to do more and better because we have the quality to do that.”  And this is exactly what Everton fans will be hoping to see against a side, which exactly are not also firing on all cylinders like they did when Ole was first given the job in December and then went on an 11-game unbeaten run breaking the records set by former United manager the late Sir Matt Busby. However, since being confirmed full time manager on March 28, the hero of United’s stunning 1999 Champions League final win over Bayern Munich, has seen his side suffer five defeats in their last seven matches.
While Silva would love to see his side move up the table, the pressure is clearly more on Ole and his wounded Red Devils. Also in action this afternoon is another team that played in midweek, Liverpool which is in Wales to face a Cardiff side desperate to avoid the drop. Although the Reds will be clearly buoyed by their Champions League semi-final qualification courtesy of their 6-1 aggregate win over Porto, they cannot drop their guard against the 18-placed team.
In recent weeks, Neil Warnock’s side has put up performances that not only belie their current precarious position, but also clearly show that they will not be going down without a fight. A couple of weeks ago, they almost stunned fifth-placed Chelsea only to lose after a glaring offside equaliser by the Blues, and missed by the match officials, allowed the visiting team win 2-1. Last weekend he watched helplessly as his side lost 2-0 to fellow relegation threatened Burnley meaning Cardiff are running out of time to save themselves from an immediate return to the Championship with only five games remaining.
The Bluebirds, however, gave themselves a massive boost when on Tuesday night they got the better of Brighton 2-0 to move within two points of safety. Speaking after the moral boosting win, Warnock not only insisted that his side is “alive and kicking”, but also warned: “We don’t know when we’re beaten.” Liverpool may have almost slipped up against Fulham and needed a lucky break against Tottenham Hotspur, but they were still able to nick the points and know they will have to do same this afternoon if they are to remain on course on ending their 29-year wait for a league title.
And in the final game of the day, Arsenal, who was in action on Thursday evening against Napoli in the Europa League, will have to overcome the stress of the trip to Italy and (subsequently celebrations of making the semis) with a home tie against Crystal Palace. Although the semi-final ticket inches them closer to the final, where victory will ensure them a Champions League ticket for next season, Unai Emery also knows he cannot take any chances and must still strive to secure the route back into Europe by finish in the top four of the domestic league. Currently fourth with 66 points the same as Chelsea, the Gunners cannot afford to take Palace for granted because they have often shown that on their day they can beat virtually anybody as Manchester City and Spurs have already found out.
With three matches on show, lovers of the English Premier League should be in for a nail-biting joy ride.