Super Eagles forward, Moses Simon, spoke to CHARLES OGUNDIYA on why he will continue to work hard to make the team going to the next Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt after missing the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup due to injury. Excerpts. ..  After missing last two editions of the Africa Cup of Nations, the Super Eagles have qualified for the 2019 edition. How do you feel as a member of the team?
I will say very excited and happy that we qualified. I’m also happy that I contributed my part to the success of the team. Close to the last World Cup in Russia, you had an injury that ruled you out of the competition. How did you take the news, especially when you knew you had done enough to be part of the squad?
At that moment I felt sad because as I had the injury, I knew I was out of the World Cup. It was something I can never forget in my life. I worked so hard with the team to achieve the qualification from the beginning to the end, so I was really devastated. The dream did not come through for me and my family, but I later consoled myself. First, I am still very young and I also believe that everything works together for good. I decided to concentrate on myself and continue to work so hard. With God and help from my partner, I was able to scale through the difficult moment. There was the rumour that you would still have been fit for the World Cup but the coach didn’t take you along. Do you feel bad about that?
It would have been a waste if I had gone to the World Cup. The result of the final test showed that I would return before the second round and the team didn’t qualify for the round of 16, so I wouldn’t have been of any help to the team even if I had gone. AFCON is another opportunity for you to represent the country at a major event; how are you looking forward to it?
I am not the coach, so I will have to continue to work hard to be part of the final squad that will be heading to Egypt for AFCON. I’m back at my club now and will continue to do everything that will make the coach to select me for the competition. I will continue to work hard on the areas I’m deficient and improve on my game. The decision is now left for the coach to see if I am good enough to be on the team going to Egypt. The most important thing for me now is to continue to work hard and if selected, I must give my all for the good of the team and country as a whole. Do you see the Super Eagles winning the AFCON title in Egypt?
It is not going to be easy because we are going to be facing some strong opposition, but the spirit in the team is very high and we are going there to make the country proud. I will say we are going to do our best to make the country proud. In your earlier days in the Super Eagles, you were not really the first choice in your position, was it a frustrating period for you despite getting regular call-ups?
As a player you wouldn’t feel good but I kept on working hard and I knew that they would still give me the opportunity to showcase my talent. The coach kept faith with me by inviting me and I knew he would use me at the right time. The hard work actually paid off later. How did you get into football?
I actually started playing football when I was in the barracks because my father was once a soldier at Abari Cantonment in Ibadan, Oyo State. In the barracks we had a lot of playing pitches. Every one of us loved playing there; once my dad returned from his place of work, he always got us balls to play with. At the beginning, we just played for fun but after some time, I decide to take it seriously and that was when he said no. He made me to understand that it was time for me to concentrate on my education because, according to him, it’s not everyone that plays football that makes it in the sport. But I told him I wanted to play and that’s what I did. I started playing from school and later academy, with people telling me how good I was. Within me I knew I could make it. And with people telling me how I could make it in football, my dad started encouraging me. He started pushing me and on my part, I did everything possible for me to be there at the top, and I thank God for where I am today. Despite your rising profile, did your dad try to stop you from playing football?
Yes, he tried to stop me, he said that I should focus on education. But I insisted and said no, but later on people came in and started to speak about me in front of my dad. The academy coach came and spoke to my dad that I was really good and so that was how he accepted and the career began fully for me as a professional footballer. So within you, can you say you have taken the right decision?
I will say yes, I took the right decision to become a footballer. My father accepted that too, he told me at a point that although he wanted to stop me from playing football at the initial stage, but for him, everything worked together for good. He said for him, he would have loved me to be a lawyer or doctor, but he’s happy that I am excelling where I am at the moment. Obviously, you were not the only one that played in the barracks when you started, can you say all of you are on the same level now?
There is a huge difference really. But it is not all about my quality because there are some of them that are better than me; it is just the favour of God that pulled me out of the multitude and made me what I am today. I am very grateful to Him. How do you relax, if you are not on the field of play, training or doing anything related to football?
My family around me helps me to relax, but if they are not with me, I play TV Games, Play Station Football. So which club is your favourite on PS?
Real Madrid. If you had not been a footballer, what would you have done?
Actually I don’t know what I would have become if I hadn’t played football. I just always wanted to play football all my life. There was this little secret about you wanting to become a farmer, how true?
Which farmer are you talking about (laughs)? But seriously, I don’t know but will think about it again. Maybe I would have followed what my father wanted for me by becoming a lawyer or doctor. Can you tell us your favourite colour and food?
I love blue and for food, my favorite food is pounded yam and egusi soup.