 The orgy of violence rocking many parts of the country continued unabated yesterday with the murder of a totally of 24 people, including foreigners, in Benue and Kaduna states.
Nigeria’s immediate neighbour to the East, Cameroon was also not spared as suspected Boko Haram fighters reportedly burnt to death a number of people while they were sleeping.
A fresh attack on Ngibo and Tse-Aye all in Ikyurav Tiev 1, Katsina-Ala Local Government Area of Benue State left at least 11 people dead. The gruesome attack and killing, Sunday Telegraph learnt, occurred hours after the people had finished the celebration of Good Friday (Easter) which marked the death and burial of Jesus Christ. A reliable source from the area who spoke to our correspondent, said the bandits, who took the residents unaware, made incursion into the now deserted communities at about 3: 00 am and entered Ngibo village where they killed four people.
“The militia then headed for Tse Aye in Ikurav Tiev 1, where they killed another seven people and rustled 28 cows from Chief Barrister Atim Atedze’s farm in the area, said the villager. Sunday Telegraph further learnt that as a result of the killings, hordes of local residents, including the aged, women and children, have deserted the once densely populated villages and are taking refuge in different places deemed to be safe. According to information, the militants, who were about 10 in number and armed with AK-47 rifles, came on Bajah motorcycles and started shooting indiscriminately at anyone in sight.
Many of those killed are said to be children, while the corpses have been taken to the General Hospital in Katsina-Ala. It was gathered that the assailants were also reported to have destroyed property worth millions of naira before they zoomed off through the Donga road.
When contacted, the state Police Command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Sewuese Anene, confirmed the attack and killings. DSP Anene said the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in the area had transmitted a report in that regard informing the State Command about the attack, and that already, the DPO had deployed dozens of the men to the area to calm the situation. And 24 hours later, the Kaduna State Police Command on Saturday confirmed the killing of two persons and kidnap of three others, all believed to be foreigners, at a recreational resort in Kajuru Local Government Area of the state. The Command Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo, confirmed the incidence in a statement issued in Kaduna.
Sabo said at about 23: 40hrs on Friday, some suspected kidnappers, armed with dangerous weapons, gained entry into a recreational resort called Kajuru Castle in Kajuru LGA. “The bandits shot endlessly and in the process, shot dead two persons, including an expatriate lady and took away three others.” He disclosed that patrol teams led by the DPO rushed to the scene and evacuated the victims to St. Gerald Hospital. Sabo said investigation revealed that the victims, along with 12 others, were tourists from Lagos; adding that the incident happened during the after-party at the castle located at the Hill Top. “Normally, whenever such social events would happen, the organisers used to inform the police for us to provide security coverage; but the party was done without the knowledge of the police in the area. “However, intensive efforts are being made by the Command to rescue the kidnapped persons, apprehend the fleeing culprits and bring them to justice,” he said. In Cameroun, Boko Haram fighters reportedly torched a village in the far North Region overnight and killed 11 civilians in their sleep, security sources told international news agencies late on Friday. “Boko Haram made an incursion at night in the Tchakamari area. The toll is 11,” a source close to security services in the area said, confirming a report from a member of a local self-defence militia.