 Anti-graft civil society organisation, Coalition Against Corruption and Bag Governance (CACOBAG), has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to order the immediate probe of the appointment of Ms Aisha Abba Kyari, the daughter of his Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, as an Assistant Vice President at the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) under secretive and controversial circumstances. A statement signed by the group’s Chairman, Alhaji Toyin Raheem, and released on Saturday, expressed worry that Ms Abba Kyari’s appointment is considered controversial because it violates set procedure at the NSIA, which is the legally constituted agency that manages Nigeria’s excess crude oil revenues. “According to media reports, the position was not publicly advertised, contrary to what is expected of such position. Besides, Aisha Abba Kyari clearly does not meet the criteria for the role. She has just five years working experience at the National Integrated Power Project, where she worked up until February 2019, when she got the NSIA job. Her appointment which is a level 3 appointment is the highest level in the organisation, whereas the average working experience for that level is 10 years,” the NGO stated, stressing that such practice at the highest level of government runs contrary to the avowed posture of the Buhari administration. The group claimed that the report that the “controversial appointment followed some arm-twisting and back deals with the top management of NSIA. It added: “Equally disturbing is the revelation that the new employee is starting up with an annual package of N32 million. We have chosen to call for a thorough investigation of this case because a similar thing happened in Pension Commission recently, and at the end of the probe, those involved were relieved of their job. “Five days after the Abba Kyari employment scandal leaked in the media, neither the presidency nor the management of NSIA has deemed it fit to deny any of the following claims that: members of staff at the NSIA are infuriated by the appointment; that a few of the high-level personnel privy to the recruitment initially refused to interview Ms. Abba-Kyari; that one of such persons include an Executive Director, Stella Ojekwe-Onyejeli, who vehemently rejected the suggestion; that the ED was, however, arm twisted into playing along as the pending confirmation of her appointment to become a second term ED became an instrument of blackmail; that her appointment was eventually confirmed sometime in March 2019 after she acquiesced; that Halima Buba, a board member at the NSIA who was also invited to observe the process, refused to take part; that despite all this, Ms Aisha Abba Kyari has since resumed.” The anti-graft group added: “This is not the first time the Buhari government is involved in a secret recruitment scandal involving relatives of highly placed persons in his cabinet; a similar one occurred at the Central Bank of Nigeria in 2017 involving children of some cabinet ministers and a nephew of the president. This is despite the anti-corruption rhetoric of the administration. “We are by this statement giving the presidency notice that we shall commence series of lawful civil actions in a matter of days to compel the Buhari administration to order a comprehensive investigation of this employment scam. If it could be done in Pension Commission because the daughter of a member of the House of Representatives is involved, it should also be done at NSIA because what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.”