The Police in Anambra have arrested one Ikechukwu Udensi, who was allegedly connected to the killing of a 38-year-old Ndubuisi Nwokolo in his Odoakpu, Onitsha residence in June 2018. Udensi, popularly called “Ikanda”, was said to be the ringleader of the gang which used offensive weapons, including machetes and cutlass to hack Nwokolo to death in broad day light. Mr Mustapha Dandaura, Commissioner of Police in Anambra who paraded the suspects alongside others on Monday, said he had been on wanted list after the incident with N1 million bounty for anyone with useful information on the suspect. “Following the incident, the command launched an aggressive manhunt for the fleeing perpetrators and declared the 27-year-old ringleader from Azia, Ihiala wanted. “On March 31, operatives attached to the Command’s Operation Udoka and Special Anti-Robbery raided a criminal hideout at Odoakpu in Onitsha and arrested Udensi earlier declared wanted in connection with the alleged murder,” he said. Udensi in his submission claimed that he was a toll collector for the state government, adding that he was ashamed of his present predicament. Dandaura also paraded five suspects allegedly belonging to Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and among those who attacked Ajali Police Station in Orumba North Council on Feb. 25. He said those arrested were Abuchi Nwogu (21), Okwudili Nwanne (42), Maduabuchi Obia (22), Chukwuedozie Orah (30) and Chukwuemeka Ekechi (30) all of Ndikelionwu town in the council area. The commissioner said that three AK47 rifles where carted away during the attack but one was recovered from them upon interrogation. Also paraded was 25 year old Chimaobi Amauwa who was arrested in Onitsha for armed robbery. Dandaura said preliminary investigation showed Amauwa was a member of one-chance robbery syndicate that terrorised people around Onitsha and environs with commercial bus. “Recovered from the suspect are one locally made pistol and operational vehicle Mitsubishi L300 with Reg. No. DRK 85 XA,” he said. He said all the cases are under investigation after which the suspects would be charged to court. (NAN)