SECURITY
Telecommunications operators have roles to play in securing the cyberspace through proper identification of their customers To address the rising cases of cybercrime, mobile network operators (MNOs) in the country will have to adopt the banks’ style of Know Your Customer (KYC) in order to identify every subscriber on their network. An industry expert and a certified ethical hacker, Dr Greg Ezeilo, who stated this, said the sophistication of cyber criminals made it impossible for them to be tracked through their SIM registration details. With the increasing number of internet users in the country, the risk of cyber attacks have also become higher as hackers and cyber fraudsters target unsuspecting users. While many Nigerians have been defrauded through the internet and text messages or calls purportedly from their banks, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) said all stakeholders must now work together to fight the scourge. According to Ezeilo, a KYC will also help the telcos to have a clean database of their customers as many may have supplied false details during the SIM registration exercise. Speaking on the roles of MNOs in the fight against cyber crime, Ezeilo said though the telcos were also victims of cyber attacks, the law and the industry corporate governance code stipulates specific roles they are to play. He noted that the telcos were expected to assist law enforcement agencies in tracking cyber criminals, while they also have a duty to report any cybercrime threat to the authorities. He added that section 39 of the Cybercrime Act 2015 also empowers the operators to intercept calls suspected to be threats. “The law allows interception of electronic communications, they must, however, be cautious in doing this because they can also be sued for invasion of privacy. The privacy of the customers must be respected,” he noted. In addition, he said the telcos must now set up active response centres to address reports of cyber threats from customers. He added that the operators could also deploy anti-cybercrime applications on their network with intelligent capability to detect criminal signatures on the network. While speaking at a consumer forum in Lagos, the Director of Consumer Affairs Bureau, Mrs Felicia Onwuegbuchulam, noted that as access to high-speed internet or broadband is getting more pervasive and available to Nigerians to enable them achieve more efficiency in their daily activities, the number of cyber criminals, cyber hackers or cyber fraudsters, whose stock in trade is to deploy the internet, using all manner of decoys, to defraud genuine and unsuspecting internet users, have also increased. “The issue of cybercrime is a global phenomenon with levels of pervasiveness differing from country to country, and from region to region. It is also more pronounced in Nigeria, as it costs individuals and organisations financial losses, among other dangers it poses to victims. “It is, therefore, our concern in NCC, to see that risks associated with the usage of Internet by Nigerians are addressed and mitigated too. While the commission stipulates the rules of engagement that will make the cyberspace safe and ensure the confidence as well as the safety of the cyberspace, it needs to be acknowledged that there are benefits and risks of the use of cyberspace and both have to be properly managed,” she said.