Chieftain of the All Progressives Grand Alliance(APGA) Edozie Njoku has said the people of the South East must join forces to realize their clamour for 2023 presidency. Njoku, who is vying for the National Chairmanship of APGA in the May/June convention of the party, said that neither the All Progressive Congress nor the People’s Democratic Party were disposed to giving an Igbo man a presidential ticket in 2023. In a chat with newsmen after a meeting with his party leaders at the state party secretariat in Owerri yesterday, the chieftain also regretted that APGA, a national party was being domesticated into becoming an Anambra state party and called on all stakeholders to rise to the occasion and decentralized the party. Njoku said: “APGA may be owned by the Igbos but cannot be said to owned by Anambra state. The overbearing influence of the Anambra state governor and other elements for Anambra railroaded APGA into conducting the disaster that called the governorship primary of Imo state. “I must not emerge National Chairman of the party, but for whatever it is worth, the party should be rescued from the deadly grip of Anambra merchants. We must elevate our party and move our region forward” Speaking further on Igbo presidency, he maintained that it was a matter of equity and fairness for the Igbos to be allowed to produce 2023 president having played major roles in the growth and development of the country. He said that neither the ruling APC nor PDP would give the Igbos the opportunity in 2023, as such he called on the South-East to rally round APGA to achieve that. “There must be a strong drive for Igbo presidency in 2023. We need to be thoroughly reorganized to strengthen and fortify ourselves for  the great 2023 battle. “It is quite impossible for the South East to get a presidential ticket under APC or PDP and the hope of the South-East lies in APGA. We of the APGA must wake up and go back to the drawing board to salvage Our region”. On the just concluded 2019 general elections in the state, Njoku opined that “lack of internal democracy in both the APGA and APC was responsible for the electoral success of the PDP in the last general elections in Imo”. Njoku explained that he was in the chairmanship race to inject life into the party and to place the party on a formidable pedestal for victory in 2023. As we gradually move towards 2019 and 2023, I am beginning to get worried whether Igbo is putting their acts together to take a shot at the Presidency in 2023 when the North would have completed their eight years? I am worried because I do not know whether we… In “Opinions” The Senator representing Anambra North Senatorial District, Anambra State, Princess Stella Oduah, has dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and defected to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).   Oduah, who served as Minister of Aviation under President Goodluck Jonathan was elected Senator on the platform of the Peoples Democratic… In “News” Senator representing Anambra North Senatorial District, Anambra State, Princess Stella Oduah dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as she defected to the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA). Oduah, who served as Minister of Aviation under President Goodluck Jonathan was elected Senator on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party in… In “National news”