The Officer in Charge of the Rapid Response Squad (RSS) Olatunji Disu, has finally been promoted after ceaselessly battling criminals in Lagos State. He was among the last batch of senior policemen promoted to their new ranks. Disu, who was formerly an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), is now a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP). His friends and well-wishers, who held a celebration in his honour recently at Ikeja described his elevation as long overdue and worthy to be celebrated. Disu has been described by many of his officers as a dedicated and selfless officer. He is known for keeping sleepless nights and expects his men to follow suit as they keep surveillance on criminals. Since he took over the RSS Unit in June 2016, he has put into good use his expertise on policing in a cosmopolitan state, mapping out his ideas on how to police Lagos State. Disu has rebranded, not just the unit, but policemen under his watch. He gives the men lectures on how to be professional policemen and how they are supposed to conduct themselves and interact with members of the public. He is also known for preaching adherence to fundamental rights of civilians, whether they are suspects or not. In a latest video, which went viral, Disu was seen warning policemen against indiscriminate use of their firearms against members of the public. He reminded them that in Police College, they were taught that, “it was better to allow hundred criminals to escape, than to open fire and kill a civilian.” He further told them that as policemen, they were supposed to protect members of the public, not shoot or kill them. He had so impressed security experts and stakeholders, that the Lagos State government felt it was necessary to further equip the unit. The government did that without counting the cost. The Lagos government also knows that in a state where the population is about 20 million people and being the social, commercial and business heartbeat of Nigeria, every support needed to fight crime is a necessity, not a luxury. Indeed, it is on record that under Disu, the unit had its glossy publication title: “The Good Guys.” Also, under his leadership, RRS recorded significant arrests that solved some of the riddles surrounding crimes such as burglaries, highway robberies, pick-pockets, rapes, One-Chance-gangs, kidnappings, and phone thefts. The RRS publication, highlighting some of the achievements of RRS under Disu states: “One of such was the arrest in Ajegunle of Kazeem Bamidele, alias Elewure. This major breakthrough has further led to the arrest of many other suspected criminals, thereby giving a milestone in the cleansing of the metropolis and suburbs of kingpins of crime.” Disu, commenting on the opening chapter of the publication, states:“Over 18 months ago, we have continually coped with the challenge of twin evils of robbery and cultism, which are cancer ravaging the souls of many youths in the society. Though these cases jolted us initially, they had, however, made us to brainstorm on progressive, workable techniques, strategies and proactive ideas that helped us to attack the virus. As parents, we need to be steadfast in monitoring our wards’ morality, ethics and etiquette.” The new Deputy Commissioner of Police, who believes that checking crime begins with parental role and their influence on their children, added: “We sadly experience and record almost on a daily basis cases that confirm that our moral foundation is crumbling and our children are at the receiving end because a lax society is a fertile ground for the growth of crime. Sometimes in July, RRS arrested 22 Agege teenagers alleged to be involved in the use of axes to rob passersby of their phones. “As if this wasn’t disturbing enough, RRS some hours before December 31, 2016, arrested between Agidingbi and Omole, 46 teenagers between ages 13 and 17. They were all members of Awawa Cult Group. From our investigation, they were coming from Agege to New African Shrine in Agidingbi. The gang snatched bags and phones of many passersby before getting to their point of arrest.”