Babatope Okeowo reports that the rivalry between groups loyal to the Governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has been rekindled as the party prepares for the governorship primary election ahead of next year’s gubernatorial poll in the state   Groups loyal to the National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the Governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu have been at each other’s throat over the purported suspension of the governor from the party by its National Working Committee (NWC).
The “suspension” of the governor has been enmeshed in controversy as the official communication organ of the party has not released any official statement announcing the suspension of the governor for alleged anti-party activities during the recent presidential and National Assembly elections in the Sunshine State.
However, the rumour mill in the state said the NWC has suspended Governor Akeredolu for allegedly supporting Action Alliance (AA) National Assembly candidates during the elections.
There was a dispute among leaders of the party over the imposition of candidates before the last election, a development that made many top aspirants under the platform of APC to seek political shelter in the rival AA. But the governor denied endorsing any aspirant to contest the polls on the platform of AA.
The result of the elections shocked many people in the state as the ruling APC lost the presidential election, two out of the three senatorial seats and five out of the nine House of Representative seats. This development made many in the pro-Tinubu group to call for the suspension of Akeredolu from the party as well as the dissolution of the state executive of the party.
But the pro-Akeredolu group argued that if there is anybody to be suspended for anti-party activities, it should be former governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola who supported the Alliance for Democracy (AD) candidate in the last governorship election in the state, Chief Olusola Oke.
Also, the group indicted Tinubu for tactically supporting rebellious elements within the party during the 2016 governorship election in Ondo State. They said the loss of Dr. Segun Abraham at the party’s primary made Tinubu and his group to pitch tent against the party’s candidate. They further alleged that Tinubu and Aregbesola did not show up in any of the campaigns of Akeredolu towards becoming the governor of the state.
The pro-Akeredolu group added that many pro-Tinubu members of the APC in the state decamped to AD, remained aloof or worked against Akeredolu during the governorship election. According to them, this development made Akeredolu to say shortly after the poll that those who worked against the party would have to rejoin the party at the grassroots level.
Apparently referring to Senator Ajayi Borrofice then, Akeredolu said: “A senator, who won his seat under the platform of APC, but chose to openly work for AD during the last governorship election, and later ran a congratulatory advert for me on the pages of a newspaper; tell the senator he is not a member of APC. Everyone that involved in anti-party activities cannot come back through the back door; they would have to go back to their various wards to re-apply for APC membership card.”
Against this backdrop, the pro-Akeredolu group is of the opinion that Tinubu’s loyalists laid the foundation of anti-party activities that hunted the party in the last general elections.
But, Bola Ilori, who was the Director General of Olusola Oke Campaign Organisation during the 2016 governorship election and later Commissioner for Regional Integration in Osun State, blamed Akeredolu for the loss of the party in the presidential election. He said the governor was the architect of disunity within the ruling APC in the state, and which led to the loss at the polls.
He said in a statement that the governor’s vindictive traits has aided disharmony within APC, adding that it was strange for a man that has been governor for years to continue to begrudge on an intra-party primary that preceded his tenure. He noted that the open exposure of the fraud that lined Akeredolu’s way to the government house was never at rest.
Ilori recalled that the party’s appeal panel annulled the primary that produced Akeredolu due to glaring fraud, stressing that the party’s NWC never agreed to the emergence of Akeredolu, but the John Odigie-Oyegun/Bukola Saraki conspiracy of that era unilaterally submitted Akeredolu’s name to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and mobilized huge funds for his victory to become an’ imposed’ governor in the state.
His words: “Some of us could not stand such shenanigan led by Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. We followed the party’s internal mechanism, but it was unilaterally terminated by the then national chairman. Subsequently, we left the party in the expression of our democratic rights on the platform of another party in the agitation against the clear injustice. We lost the election.
“It was well reported on national headlines that Akeredolu organised an attack on me at the venue of an official government assignment in Akure. We were to go to court, but some elders of the party led by Chief Bisi Akande, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Chief Pius Akinyelure, and others intervened. They appealed to all aggrieved against the gubernatorial election processes to drop all further agitation and return to the party and embrace unity. The governor thereafter organised a unity rally and I attended.
“Chief Olusola Oke has since been working hard for the success of the party and was the South-West coordinator of the APC Presidential Campaign, while I, who was his Director General in the AD, was the Chairman of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (Field Operations) Door – Door Campaign throughout the country.
“Akeredolu’s anti-party activity would have been justifiable as a payback were it to be that their mischief was directed against either Oke or Ilori, but neither of us was on the ballot but President Buhari and our National Assembly candidates. So, it was deliberate sabotage against the fortune of the party.
“I laugh at how, in their confusion and the desperate search for justification, they misguide themselves with falsehood and hope it will turn to the truth in an era of Google search Eengine. Let me put it on record; if they are too lazy to Google, I was not holding any position in the party or government six months before and after the 2016 election. Contrary to their claims that I was in Osun government, while in AD, Osun had no cabinet for about 16 months at the time. So, dragging Aregbesola into their justification of treachery is not only based on falsehood, but pure mischief.
“I also wish to place on the record that, as the Director General of the Alliance for Democracy campaigns in 2016, I don’t have any record of funding received from Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola or Senator Ajayi Boroffice for the AD. I dare Akeredolu and his team to come up with such a fact.
“Let it be noted that neither Asiwaju Tinubu nor Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola directed us to the AD nor funded the party. They did not campaign for the party to the best of my record also. If any of Akeredolu minions is in possession of substantive evidence against any of our leaders, let such fellow come forward with it or forever keep their peace. We, as adults have rights to our independent actions and Asiwaju never encourages sycophancy, he promotes robust intellectual discourse and don’t see dissent as a crime, yet we voluntarily owe him in high esteem.”
Ilori opined that “rather than the governor to openly apologise for his treachery against the president, the party and the people, he has continued to hold on to the straw and towing the path of arrogance that has led to the dwindling fortune of the party in the state since his emergence as governor.
“We that he claimed to be copying did not act cowardly like him. We moved to another party and expressed our democratic rights. We never indulged in anti-party activities as he did and still doing. We never perpetrated ‘agabagebe’ by staying in APC and working against the party as they did even, while holding the party and government positions on the platform of the party.
“Series of overtures for peace by me and many others have been serially rebuffed by the governor as if he has already won an eternal mandate, the reality of the need for a second term is gradually dawning on him and rather than hit reconciliatory tones, he has continued to fret and picking enemies.
“Governor Akeredolu; we must tell the whole world, is only being tormented by his own arrogance, vindictiveness and ‘agabagebe,’ not Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, Chief Olusola Oke or Bola Ilori that he is ever quick to blame.”
Reacting to the purported suspension of the governor from the APC, the State Commissioner for Information, Mr. Yemi Olowolabi, said the government read about the suspension on the pages of newspapers and also read about the rebuttal on the same channels.
However, Olowolabi said whatever happened about the suspension is an internal affair of the ruling party. “Whether there was suspension or not, the governor remains in APC. He is a founding member of the party. Whatever happens will be resolved at the leadership level of the APC. The governor remains on his mandate to deliver good dividends of democracy to the people of Ondo State,” he said.
But, despite the commissioner’s belief that the matter is a party affair and would be resolved by the APC leadership, many political observers in the state are of the view that the diatribe will continue as the state prepares for the next governorship election.