For Mrs. Bridget Osakwe, National Network Coordinator, West African Network for Peace builder Nigeria, making the world a safe haven, mostly for women and children is the main focus of this interview with ALI GARBA. With the spate of killings and kidnapping in Zamfara, Borno, Benue, Kaduna and other states, she says citizens have become vulnerable in conflict prone zones. As such, she urged government to wake up to its responsibility   Why so much worry about the killings and kidnapping in the northern state, What do think could be done to reduce the suffering of women in Zamfara and other states?
Zamfara like any other community or state in Nigeria is part of Nigeria and wherever human life is concerned, I am concern. I am a peace builder, anywhere peace is disturbed, I feel greatly concern.
We have seen a lot of killings, I was telling someone the other day that we have lost our humanity, because nowadays, you wake up to a series of sad and shocking tales of murder. They will say 48 killed, 35 dead and this one kidnapped , the number that we hear is so high, that it is no more making meanings of human life whereas in other places, when you hear two people die it becomes a national news that even CNN carries it. And you see that they repeats every minute but here in Nigeria, we just hear 48 dead, 35 dead and nothing happens. These things were going on until women wake up from their slumber. The women organised themselves and started calling for peace. That protest for women, is the first in Zamfara. In Nigeria, we gave political coloration, luckily the women that are organising the protest are supporters of the government they have once openly shown support. You can see they are now asking government why the silence when all they need is peace for economic development in Nigeria.
It is very important that these voices are amplified because, that is how we kept quite in Borno, and it became where it is now. Same with Benue and it became this hot and so, if we keep quite in Zamfara, it would become another state. It is high time to stood up as responsible government to secure one community, secure lives of every citizenry- women, men and girl-child. What programmes do you have for the vulnerable women and children ?
Are we not all vulnerable in this situation? Nigeria has gone beyond all indicators of war situation. What is happening in Nigeria if you add it all up is an indicator of war in other countries, they would have disintegrated, so we are all vulnerable. In the case of women and children, there are indicators of women and children who have been displaced and suffering in this period which we are. What we saying now is that analysis- by asserting the number of the victims involved, as l am sitting here, I don’t know the number. We would first assert the number of women and children that are displaced. It is just important that we know the number for us to do good analysis for effective intervention. But the issue of women and children are very important and we shall make it in this process.
Do you think it is only government responsibility?
Government should wake up to its responsibility of protecting its citizenry. There is an international frame work of whose responsibility is to protect and Nigeria is part of it, so the government should please put politics aside, we are not looking at which political party or affiliation now but at human security. Government should please wake up and protect people from daily killings, kidnapping and you hear they are banditry, you hear they are abductors, gunmen, whatever name it comes to, government should please come to our aid. Is that part of the reason WANEP is training Journalists on amplifying women voices?
WANEP has realised that journalists are key to promoting sustainable peace. We deliberately designed this media strategy on reportage of women, peace and security agenda towards amplifying women’s voices for peace because of the following: Limited knowledge about UNSCR 1325, for broad public awareness of WPS resolutions and recognition of the role women play in conflict prevention, peace building and sustainable peace.
Increase in women’s participation in decision making processes. Protection of women and girls especially in conflict situations, promotion of women’s capacities in peace processes. Involving women in topical issues that aid national development, investigative reports, Research, Data gathering. Analysis of WPS and increased coverage of women issues, UNSCR1325 and WPS. Do think this UNSCR 1325 is achievable in Nigeria?
UNSCR 1325 is achievable with concerted efforts by all stakeholders like the media to address the identified challenges thus: inadequate technical capacity for implementation, poor coordination among stakeholders, and lack of budgetary allocation specifically targeting Women, Peace and Security.
Also weak political will in terms of implementation in most states, weak monitoring mechanism, and inadequate public awareness. It is also anticipated that effective implementation of Nigeria’s NAP on UNSCR 1325 and supporting resolutions will ensure increased participation of women in decision making, leadership and peace processes. It will also protect them from Sexual Gender Based Violence during armed conflict.