On June 17, 2017, Akin Adewale (not real name), a driver, was sent by his boss to withdraw N270,000 in one of the commercial banks in Ijebu Ode, Ogun State. On his way, he was accosted by a group of four policemen in plain clothes. After searching his vehicle, they found the money and demanded its source as well as the identity of the driver. His explanation and proof that he withdrew the money from a bank was like a tale full of fury and signifying nothing as far as the policemen were concerned. A common criminal had been found and he was led to the police station. They instilled fear in him and took him down the memory lane, telling him the number of his types that they had killed for being obdurate. He could not communicate with his boss as his phone had been switched off and confiscated by these malicious agents of evil masquerading as policemen. The driver was forced to write a self-implicating statement. One of the villains in this theatre of the absurd actually dictated what the driver should write. After he had written the statement, one of the policemen read out the statement to him. The policemen were the investigators, prosecutors and ultimately the judge. They put the hapless young man in a cul-de-sac. He was at their mercy. But they didn’t show him a modicum of mercy. The driver was tried on the spot and was found guilty as charged. After signing his statement, they badgered him to part with N50, 000 from his master’s money to buy his freedom or risk going to jail. They called the money ‘bail money!’ It didn’t occur to any of these policemen that their iniquity was not a done deal. Everybody played his conspiratorial role well. They shared the ‘bail money’ and hit the road again looking for another victim to brutalise. It couldn’t have been the first time they plotted such evil against an innocent citizen. Since ‘every day is for the thief but one day is for the owner,’ the driver sent a distress message to the WhatsApp number of the Public Complaint Rapid Response Unit of the Ogun State Police Command a few days after the show of shame. On this day, no policeman was willing to back up the wrong tree. It was an opportunity to separate the wheat from chaff. These bad eggs were identified, investigated, found wanting and summarily dismissed. They also refunded the N50, 000 ‘bail money’ to the driver. This case is one out of many of such. There are so many we will never hear about because that is the only guarantee to stop further harassment and intimidation of such victims by the police. When the police make up their mind to conspire against an innocent person, the conspiracy can be enormous and uncanny. There are cases of those who didn’t even survive to tell the story of the brutality they suffered in the hands of men paid and equipped with taxpayers’ money they eventually turned their guns against. The ‘Apo 6’ readily comes to mind in this instance. Was justice done and can be seen to have been done in that incident? Your guess is as good as mine. As a student in secondary school, I had ambivalent attitude towards the police, a position engendered by the killing of a US-based Nigerian athlete, Dele Udoh, by a triggered-happy riot policeman. How athletes in track suits filed behind the hearse bearing Udoh’s remains, chanting anti-police songs on their way to the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos, is still fresh in my memory. The impression I had then about riot police otherwise known by the sobriquet ‘kill and go,’ was that they were licensed to kill and this largely formed my opinion about them in my childhood innocence and naivety. The killing of the Dawodu brothers by another killer riot policeman at the Anikantamo plank market on Lagos Island in the late 80s and the attendant riot in that part of the state further reinforced my belief that there are more fiendish policemen than the friendly ones. The prevalence of killings of innocent citizens by the police is not new. From the 80s to the present moment, countless number of hapless Nigerians had been killed by the police. Many more are in prisons across the country on account of frame up and conspiracy of the police. They may never be heard no matter how vociferous their voices are because they have been drowned by police’s forces, brutality and grand conspiracy. Section 34 (1) of the 1999 Constitution provides that:…”no person shall be subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment.” The same constitution in Section 33 (1) guarantees the rights to life save in the execution of a sentence of a court in respect of a criminal offence of which a person has been found guilty. Although there are permissible limitations on the right to life as enshrined in Section 33 (2) of the constitution, which provides that a person shall not be regarded as having being deprived of his life if he dies under such circumstances as permitted by the law: (a) For the defence of any person from unlawful violence or property; (b) In order to effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the escape of a person lawfully detained; or (c) For the purpose of suppressing a riot, insurrection or mutiny. It is worrisome that in most cases, this section of the constitution is what killer cops run to any time they pulled their trigger against innocent citizens. There were cases where even senior police officers were also eager to be part of this conspiracy using this section of the constitution as a shield. I recall the case of one Engineer Fapounda who was killed and labelled as an armed robber by the police in 2004 in Ekiti State and how a Divisional Police Officer stood his ground that the victim was an armed robber. It took the effort of the state House of Assembly to puncture that lie as one from the pit of hell. It is not always difficult to deal with extrajudicial killings by the rank and file at the level of Police authorities. But same cannot be said when senior officers commit infractions. The bond of esprit de corps, and camaraderie that the senior officers enjoy ensures they are shielded while the rank and files are made the scapegoats even if an infraction was committed by a police team comprising senior and junior officers. But the day of selective punishment may be over if the words of the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, are anything to go by that DPOs and Area Commanders would now be liable for lack of proper supervision for misdeeds of their subordinates. While this is commendable, promotion and welfare of policemen should be given utmost priority with the hope that the Police Reform Bill passed on Wednesday by the Senate will be looked into by the President on time considering that there might be areas of disagreement between the Executive and the Senate. Junior policemen will not think straight if they continue to live in squalor and disease while the superior ones live inopulence. If they cannot release their pent-up emotions on their superiors, innocent citizens will become their targets. Also, DPOs and Area Commanders will resort to self-help if they are denied their office subventions and running cost despite being expected to nip crimes in the bud and apprehend criminals. I have looked at the Police Reform Bill and it’s gratifying to note that the age-long draconian laws in the Police Act of 1943 will soon be removed to pave the way for people friendly police that will rapidly respond to crimes and more importantly nip them in the bud. However, having a law is not always a problem. We have extant laws to deal with premeditated killings. But how well have we implemented those laws? While the reform bill is a necessity, more attention should be paid to the recruitment process. It’s a matter of time for a building with a suspect foundation to become distressed. The recruitment of police intake should be good enough to ensure that only those with genuine interest are recruited instead of those who see it as an available option. The training schools should also be well equipped with modern policing facilities where recruits are taught how to respond to situations without resorting to use of arms and ammunition as often the case in sane climes. Nigeria remains one of the few countries in the world where their policemen carry long guns in the open at all times. With no fewer than five extrajudicial killings in less than one month, our policemen need to be watched like hawks before they kill more innocent Nigerians.