 More commendations yesterday trailed the signing into law of the N30, 000 minimum wage bill by President Muhammadu Buhari with the organised labour-the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC), calling for immediate implementation of the new wage, which is long overdue. On its part, the All Progressives Congress (APC) commended President Buhari for assenting to the approved N30, 000 new minimum wage, stating that it was in fulfilment of the party’s election promise. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that President Buhari on Thursday signed the bill into law. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Sen. Ita Enang, disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to him, the signing of the new national minimum wage bill into law will usher in a ‘new dawn’ for workers. The presidential aide also said that the signing into law of the new national minimum wage bill showed that the president was willing to take every necessary step to motivate the workers toward greater productivity and improve their welfare. But in separate reactions to the long awaited move by the President, NLC’s General Secretary, Dr. Peter Ozo- Eson, and President of the TUC, Comrade Bobboi Kaigama, said its implementation would clear all doubts. While commending the speedy passage of the bill by the National all Assembly, Ozo-Eson said the NLC would work with all agencies and other bodies responsible for the implementation of the new minimum wage. He said: “We at the NLC signing into law the new national minimum wage bill of N30, 000. We commend Mr. President for doing the needful. “However, we would use this opportunity to call for immediate implementation of the law, given the fact that this process has dragged on for nearly two years.” On his part, Kaigama, who commended the president for assenting to the minimum wage bill, said no stone would be left unturned to see that Nigerian workers get a living wage. “We in the TUC want to appreciate the President for not jettisoning the path of honour,” he said. Reacting, the APC in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Isssa-Onilu, in Abuja, said: “Truly, our workers deserve a new, improved and implementable minimum wage in view of current economic realities. “Commendably, the welfare of workers has remained a top priority of the President Buhari-led APC administration as exhibited in the federal government bailouts to state governments to pay workers salary, housing schemes for civil servants among other welfare packages. “We congratulate stakeholders that ensured the achievement of this laudable feat, particularly the National Assembly, state governors, the Amma Pepple- led tripartite committee, labour/trade unions and indeed Nigerian workers. “This is another solid demonstration of a President who matches his words with action. Nigerians will recall the President had severally assured of a new and improved national minimum wage for workers. “The assent of the N30, 000 minimum wage by the president is indeed another election promise delivered.” In the same vein, Nasarawa State governor-elect, Mr. Abdullahi Sule, yesterday pledged to implement the new minimum wage, after sworn in as the governor. In a statement signed by his media aide, Alhaji Sanusi Aliyu, in Lafia, Sule said: “That he is always ready to ensure the right conditions are in place for them. “This step will not only go a long way in assisting workers in meeting certain needs, but will also strengthen the relationship between employers and employees and motivate improved productivity.” On her part, President, Women Arise for Change Initiative, Dr. Joe Okei- Odumakin, commended the president for signing into law the National Minimum Wage Bill approving N30, 000 for the least paid worker in the country. Odumakin said: “It is a welcome development though this is coming at a time when several states in the country have battled over the last couple of years to pay the previous N18, 000 minimum wage.” Meanwhile, the NLC Ebonyi State chapter has commended President Buhari for signing the N30, 000 new minimum wage bill into law. Its NLC Chairman, Leo Nkah, who spoke in an interview with the NAN in Abuja, said Buhari has proved to be a caring leader. Nkah, who is also, the President, Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Ebonyi Chapter, expressed the hope that state governors would not hesitate to pay the new wage to their workers, since it was a collective agreement.