The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), has raised an alert over a fresh plot by fraudsters to dupe unsuspecting candidates of the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations, who are awaiting results expected to be released from today (Monday). In its weekly bulletin made available to newsmen yesterday in Abuja by the Head of Information, JAMB, Fabian Benjamin, the board advised candidates to ensure the safety of their UTME registration numbers and profile codes to avoid falling victims to the antics of fraudsters. “Candidates should know that what these fraudsters do is to take advantage of their naivety and subsequently obtain their registration numbers with which they print their Examination Notification slips which contain the candidates’ phone number and other vital data. “These fraudsters then use this information to send messages to same candidates disguising as officials of the Board or persons, who have special information, access and capacity to inflate the candidates’ scores among other things. Their strategy is akin to that of a police officer who is unmindful of the fact that he is wearing his name tag on his uniform and when you address him by his name, he is surprised that you knew his name. “The Board urges candidates to see their registration numbers and profile codes as security data similar to the Automated Teller Machine, ATM pin number which admit them to make a withdrawal from their accounts. The fraudsters use the information deprived of the examination Notification slip printed using the candidates’ registration number to open up a line of communication with candidates to dangle the enticing offer of awarding them higher scores in the yet-tobe- released 2019 UTME results among other mouthwatering promises. “This is fraudulent as they lack the capacity to do any of such. Candidates are, therefore, enjoined to disregard messages or calls from anybody claiming to have access to the board’s classified information,” the bulletin stated. Meanwhile, the board has conducted the UTME for no fewer than 200 Nigerians and other nationalities living in seven countries abroad, who desire to study in Tertiary institutions in Nigeria. The examination was taken on Saturday April 27, 2019, in Ghana, United Kingdom, Cameroon, Benin Republic, Cote d’Ivoire, South Africa and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Some suspects who were allegedly caught while perpetrating certain irregularities in the ongoing registration for the 2017 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations have reportedly confessed to spending over N20m to construct a radio platform with which they hacked into JAMB’s registration portal. The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps arrested no… In “News” The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has called on prospective candidates to disregard advertisements on social media, announcing sales of registration documents with some illegal centres and subject combinations.   The board’s Head, Media and Information, Dr Fabian Benjamin, gave the warning in an interview with the News Agency… In “News” The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, has said it was yet to determine cut-off marks for the 2017 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, UTME, and commencement of change of courses and institutions. In a statement released to newsmen by the Head of Information of JAMB, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, in Abuja… In “News”