The National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), on Saturday donated some empowerment items to 79 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Abuja. Mrs Sadya Farouk, Commissioner, NCFRMI, while donating the items, at the Durumi IDP Camp, Garki Area 1, said the gesture was part of the agency’s commitment to providing assistance, protection for IDPs and other displaced persons in the country. According to her, the commission as the only protection-based agency for persons of concern has been carrying out its responsibilities diligently within the limits of available resources. Farouk said for the past two months, the commission had embarked on intensive skill training and empowerment of IDPs across 31 locations, spanning nine states. “This event therefore today, is another aspect of our interventions using the relevant tools and start-up capital needed to set-up their business. “We are creating well-trained and wellequipped group of entrepreneurs with the aim of supporting them to become independent and to regain their dignity. “These livelihood support interventions we are providing have been duly researched and have been found to be a useful part of helping persons of concern. “I therefore urge the beneficiaries to implement what has been taught to them and to utilize the items that have been given to them, which is to generate income,” Farouk said. She assured the IDPs that the commission would ensure that the IDPs get maximum support and assistance until the point they would no longer need such. The commissioner stressed the need for continuous good behaviour by the IDPs, noting that the commission, international agencies and regional organisations would not abandon them until their full reintegration into the society. Speaking on behalf of other beneficiaries, Mrs Liyatu Ayuba, thanked the commission for its kind gesture and promised to use the items given to her for self reliance and to generate income for her family. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the items donated include soap making materials, scale, sewing machines and cash to start up any business of their choice.