No fewer than fifteen lives have been lost in a lone accident that occurred on Sunday night along Bida-Mokwa road in Niger State after a trailer lost control and skidded off the road. Our Correspondent gathered that the trailer which was conveying tomatoes and pepper to the southern part of the country also injured forty other persons. It was gathered that in an attempt to negotiate a bend around Gbadafu town a few kilometers from Bida town the driver of the vehicle lost control forcing the trailer to overturn thereby throwing its content on the passengers it carried which also resulted in their death and broken limbs of the injured. Findings have it that both the dead and the injured were rushed by good Samaritans to the Federal Medical Centre, Bida for treatment. According to eyewitnesses report, apart from the produces, the trailer was also overloaded with people numbering over Sixty who seated on makeshift seats on top of the tomatoes. Further findings have it that, the morgue of the hospital was over congested while the injured that could not be admitted at the emergency wards were being treated on the bare floor after the old mattresses in the stores had been retrieved for use. As at 1pm on Monday medical personnel were still battling to save the lives of some of the injured victims. Also, one of the eyewitnesses tild our Correspondent that, two other persons who are indigenes also died and have been buried according to Islamic rites in Bida. The Head of Clinical Services of the Hospital, Dr Adedeji Adekanye,  confirmed that 10 dead bodies were brought to the hospital from the accident spot and were deposited at the morgue while three others who were brought alive were lost because of the severity of their cases. According to Adekanye “the major challenge being faced in the management of the victims was “bed spaces “at the emergency ward. Most of the victims were presently being attended to on the floor. “We are coping and I don’t think we require any assistance from outside but our major problem is bed spaces”. He however said that those with “minor injuries” have been treated and discharged. When contacted, the Director General of the Niger State Emergency Management Agency NSEMA Ibrahim Inga, said his men had been sent to Bida to assess the situation. All efforts to reach officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) for comments proved abortive as the Public Relations Officer of the FRSC, Mr Habibu Raji did not pick his calls..