Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, has charged the Edo State Head of Service and other top civil servants to continue to support the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration to fast track development in the state. The Oba made the call in his palace in Benin City, during a courtesy visit by the state’s Head of Service, Mr. Isaac Ebose Ehiozuwa. The monarch said: “I call on you to put in your best, be committed to service. I encourage you to put in your best and support the government to ensure development in the state. “I call on you, the HoS, to talk to your people to be transformed, committed and develop positive attitude to work. We will continue to pray for you to be up and doing in supporting the transformation agenda of the Obaseki-led administration in the state. “The door of the palace is always open; feel free to come at any time when you need support, advice and prayers. We are ready to support you to enable you to succeed in your new position as the HoS in Edo State.” On his part, Ehiozuwa, said he was at the palace to inform the monarch of his appointment as the new HoS in the state. Governor Godwin Obaseki, last week, signed into law the bill which prohibits Community Development Associations (CDAs) and their activities as passed by members of the Edo State House of Assembly. The law has the strong backing of HRM Oba Ewuare 11 of Benin kingdom. CAJETAN MMUTA reports When on October… In “News” For over two weeks, Governor Godwin Obaseki was fully engaged with tours to the 18 local government areas of Edo State. The exercise, which ended last week, was dubbed: ''Thank you tours.'' The trips served more purposes than they were meant for. In each council, the tour afforded the governor… In “Politics” Paul Ohonbamu is the Edo State Commissioner for Communication and Orientation. In this interview, he speaks on governance in the state and efforts by the Godwin Obaseki-led administration to reposition the state. CAJETAN MMUTA reports   What has been your experience working with Governor Godwin Obaseki? The governor has proven… In “Politics”