Mrs. Sakamaje (not real name) was a woman who was nicknamed “prayer machine”. Those days, she could pray from morning till night falls; particularly when it had to do with prayers relating to: Dealing with household enemies, praying against witches and wizard and the die, die die kind of prayer. She could pray these supplications with the last blood in her veins. Prayer is good. I pray too and I recommend effective prayers for a successful living. However, Mrs. Sakamaje’s character when not praying was alarming. When you saw her raining abuses and curses on her neighbours, you would be shocked to your marrow and ask if it was the same woman you saw ‘kabashing’ few minutes ago. Everyone used to avoid her. No one wanted to start any trouble with her, anyone who does will not only get himself embarrassed; many people would even blame the fellow for having anything to do with Mrs. Sakamaje in the first place – even if the person wasn’t at fault. Although, she could pray from morning till night but she could not approach anyone to tell them about the love of Christ. She had a very negative image, as far as neighbours were concerned; more so, she had no cordial relationship with anyone. No one is perfect though, we all have one weakness or the other we are dealing with; hoping to be better. However, sometimes, when you see the way some church goers behave, you would most likely ask who their Pastors are. Some persons’ character the moment after they step out of the church premises is nothing but ‘God have mercy’. Your relationship with God and man is key to your greatness in life. You can’t love God and hate or don’t relate with man. Long ago, I attended a prayer event in a popular church in Lagos. On getting to the parking lot to drive out, I saw two women shouting and raining abuses on each other. I asked myself if truly we all had just left the same prayer meeting I attended. See, there are things we naturally do that automatically hinder our blessings from locating us. There are some characters and attitudes we display sometimes that are inimical to our progress in life. Thank God that He (God) doesn’t answer all prayers, if not, some of us would have been consumed by the prayers that come from our mouth, because sometime, unknowingly, we are our own enemies. Some dry fasting and vigil might not be necessary if we can just adjust some wrong attitudes to God and man in our lives. The list of blessing blocker is limitless. However, let’s discuss a few. 1. Envy: This also means jealousy, bitterness, greed or spite towards another fellow. I saw an inscription recently that reads: “Jealousy is the last class to attend before becoming a witch.” Friends, if you see something good about someone, rather than envying them, ask what their secret is. Learn from them. 2. Anger: The bible described a man who has anger issues as someone who is like a defenseless city. Ability to control your temperament is a sign of maturity. Anger is a major blessing blocker. It made Moses not to see the Promised Land, despite his great exploits. 3. Laziness: Laziness is a great blessing blocker: God will never hand over a higher responsibility to you when you are slothful on the present one. Greatness requires hard work and smart work. You can’t be sleeping from 6pm till 2pm (the next day), expecting God to rain down miracles. Kolewerk mehn. Get something doing mehn. 4. Gossip: I describe gossip as an act of talking negatively about someone (who is not present) to another person, with an intention to defame the person’s image. As inconsiderable as gossip is, it is a great blessing blocker. Anyone you can’t talk about in his or her present, don’t, in his or her absent. Learn to talk good about people. It’s a great seed to your destiny. As earlier said, the list is endless. However, as individuals, let’s check ourselves. Let’s work on our negative attitudes or characters that may affect our relationship with God and man. As much as you can, let people see the God you serve in you before they hear about the God you serve. You are the epistles that others read. Have great week. According to scriptures, the supernatural is the natural habitat of every believer. That is, every child of God is a supernatural being ordained to command signs and wonders at will. As it is written: The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell… In “Christianity” I was told by a male teacher that he went home during a midterm break; and, decided to fish in certain water. As he was in the boat alone casting his net, he suddenly found himself in the water! The boat had capsized. He was in the water for 3… In “Columnists” Say commerce booms Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays   Before the year begins to unfold what it has in stock for everyone, most Nigerians go to different religious sanctuaries to offer prayers and make wishes on expectations for the year. Career persons like craftsmen, artisans, professionals, business persons do this too to… In “Sunday Extra”