 The Golden Eaglets of Nigeria had to dig deep to secure the one point needed against Uganda to top their group and secure passage to the semi-finals of the AFCON currently on-going in Tanzania They had already qualified for the 2019 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Brazil following their two earlier wins in the round robin stage of the cadet competition. The team finished top of the table with seven points ahead of Angola who secured six points – with both qualifying for Brazil. In a pattern that has stuck with them since the tournament began, the Golden Eaglets created a basketful of chances, wasting them one after the other, starting from Akinwunmi Amoo’s poor touch after a sweet team move in the 17th minute. Three minutes later, Wisdom Ubani lashed a shot narrowly over the bar from a free-kick, and at the other end, Uganda came close to taking the lead when Samson Kasozi headed the ball against the upright from a corner. Nigeria had another narrow escape in the 25th minute as the East Africans put their feet on the throttle. Four minutes later, Amoo wasted too much time when clear on goal, and on the dot of half time, with the goal at his mercy, the striker headed the ball far away from goal. Uganda’s goalkeeper Jack Komakech saved from Fawaz Abdullahi and Ubani within two minutes of the restart, and in the 58th minute, Andrew Kawooya rocked goalkeeper Sunday Stephen’s crossbar with a fierce drive from a free-kick. In the 70th minute, Uganda finally drew first blood as the Nigeria defence line ball-watched from a corner kick. Davis Ssekajja’s pull out got a slight touch from Sunday Stephen, and substitute John Alou had the simplest task of nodding into an empty net. However, the Eaglets were not behind for long as Ibraheem Jabaar read a long pass from substitute Olakunle Olusegun quite well and pushed it beyond onrushing goalkeeper Komakech with the Ugandan defence in no man’s land. Two minutes later, a typical fierce Ubani shot was punched away by Komakech.  In Wednesday’s semi-finals, the Golden Eaglets will tango with the second-placed team in Group B, which would be sorted out on Sunday as leaders Cameroon confront Senegal and second –placed Guinea tackle Morocco.
Angola joined Nigeria in the semis from Group A, following their 4-2 defeat of Tanzania, as the host nation ended up losing all three group phase matches, conceding 12 goals in the process.