The Chief Imam of Alfurqan Jummat Mosque, Kano, Dr Bashir Aliyu Umar has called on the Minister of Defense, Gen Mansur Muhammad Dan Ali (rtd)to resign his appointment for failing to protect the people of his home state, Zamfara from incessant killings of residents hoodlums. He said that the Minister should resign and allow a move serious person to take over.  He further called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency in the state over the killings by bandits, while berating Governor Abdulaziz Yari for reportedly hiring over 1700 local hunters and magicians to protect residents. Also he came hard on the governor for allegedly turning the state which practiced Sharia to that of “Infidels” by hiring unbelievers to protect the state from hoodlums’ incessant attacks.  Dr Umar said the senseless killing in the state is forcing desperate residents to embrace un-Islamic and heretic practices in order to defend themselves. The cleric, who raised the alarm while delivering his Friday sermon to thousands of Muslim faithful, also said it was both sad and dangerous that Zamfara State under Governor Yari hired 1,700 people who practise voodoo, who are expected to equip people with magical amulets to protect them. “We have been reliably informed that the Zamfara State government has hired 1,700 charmers who are throwing pages of the Holy Qur’an around roads and practicing magic which is forbidden in Islam.  They are doing this in the name of protecting people against attacks by the bandits,” he said. The Imam said the practice of recruiting magicians to protect people is eroding and destroying the struggle and efforts of foremost scholars like Sheik ‘Uthman Ibn Dan Fodio of Sokoto, who led wars to end heresy and apostasy centuries ago.  “The challenge is now on our traditional leaders, who are the inheritors of Sheikh Dan Fodio’s legacy. They were issued with flags to continue to protect and safeguard Islam.  Therefore, they should not watch as the legacies of their forefathers are being destroyed,” he said. Dr. Umar called on President Buhari to immediately declare a state of emergency in Zamfara State as the only way to end the carnage, adding that the people of the state deserved pity and all forms of compassion to earn a peaceful living, saying the pogrom had consumed many lives with almost no end in sight. He said the people of the state were fed up with the endless promises of taking decisive action by the Federal Government on the imposition of emergency rule to end the killings.  The Federal Government says the persistent attacks on residents of Zamfara State by bandits will affect food security in the country. The Minister of Interior, Lt-Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (rtd), stated this yesterday in Gusau during an on-the-spot assessment of the activities of the bandits in the state. He said: “Since… In “News” The Catholic Church, one of the biggest Christian blocs in Nigeria and all over the world, yesterday told President Muhammadu Buhari to either arrest the killings of innocent Nigerians in the country or resign. The warning came as thousands of Catholic Church members staged peaceful protests across the states… In “News” Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation, has called on the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, to rise up to his responsibility and secure the state or resign. Amaechi stated this while reacting to the killing of 21 residents of the state on their way back from New Year’s crossover service.… In “News”