With the outcome of last general elections in Ondo State and the defeat of a former governor of the state, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko and his successor, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, BABATOPE OKEOWO reports that new crop of political leaders are emerging in the state.   The last general elections; presidential, national and state house of assembly in Ondo State have relegated some leaders in the state into political background and thrown up new leaders who may shape the forthcoming governorship election in 2020.
Among those who have temporarily lost the political verve include the immediate past governor of the state, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko; incumbent Deputy Governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi; outgoing senators representing Ondo South and Central districts, Yele Omogunwa, and Omotayo Alasoadura.
Those who are likely to emerge as the new political leaders include Hon Duerimini Isaacs Kekemeke, former Deputy Governor of the state, Alhaji Ali Olanusi; Otunba Nicholas Tofowomo, Prince Banji Okunomo, Prof Robert Ajayi Borroffice, Chief Olusola Oke, Dr. Patrick Ayo Akinyelure, Chief Bibopiri Ajube, Mr. Kingsley Kuku, Jeffrey Abidoye and Dr. Eddy Olafeso.
The state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, should have been one of the losers in the last general election because of the defeat of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the presidential and National Assembly elections, but his ability to bounce back from defeat to win 23 out of the available 26 seats in the state House of Assembly has made him a force to be reckoned with in the polity of the state. .
Also, some of the steps being taken by Akeredolu since the end of the elections have shown that the governor is ready to play politics. He has visited the 18 local governments on a ‘thank you’ tour, set up committee for the creation of Local Council Development Authority (LCDA) and rename the state University of Science and Technology (OSUSTECH) after former Governor Olusegun Agagu.
Unlike other states where a single godfather dictates the political pace, Ondo State has not produced any political godfather. In fact, none of the former governors since the beginning of the present political dispensation has been able to produce his successor. Chief Adebayo Adafarati of Alliance for Democracy (AD) was defeated by Dr. Olusegun Agagu of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Agagu was sacked by Dr. Olusegun Mimiko of Labour Party (LP) via a judicial pronouncement.
Since the death of Agagu, the PDP has jettisoned the idea of a single leader, opting for joint leadership. Although the governor is the leader of the APC in the state, some stalwarts of the party, however, share the leadership with him. In fact, the supremacy battle ranges in Ondo North between Prof Robert Ajayi Boroffice and Governor Akeredolu. Prof Robert Ajayi Boroffice
The fact that Boroffice won despite the odds against him made him top the list of the new leaders in the state. He would not have won the third term ticket of APC if the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party did not give him an automatic ticket. Having gotten the ticket, he had to cross the hurdle of AA and PDP which wanted to prevent his reelection.
Apart from winning the senatorial seat, his candidates in the two federal constituencies in Akoko; Messrs Ade Adeogun and Bunmi Tunji-Ojo also won their election while he also worked for President Muhammadu Buhari to win in the district.
This feat made the governor to seek reconciliation with him before the House of Assembly election. Alhaji Ali Olanusi
Olanusi, a former deputy governor of the state, was one of the people who usually accused Governor Akeredolu of anti-party activities before the general elections. He is the leader of aggrieved members of the party opposed to the mainstream led by Mr. Ade Adetimehin.
The fact that his candidates including Prof Boroffice, Adeogun and Tunji-Ojo won their elections made him one of the forces to reckon with in the politics of Ondo North senatorial district.
Olanusi, a former Chairman of the PDP in the state, is a member of the Board of Trustee of APC. He had always insisted that all the party’s candidates must be supported by the governor. A veteran of many political battles, Olanusi’s experience would be relied upon when the battle of who occupies Alagbaka governor’s office begins. D. I Kekemeke
Duerimini Isaacs Kekemeke has many firsts attached to his name. he was the pioneer Chairman of National Examination Council (NECO), Pioneer Secretary of PDP and the first chairman of the APC.
Although Kekemeke who sources said has shown interest in the governorship seat did not win in his Eseodo Local Government, the point he has always made about the division in the party came to the fore with the loss of the party in the state. Olusola Oke
As a veteran of many political battles and being a governorship candidate few times over the years, Oke is one of the political leaders in the state, who knows their onions. Since 2000 when he became the state representative on the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), he has become the Chairman of the Ondo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (OSOPADEC), National Legal Adviser of the PDP and the party’s governorship candidate in 2012 governorship election.
He defected to the APC shortly after the presidential election of 2015 won by President Buhari. He also defected to AD in towards the governorship election in 2016. He returned to the APC and was made the Southwest Director General of APC Campaign Council.
Although the APC lost Ondo South senatorial district and Presidential election, Oke, however, won for Buhari in Ilaje Local Government area of the state. The major albatross of the two-time governorship candidate is his inability to remain in opposition for a long time. Eddy Olafeso
The National Vice Chairman of the PDP in the South West, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, won in his Okitipupa Local Government, his Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency and Ondo South Senatorial district made him one of the forces to be reckoned with in the politics of the state.
Olafeso, a former Secretary of the PDP and Commissioner for Information nominated Mr. Gboluga Ikengboju as the PDP’s candidate to replace Prince Mike Omogbehin. Ikengboju defeated the incumbent in the PDP’s primary and defeated the APC’s candidate, Mr. Albert Akintoye in the election.
Winning two out of the three federal constituency seats, senatorial seat and the presidential election made Olafeso one of the top leaders in Ondo South senatorial district. Otunba Nicholas Tofowomo
The Senator-elect for Ondo South senatorial district is one of the leaders to watch out for in the politics of the state. The former commissioner was one of the surprise winners in the National Assembly election. He defeated an incumbent, Mr. Yele Omogunwa, and the Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, in their constituencies.
Since he emerged as the winner of the election, Tofowomo has become a rallying point for the PDP in Ondo South. Banji Okunomo
The former Chairman of Ilaje Local Government is one of the emerging political leaders in the state. He was the Director General of Tofowomo Campaign Organisation. He coordinated the election in Ondo South senatorial district and delivered the highest vote for the Presidential candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Abubarkar Atiku. A former student union leader, Okunomo is one of the grassroots politicians by virtues of the positions he held in the state. Olusola Ebiseeni
A former Chairman of Ilaje/Eseodo Local Government, Ebiseeni is one of the veteran politicians from Ondo South senatorial district. A two term Commissioner for Environment, he was in the Presidential Campaign Council of Abubarkar Atiku and delivered his local government, federal constituency and senatorial district.
He has always shown his interest in the governorship slot of the PDP and that has always pitched him with other contenders for the seat. Eyitayo Jegede SAN
A two term Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Jegede was the governorship candidate of PDP in 2016 election in the state. Since Dr. Mimiko left the PDP for Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Jegede has been the leader of the PDP in the state. Many people in the state were of the opinion that he would have won the 2016 governorship election if not the cog that was thrown in his wheel by Mr. Jimoh Ibrahim who held onto the mandate until two days to the election.
He was also the Chairman of PDP Campaign Council in the state. He has been leading others in funding the activities of the party in the state. The challenge to his leadership is the forthcoming governorship election which many think should either go to the South Senatorial district or remain in Ondo North where the incumbent Akeredolu comes from. Patrick Ayo Akinyelure
Defeating an incumbent Senator, Omotayo Alasoadura and immediate past governor of the Ondo State, Dr. Mimiko for a senatorial seat is not a mean achievement. The senator-elect for Ondo Central senatorial district would be one of the ranking senators when the ninth assembly begins in June. Akinyelure who rode on the back of Mimiko in 2011 National Assembly election is now the rallying point of the PDP in the Senatorial district. Adedayo Omolafe
A former Chairman of Akure South Local Government, Omolafe popularly called ‘Expensive’ is a household name not only in Akure, the state capital but in the entire state. The Senator who won the Central Senatorial district rode on his back in the just concluded election. Many people are looking towards him as one of the emerging leaders in the state. Kingsley Kuku
A Special Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan on Niger Delta and Chairman of Amnesty Programme has been on exile since 2015 election lost by the PDP. Yet he was one of the people that shaped the outcome of the last presidential election in Ondo South.
Working with ex-militants in Eseodo Local Government led by Chief Bibopiri Ajube, Kuku has been able to shape the political direction of his Ijaw people.