Dr. Joseph Ameh popularly known as Erico, is a governorship aspirant in Kogi State under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this faceoff interview with MUHAMMAD BASHIR, he bares his mind on sundry issues. Excerpts:   Why are you aspiring for governorship despite all the challenges in the state?
Whatever happened in Kogi State before and now, I don’t see it as a challenge that is not surmountable, and I am a man with great ideas. I started my private security organisation with nothing because I have no brother or sister that can help me at that point of need, but with commitment, doggedness, honesty and transparency, we are able to reach the amiable stage we have attained today. If we are able to do all of these from n where, the issue of governing Kogi would not be a challenge.
I used to tell people, especially at the town hall meeting we held in the 21 local government areas of the state, that as long as we still have arable land that is fertile for farming and the abundant mineral resources in the state, we still have hope to attain development because what we need is a man with great idea, a man that can turn things around for the better, a man that can change desert to a very fertile land, that is the kind of a leader we need in Kogi State to face the challenges and turn it into a success. Dubai was a desert but today with ideas it has been turned to a city. Israel has no water, no rain but today, with enormous ideas, the country is at the forefront of agricultural production. If we can also apply these ideas, we will overcome all the difficulties we think that the state had. Don’t you think the IGR and salary would create problem for you?
I am not unaware that we are facing a lot of challenges in Kogi State ranging from inability to pay salaries despite the increase in IGR and the huge sum of money accrued to the state from the federation account. As a captain of industry that has over 9,000 staff, if I am able to pay their salaries from the income we generated at a click of a button and their pensions remitted, their medical fees remitted, I don’t think payment of workers salary would be a burden to me. It is a fact that to run a government successfully, you must have the passion for the people and have them at heart. You must have great love for the people you are governing, you must see yourself as a servant leader because governance is all about bringing to the people some of the amenities and incentives that the people are lacking. You must provide adequate security of lives and property at all times. But the moment you are a leader and you want to make money for yourself it will be difficult to attend to the needs of the people. It is a must that a leader should provide dividend of democracy to the people because they gave you the mandate to govern them. If the people lack water it is your responsibility to provide, if they need road it is a must to give them because you promised them.
But today, governments are not ready to work for the citizenry who queue under the crunching sun to give them the mandate. This is happening because the leaders even before they win an election already have a mindset to corner money and enrich themselves with public common wealth. It is a fact that a man that is sleeping naturally is very easy to be wake up than the person who pretend to be sleeping because no amount of effort can wake the person up. Any leader who pretend can only take away the right and comfort of the people so that the people cannot talk or air their view. It is as a result of this cheating that many ills have cropped up today in Nigeria. I have travelled far and near and I have seen a lot of thing in terms of governance, how it work well for the benefit and betterment of the people. It is until you used the people you cannot get the best of the people and until you get the best of the people, government cannot get something in the pocket to service the people.
In Kogi state, there are many sons and daughters of the state that are professional in many field of endeavour, that has the capacity to turn things around for better, but such people are not used to change the fortune of the state for better. If we can assemble our best brains, I think we can move forward and the state will be better for it and all these abnormalities will disappeared one after the other. The state will swung into posterity and all the evils would be wiped away. But where is the resources to achieve all these?
Kogi State has enough resources and our land is fertile, for instance, in the eastern part of the state we have cashew and palm trees which can be harness to generate income for the people. If we have a government that will create enabling environment for business to thrive, there is nothing we will be looking for that we will not have, jobs will be created and youths would be meaningfully engaged. These will reduce high rate of youth restiveness as a result of idleness and government will also get its own through PAYE (Pay As You Earn). These are the benefits the state can derive, but the government of the day is more of rhetoric than action.
Look at Ajaokuta Steel Company that is suffering international and domestic conspiracy, this company can turn this country into a paradise, now it has remain moribund and governments at state and federal remained unconcerned about it, leaving the people in abject poverty. There is a lot to do to move Kogi forward. Leadership had been a problem in Kogi State plunging the state in a quagmire. What are you planning differently if given the mandate?
By God’s grace I am well experienced and I have said that there is no governor in the state that has the quantum experience I have right now. None of those that have served or still serving can boast of having 1000 staff before they become Governor of Kogi State. To do something differently means you must have prerequisite content and prerequisite knowledge. I have lived in Lagos where things change on daily basis in terms of infrastructures or behaviours. If you go to UK, US, you will see things working for the people. If I am giving the mandate I will bring these to the fore and change the concept, rewrite the negativity of the state and bring them to positivity for the betterment of the people of the state. I will do something different, first, by accepting my people, I will weave all the three senatorial district together and accept them as mine. I will ensure that I build bridges between the three districts and make them to be brothers and sisters. If I am able to break this barrier that have kept people away from other ethnic groups, I will be able to make a difference where leaders, elders will be created, where potentials would be harness to decide the fate of the state. Everybody will bring reasoning to the table, every people will be made to come out with ideas that can move the state forward. Definitely when I come on board the state will never remain the same, it has to change positively. Kogi state is reportedly indebted to the tune of billions of naira, what would you do to address the issue?
If you borrow money and you fail to utilise it, your debt profile will continue to increase. If you borrow money and spend it on frivolities, you will certainly be indebted. I have said it often times that the present APC administration in Kogi State, under Yahaya Bello was never prepared to govern the state. This is why they don’t have the interest of the people at heart, otherwise, how could you be enjoying money with your family members and you threw the civil servants into a precarious situation as a result of nonpayment of salaries.
We are not also unaware that many civil servants and pensioners died as a result of nonpayment of salaries. PDP government do not joke or toy with payment of salaries and we will sustain that in the interest of economic development. This people have succeeded in throwing the state into a heavy debt which is not healthy for the state. How can a governor throw N20 million on one person in order for him to defect to APC? How can a governor procure AK47 riffles at the cost of N1.5 million each when he cannot pay salary promptly? That is insensitive and crass ignorance. How can a government be doling out cars to people at the detriment of workers? This is ridiculous and unheard of in any ideal society, it is a case of penny wise pounds foolish.
All these boil down to lack of focus on the side of the government. Yahaya Bello is not fit as Kogi governor, when I come on board we will do so many things different from this present administration. It is clear now that whenever the right person is not brought on board to lead, people tend to suffer untold hardship. That is why the suffering in Kogi is gradually becoming unbearable. God will help us. I am assuring the people that our administration will be felt positively across the state and gradually we will be upsetting the debt so that the state can come out of bondage. Do you think you have what it take to dislodge the incumbent governor out of Lugard House?
Traditionally, Kogi State is a PDP state and it is still a very strong hold of the PDP. If you take a look at the official record we saw from INEC, you and I know that PDP won the 2019 presidential election with a wider margin. In my ward that consist of 17 polling units at the presidential election, PDP got 1553 votes while APC manage to scored 154 votes and during the House of Assembly election, PDP got 1324 votes and APC got slightly above 600 votes. In other wards all over the state we heard the sounds of guns used by the ruling party in the state to scare voters always. If a man claimed that he is popular why will he resort to give guns to youths to torment people during election and the people he is proposing to govern? If you are popular you don’t need to kill to win an election. This is signal to show that those who used gun in an election are weak.
I begin to wonder why the ruling party was chasing people away and be carrying ballot boxes. It was because they have failed to deliver dividend of democracy to the people. A government that cannot pay salary for over five, six, seven and eight months cannot get the people votes. Even the issue of vote buying failed during the election because people collect APC money and voted for PDP. Imagine the AK47 they distributed for some youths to unleash terror on the people, how much do they bought it. We are not unaware that a single AK 47 riffle cost minimum of N1.5 million and they distributed the guns across the 21 local government areas of the state. This is a government that cannot pay teachers, civil servants, cannot pay full salary to local government workers and above all cannot pay pensioners who have worked for 35 years and retired because of old age. I am assuring you that PDP is more than prepared to send the incumbent governor away from the Lugard House the seat of power of Kogi state. What can you do to match the ruling party, considering what happened during the last election?
This is the concern of everybody in Kogi State and we believe that the Federal Government will not be insensitive to the situation in Kogi. The Federal Government cannot also belittle itself to allow gun running and militancy during the governorship election in Kogi on November 2 this year. We expect that the government will create a level playing ground for all the political parties to showcase their strength and popularity, definitely the situation will not be like as we saw during the state House of Assembly in Kogi because some of the things that happened that day were not known to the federal government and if the federal government is aware it will be a big blow on the integrity and the corruption drive of the federal government. This situation if allow to happen again it will tarnish the image of the Federal Government before the international communities who can easily tag Nigeria as a country where people are killed during election. We will not leave any stone unturned to impress it on the Federal Government to do the needful by creating a level playing ground for all the political parties. There are civil servants unjustly laid off at the state and local government level as a result of what the state government referred to as civil service reform. A front line Kogi State governorship aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Joseph Ameh, has said he the every capacity to surmount the challenges facing the people of the state, if given the mandate. Dr. Ameh stated this in an interactive meeting with market women… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it will win the November 2 governorship election in Kogi State, noting that people of the state are looking onto the party to redeem them from the misrule of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The party also set up a committee under the leadership… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it will win the November 2 governorship election in Kogi State, noting that people of the state are looking onto the party to redeem them from the misrule of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The party also set up a committee under the leadership… In “National news”