It is mixed fortunes for governors who would be leaving office on May 29. While some of them are heading to the Senate, having been elected in the February 23 National Assembly elections, a handful face an uncertain political future, FELIX NWANERI reports   For most politicians, there is always precipitous loss in stature after attainment of great heights either by their own doing or as a result of circumstances. That is the story of some state governors, who would be leaving office on May 29, when the new political dispensation takes off. They have either lost re-election bids or senatorial elections after serving out the constitutional allowed two tenures. These governors have dominated the political landscape in their respective states in the last eight or four years, dictating who gets what, when and how. But, they are likely to glide to political oblivion, at least, in the next four years. While six of them – Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Ibrahim Geidam (Yobe), Kashim Shettima (Borno), Tanko Al Makura (Nasarawa), Rochas Okorocha (Imo) and Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara) won elections to make it to the Senate, which has become a nest for former governors, another six whose political future are uncertain after May 29 inauguration date are Jibrila Bindow (Adamawa), Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi), Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe), Akinwunmi Ambode (Lagos), Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo) and Abdulfattah Ahmed (Kwara). No doubt, each of these outgoing governors facing bleak political future would have preferred to remain relevant by clinging to power in one way or the other, but politics, being the game of the possible, it is likely to be a decline in political fortune for them except succour comes their way in form of appointments by the time they leave office in seven weeks time. Ajimobi: Dashed senatorial and succession bids After he clinched an unprecedented second term in the 2015 elections, Governor Abiola Ajimobi openly declared that he is a fulfilled man as regards politics and that his next move is to retire from the game and enjoy the rest of his life. But, he made a detour during a press conference to mark his six years in office, when he declared that he might consider a legislative duty after serving out his second term in 2019. The stunning disclosure was prompted by a question on what the governor, who broke the jinx of second term in Oyo State intends to do after leaving office. Expectedly, Ajimobi’s plot, not only ruffled feathers amongst the politicians in the state, especially those of All Progressives Congress (APC) extraction, but it also polarized the ruling party in the state that prides itself as the Pace Setter. The aftermath was Ajimobi’s defeat in the Oyo South senatorial poll by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Kola Balogun, who polled 105,720 votes against the governor’s 92,218 votes. The governor also failed in his succession plan as his anointed candidate, Adebayo Adelabu, lost the governorship election to the PDP candidate, Seyi Makinde. The dismal performance of the Oyo APC in the general elections was capped by its loss of control of the state House of Assembly. The PDP won 26 of the 32 seats, while the ruling party won five. The Action Democratic Party (ADP), led by ex- Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, won one seat. With his senatorial ambition dashed, Ajimobi is scheming towards making the federal cabinet or securing an ambassadorial appointment. Ahmed: Withdrew from senatorial race midway The Kwara State outgoing governor had planned to follow the footstep of his predecessor, Bukola Saraki, by bidding for the Kwara South senatorial district seat, but that was not to be as intrigues aborted the bid even after he picked his party’s ticket to contest the election. He was to run on the platform of the PDP after winning the nomination through a consensus arrangement during the October 2018 party’s primaries, but to the consternation of many, Ahmed announced his withdrawal from the senatorial race a month after. Though he did not cite any reason for his action then, there was no doubt that he was a victim of powerplay among members of Kwara PDP political structure run by the Saraki dynasty and currently headed by the heir of late Senate Leader, Oloye Olusola Saraki’s family, Bukola, who is currently the president of the Senate. The belief then was that even if Ahmed had the ambition to vie for a senatorial seat, the political family, which he belongs to might not allow it and being a very loyal member, he would not oppose its decision. To get the seat, the governor would have displaced the incumbent senator, Rafiu Ibrahim, who is also considered as one of Saraki’s close loyalists. But, Ibrahim who benefited from the governor’s action lost the poll to the candidate of the APC, which swept elections for all elective positions in Kwara State in the general elections. Against the backdrop of PDP’s dismal outing in Kwara State and loss of the presidential poll, it remains unclear how Ahmed, who once told New Telegraph in an interview that he would want to be remembered as someone who came as governor of the state to modestly change the lives of the people using available resources by improving on infrastructure and economy of Kwara, so that it can be a better place to live in, will remain politically relevant in the next political dispensation. Dankwambo: Lost senatorial bid The outgoing governor of Gombe State was among contenders for the PDP presidential ticket, who lost  it to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. He was to have been backed then for the presidency by northern PDP elements, who hinged their choice on the former Accountant-General of the Federation’s performance, especially in the area of infrastructure despite lean resources. His backers also believed that the PDP would be warming itself into the hearts of most northerners if it hands its ticket to a poster governor for the party, who was able to withstand the change mantra of the APC that swept through the entire North and brushed off his colleagues from office in the 2015 general elections. That dream failed to materialize as Atiku picked the PDP’s presidential ticket, but Dankwambo was handed the party’s senatorial ticket for Gombe North Senatorial District seat. Surprisignly, Dankwambo, who has been in charge of the north eastern state for eight years (2011-2019), lost the poll. He was only able to muster 88,016 votes in an election won by Alhaji Saidu Alkali of the APC, who polled 152,546 votes. The governor also failed to lead the PDP to retain the state as Senator Bayero Nafada, who flew the party’s flag in the gubernatorial election scored 222,868 votes against 364,179 votes garnered by the candidate of the APC, Inuwa Yahaya, who was declared Governor-elect. While a number of factors have been adduced to explain PDP’s loss of Gombe, with some accusing Dankwambo of betraying the party, the governor, however, in a recent post on his Twitter handle, wrote: “Many betrayed our great party in Gombe, but time will tell. Their betrayal though painful has made me more dedicated to the PDP. As a loyal party man, even when it was the fashionable thing in the North to abandon the party in 2015, I never did. We will be vindicated.” But, like he acknowledged, only time will tell whether Dankwambo will walk his talk of remaining committed to the course of the PDP in the next four years given the trend of members of the opposition political parties dumping their respective platforms for the ruling party after general elections. Abubakar: Second term bid aborted For the Bauchi State governor, his second term bid was a dream cut short, following his defeat by the candidate of the PDP, Senator Bala Mohammed. The former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) polled 515,113 votes to defeat the incumbent governor, who scored 500,625 votes in keen gubernatorial contest. The PDP candidate’s victory was after rerun election was held in 36 polling units covering 29 registration areas (wards) in 15 local government areas where votes were cancelled during the first ballot. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared the first ballot inconclusive on the grounds that the number of cancelled votes was higher than the margin of lead between the two leading candidates. The electoral body later announced that it would resume collation when it found out that the number of cancelled votes was tampered with, a decision Abubakar and the APC challenged in court. During the March 9, inconclusive election, Mohammed was credited with 469,512 votes and Abubakar 465,453, with a vote margin of 4,059. At the second ballot, Mohammed garnered 6,376 votes against Abubakar’s 5,117 votes, a vote margin of 1,259 between both parties. While many are still wondering over what went wrong that made Abubakar to lose the poll after his party (APC) won three senatorial seats and eight out of the 12 House of Representatives seats in the state during the National Assembly elections, those who are in the know, reasoned that arrogance of power cost him a second term. The governor has been locked in a running battle with most chieftains of the APC in the state, particularly members of the National Assembly since assuming office in 2015. This culminated in the defection of the Speaker of the House Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, to the PDP. Ironically, it was votes from Dogara’s Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa, Federal Constituency that played a major role in stopping Abubakar from returning to the Bauchi government house. The governor, who initially accepted defeat and congratulated his opponent, has however changed his mind by heading to the election petition tribunal to challenge the poll’s outcome. Bindow: Couldn’t scale Atiku’s hurdle Another first term governor, who had his bid to return to power dimmed, is Jibrila Bindow of Adamawa State. It was a case of what the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, couldn’t get at the national level, he got in his home state as the governorship candidate of his party, Ahmadu Fintiri, emerged winner of the governorship election in the state. Like Bauchi, a winner did not emerge until after a supplementary election in 44 units across 14 local government areas of the state. Declaring the governorship election as inconclusive, INEC said the margin of votes between the two top candidates was lesser than the 40,988 votes cancelled in about 40 polling units in 29 Registration Areas. Upon conclusion of the election, Fintiri polled a total of 376,552 votes to beat Bindow, who scored 336,386 votes. Fintiri was the Speaker of Adamawa State House of Assembly in 2014 and also served as acting governor of the state in July 2014, following the impeachment of the then governor, Murtala Nyako. But the governor, who lost the backing of major stakeholders of his state’s chapter of the APC ahead of the general elections, has not given up. He headed to the tribunal like some of his colleagues. Ambode: Stopped by his godfather The case of the Lagos State governor is an interesting one as the second term ambition of former Accountant General of the Centre of Excellence was stopped by the same man on whose back he rode to power – Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The APC National Leader cited his political godson’s deviation from the developmental blueprint of Lagos for denying him a second term ticket. In Ambode’s stead, Tinubu endorsed a former Managing Director of Lagos State Property Development Corporation (LSPDC), Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Despite Tinubu’s claim, it was however alleged that Ambode’s “sin” was that he cut off those who helped him to power in 2015 immediately he assumed office. It is an open secret that Tinubu anointed him to succeed then Governor Babatunde Fashola and mobilized both men and resources to ensure his victory. Though the governor continually played down on the rift between him and Tinubu and went ahead to obtain the expression of interest and nomination forms of his party, Tinubu remained adamant over his purported opposition to the governor’s return to power in 2019. Reports of interventions, including that by President Muhammadu Buhari and other political leaders dominated the media space at a time, but Tinubu’s loyalists threatened to rebel against him if he backs the governor. Though the governor put up a spirited fight then, those who understand Lagos politics opined while the battle lasted that there was no way the APC leader will not have the last laugh. This, perhaps, explained why it didn’t take much effort for the former Lagos governor popularly referred to “Jagaban” by his admirers to put a stop to the second term bid of his political godson. A statement few hours to primaries, in which he claimed that the blueprint of Lagos State, his brainchild between 1999 and 2007, has been deviated from by Ambode, was what he needed to do the magic. The declaration marked an end to Ambode’s second term bid as Sanwo- Olu defeated him in the APC governorship primary election by 970,851 votes to 72,901. While Sanwo-Olu went ahead to defeat the candidate of the PDP, JImi Agbaje in the general elections, Ambode is said to have his eyes on the federal cabinet. Shettima: Double accomplishment Those who know the banker turned politician were not in doubt during the build-up to the 2019 elections that he would not quit politics after serving as governor of Borno State for eight years. Shettima owes his ascension to power to his predecessor, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff. He had accorded his former boss and benefactor his due privileges on assuming power, but Sheriff wanted to be the man in charge. With time, a crack appeared, but both camps played it down. However, it did not take time before it became clear that all was not well. Sheriff withdrew his support for Shettima, dumped the APC, which he helped formed for the PDP to stop the latter’s second term bid. Shettima, on his part aligned with the masses, who had always viewed Sheriff as an emperor. The decision paid off as he won a second term during the 2015 elections, which marked the beginning of a dwindling political fortune for Sheriff. For the Borno State governor, who doubles as chairman of the Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF), it was mission accomplished at the conclusion of the 2019 polls. He was not only able to win a senatorial seat to represent Borno Central, but also installed his successor – Prof. Babagana Zulum. Many had touted in the build-up to the general elections that Shettima, who was elected governor of Borno State in 2011 and re-elected in 2015, will vie for the presidential ticket of the APC, but he opted for the Senate to represent Borno Central. However, he had to surmount the hurdle over choice of primary as loyalists of estranged political godfather and predecessor, Ali Modu Sheriff clamoured for direct primaries only for Governor Shettima to convey a meeting of critical stakeholders of the party to adopt indirect primaries. To join the club of governors in the Senate, Shettima, who contested the poll on the platform of the APC, defeated Muhammed Abba-Aji of PDP, who represented the zone between 2003 and 2007. He polled 109,363 votes to beat Abba-Aji, who got 44,257 votes and other contenders. With his victory, he would be the first governor of Borno State to seamlessly transit to the Senate in the history of the state. Amosun: Won one, lost one The Ogun State governor had two goals ahead of the polls – to install a successor and to return to the Senate to represent Ogun Central Senatorial District. He was in the upper legislative chamber between 2003 and 2007. While his senatorial ambition was endorsed and supported by the leadership of APC, his succession plan, aimed at having an indigene of Ogun West Senatorial District to take over from him, was met with stiff resistance. The aftermath of the powerplay was that his anointed candidate, Adekunle Akinlade, was denied the APC governorship ticket. With the ticket going to a businessman turned politician and Amosun’s former ally, Dapo Abiodun, the governor had no other option than to direct Akinlade and his loyalists to move to Allied People’s Movement (APM) on which he (Akinlade) contested the governorship poll. The succession plot failed as Abiodun polled 241,670 votes to defeat the Akinlade, who scored 222,153 votes, but Amosun contested and won the Ogun Central senatorial seat on the platform of the APC. Geidam: New godfather of Yobe politics For Geidam, it has been a meteoric rise in politics. He was elected as deputy governor of Yobe State on the platform of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) in 2007, but became governor on January 27, 2009, following the death of Governor Mamman Bello Ali. After serving out Ali’s term, Geidam contested and won the 2011 governorship election in the state and was re-elected for a second term in the 2015 elections. This means that he has spent 10 years in office as governor of the northeastern state. Geidam was initially concerned about his successor as he was quoted then to have said that he will not hand over the state’s number one office to an absentee politician. This was even he stressed that he’s not the one to give power but God. Against this backdrop, he is insisted on a successor, who not only knows what the masses needed, but is domiciled in the state so as to continue with the good works and remarkable developmental strides in the state. But, youths in Yobe East senatorial district, where he hails from prevailed on him to contest for the Senate seat ahead of the 2019 polls. His heeding to the call pitched him against a former governor of the state, Bukar Abba Ibrahim, who is the incumbent senator representing the district. Ibrahim was governor of Yobe State between 1999 and 2007. He had earlier served as governor of the state between January 1992 and November 1993, during the aborted Third Republic. In 2007, he was elected to the Senate. He was re-elected in 2011, and won for the third term in 2015. Ibrahim, initially resisted the move to have the governor replace him, but Gaidam had his way during the APC primaries. Like the primaries, he also had an easy ride at the elections. He polled 139,277 votes to beat Tata Abbagana of PDP, who scored 18,059 votes. Al Makura: Joins ex-governors in Senate The outgoing governor of Nasarawa State emerged Senator-elect for Nasarawa South Senatorial district after defeating the incumbent senator, Suleiman Adokwe of the PDP. Al Makura, who contested the senatorial poll on the platform of APC, polled 113,156 votes to defeat the incumbent senator, Adokwe, who had 104,595 votes. A businessman turned politician, Al Makura became governor of Nasarawa State in 2011 on the platform of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and was re-elected for a second term in 2015 on the platform of the APC. Prior to his emergence as governor, Al-Makura served as Youth Leader of the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) in old Plateau State in the Second Republic and was elected to the Constituent Assembly of 1988–89, representing the Lafia–Obi Federal Constituency of what is now Nasarawa State. He later served as state secretary of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) in Plateau State from 1990 to 1992 and was a founding member of (PDP) in Nasarawa State in 1998. Okorocha: Political future in the balance Though the Imo State governor won a seat to represent Imo West Senatorial District during the February 23 National Assembly elections, it is not yet Uhuru for him as INEC declined issuing him with a Certificate of Return over a claim by the Returning Officer that he declared the result under duress. While INEC has declared that it will only issue Okorocha with the certificate if the court directs it to do so, it has been a tortuous journey for the governor given his running battle with some members of his party – APC – at the state and national level. Okorocha had insisted on his sonin- law and former Chief of Staff, Uche Nwosu, as the governorship candidate of the APC in Imo State, but was resisted by those who felt that he should not lord it over the party. An intriguing battle that ensued saw Nwosu being knocked out by Senator Hope Uzodinma, who presently represents Imo West in the Senate. However, the governor’s camp did not give up. Its members quickly mobilised and joined the Action Alliance (AA), the platform on which Nwosu contested the governorship poll, but lost to the candidate of the PDP and former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha. Despite his unsuccessful bid to have his anointed succeed him and the swan song over his senatorial bid, Okorocha, who dumped the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) through which he rose to power in 2011, for the APC in 2014 on the premise that the party is a veritable platform for a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction, believes that it is a matter of time that INEC does the needful. Yari: Won a senatorial seat, but S’Court to decide fate The Zamfara State governor, who also doubles as chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) was initially tipped to run for the presidency, but those in the know, argued then that he was likely to use the presidential bid to negotiate something for himself and avoid a clash with his benefactor and former governor of the state, Sani Yerima (now a senator), who has a firm a grip on the state’s politics and determines who gets what. That permutation later played out as Yari, who has been on the political scene since 1999, when he served as the Secretary of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) between 1999 and 2003, before he was elected to represent Talata Mafara/Anka Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, secured the APC senatorial ticket and going ahead to win the Zamfara West Senatorial election. He polled 153,626 votes to defeat Lawal Hassan of PDP, who scored 69,293 votes. While he is expected to join the league of ex-governors in the Senate, when the 9th National Assembly is inaugurated in June, that will only materialize if his party scales the legal hurdle over its primaries. The Court of Appeal Sokoto Division had on March 25, set aside the judgement delivered by the Zamfara High Court allowing the APC to field candidates in the 2019 elections. The appeal was filed by Senator Kabiru Marafa, chairman of the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Downstream); and 129 others. The appellants had approached the appellate court to challenge the decision of the High Court on the ground that it lacked jurisdiction to entertain the suit, among others. However, it is not yet over for Yari and others who were elected on the platform of the APC in Zamfara as they have appealed against the judgement before the Supreme Court.