The Presidential Committee on the North East Initiative PCNI has condoled the INGO Forum in Nigeria, Mercy Corp and INSO on the death Faye Mooney and Emmanuel Oguche. They were amongst other victims who were killed or abducted by unknown gunmen who attacked the Kajuru Castle holiday resort in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna State. In a statement released by PCNI’s Head of Media and Communication, Alkasim Abdulkadir he stated that “the Agency’s management and staff were saddened by the death of the humanitarian workers who had dedicated their lives to the saving of lives in Nigeria, especially the humanitarian crisis in the North East” The statement further quoted the Vice Chairman of the PCNI Tijjani Musa Tumsah -that the Agency “commiserates with the families of the deceased, their friends, colleagues and the entire humanitarian community in Nigeria on their tragic demise; and hope that they will find comfort in the memories and dedication they brought to bear on their work in Nigeria. Ms Mooney before her death had worked in Nigeria for Mercy Corp for 2 years supporting communities in shaping narratives, before then she had worked in Iraq and Kosovo. She was known for also fostering cultural collaborations. While Matthew Danjuma Oguche from Kogi State was a training assistant for International NGO Safety Organization INSO where he was involved in the delivery of personal safety and hostile environment awareness courses to NGOs. Chukwu David There is pressing need for the Senate to go into another round of investigation of the management of resources allocated or donated for the upkeep of the victims of the Boko Haram insurgency in the North East, who are currently residing in the various internally displaced persons (IDPs)… In “Politics” There are indications that the Presidential Committee on North East (PCNI), may have dismissed its manager in charge of Borno State office, Mr. Kyari Pindar Mshelia. According to PRNigeria, Mshelia's sack may not be unconnected with his whistle-blowing disposition,which had seen him raise concerns in the past about alleged corrupt… In “News” The Senate has tasked the Presidential Committee on the North East Initiative (PCNI), to continue to be dedicated to fulfilling its mandate of rehabilitating the Boko Haram devastated region in the face of the current humanitarian crisis. This is as the PCNI Vice-Chairman, Tijjani Timsah, decried what he described as… In “News”