 The Presidency has approved N1.5 milion fare to be paid as tentative deposit by intending pilgrims for 2019 hajj operations. The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), a commission at the Presidency, which declared this, noted that it had issued operations approvals for 115 firms for this year’s Hajj and Ummrah. This came as the biometric registration for intending pilgrims, which began in November, 2018, entered fifth month. The registration requires a tentative deposit of N1.5m in bank draft with any of the certified state Muslim pilgrims’ boards, agencies or commissions, the Hajj commission said. Stating that NAHCON had not authorised any state Muslim pilgrims’ board to announce hajj fare for 2019, the Head, Public Affairs Division of the commission, Mrs. Fatima Usara, said in a statement in Abuja, intending pilgrims should pay an initial deposit of N1.5 million. The indices that determines final fare for hajj, she said, are yet to be determined by the commission, state pilgrims’ bureaux and other stakeholders. “NAHCON wishes to draw attention of the 2019 intending pilgrims in particular and the general public that it has not authourised any state Muslim pilgrims’ board to announce hajj fare for 2019,” Usara said. The registration of 2019 intending pilgrims in Nigeria had commenced since November 2018, she added. The NAHCON spokesperson explained that the registration requires a tentative deposit of N1.5m in bank draft with any of the certified state Muslim pilgrims’ boards, agencies or commissions. According to her, the deposit can be done fully or by installments and a copy of the draft should be presented to the respective state board. Usara warned intending pilgrims against paying cash to any agent or board member, as payment is strictly through the banks. She disclosed that NAHCON had released an updated list of approved 2019 licensed Tour Operators with the corresponding number of slots allocated to each. “This followed a two-day hearing and verification of claims by the NAHCON committee set up for consideration of appeals by Appellant Companies for 2019 hajj. “A total of 115 out of 147 companies that applied for the licence have so far been approved to participate in the year’s Umrah and Hajj exercises,” Usara said. National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has hiked initial depot to be paid by intending pilgrims for 2018 Hajj to N1.5 million. Executive Secretary of the commission, Alhaji Abubakar Nalaraba, who declared this, added that prospective pilgrims will pay the initial depot of N1.5 million on or before March… In “Islam” N1.5m initial deposit, biometric data capturing threaten deadline The fear being nursed by intending pilgrims over possible exclusion from the 2018 Hajj rites has worsened as the March 31 deadline given by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for them to complete their registration looms. This apprehension, New Telegraph gathered yesterday,… In “Islam” All intending pilgrims for this year’s Hajj must pay a deposit of N1.5 million by next week Wednesday, the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has insisted. New Telegraph gathered that officials of the commission, which had earlier extended registration deadline to April 25, are to meet with their… In “Islam”