Despite losing the 2019 presidential election, it was a turn-around in the fortune of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which dominated Nigeria’s political landscape between 1999 and 2015, before it was ousted by then opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) given the party’s performance in the governorship polls. FELIX NWANERI reports      Until its defeat in the 2015 general elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which prides itself as Africa’s largest political party, had won four consecutive presidential elections in the current dispensation – 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011. The party equally controlled more than two-third of elective positions at the federal, state and local governments levels within the period. At the state level, the party won 21 out of the 36 governorship elections in the 1999 elections. After the 2003 elections, the number of PDP controlled states jumped to 28, but it lost Anambra State to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) three years after to bring the figure down to 27. The party retained the standing in the 2007 elections, but it later dropped to 23 as it lost Edo, Ekiti and Osun states to the then Action Congress (AC) as well as Ondo State to the Labour Party (LP) through the courts. By 2011, the number states under the PDP’s umbrella stood at 23, but internal wrangling cost it five of the states in 2013. The states are Rivers, Adamawa, Kwara, Sokoto and Kano. This reduced PDP’s controlled states to 18. However, the party later regained Ondo and Adamawa states from LP and APC through defection. Ekiti State also joined the league of PDP controlled states in 2014, following the party’s defeat of the APC in the governorship poll to take the number to 21. In the National Assembly, comprising the Senate and House of Representatives, the story was not different as the PDP’s domination within the period was clear. In the 4th National Assembly (1999), the party had 59 out of the 109 senators. The number jumped to 76 in 2003 (5th National Assembly); 87 in 2007 (6th National Assembly) and 71 in 2011 (7th National Assembly). In the House of Representatives that has 360 members; it was 206 members in 1999, 223 in 2003, 263 in 2007 and 203 in 2011. Perhaps, the leadership of the PDP at a time got carried away by the success and boasted through its then National Chairman, Prince Vincent Ogbulafor, that the party will rule Nigeria for 60 years before any other party can unseat it. The boast was despite the fact that the PDP was opposition to itself all through the 16 years it was in power. Internal strife over tickets for the various elective offices, usually polarise the party into factions each election year. For instance, in 2003, some governors elected on the party’s platform wanted to replace then President Olusegun Obasanjo, who was seeking a second term. Their choice was Atiku Abubakar, Obasanjo’s vice. The former shunned the offer, opting to run on a joint ticket with his principal, but the dust raised by the plot, contributed a lot in pitching Obasanjo against the governors behind it. The story was the same in the states, as those who dared to contest the governorship primaries against incumbents were forced to quit the party for the opposition to actualise their dreams. However, shortly after the polls, majority of the defectors returned to base with some offered juicy appointments to calm frayed nerves. But political analysts argued then that the reconciliation was a make-believe one, as the PDP is made up of politicians with divergent ideologies and that the relative peace would not stand the test of time. They were soon to be proved right when the bubble burst again in the build up to the 2007 general elections. Several state chapters of the party had parallel executives that even went as far as conducting congresses and primaries. The climax of this was the opening of a parallel national secretariat in Abuja by the Chief Solomon Lar-led faction. Lar (now late) was the first national chairman of the party. But, a threat to use force on members of the faction by the then Ahmadu Ali-led National Working Committee (NWC), forced some founding members of the party, who had earlier agreed to lead the new faction to developed cold feet and as result the “rebellion” was crushed. The 2007 drama played up again in 2010, ahead of the 2011 elections. This time, aggrieved members under the aegis of PDP Reform Group emerged, seeking a return to the ideologies of the party’s founding fathers. Like in the past, the PDP leadership rose against the “rebels” under the leadership of a former Senate President, Ken Nnamani. The then NWC, headed by Prince Ogbulafor, suspended members of the group. Prominent among those affected were Senators Nnamani and Adolphus Wabara (also a former Senate President); former Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Aminu Bello Masari as well as former Governors Peter Odili and Achike Udenwa of Rivers and Imo states, respectively. While the respective PDP leaderships were able to suppress the 2003, 2007 and 2010 revolts; that of 2013 proved the last straw that broke the camel’s back. To the shock of most political observers and analysts, the party lost five of its governors to the opposition at a go. This monumental loss and consequent disenchantment over the PDP’s presidential ticket, explained why the then ruling party went into the 2015 elections a divided house and was handed a shocking defeat. The PDP not only lost the ultimate prize – the presidency, but most of its controlled states and its majority in the National Assembly. 1999 elections In 1998 the PDP nominated a former military leader, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo as its presidential candidate in the elections of February 1999, with Atiku Abubakar (then Governor-elect of Adamawa State) as his running mate. The duo won the poll and were sworn-in on May 29, 1999. In the governorship elections, the party won in 21 out of the 36 states. They are Abia, Adamawa, AkwaIbom, Anambra, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Enugu, Imo, Kaduna, Kano, Niger, Katsina, Nasarawa, Plateau, Rivers and Taraba. The defunct All Peoples Party (APP) won in nine state – Borno, Gombe, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Sokoto, Yobe and Zamfara, while Alliance for Democracy (AD) swept the six states of the South-West geo-political zone – Ekiti, Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Osun and Oyo. In the legislative election held on April 12, 2003, the party won 59 out of 109 seats in the Senate and 223 out of 360 seats in the House of Representatives. 2003 elections The PDP consolidated its grip on power in the 2003 elections. While Obasanjo was re-elected as president, the party extended states under its control to 28, but Anambra was lost to APGA in 2006 through the court, reducing the number to 27. The party retained Abia, Adamawa, AkwaIbom, Anambra, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Enugu, Imo, Kaduna, Kano, Niger, Katsina, Nasarawa, Plateau, Rivers and Taraba states, which it won in 1999. It took four out of the five South Western states won by AD in 1999. They are Ekiti, Ogun, Ondo, Osun and Oyo states. Gombe, Kwara and Kogi states that were foermy under the APP also fell to the PDP. The party also extended its control in the legislature. Its seats in the Senate increased from 59 to 76, while that of the House of Representatives jumped from 206 to 223. 2007 elections In 2007, the PDP nominated the then governor of Katsina State, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, as its presidential candidate. This followed the party’s zoning arrangement. Yar’Adua, a northerner, picked Goodluck Jonathan, a southerner and then governor of Bayelsa State as his running mate. They duo were declared the winner of the presidential election. In the governorship election, the party won in 27 states as it did in the the 2003 polls. The states were Adamawa, AkwaIbom, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Nasarawa, Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Osun Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, Sokoto and Taraba. APP, which by then had transformed to All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), won in Bauchi, Borno, Kano, Yobe and Zamfara. A new entrant – Progressives Peoples Party (PPA) won in Abia and Imo states. Action Congress (AC) won in Lagos State. The PDP later lost Edo, Ekiti and Osun to AC through the courts, while Ondo went the same way to the Labour Party (LP) to reduce the party’s controlled states to 23. But, what the party lost through the courts, it gained through defection. Then governors of Imo and Abia state, who were formerly under the control of the PPA as well as Zamfara under ANPP, made their way to the then ruling party, raising PDP’s states to 26. The PDP also maintained its control of the National Assembly. In the Senate, its seats jumped from 76 in 2003 to 87, while that of the House of Representatives jumped from to 223 to 263. While the presidency was to remain in the North for eight years (2007-2015) as enjoyed by the South, power shifted unexpectedly to the latter in May 2010, following Yar’Adua’s death. 2011 elections Jonathan’s announcement of his intention to contest the 2011 presidential election in September 2010, generated much controversy within the PDP. However, his overwhelming victory over his closest challenger in the primaries, former Vice President Abubakar, showed that he had considerable support of party leaders despite that his candidacy was deviation from the party’s rotation policy. Jonathan went ahead to win the presidential election, which was deemed largely free and fair by international observers. In the 31 states, where governorship election held, the PDP won 23. They were Abia, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Enugu, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Niger, Plateau, Rivers, Sokoto and Taraba. It later got Ondo from LP to extend its controlled states to 24. The ANPP won in three states – Borno, Yobe and Zamfara, while AC, which transformed to Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) also won in three states – Lagos, Ogun and Oyo states. APGA and Congress for Progressives Change (CPC) won in Imo and Nasarawa states, respectively. Governorship elections did not hold in Anambra, Edo, Ekiti, Ondo and Osun because of the interregnum over interventions by the courts. In the National Assembly election, the PDP’s seats in the Senate dropped to 71 from 87. That of the House of Representatives also dropped to 203 from 263. 2015 elections The PDP, which had been in power at the centre for 16 years found itself in a weaker position in the build-up to the 2015 general elections. This was occasioned by infighting, which resulted to several members leaving the party. Prominent among those who left were five governors – Rabiu Kwankwaso (Kano), Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto), Abdulfatah Ahmed (Kwara), Murtala Nyako (Adamawa) and ChibuikeAmaechi (Rivers). They had before jumping ship been locked in a battle of supremacy with the PDP-led presidency and Alhaji Bamanga Tukur-led (National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP over alleged high handedness. Other chieftains of the party who dumped the then ruling party were former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Kwara State governor, Bukola Saraki (now Senate President) and the splinter faction of the PDP – New PDP – led by Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje. Shortly after their exodus to the then newly registered All Progressivs Congress (APC) – a merger of the ACN, CPC, ANPP and a faction of APGA, attention shifted to the PDP’s presidential ticket for the 2015 elections. A plot was muted to grant automatic tickets to Jonathan and serving governors of the party, seeking for second term. Though the plan further polarised the party, those behind it insisted that the Right of First Refusal will lead to an affirmation of Jonathan’s candidature at the PDP national convention in line with practices in other presidential system of governments like the United States. The then chairman of PDP Board of Trustees (BoT), Chief Tony Anenih (now late), who championed the campaign, argued that the option will put an end to the wrangling that usually characterise the party’s primaries, especially for executive positions. He also suggested the extension of the gesture to performing members of the National Assembly, even though their tenure or number of terms they can enjoy is not circumscribed by the constitution. Expectedly, the proposal sailed through and Jonathan emerged through a consensus at the PDP’s national convention. He polled all the 2,812 “Yes” votes cast by delegates at the convention. Thus, the stage was set for the battle for the 2015 presidency between him and a former Head of State, General Muhammadu Buhari, following the latter’s emergence as the presidential candidate of the APC. Against expectations, the APC defeated the PDP in the presidential poll by 15.4 million to 12.8 million votes. The APC’s victory cut shot the PDP’s dream of remaining at the helm of affairs for 60 years by 46 years. It also marked the first time in Nigeria’s political history that an incumbent president will lose an election. Besides winning the presidency, the APC also won in 20 out of the 29 states, where governorship elections held. The states were Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Sokoto, Kebbi, Niger, Bauchi, Kaduna, Plateau, Benue, Jigawa, Zamfara, Borno, Adamawa, Katsina, Yobe, Nasarawa, Kwara, Kano and Imo. The PDP won only in nine states – Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ebonyi, Delta, Enugu, Taraba, Gombe and Abia. Governorship elections did not hold in Kogi, Bayelsa, Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Osun and Ekiti states. The PDP’s lost in its traditional strongholds – Niger, Kaduna, Plateau, Benue, Adamawa and Katsina states. It also lost its control of the National Assembly to the APC. The PDP’s senatorial seats dropped from 71 in 2011 to 49 against APC’s 60, while that of House of Representatives also dropped from 203 to 140 against APC’s 212. At the end of the 2015 elections, states controlled by various parties stood as follows: APC, 22; PDP, 13 and APGA, one. The APC later raised its controlled states to 23 after it defeated PDP in the November 2015 governorship election in Kogi State. That of PDP dropped to 12 even with the party’s victory in the December 6, Bayelsa governorship poll. Surviving leadership crisis Matters were made worst for the PDP after the 2015 elections as it was plunged into a leadership crisis. The battle for the control of the party between Senator Ali Modu Sheriff and Senator Ahmed Makarfi almost brought the party to its knees. It took the Supreme Court’s judgement of July 12, 2017, that sacked Sheiff to resolve the intractable leadership crisis, which lasted for about 14 months. This consequently paved the way for a rebuilding process that commenced with the August 12 nonelective convention of the party. It was at the non-convention that the December 9 date was agreed on for the party’s elective convention to elect a new National Working Committee (NWC) to take over from the current National Caretaker Committee led by Makarfi. The convention saw the emergence of a former acting National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus as national chairman. Secondus as the captain of rejuvenation team, acknowledged the Herculean task before his team in his acceptance speech upon his emergence. His words: “By my understanding, the mandate you have given us today is clear and unambiguous. It is to return our party to power come 2019. As Herculean as this mandate seems, I know it’s achievable. My campaign pillars for this election are to rebuild, reposition and regain. “Let me assure you great members and leaders of our party that by the grace of God and with all hands on deck, the brief tenancy of the APC in Aso Rock Villa expires on May 28, 2019. By this, we serve them a quit notice.” 2019: A good outing at the guber polls No doubt, many saw the party’s boast to return to power at the level of the presidency as a tall dream, but it was optimism among its members, who were buoyed then by the outcome of the national convention. That optimism of PDP’s possible return to power in the 2019 general elections did not come to fruition as its presidential candidate, Atiku, lost to President Buhari in the in the February 23 presidential election. Buhari, who was the candidate of the APC, polled 15.1 million votes to defeat Atiku, who garnered 11.2 million votes. The President won in 19 states, while Atiku won in 17 states. The loss, notwithstanding, it was resurgence for the PDP as it added more states to its kitty. The opposition party won 13 states in the 2019 governorship elections as against nine in 2015. The governorship poll in Rivers State, which has remained a PDP’s stronghold since 1999, was suspended midway during collation of results, but would be concluded next week. The states won by PDP are Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ebonyi, Delta, Enugu, Taraba, Abia, Imo, Oyo, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Sokoto. Those APC won are Lagos, Ogun, Kebbi, Niger, Kaduna, Plateau, Jigawa, Zamfara, Borno, Katsina, Yobe, Nasarawa and Kano, Kwara and Gombe. Like in 2015, governorship elections did not hold in Kogi, Bayelsa, Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Osun and Ekiti states as a result of the interregnum by the courts. Remarkably, PDP took-over four APC controlled states – Adamawa, Imo, Oyo and Bauchi. The PDP’s candidates defeated two incumbent governors in Adamawa and Bauchi states. APC, on its part, won the gubernatorial polls in 15 states with the ruling party only able to win two PDP controlled states – Gombe and Kwara. Adamawa: Atiku takes charge of home state through Fintiri What the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku, couldn’t get at the national level, he got in his home state – Adamawa – as the governorship candidate of his party, Ahmadu Fintiri, emerged winner of the governorship election in the state. The Returning Officer of the election, Andrew Haruna, who declared the result last week Thursday in Yola, the state capital after the supplementary election in 44 units across 14 local government areas of the state, said Fintiri polled 376,552 votes to beat his closest rival and incumbent governor, Muhammadu Bindow of APC, who scored 336,386 votes. Fintiri was the Speaker of Adamawa State House of Assembly in 2014 and also served as acting governor of the state in July 2014, following the impeachment of the then governor, Murtala Nyako. Imo: Ihedioha returns state to PDP fold Outgoing governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, was hell-bent on having his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu as his successor even when his party’s national leadership was not disposed to such idea. That dream was cut shot as former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Emeka Ihedioha, who contested the governorship poll on the platform of the PDP, cashed in on the division in the Imo APC to return the Imo State to the PDP fold. The state had been under PDP’s control between 1999 and 2011, when Okorocha emerged governor on the platform of All Progressives Grand Alliance before he later defected to APC through which he was re-elected in 2015. Ihedioha polled 273,404 votes to defeat 69 other candidates including his closest rival, Nwosu, who dumped the APC for Action Alliance (AA) to contest the governorship election. While Nwosu scored 190,364 votes, another APC chieftain, who left the party for APGA, Senator Ifeanyi Ararume, polled 114,676 votes. He was followed by the APC candidate, Senator Hope Uzodimma, who scored 96,458 votes. Bauchi: Mohammed turns the table against APC Despite winning the three senatorial seats and eight out of the 12 House of Representatives seats in the Bauchi State, the ruling APC in the state lost the governorship to the PDP. A former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Senator Bala Mohammed, who was the candidate of the PDP, polled 515,113 votes to defeat the incumbent governor, Muhammed Abubakar of APC, who scored 500,625 votes. The PDP candidate’s victory was after rerun election was held in 36 polling units covering 29 registration areas (wards) in 15 local government areas were votes were cancelled during the first ballot. INEC had declared the first ballot inconclusive on the grounds that the number of cancelled votes was higher than the margin of lead between the two top political parties. The electoral body later announced that it would resume collation when it found out that the number of cancelled votes was tampered with, a decision Abubakar and the APC challenged in court. During the March 9 inconclusive election, Mohammed was credited with 469,512 votes and Abubakar 465,453, with a vote margin of 4,059. At the second ballot, Mohammed garnered 6,376 votes against Governor Abubakar who polled 5, 117 votes, with a vote margin of 1,259 between both parties. Oyo: Makinde pulls the rug off APC It was another for the APC as the governorship candidate of the PDP in Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, defeated his APC counterpart, Adebayo Adelabu in a keenly contested election. PDP’s victory in the state was after eight years of APC’s reign in the state through Senator Abiola Ajimobi. Makinde scored 515,621 votes, while Adelabu came a distant second with 357,982 votes. The PDP candidate trounced his APC counterpart in 28 local government areas. The latter won in five local councils, while ADP won one.