In Mile 4 Hospital, Ebonyi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, it is a season of twins and triplets with mothers lamenting inability to feed, buy drugs and offset their medical bills. UCHENNA INYA reports from Abakaliki   At 35, Sunday Egede, a native of Ndiagu Odeligbo, Amagu in Ezza South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State is already a father of eight. He would have been a father of ten if the two children who died were alive. He had five children before his wife, Ijeoma gave birth to triplets last week.   With the development, things became more difficult for him as he is facing the most difficult period of his life following his inability to meet up the requirements arising from the delivery of the babies. The triplets were born premature at seven months and they are not well. They were placed in oxygen and other medical equipment at Mile 4 Hospital, Abakaliki, to ensure they develop properly and be like normal infants.  The babies were delivered through a Caesarean section. Their mother is still undergoing medical attention. Her breasts are not pumping milk to enable her feed two of the triplets that have been brought out of the oxygen machine.  But she is not feeding well and she is not also meeting financial demands by the hospital management. In fact, Sunday Egede has almost blamed God for blessing him above his capacity. The bricklayer said he would have loved to have money to carter for his wife, the five children before the arrival of the triplets.  He said: “My wife gave birth through Caesarean operation and they took blood from me and gave her before she was able to give birth to the triplets and I am very down now. I need serious financial and material assistance.  My triplets are under oxygen because they can’t breathe well and they are in nursery section while my wife is receiving treatment in post-natal ward of this hospital. I have exhausted all I have and I have nothing to take care of my wife and the triplets. I am tired.  “I am begging God to come to my aid by providing those that will assist me. God really blessed me but the blessing is above me and I don’t blame Him for blessing me above my capacity because I don’t know why He did it is so. “I am just a bricklayer. I gave birth to seven children before these triplets.   Two of them children are dead while five are alive. If you add these five children that are alive with the triplets, you will know what I am talking about. I need serious and urgent attention. The triplets are not well and the breast of their mother is not producing any milk and she needs to feed well for the milk to pump out of her breast but the reverse is the case.”   In the hospital, about seven other women gave birth to twins with their husbands abandoning them. But Egede said he would not leave his wife because she give birth to the triplets.  “It is even in this period that my wife requires much love. I cannot abandon her. I must be with her. The only thing I am begging God is to provide for us those that will come to our aid. God knows why it happened like this and I cannot dump my wife and run away like others. I must bear the burden with     her,” he said.  Affected mothers speak  His wife, Ijeoma Egede, narrated her ordeal thus: “I gave birth to five children before the triplets. I gave birth to these triplets through Caesarean section. I need assistance. I don’t have money for food, drugs and hospital bill. My triplets are not fine. There is no milk inside my breast for the triplets to suck. I need serious assistance from government and public spirited individuals.”  When our Correspondent was interviewing Egede and the wife, about seven women in the postnatal ward of the hospital called him and pleaded to be interviewed to know if they could be help through the interview.  One of them, Eze Grace Ogala of Okpishi Ngbo in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state lamented that she has been in pains since she gave birth two weeks ago following her inability to meet up with the financial requirements of the hospital for drugs which are supposed to stop the pains and make her strong.   The 39-year-old, who gave birth to two children before the twins, said: “I am a farmer. I gave birth to two children before these twins. One of the twins has eye problem. Since I gave birth to the twins, I have not been taking drugs. I don’t have money to buy drugs prescribed for me and I have been having pains in my stomach since I gave birth. I want assistance to enable me buy the drugs and pay for my hospital bills. I want to go home.”  Another woman, Mrs. Achulike Franca Ogechi, said: “I gave birth last Wednesday through a Caesarian Section. I gave birth to twins; a boy and a girl. It has not been easy for me since I put to bed because you will buy this one, they will demand this one. They will request this one and all these things involves money. So, it has not been easy at all. I feed them through breastfeeding and artificial mate. One of them, the baby girl, is not feeling fine.   But I feel so happy to have these babies. They are blessings from God. I am still in the hospital because of the money(bill) they gave us. The bill is over N120,000 and I don’t know the amount they will collect for the baby girl of the twins. I want the Governor and other public spirited individuals to come to our aid. We have been running around to get money but we have not succeeded. My husband is not doing anything.  He is just working in rice mill. I finished at Akanu Ibiam Federal Polythenic Unwanna, I have not got job. I got OND there.” On her part, Mrs. Una Ngozi, also said: “I ran to this hospital to save my life. I gave birth to two children before these twins. I am still in the hospital because I have not paid my hospital bills. I am suffering. I am not being taking care of and I want to go home”.   Hospital responds  A medical Doctor in the hospital in charge of the newborn unit, Dr Lucky Emumwen, in an interview on Sunday Egede’s triplets explained that the triplets were born at 34 weeks and that two of them developed Respiratory Distress Syndrome. His words: “The babies were born at 34 weeks and that period, because they were triplets, two of them developed Respiratory Distress Syndrome. It’s a syndrome where the lungs are not fully matured because of their age.  So, they don’t get to take in oxygen in and out very well. “So, because of that, their respiratory rate increases; the oxygen saturation drops. So, we had to help them by placing them on oxygen pressure air device last Thursday. “Two of them have done very well and have been weaned off the device.  Then, the other one, which is the second twin didn’t have any issue but we are still going to keep the babies for observation because of the issues that come with such babies; their weight being low, they have tendency of hypothermia and infection. “So far, from their assessment this morning, compared to how they were last week, they have done remarkably well. After full assessment today, they are fit to go home which I doubt, anyway, because we will have to monitor them very well for jaundice and all that.  “At this moment, they don’t have a full development of their sucking reflex. They can’t really suckle with their mouth. One of the challenges we have is that their mother cannot express her milk very well. “So, the little she could express, we feed them. You could see one of the nurses was on what we call ND2. It goes to the stomach through the nose.  We pass the breast milk through it but because the breast milk cannot really take care of those three babies as she is not producing enough milk. They were to get pre-nan for the babies.”  One of the nurses in the hospital, Njoku Patience, who is in charge of post-natal ward, said the twins and triplets mothers were doing well in the hospital. She admitted that some of the women were still undergoing pains after delivery because of their inability to procure drugs that would stop the pains owing to lack of money. She disclosed that eight of the women who were supposed to go home were still in the hospital because of their inability to pay the hospital bill. She called on government at all levels, NGOs and public spirited individuals to come to their aids.  “The women and their children are doing well; even the woman that gave birth to triplets is bouncing well and doing great. Once a woman gives birth through Caesarean section, we allow them to stay at least three days before she will be discharged. Some of the twins and triplets are still upstairs without their mothers because their weights at birth are not all that normal. So, we kept them there for proper management.  “Actually, some of the women are complaining of pains because they are unable to procure their drugs. We have done the one we can and we have been given them drugs for sometimes but there are some drugs they are supposed to be on but they didn’t buy them and that’s why they are still having pains till now after delivery. “Most of the women cannot pay for their drugs and once you didn’t pay for your drugs, especially within 48 hours of operation, you will keep on having the pains.  But if you get your drugs the way you are supposed to, within 72 hours, you see the woman being stronger. “Most women, when they are being operated on, they may not procure their drugs due to financial constraints and some of them, their husband will leave them, abandon them and go.  “We have up to eight of them unable to pay their drugs and bills and they are under Awaiting Bill Settlements(ABS). In this postnatal ward 1, we have two women who are unable to pay their bills, making a total number of them to 10. We always try our possible best to make sure they are healthy and give them the drugs that we have around. We always wait for NGOs to come and offset their bills. Sometimes, governments do come”, she said.