Some traditional rulers in Zamfara, Sokoto, Katsina and Kaduna are among “unpatriotic persons” allegedly responsible for the rising spate of armed banditry and kidnapping in the areas.
Cases of kidnapping, armed banditry and other violent crimes in the affected areas, had led to the killings of scores of people, rape as well as destruction of property.
The Minister of Defence, Brig.-Gen. Mansur Dan-Ali, who made the allegation in a statement yesterday by his Public Relations Officer, Col. Tukur Gusau, said those involved in the act provided intelligence to the suspected bandits, thereby compromising ongoing military operations.
“It is instructive to mention here that insurgency and terrorism are global phenomena that cannot be addressed through military actions only. The whole society has to rise in unison to support the government’s efforts to address the problem. “However, in spite of the concerted efforts of the Armed Forces and other security, some unpatriotic persons, including highly placed traditional rulers in the areas, were identified as helping the bandits with intelligence to perpetuate their nefarious actions or to compromise military operations,” Gusau said. Zamfara State Government had recently arrested the village head of Gurbin Bore in Zurmi Local Government Area, Alhaji Bello Magaji, who took part in the kidnapping of seven family members of a commissioner.
The government also declared wanted, Alhaji Mohammed Sani, district head of Ruwan Jema in Bukkuyum Local Government Area of the state. Sani was on the run for over three months when he learnt that security operatives were planning to question him over his involvement with the bandits. Another traditional ruler was also deposed over his involvement with the bandits in Zamfara.
While expressing the Ministry’s concern over the security situation in the affected areas, Gusau said efforts were being intensified, with a view to reversing the ugly trend. He insisted that the military operations going on in the states were eloquent demonstration of the government’s commitment towards ending the spate of killings and restore order.
His words: “The Ministry of Defence is very concerned about the security challenges in the North-West, particularly in states of Zamfara, Sokoto, Katsina and Birnin Gwari axis of Kaduna State. Due to the recent prevailing security situation in the states, the Ministry, through the Nigerian Army, is now conducting Exercise Harbin Kunama IV simultaneously in Zamfara, Katsina and Sokoto states. “The purpose of the exercise is to effectively flush out the activities of criminal elements in the North-West. The Nigerian Air Force has also intensified air strikes against the bandits in Zamfara. So far, the combined efforts have yielded a lot of successes leading to the killing of many bandits, rescue of many innocent persons, including the renowned Islamic scholar, Sheik Ahmad Suleiman. “The government is also addressing the remote and immediate causes that gave room to high spate of armed banditry in the states. Recently, the government acted on the advice of the Ministry of Defence to suspend all mining activities in Zamfara State and environs following intelligence report that suggests close collaboration between the activities of the bandits and illegal miners.” He further noted that: “In the last three years, the Ministry of Defence had carried out several reforms geared towards the re-organisation and expansion of the Armed Forces in order to meet up with contemporary security challenges across the nation and the sub region.
“In line with this, the Nigerian Army established 8 Division with headquarters in Sokoto to cover Kebbi, Sokoto, Katsina and Zamfara states while the Headquarters of 1 Brigade was relocated from Sokoto to Gusau. Presently, the tactical headquarters of 8 Division has since relocated to Gusau. Similarly, the Nigerian Air Force also established Quick Response Force in Gusau and landing areas in Gusau and Birnin Magaji respectively. “The Ministry of Defence therefore, wishes to warn any person or group of persons who choose to connive or sympathizes with the bandits to perpetuate crime against the law abiding citizens to, henceforth, retract their steps or face the full wrath of the law. The Armed Forces of Nigeria have been directed to deal decisively with anybody identified helping the bandits under whatever guise, no matter how highly placed the person or persons may be.”
Meanwhile, the Zamfara Government has said that a total of 3,526 persons were killed by armed bandits in the state in the last five years. This was disclosed by the state governor, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari, on Tuesday in Gusau during a Town Hall Meeting attended by the acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu.
“Nearly 500 villages have also been devastated and  8,219 persons were injured, some are still in critical condition,” Yari said. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Abdullahi Shinkafi, also said that over 13,000 hectares of farmlands were either destroyed or made useless as the farmers can no longer farm them. “The economy of the state has seriously suffered because thousands of shops were destroyed by the rampaging bandits who had displaced thousands of our people from their places of abode, many of whom cannot sleep with their two eyes closed because of fear,” he added.
Yari said the government had written volumes of reports containing over 7,000 pages, giving details of the crises right from the beginning to the infiltration from Libya and Boko Haram. On his part, the Acting IGP has pledged more decisive action against bandits and kidnappers terrorising the state.
Adamu told newsmen after the stakeholders’ meeting that President Muhammadu Buhari had given the police and other security agencies order to restore normalcy to the state.
“We all know the security situation within Zamfara State and North-West region in general. “We have the mandate of the President to come and hear from the stakeholders in Zamfara so that we can carry their views and add it up to the strategy we have against kidnappers and bandits. “Currently, we have operation that is ongoing, Operation Puff Adder, which is aimed at identifying the location of these bandits, eliminating their camps, getting them arrested and prosecuted as well restoring of order in Zamfara. “You have heard the steps taken by the Federal Government against mining in the state, we have already constituted a security team comprising all the security agencies to take over the mining sites. “All what we require from the people of the state is support and cooperation.
“We pledge to increase the number of policemen and I believe other security agencies will do the same,” Adamu said.
The town hall meeting was attended by traditional and community leaders including herders and farmers. Some traditional rulers in Zamfara, Sokoto, Katsina states, and parts of Kaduna, are among "unpatriotic persons" allegedly responsible for the rising spate of armed banditry/kidnapping in the areas, Cases of kidnapping, armed banditry and other violent crimes in the affected areas, had led to the killings of scores of people,… In “News” Nigerian Army yesterday applauded Zamfara State government for recruiting 8,500 Civilian Joint Task Force (JTF) members to assist security agents in their fight against crimes and criminals. The new recruits are supposed to support security agents with intelligence and other operational supports in combating crimes being perpetrated by bandits, armed… In “News” Violent attacks have become commonplace in the North-West lately, but against the backdrop of recent presidential directive to troops in the area, BIYI ADEGOROYE and BABA NEGEDU examine the fall-out and factors critical to restoration of peace   After months of relentless attacks by bandits, cattle rustlers and vain-glorious felons,… In “Politics”