Following the recent upsurge of violence in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna State, the Adara Development Association  (ADA) have accused the state government of being behind the killing of their people. The Association disclosed that the recent round of killings started when the state government on the eve of the last presidential election announced that 66 Fulanis including women and children were killed in the area. The statement jointly signed by Mr. James Auta, National Vice President and Luka Waziri Esq Asst. Secretary, of ADA also accused the state government of bias in the arrest and detention of their youths and leaders since the crisis started. The statement entitled “ADA Condemns the incessant violence in Southern Kaduna, urges governments to arrest perpetrators not victims or activists” also disclosed that the state government is plotting to frame up a former Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, Prof Chidi Odinkalu for speaking against the security situation in the area. Part of the statement said,   “the Adara Development Association have decried the cycle of killings that is bedevilling Kajuru and other parts of Southern Kaduna. “The Association noted that a new wave of killings broke out and has refused to abate since the State government’s pronouncement of “66 (and then later increased to 130) killings”. Since then there have been numerous arrests, and where preliminary investigation do not even remotely link suspects to the incident, they are still detained. “Victims and Activists who have lend their voices in condemning the arbitrary handling of the arrests are either threatened with arrests or prosecution. Twenty three (23) Adara children most of whom are below 18years have been in prison custody since September 2018 without trial when prisons should not even accept underage children. This is in addition to our nine chiefs and elders that have been locked up without any justifiable reason. “Officials of Adara Development Association who are not in prison are now being hunted. These include Luka Waziri Esq, Sebastine Barde, James Auta, Bitrus Maiwando and Augustine Jankaro who are being sought to be arrested merely by reason of their identity and affiliation.” ADA also said  ” there is credible information that the Kaduna State Governor intends to trump up charges against a former Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, Prof Chidi Anselm Odinkalu, merely for speaking against the government’s handling of the security situation in Kajuru. “The procuring of abduction and disappearance of the named persons and others sought to be persecuted by the government under legal artifices have no basis in justice or due process. We therefore strongly demand that the Kaduna state government desists from using State apparatus as a means of settling whatever perceived scores it may have.” On the eve of the now postponed Presidential and National Assembly elections, Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, announced that 66 bodies had been discovered in Kajuru Local Government Area of the state. The announcement was heralded by alarm, mixed reactions, controversy and suspicion at the same time. However, further… In “Features” Following the persistent killings in Kaduna State, mainly in Kajuru local government area, the Umbrella body of the Adaras, the dominant tribe in the area, Adara Development Association, (ADA) yesterday accused the state Governor Nasir El-Rufai of taking side with the Fulanis. This is as they also called for the… In “News Around Nigeria” In this report, BABA NEGEDU, examines the sectarian crisis in Kaduna State and the unsuccessful quest by successive administrations to tackle the menace   The deep rooted animosity among the diverse residents of Kaduna State again came to the fore penultimate Thursday October 18, when what will have been an… In “Politics”