Chief Ifedayo Adedipe (SAN) is a Bencher. In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on the 2019 general election, Atiku Abubakar’s court case over presidential election results, 9th National Assembly and sundry issues   Do you share the view that Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should invoke its power to de-register political parties?
Let us in the first instance agree that what we call political parties at the moment are simply platforms; they are not political parties in the real sense of it. I recall in those days, political parties have financial members. These are people who contribute money. These parties have manifestos which members believed in and subscribed to. We must go back to what was attained in those days where it was party members who nominated those that will run for elective positions. I ask you, what is the difference between APC and PDP? I see none. What are the programmes of these parties? We don’t even know them. So, that’s why I said at the moment, we don’t have political parties. We only have platforms through which people get political power. But we need political parties with ideologies. At the moment, we have too many political parties and we don’t need more than two. However, the Constitution does not specify the number of political parties that we can have in the country. It simply recognizes the right to form associations. The power of INEC to de-register political parties must be subject to the constitutional provision. We must check the unnecessary proliferation of political parties in the country. Look at how ugly the ballot paper for the 2019 general election is; it’s too long. I believe having 91 political parties is ridiculous. It makes no sense and it puts INEC through a lot of logistical challenges. We don’t need more than five. There are things we should not do and this proliferation of political parties should be discouraged. How do you view government’s disregard for court pronouncements barring military deployment for elections?
There are existing decisions of both the Appeal and the Supreme Courts which barred the use of military for election purposes. So, for the Federal Government to ignore those decisions, it speaks volume about the respect it has for judicial pronouncements. This ought not to be. Secondly, politicians who have soldiers attached to them and use the soldiers to disrupt the process are probably not among those who fought for democracy in this country. This action is disrespectful to the Constitution and such individuals if known should be sanctioned. Those who risk their lives to get military out of power will not do anything that will aid their return to power. We should know that the idea of soldiers being used for political process is very dangerous and illegal. Thirdly, under the Constitution, the president cannot rightly deploy soldiers to any part of the country without going through the National Assembly. The 2015 general election was not like this. We now have a series of inconclusive elections. The election given to us by this APC Federal Government is a disgrace. It shouldn’t be so. I had thought that this year’s election will be an improvement on the 2015 general election. But it’s worse because of the involvement of military in the election. There were allegations of soldiers carting away ballot boxes and so many other vices during the election. This is a sad commentary. And who do you think should be blamed?
In this last election, what changed or has refused to change is the role that the card reader ought to play. In one of the post 2015 election cases, the Supreme Court held that the card reader is not yet part of the requirement for accreditation under the Electoral Act. The apex court said manual accreditation is what the Electoral Act recognizes. This means no one can ask that an election be set aside simply because card reader was not used for accreditation. Sequel to this, one would have thought that going forward, the current exercise would have taken a cue from that and allow as part of the amendment to the Electoral Act, the insistence that card reader must be a compulsory part of the accreditation process.
To the question of who do I blame? I blame the government for permitting that kind of scenario. At some point, the president was even saying for anyone who snatches ballot box that would be the last thing he would do on earth. I was one of those who condemned the statement. He cannot say Nigerians should be shot at. It’s not right. What we want is a situation where due process of law is followed in all cases. If anyone is caught violating the Electoral Act, you should take him to court. How can the growing trend of violence that usually characterizes the nation’s elections be tamed?
This is a country that does not have sufficient police manpower and we are talking about youth unemployment. Why can’t we enroll youths into the police force? Nigeria has about 200 million citizens and we cannot raise a police force of 4 million. It’s quite unfortunate that we can only boast of about 300, 000 police officers. Unless the society is well policed and stringent measures to prevent a breakdown of law and order is taken during electoral process, the country will be sitting on a keg of gunpowder. Do you support the decision of the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate in the last general election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to challenge the outcome of the presidential election in court despite pleas from certain quarters against the moves?
Yes. I think he should go to court. Let us have judicial findings on what actually transpired. Let us hear the facts. If somebody said he is going to court, the onus is on him to prove what he alleges. I do not subscribe to the views of those urging Atiku not to go to court. Let us have the facts about what happened in all the states of the federation. For instance, I am curious to know how Borno State that is under the attack of Boko Haram had more votes than Lagos. Let’s examine the issue. War is raging somewhere, the governor was even shot at and suddenly you see about three million votes from the place. We have witnessed elections being upturned in the country, why do you think it is difficult to upturn presidential election even in the face of glaring infractions?
I don’t think it has to do with the fact that judges cannot summon courage. Remember in 1982, Balarabe Musa was impeached by the Kaduna State House of Assembly. Afterwards, the court said it has no jurisdiction to entertain the case. But, in the case of Ladoja’s impeachment, the court faulted the process through which he was removed and he was re-instated to his position.
In Osun State, several votes were cancelled before Aregbesola became the governor. Similar thing happened in Ondo state. All these tell us that the court can make orders when it think it is necessary without minding whose ox is gored. Coming to the suit over the results of presidential election, I am sure if the facts are properly laid by the petitioner and barring any unforseen circumstance, the proper thing will be done. If an election has taken place and is not in tandem with the law, the court will so declare. What do you make of the allegation by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that the husband of the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa is a member of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and as such the court may not be fair to it in its cases before it?
That is an unfortunate allegation. The Court of Appeal is made up of not less than 70 men and women as I recall because they sit in panel. Clearly, the court must have a head and the fact that the court’s head has a husband that is of the APC is of no moment. Are we not having judges in the Supreme Court whose relations are members of political parties? Will it also matter if the husband of the Court of Appeal president is of the PDP? Or are we saying because she is in the court system, her husband is not free to pursue his political ambition? I don’t see how which party her husband belongs will affect the court’s decision in any case before it and one thing we should realize is that as the Head of the Court of Appeal, Justice Bulkachuwa’s role is simply administrative. Less than three months from now, the 9th National Assembly will be inaugurated. What is your agenda for the lawmakers?
Something has to be done about the Electoral Act Amendment Bill in order to reform our electoral system. Another issue I want the lawmakers to address is the unpleasant way governors treat the third-tier of government. We need to find a way to rescue the local governments from these governors. These state executives are truly oppressing the local councils. They dissolve them at will. Most of the time, they use the judicial system to achieve their aims. Above all, I will appreciate the 9th Assembly if the lawmakers could look at how to rejig the security architecture of this country. Arms are now being stockpiled by citizens and this should be of concern to all of us.
In those days, you can embark on a journey from Lagos to the East by 8p.m. without entertaining any fear but woe betides anyone who does that now. He will be kidnapped along with his car.
The level of insecurity in this country at the moment is quite alarming. I have mentioned the fact that we do not have enough police officers. But on this, what I think we desire is an expanded federal police and not state police because of the high risk of abuse by state executives.