 Super Eagles striker, Henry Onyekuru, has said that he is seriously thinking about making waves with Everton in the coming days but admits he will have to work hard for it. Onyekuru who is currently plying his trade with Turkish side Galatasaray stated this in a live sports programme on a Lagos-based radio on Tuesday. The 21-year-old forward who puts up a remarkable display in last week’s international friendly against Egypt added that his target is to hit top form for club and country over the next few month, after which he hopes for a possible move to Goodison Park in the summer. However, the former KAS Eupen and RSC Anderlecht of Belgium winger said he was thinking only about Galatasaray for now, as he aims to keep making top marks with the Istanbul-based club. Incidentally, Onyekuru has hit an all-time high in terms of personal marks since joining Gala last summer and was on Monday named the current fastest player in the Turkish Super Lig. Onyekuru said: “I love Galatasaray. My dream is to play in the English Premier League, but I’m having some problems with the work permit. “If they agree with Everton, I will stay at Galatasaray. Maybe I can play with Everton in future, but Galatasaray is where I am for now.” …happy with 2018 performance   Galatasaray of Turkey forward, Henry Onyekuru, has set his sights to make Nigeria proud at next year’s Africa Cup of Nations which is yet to have a confirmed venue.. Onyekuru, who has been one of Nigeria’s top performers in European League this season, hinted that… In “Sports” Turkish Super Lig side, Galatasaray, have disclosed that they are glad to seal a summer loan switch for Henry Onyekuru from Everton of England, and stated how happy they are to welcome the former KAS Eupen of Belgium attacker. The deal had faced initial blockade from RSC Anderlecht of Belgium,… In “Sports” Galatasaray of Turkey attacker, Henry Onyekuru has admitted that part of his targets for next year is to make Nigeria’s squad to the Africa Cup of Nations, footballlive. ng reports. While pointing out that he wants to continue scoring great goals for his club in the Turkish Super Lig, Onyekuru… In “Sports”