Why they spent 60 hours on the road …as Erhire wins first gold in high jump  After spending 60 hours on the road from Ijebu-Ode, Nigeria to Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, for the 2019 Confederation of African Athletics U-18 and U-20 Championships, Team Nigeria athletes are still upbeat as they chase a top position at the championship. The athletes had to pass through a harrowing experience as they spent two nights on the road to get to their destination, but feelers from the camp showed that the athletes are raring to go after completing their accreditation in the late hours of Monday. Some of the athletes who spoke with our correspondent said the most important thing for them was their career and how to come out on top against their mates from around the continent. “Yes we had a very terrible experience travelling from Nigeria to this place, but we have put that behind us as we just want to compete,” one of the athletes said. “This is about our life and what we want to become in the future, so we must be able to get the right background while competing with our age mates. “Some of us travelled to Ghana for the ECOWAS Games last year and despite getting there on the day of the competition, we emerged top, so that’s the target this time around too.”
The Nigerian contingent is in the same hotel, Injs Hotel, with Team South Africa, Team Kenya, Team Uganda and Team Ethiopia. Also, it has been revealed why the team spent 60 hours on the road instead of the usual less than 30 hours for the distance they covered. New Telegraph was informed that the team had several stopovers on the road with all the athletes and officials going through border checks with their passports stamped at each occasion, with one of the coaches. We also learnt that the team was delayed for more than seven hours at a certain checkpoint for no just cause, as one member of the coaches, Seun Ogunkoya, was accused of breaking inter-border laws, and was detained, leading to a long delay on the road while they also had to rest, especially the drivers of the buses.
Yinka Bantefa was one of the casualties of the trip as she failed to start in the girl’s 1,500m won by Morocco. Meanwhile, Best Erhire, won the first gold medal for the country after emerging winner in the boys High Jump with a Personal Best of 2.08m. Shedrack Akpeki won his heat in the men’s 400m with a time of 47.49secs as teammate, Nsikak Francis, also finished second in his heat.
The girls 400m heat 2 was won by Favour Ofili with a Season Best of 53.75secs with Victor Akhalu winning heat 1 of the boys 400m in 47.96secs to progress to the next round of the championships.