The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) recently held a 3-day Law of Armed Conflict Retreat for Field Commanders and Legal Officers. EMMANUEL ONANI brings excerpts from the event  The defining characteristic of a modern society is the fact that human behaviours and activities, are regulated by law and statute, a fundamental departure from what obtained in the primordial/medieval era, which seemingly existed on the “state of nature” concept.  The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) demonstrated its avowed commitment to subordinate the Service’s conduct and operations to the dictates of civil society, as exemplified in the Rules of Engagement, as well as international Laws of Armed Conflicts (LOAC).  Expectedly, the retreat, which had the theme, “The Law, the Courts vis-a-vis the Military Commander in Counter Insurgency and Counter Terrorism Operations”, waa aimed at equipping participants with requisite knowledge on current and emerging legal trends as well as issues associated with human rights in the conduct of internal security operations. The conference sought to provide a veritable platform for the NAF’s Legal Officers to meet with their counterparts from within and outside the Service. To underscore the importance of the retreat, the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammed, was in attendance during the opening ceremony of the event, which held at the “Blue Room”, headquarters of the NAF in Abuja. In his welcome address, the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar,, assured Nigerians that the conduct and operation of the Service, would continue to be guided by the principles of the LOAC, , which forms part of both domestic and international humanitarian laws that regulate the conduct of armed conflicts. The CAS further explained that the operations of the NAF were always regulated by the aforementioned principles, including; the justification for involvement, the use of minimum force, protection of lives and property, recording and keeping of evidence, timely intervention, domination of Area of Responsibility and cooperation. According to him:“These principles require that before the NAF is involved in any operation, it must be sanctioned by appropriate superior authority and when deployed, it only applies the use of force when necessary in the circumstance to ensure safety of lives and property.  “We do all these in conformity with applicable Rules of Engagement which are in line with international best practice”, the CAS said. The Air Chief had used the occasion to express regret over negative reports of alleged violation of human rights during operations. “Some people have gone to the ridiculous extent of accusing NAF fighter pilots flying at 300kilometres per hour of selectively attacking farmers as targets while sparing herdsmen in Numan. Others have alleged that bombs were dropped in villages, killing civilians and burning thatched roofs of their homes but sparing mud structures of the houses. “Unfortunately, these mostly unverified allegations have over time portrayed the military in bad light and have, as well, impacted negatively on our fight against insurgency. While most of the allegations are untrue, they nevertheless caused mistrust between the military and civil populace, while also affecting relations between Nigeria and some of its allies. “It is for this reason that we continue to reiterate the importance of adhering to LOAC during military operations. The aim of this retreat therefore is to provide the platform for interaction between participants and experts in the legal field with a view to equipping our legal officers and field commanders with a better understanding of LOAC.  “By virtue of Section 217 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, (as amended), the military is tasked with the defence of Nigeria from external aggression, maintenance of its territorial integrity, provision of aid to civil authority and carrying out other functions as may be prescribed by the National Assembly. With this, the military has over time participated in several internal security and peace support operations within and outside Nigeria”, the CAS said.  This was as the CAS further disclosed that, in its determination to find a balance between observing the laws of armed conflict, and striking enemy territories, the NAF relies heavily on legal services directorate.  His words: “…the demand for probity and accountability for our actions or inactions is on the rise. Retreats of this nature therefore are very important in the operational landscape that we are operating as activities become more complex by the day.  “The NAF relies on our Legal Services Directorate in navigating the legal waters which sometimes become turbulent as a consequence of the strict requirements for the military to adhere to LOAC.”  Delivering his keynote address, the Acting CJN, Mohammed, had emphasised the compelling need to adhere to the rules of engagement, and other laws guiding military operations.  “For me, nothing is more important than acting within the ambit of the laws in whichever role you find yourself.  “The Nigerian Air Force and indeed the entire Armed Forces were established to serve and be accountable to the Nigerian people.  “Thus, one way to do this in the business of defence is to adhere to your Rules of Engagement in line with the laws as well as international best practices.  “As such, our troops must adhere to the Laws of Armed Conflict during military operations. In view of this, I wish to commend the Chief of Air Staff for introducing and consistently organizing this Retreat since assuming office as the head of the Air Force”, Mohammed said.  In a statement issued at the end of the retreat, the Director of Public Relations and Information (DOPRI), Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, had offered highlights of the conference.  According to the DOPRI: “Day One of the Retreat…featured the presentation of 3 papers. The first paper titled “Command and Individual Responsibility in Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency Operations” was delivered by Professor Dakas CJ Dakas (SAN), the second paper on the topic “Human Rights in Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency Operations” was delivered by Mr Femi Falana (SAN) while the third on “Rules of Engagement in Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency Operations” was presented by Group Captain Sadeeq Shehu (retired)”.  Other guests at the event included the representatives of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and President Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) as well as members of local and international Non-Governmental Organizations.  Also present were distinguished legal practitioners and scholars such as Mr Robert Clarke (SAN) and Professor Usman Tar, amongst many other eminent personalities and senior military officers, both serving and retired.  