New Group A leaders of the Nigeria Professional Football League abridged league, Enugu Rangers, will hope to extend their current unbeaten run when they face Sunshine Stars in Akure on Sunday in the continuation of the season.
The seven-time champions have been in an incredible form since their elimination from the group stage of the CAF Confederation Cup and shot to the top of the table after defeating Kwara United 2-1 during the week in a rescheduled game played in Ilorin in midweek.
Despite playing 11 games compared to others who already played 14 games, Rangers are top of the table with 24 points and a win on Sunday will extend their lead at the top.
Erstwhile leaders MFM will hope to return to winning ways as they play host to Lobi Stars at the Agege Stadium.
MFM were at the top of the table for many weeks but have to make do with the second position as Rangers continue to surge ahead.
Also in Group A, Katsina United will be at home to Rivers United while Wikki Tourists will be away to Niger Tornadoes.
Relegation threatened Insurance of Benin and Remo Stars will square it out at the University of Benin Sports Complex, Benin, the home ground of Insurance, as Enyimba take on Kwara United in Aba.
In Group B, Akwa United’s quest of finishing among the top three will be tested when they welcome four-time NPFL winners, Kano Pillars, to the Godswill Akpabio Stadium, Uyo.
The former Aiteo Cup winners are currently leading the group with 25 points, same as El-Kanemi Warriors, albeit with a better goal difference.
Kano Pillars are in the fourth position, just two points behind their weekend opponents.
FC IfeanyiUbah have performed beyond expectations as they are third with 24 points from 14 matches and will be taking on Go Round in Nnewi on Sunday.
Bottom of the table club, Yobe Dessert Stars, will be away to Abia Warriors, who on their part are also trying so hard to scale through and maintain their elite division slot at the end of the campaign.
It is going to be Heartland at home to Nasarawa United while El-Kanemi Warriors will be playing at home against Plateau United with Delta Force travelling to Gombe to take on Gombe United.