…as Jinping woos more countries to join  The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a development model created by the People’s Republic of China to enhance massive infrastructure development and boost economic globalization, has yielded $6 trillion in six years, with more than $80 billion of Chinese investments in participating countries. President Xi Jinping of China, who made the disclosure at the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, beckoned on more countries to embrace the initiative, saying imbalance in development is the greatest imbalance confronting the world today. The forum, which held in Beijing, China, had about 5,000 foreign guests from 150 countries and more than 90 international organizations in attendance. The theme of the forum: “Belt and Road Cooperation – Shaping a Brighter Shared Future,” was designed to advance the goal of the BRI which is hinged on high quality development in member countries. In an address to participants, Jinping said that infrastructure remains the bedrock of connectivity among countries and gave assurance that China will continue to work with its partners to build a connectivity network across the world. Over the past six years, a total of 126 countries and 29 international organizations have signed BRI Cooperation Agreements with China. Nigeria joined the league in September 2016, when China and Nigeria signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on BRI during President Muhammadu Buhari’s visit to China to attend the Summit of Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Beijing. The Chinese leader described the Belt and Road Initiative as a response to the demand for improved global governance system that meets people’s desire for a better life. In the coming years, Jinping said, BRI will focus on the priorities of project execution, result oriented implementation and jointly promote high quality Belt and Road Cooperation. “The flow of goods, capi-tal technology and people will power economic growth and create broad space for it. We will enter into negotiation with more countries to conclude high standard free trade agreements and strengthen cooperation in customs, taxation and audit oversight by setting up the Belt and Road Initiative Tax Administration Cooperation Mechanism and accelerating international collaboration on the mutual recognition of authorised economic operators. “We have also formulated the guiding principles on financing the development of the Belt and Road as well as published the Debt Sustainability Framework for participating countries. This is to provide guidance for BRI financing cooperation,” he said. Jinping disclosed that the Second China International Import Expo, billed to hold later this year, will provide an even bigger platform for other countries to access the Chinese market. In the next five years, he said, China will actively implement the BRI Talent Exchange Programme, which would provide 5,000 opportunities for training and cooperative research for talents from China and other BRI participating countries. Similarly, Jinping said, China will be inviting 10,000 representatives of political parties, think tanks and non-governmental organizations from BRI participating countries to visit China in the next five years. “We will encourage and support extensive cooperation on livelihood projects among social organizations of participating countries; conduct a number of environmental protection and anti-corruption training courses and deepen human resources development cooperation in various areas. “We will continue to run the Chinese government scholarship, Silk Road Programme, host the International Youth Forum on Creativity and Heritage along with the Silk Roads and Chinese Bridge Summer Camps. We will also put in place, new mechanisms such as the Road and Belt Studies Network and the Belt and Road News Alliance to draw inspiration and pull out strength together for greater synergy,” he said. ...the making of a new world order     Between the 14th and 15th May, an important step was taken in establishing the framework for a more co-operative and inclusive international system which would include communities and other social categories, well beyond the traditional range of formal state actors.… In “Features” Chinese funds are not for “vanity projects” in Africa but are to build infrastructure that can remove development bottlenecks, Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Monday, telling Chinese firms they also had to respect local people and the environment. Mr Jinping said at a business forum before the start of… In “News Around Nigeria” Sequel to Nigeria and fellow African countries' gathering in Beijing for the 7th Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), the benefits derived from the China-Africa cooperation within the last 18 years cannot be over emphasized. These benefits spanning from roads construction, light railways construction, hydropower projects to mention but a few,… In “Features”