The FA Cup semi-final weekend ends this afternoon with two Premier League sides slugging it out for a place in the coveted final of the world’s oldest knock out competition next month. Watford is the ‘home’ team and welcome Wolverhampton Wanderers to the iconic Wembley Stadium, venue of the encounter. ‘The Hornets’, as Watford is called by her fans, were able to get past the beaten finalists of three campaigns ago, Crystal Palace in the quarter-final tie played at Vicarage Road. It was second-half substitute Andre Gray who scored two minutes after coming on to send Watford into the semi-finals. The Hornets had earlier led through Etienne Capoue’s instinctive finish before Michy Batshuayi levelled for the Eagles, finishing coolly after dispossessing Adrian Mariappa. But soon after replacing Will Hughes, Gray fired past Vincente Guaita to send his club into their sixth FA Cup semi-final. After retaking the lead the hosts looked the more likely side to score as Troy Deeney saw an effort well saved and Aaron Wan-Bissaka made a crucial intervention to keep out Gerard Deulofeu in the closing stages. Javi Gracia prepared for the quarter-final by resting seven players for their league game at Manchester City the previous weekend. While it may have cost them their best chance of upsetting City at the Etihad, Gracia’s decision proved fruitful with the Spaniard and his team now having an FA Cup final ticket to play for. But Gracia knows that his side will have to be at their very best to upstage a team that has already knocked out two of the favourites from the competition In their very outing this campaign, they upset Liverpool and in last month’s quarter-final got the better of 12-time winners Manchester United with a master class display of counter attacking football at Molineux to reach their first FA Cup semi-final for 21 years. Nuno Espirito Santo’s side, in their first quarter-final since 2003, fully deserved their victory as United produced their worst performance under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. United goalkeeper Sergio Romero, in for David de Gea, had kept United level with brilliant saves from Diogo Jota and Raul Jimenez either side of the interval, before the Mexican striker swivelled in the area to finally give Wolves the reward their domination merited with 20 minutes remaining. Wolves were rampant and it was no surprise when the dangerous Jota doubled their lead six minutes later, shrugging off United’s Luke Shaw on the break before shooting low past the exposed Romero. After the match a delighted Portuguese manager said: “I’m very proud of the players. We had composure, shape, good running. We will respect everybody in the semi-finals.” Incidentally, when both sides met in the league last October it was Gracia that left the Molineux the happier man as his team stunned the home side 2-0; the return fixture comes up on 27th of this month. On Tuesday night the Hornets prepared for the game with a 4-1 win to relegate Fulham while Wolves showed how far they have come with another 2-1 win over Manchester United. Football fans should be in for a treat from two informed teams.