 Three years after a botched auction, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is currently in search of buyers for the abandoned 2.6Ghz spectrum band, New Telegraph has learnt.   There are eight slots of the spectrum valued at $16 million each, totalling $128 million going into government’s coffers when the deals are eventually sealed. NCC had in 2016 put forward for sale (through auction) the available 14 slots of 2.6Ghz spectrum at a reserved price of $16 million per slot. However, MTN was the only operator that showed interest and bided for six, leaving eight slots with the regulator.  Industry sources said the regulator is now in talks with some of the telecoms companies who need the spectrum to come and buy it. While the first attempt was through an auction, it was gathered that the Commission may be considering the options of ‘first come first served’ or ‘beauty contest.’  Spectrum, a scarce resource for telecommunications service, is allocated to countries by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), while respective countries determine how they are sold to service providers. Speaking on the spectrum, President Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) Mr Olusola Teniola, said though many telcos needed the spectrum to expand their broadband service offerings, the price and the prevailing economic circumstances at that time prevented them from participating in the auction. He however noted that the current move by the regulator to look for buyers is a step in the right direction. “NCC has every right to decide how the spectrum is sold; it can be a matter of first come first served or beauty contest,” Teniola said. At a post-mortem event organised by NCC to know why the telcos shunned the spectrum, the operators had faulted the auction process, arguing that it favoured only those with deep pockets.  According to them, every auction exercise, where the highest bidder wins has the characteristics of being lopsided, and designed to favour only big operators that have the financial muscles, to the detriment of small operators who have lean pocket. They also said they were worried and uncomfortable with the high reserved price of $16 million per slot, owing to the poor economic state of the country.  Specifically, the Managing Director of Spectranet, Mr David Venn, was of the view that, though NCC had been transparent in all its auctions, the operators were not comfortable with the fact that the system favoured big operators at the expense of the small players. In addition, he observed that as at the time NCC was considering the auction exercise, the price of data had already crashed in the telecoms market, a situation that affected the revenue generation of operators to bid for the 2.6GHz spectrum which he said had always attracted heavy capital investment.  While commending the regulator for the courage to invite the operators and other stakeholders to deliberate on the 2.6GHz spectrum auction, he suggested that going for      ward, NCC should consider the revenue sharing arrangement for allocation of spectrum, instead of the auction exercise. Under the revenue sharing system, he said the spectrum is released to operators and revenue from the business is shared by the operators and the government. This system, he said, has been practiced successfully in many countries including Tanzania and Zambia, among others.  Speaking at the forum, Director of Spectrum Administration at NCC and Chairman of the Auction Committee, Austin Nwaulune, said the post mortem stakeholders forum became necessary because the 2.6GHz auction fell short of expectation and the regulator would want to know if it had done anything wrong or in excess that prevented the operators from participating as the regulator was concerned about moving the industry forward. He also gave reason why the NCC prefer auction to other means of spectrum sale, describing it as the most transparent system that puts the final decision of who gets what on the bidders. However, Nwaulune expressed confidence that all the issues raised by the operators would be taken seriously by the Commission and would be factored into subsequent decisions.          