An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court on Tuesday remanded three persons who allegedly robbed motorcyclists at gunpoint. Magistrate S. K. Matepo ordered that Kabiru Abu, 21; Faruk Afolagbe 20, and Okiki Salami,  20, should be kept at the  Kirikiri Prisons, Lagos, pending advice of the state Director of Public Prosecutions. Matepo said that the court could not take the plea of the accused. She adjourned the case until May 6, for mention. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the police charged the trio with conspiracy, unlawful possession of dangerous weapons and robbery. The prosecutor, Mr Innocent Odugbo, told the court that the defendants, whose addresses were not provided, armed themselves with dangerous weapons and robbed their victims of motorcycles. He said that the defendants committed the offences on March 9 at Alakara, Mushin, Lagos. “When the police got a tipoff on their activities, they traced and intercepted them; when searched, a gun was recovered from them. “When asked of the looted motorcycles, they claimed all had been sold to one G-shirt and one Gbenga, who are still at large,” the prosecutor said. He said that the offences violated Sections 296 and 297 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. (NAN) The Police in Lagos on Tuesday arraigned two men, Nicholas Michael and Rilwan Sulaiman, over alleged robbery and for belonging to an unlawful secret society. Michael, 25, and Sulaiman, 32, are standing trial before an Ebute Meta Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for conspiracy, robbery, assault and belonging to an unlawful… In “Metro and Crime” An Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State on Monday, ordered that five men, who allegedly kidnapped two women and robbed them of their valuables be remanded in Kirikiri Prison, pending legal advice from the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Chief Magistrate, Mrs M. I. Dan-Oni, who gave the order,… In “Metro and Crime” An Ikeja Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, yesterday remanded a 39-year-old man, Kingsley Ikechukwu, in prison for armed robbery. The accused was arraigned on a twocount charge of conspiracy and armed robbery. Ikechukwu, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. According to the police prosecutor, ASP Simeon Imhonwa, the alleged offence was… In “Metro and Crime”