The Visual Collaborative Polaris or North Star is an experimental collective led by multidisciplinary designer and award-winning technologist; Ade Olufeko. The collective as a periodical is a curated batch of interviews with over 169 minutes of non-linear content featuring 26 selected practitioners from three continents. The interviews can be read on visualcollaborative.com/the_polaris_collective The Polaris catalogue explores creative disciplines, perspectives and intrinsic value of the featured practitioners and how they interact with society. The project commenced in the Winter/Harmattan of 2019 for over a period of three months. This initiative is said to have been designed to iterate over time as a value-add service model for content providers, academic institutions and incubators. Among the featured is a six time Emmy award winner Bobby Yan, a nationally recognized architect Tosin Oshinowo, international artists such as Polly Alakija, commercial illustrators and designers such as Autumn Whitehurst and Tiphanie Brooke, global art activist, educator and Senior TED fellow Bahia Shehab, singers and performers such as TolumiDE and Yvonne Sangudi, a practitioner of Yoruba philosophy Joyce Adewumi and an appearance by music recording engineer Jens Gad of the Enigma project. Among the features include art patron, Mexican power house Irene Hernandez-Feiks and filmmaker Remi Vaughan-Richards Ade Olufeko the founder of the project is scheduled to impart on Innovation and Development at the Yale University conference for African Peace and Development, which will take place on April 6th 2019. He is also scheduled to speak on the future of African Arts and Media at the Stanford African Business Forum at Stanford University in San Francisco on April 20th, 2019. Beyond the company’s platform and trademarked identity, the concept of Visual Collaborative can be evidently seen universally through its everyday usage regardless of geographic location or socioeconomic status. Olufeko’s thought leadership over the years has been leveraged to bridge the divide between millennials and older generations, bringing literacy of the creative industry and its different facets to the fore. The interviews can be read on visualcollaborative.com/the_polaris_collective Full list of participants are: 1.) Autumn Whitehurst – New York City
Commercial Illustrator, and Instructor at School of Visual Arts 2.) Bahia Shehab – Cairo, Egypt
Artist, designer and founder of the graphic design program at The American University in Cairo 3.) Bobby Yan – Queens, New York
6 time Emmy Award winner, Filmmaker and director 4.) Irene Hernandez-Feiks – San Francisco, California
WonderlandSF Gallery Director, Patron of the arts 5.) Polly Alakija – Lagos, Nigeria
Muralist, artist and children’s book author 6.) Remi Vaughan-Richards – Lagos, Nigeria
Filmmaker and director 7.) TolumiDE – Washington, D.C.
Singer, songwriter and graphic artist 8.) Tosin Oshinowo – Lagos, Nigeria
Award-winning architect, entrepreneur, public speaker and author 9.) Jens Gad – Berlin, Germany
Producer, songwriter and guitarist 10.) Selam – Brooklyn, New York
Actress, Singer-Songwriter 11.) Indira Lindsay Roberts – Greensboro, North Carolina
Pharmaceutical professional and festival director 12.) Tiphanie Brooke (Antigirl) – Los Angeles, California
Multidisciplinary artist and graphic designer 13.) Joyce Adewumi – Harlam, New York
Singer, choreographer and educator 14.) Michael Elegbede – Lagos, Nigeria
Chef 15.) Valerie Alloix – San Francisco, California
Creative Technologist 16.) SB The-emcee (Ogo) – Houston, Texas
Rapper and lyricist 17.) Mankwe Ndosi – Minneapolis, Minnesota
Singer and performance artist 18.) Yvonne Sangudi  – Los Angeles, California
Singer 19.) Chee (Chidinma) – Lagos, Nigeria
Singer and songwriter 20.) aYo Binitie Lagos, Nigeria / London, United Kingdom
Creative Technologist 21.) Kanayo Ebi – New York City / Lagos, Nigeria
Stylist, Image and Brand consultant 22.) Hana Omilani – Lagos, Nigeria
Founder of Lasmara, Patron of the arts 23.) Suzanne Erickson – Minneapolis, Minnesota
Founder of Jungle Red Salon Spa and Gallery 24.) Ben L. Jones – Chicago, Illinois
Artist 25.) Abiola Salamotu Ajala – Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Stylist and fashion connoisseur 26.) Deborah Lundstrom – Addis Ababa Ethiopia
Yoga practitioner and program director As Nigeria remains the most populated black nation on the continent, it continues to expand in challenging ways. The commonality of Africa’s professionals, its traditional, its cultural elite, and its have-nots including its diaspora are all bracing for economic turbulence in a second scramble for the region. One multifaceted technologist… In “Literature” Ade Olufeko’s personality may best be described as both Zen and reclusive. The former finds him offering wisdom and insights on technology and emerging economies at keynote invitations and public lectures. The latter finds him running away from that same limelight. He is an American born multidisciplinary technologist and entrepreneur… In “Arts & Entertainments” The Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) has announced its preparedness to successfully host Zuma film festival, 2017, scheduled for December 1 -3, 2017, in Abuja. Also, the NFC has released the list of posthumous award recipients who will be honoured during the festival. Speaking at the Press Conference held at the… In “Body & Soul”