Four policemen, who were allegedly involved in the killing of a 25-year-old mechanic in Ifo area of Ogun State have been arrested. The state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, disclosed this yesterday when he paid a condolence visit to the family house of the deceased after his on-the-spot-assessment of the crime scene. Makama said the officers, who were attached to the Zonal Intervention Squad of Zone 2 Police Command, had been apprehended while a civilian suspect was also arrested.  He spoke just as the state police command declared that no fewer than 25 suspects had been arrested in connection with the violence that broke out after the mechanic’s murder on Sunday.  A team of policemen, on Sunday evening, reportedly opened fire at a bus stop at Iyana Coker area of Ifo, killing Akeem Akinsanya in the process and causing injuries to several others. The shooting generated outrage with residents who took to the streets to express anger over continued brutality and killing of unarmed citizens by policemen.  The incident also snowballed into violent attack on the Ifo constituency office of the Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Olakunle Oluomo. In the attack, the constituency office and five vehicles belonging to Oluomo were razed down by suspected hoodlums. Addressing the aggrieved family members of the slain mechanic, the police commissioner assured them that justice would be done over the case.  Makama, who also visited the traditional ruler of the community, said all the perpetrators and accomplices would be thoroughly investigated and dealt with in accordance with the law. Although normalcy has since returned to the community, shops and business outlets were still under lock and key, apparently over fear of reprisal.  Oluomo had earlier in a statement called for the intervention of security agencies to forestall total breakdown of law and order in Ifo. The deputy speaker, who lamented the destruction of his property and vehicles, said the incident had political undertone.  He said: “The boys later regrouped and started attacking APC members or supporters in sight, accusing them of inviting police. They later mobilised themselves in large numbers, moved to my constituency office and set ablaze five vehicles (three Mercedes 42-seater buses, one Isuzu luxury bus and a 36-seater coaster bus) that I use for free school shuttle.  The entire office was razed down and they later moved to the constituency of Ifo/Ewekoro Federal Representative, Hon. Ibrahim Isiaka, and burnt it down as well…” But the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, said 25 suspects had been arrested in connection with the arson.