The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the reason why President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) were desperate to remain in office was to cover the rate of corruption going on in government. The party, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, accused the president and APC of rigging the February 23, Presidential election to protect corrupt APC leaders and conceal the humongous sleazes in government. “This also explains why APC agents and certain presidential aides have been making desperate efforts to distract the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal and derail the course of justice by making and promoting baseless judicial interpretations and externalizing the proceedings of the court,” PDP said. The party noted that the APC administration wants to remain in power so as to prevent investigation into the N14 trillion allegedly stolen under its watch as well as other leakages in ministries, agencies and parastatals. According to the statement, the Buhari-led APC administration was also desperate to avoid an investigation into its borrowings that led to the escalation of the nation’s debt stock from N12.12 trillion in 2015 to an overburdening N24.39 trillion in 2018. It observed that within a space of three years, the Buhari administration has borrowed a total of N12.27 trillion but could not point to any significant development project into which the money was invested. “This includes the N2.66 trillion borrowed in 2018, ahead of the 2019 general elections. “These and many more are funds meant for infrastructure development and welfare of Nigerians but have been cornered by APC leaders,” PDP alleged. The party said President Buhari lacks the competence and integrity to run a creative, transparent and credible administration that could guarantee economic growth and wealth creation. It noted that investors’ confidence, which shored up at the hope that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar would win the 2019 presidential election, “slumped with the rigging of the presidential election.” The party urged Nigerians not to despair but continue to be steadfast in the aspiration for the recovery of the presidential mandate at the tribunal, adding that this is the only way to return Nigeria to the path of peace, national unity and a vibrant economy. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is infested with corruption. PDP, which replied the Minister of Transport action, Rotimi Amaechi, said it was incongruous for the minister to state that corruption would return to Nigeria if President Buhari is voted out of office. PDP’s… In “News” …says Atiku'll win landslide   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the interim government mooted by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, is the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) 'Plan B' to remain in power. The party described interim government as unconstitutional, and said its presidential candidate, Alhaji… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the interim government mooted by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, is the All Progressives Congress (APC) 'plan B' to remain in power. The party described the interim government as unconstitutional, and said its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar would have… In “National news”