 Youths from the 19 northern states under the aegis of Arewa Youth Forum (AYF), yesterday in Kaduna State passed a vote of no confidence in the Federal Government, saying it had failed in its primary responsibility of protecting lives and property. The youth said they were “saddened by the wave of killings, attacks and kidnappings across the country, especially in the Northern part. We want to categorically condemn this nearly descent into anarchy across our country and the inability of government to find an antidote to this menace.” In the same vein, the Apostolic Administrator, Jos, Archdiocese and Coadjutor Archbishop, Abuja Archdiocese, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, raised the alarm that the Catholic Church in Nigeria was the target of kidnappers and criminals. However, the AYF in a statement signed by its National President, Gambo Ibrahim Gujungu, said: “As it stands many Nigerians no longer have faith in the ability of the government to protect their lives and property, a sad development indeed. “We are, therefore, calling on the Federal Government to immediately put in place measures that will bring this unholy menace to an end. AYF believes that our security agencies have what it takes to do this and we are asking those in charge to give the necessary political will. “If the prevailing strategies are not working, AYF believes the security agencies have what it takes to try a new approach and if the service chiefs have no new ideas to bring to the table, new ones should come on board to make sure that at least government should fulfill its primary duty of protecting lives and properties. “Reports from across the country have shown that Nigerians in their hundreds have lost their lives, their homes and means of livelihood to the marauding bandits and we are worried that government is yet to find any solution to this abnormality. “From Zamfara to Katsina, Sokoto to Kaduna the story is always the same. Many are now resorting to self – help because government has arguably failed in its primary responsibility of the protection of lives of its citizens. “Reports of people selling properties in Zamfara State and lining up to buy amulets that will protect them in their own communities is a sign that all is not well. But what is government doing about this? We are yet to see. “This is in addition to the new wave of kidnappings visited on innocent travellers along Kaduna – Abuja road. Before now reports are that many of the attacks took place during the odd hours of the night and early morning hours. “But recently especially within this week these people have become so daring that they operate, kidnap and even kill fellow citizens at will. This is unacceptable in a decent society. “The AYF is worried that in spite of all these developments government and the security agencies are carrying on as if nothing is amiss. We have clearly come to the conclusion that this government lacks the political will to tackle the state of insecurity across the country. “We say this because we are yet to see any serious proactive measure on the part of the security agencies and the government in bringing this menace to an end. How many Nigerians have to die before a serious minded action that will bring an end to the problem is taken?” they asked. Meanwhile, Kaigama alleged that criminals take advantage of Catholic churches located in all the grassroots, saying whenever a member is killed or a priest is kidnapped, the whole world is aware. Speaking yesterday in Jos, during the Memorial Mass of the 14 victims of the March 11, 2012 bomb blast, held at Saint Finbarr’s Catholic Church, Rayfield, Kaigama said: “Catholic Church has been the target of kidnappers and criminals because the Catholic Church located in all grass Root, They criminals are actually destroying Nigeria, and given Nigeria a very bad name outside the country.” Kaigama, who was the immediate past president of Catholic Bishops in Nigeria decries a situation where kidnapping become a lucrative business for criminals in Nigeria. He tasks the security agencies in the country to take drastic action towards reducing the rate of kidnapping of innocent citizens and most especially clergies. The Archbishop also describes the bomb blast that bombed the 14 victims on March 11, 2012 as sad incident, saying the 14 victims offer their lives for the service of faith. He said: “It is seven years since we experienced the devastation brought about by inhuman agents during which St. Finbarr’s Catholic church, Rayfield Jos, was attacked and fourteen of the parishioners were bombed out of this world. “Our thoughts go to the families of these brave victims of the tragic incident, we pray that by now those behind the perpetration of this dastardly act have undergone a conversion of heart, with a resolve never to visit such a barbaric act on any human being or group of persons again.” He, however, commissioned a memorial fountain built by the Saint Finbarr’s Parish in honour and memory of the 14 victims. Youths from the 19 northern states under the aegis of Arewa Youth Forum (AYF), Friday in Kaduna passed a vote of no confidence on the federal government, saying it has failed in its primary responsibility of protecting lives and properties. The youths said they are "saddened by the wave of… In “News” Youths from the 19 Northern states under the aegis of Arewa Youth Forum, (AYF) has condemned the killing of over 100 persons in Plateau state. The youths also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately order the arrest of the 'desperate politicians' behind the attacks. A statement made available to… In “News Around Nigeria” Youths from the 19 northern states under the auspices of Arewa Youth Forum (AYF) yesterday in Kaduna berated President Muhammadu Buhari, for what they described as his administration’s non-performance, insisting that Nigerians expected more from him and his team. The youths also called for a cabinet reshuffle as they said… In “News”