No fewer than 50 houses had their roofs blown off following a torrential rainstorm in Omu-Aran, Irepodun Local Government Area of Kwara, on Wednesday night. The rainfall, which first started on a peacefully around 7 p.m. lasted for about three hours. It was later accompanied by heavy storm destroying roof tops, uprooting tree branches and damaging electricity poles and cables in the process. Some of the houses affected are those located along Taiwo road, Agan-Oru market and Okore, Ile-Nla Area in the town. Two elderly persons were said to have been injured by falling roofing sheets and planks during the rainfall and were immediately rushed to a nearby private hospital for treatment. A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) who went round to monitor the development on Thursday reports that some of the victims were seen salvaging their property from the affected houses. Other victims had already hired the services of carpenters to remove the damaged roofing sheets and planks in readiness for proper renovation. Some of the buildings also had their walls cracked or pulled down following the impact of the storm. Mr Abiodun Ogun, the Bussiness Manager, Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC), Omu-Aran Bussiness Hub, reacting, said his men had swung into action in order to repair the affected poles and cables. “My men from the Fault Detection and Repair Section are already on the field and it is hoped that electricity supply will be restored very soon. “We are therefore appealing to our teeming customers for their understanding in this circumstance,’’ he said. Mr Adelodun Adewale, a victim of the rainstorm said that it was a divine intervention that his family escaped the impact of the falling roofing sheets and planks by whiskers. “We had already retired to the bedroom when the rain first started normally. “After about two hours, the storm started and we decided to leave for the inner room and not quite five minutes later, the roof the building was blown off. “But we thank God that everyone in the house escaped unhurt. “Our appeal is to ask for assistance from all tiers of government, spirited groups and wealthy individuals in order alleviate our suffering,’’ he said. Mr Muyiwa Oladipo, the Chairman of Irepodun Local Government Area, during an on-the-spot assessment of the development, praised God that no life was lost during the incident. He commiserated with victims and promised to contact the relevant state government agencies for possible assistance. Public and private schools in some parts of Kwara State hurriedly closed yesterday as rumour of a deadly vaccine being administered on school children by the military in conjunction with some health officials spread to the state. The areas mostly affected by the panic as at the time of filing… In “News” At least six members of the All Progressive Congress (APC) on Sunday lost their lives in a ghastly road crash on their way to celebrating the victory of their party in a bye-election that took place over the weekend. One of the victims was said to have been the Women… In “Metro and Crime” Over 100 houses and property worth millions of naira were destroyed by a windstorm which ravaged some communities in Dutse Local Government Area of Jigawa. Two village heads, Ado Musa and Baffa Shehu, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Dutse on Tuesday that the windstorm, which occurred on May… In “National news”