Operatives of the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences Unit have arrested 90 suspected criminals between Agege and Oshodi. Among the lot, 26, who were arrested at Agege, were alleged to be members of the dreaded Awawa cult group. The remaining 64 suspects, described as miscreants by the police, were arrested at Oshodi. This was even as the agency dislodged more than 1,500 illegal traders and impounded 96 motorcycles for plying restricted routes around Igando. The motorcycles were impounded at Isale-Oja, Funmilayo, Ile-Pako at Amoo, Orile by canal, Papa-Ashafa, Dopemu and Old Oko-Oba in Agege. The task force Chairman, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Olayinka Egbeyemi, said that 26 dreaded Awawa cult gang were arrested during an over-night enforcement operation tagged ‘Operation Restore Sanity to Lagos’ which was carried out around Isale-Oja. He said: “Criminal activities perpetuated by these various cult groups particularly the dreaded Awawa cult gang have constituted a serious threat to lives of residents and innocent members of the public around the area. It was an eye-sore seeing these miscreants and cultists robbing, raping and freely smoking Indian hemp with underage boys and girls during day time and at night.” Egbeyemi also said dangerous weapons and substances suspected to be Indian hemp were recovered from these 64 miscreants, including three female teenagers. He added: “These miscreants and hoodlums were those attacking and breaking motorists’ windscreens and disturbing innocent members of the public by dispossessing them of their valuables such as phones, wallets and jewellery around Oshodi and other places. “It is disheartening that most parents have abdicated their responsibility towards their children as youths are now found to be deeply involved in gangsterism. Honestly, most of the violent crimes committed across the state are perpetrated by youths who lack parental care and joined cultism to avoid being intimidated by their peers. ‘Operation Restore Sanity to Lagos’ would be a continuous exercise and extended to every other area known to be inhabited by these undesirable elements across the state.” The state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has, however, directed that all those arrested be charged to court for prosecution. On the dislodged 1,500 illegal traders and impounded 96 motorcycles, the task force boss said that they were plying restricted routes around Igando. Egbeyemi explained that they were dislodged to pave ways for free flow of traffic as there were serious complaints by residents and motorists about the newly constructed roads being taken over by illegal traders. He said: “Strategically, this unusual and very risky trading practice has led to the death of some traders especially those who were not quick enough to depart the scene of reckless drivers.”