…ranks country low in sovereign wealth fund use, recommends 3 to 5% tax hike   Despite the hues and cries over Nigeria’s huge debt, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) yesterday said the largest African economy by Gross Domestic Product (GDP) still has good fundamentals to enable it borrow more if she can abjure mismanagement.
Tobias Adrian, Financial Counsellor and Director, Monetary and Capital Markets Department, IMF, said this at a briefing on ‘Global Financial Stability Report’ at the on-going World Bank Meeting/IMF Spring meetings in Washington D.C.
Nigeria’s total debt profile, as of December 31, 2018,  stood at N24.387 trillion. The figure swelled by 12.25 per cent from N21.725 trillion in 2017 to N24.39 trillion in 2018. And oil, which accounts for over 75 per cent of Nigeria’s earnings, has been favourable – hovering between $70 and $71 per barrel.
Ironically, about 60 per cent of the country’s earnings are used to service these debts, prompting calls for Nigeria to generate more revenue. But Adrian said though the conditions were good for Nigeria and other sub-Saharan African countries to get funding to invest more, especially to improve its infrastructure, but expressed worry that these favourable conditions may not subsist, given fluctuating macro-economic conditions, which could change ‘at some point’. “So Nigeria has been borrowing in International markets. But we worry – so on the one hand, that is very good because it allows Nigeria to invest more; but on the other hand, we do worry about rollover risks going forward.
“At the moment, funding conditions in economies such as Nigeria and other Sub-Saharan African countries are very favourable, but that might change at some point. And there is a risk of rollovers and there is a risk of whether these needs for refinancing can be met in the future,” he cautioned. Adrian also pointed out that policy uncertainties and bad decisions were the root causes for financial distress in countries and advised that sub-Saharan African countries should embrace more of long-term borrowings than short-term risk assets.
“What we have seen in the past two years is that policy uncertainty has been at historically elevated levels. And that kind of policy uncertainty in many countries around the world is a risk factor for financial stability,” he said, adding that recent work at the Fund has shown that this kind of elevated policy uncertainty forecasts down side risk growth over and above the information that is in market-based measures. Adrian called for better and more strategic collaboration between the fiscal authorities and monetary authorities if Nigeria must achieve its long-term goals. Besides, he said: “Amid rising downside risks to global growth, policymakers should aim to avoid a sharper economic slowdown, while keeping financial vulnerabilities in check. “Policymakers should clearly communicate any reassessment of the monetary policy stance that reflects either changes in the economic outlook or risks surrounding the outlook. This will help avoid unnecessary swings in financial markets or unduly compressed market volatility. “In countries with high or rising financial vulnerabilities, policymakers should proactively deploy prudential tools or expand their macro prudential toolkits where needed. These countries would benefit from activating or tightening broad-based macro prudential measures, such as countercyclical capital buffers, to increase the financial system’s resilience.”
Meanwhile, the Fund has ranked Nigeria low in the use of Sovereign Wealth Funds (SWF). According to the Fund’s Fiscal Monitor report released yesterday, Qatar was the only country ranked worse than Nigeria among the 33 countries on the index.
Also, of the 10 African countries considered, Ghana was ranked the highest. In fact, the West African country was second on the index behind Colombia. The IMF said the index was compiled using the corporate governance and transparency scores of the SWFs and the size of assets as a percentage of 2016 Gross Domestic Period (GDP) of the countries considered.
The Fund said it used data compiled by the Natural Resource Governance Institute and Worldwide Governance Indicators. The report said: “It is critical to develop a strong institutional framework to manage these resources – including good management of the financial assets kept in sovereign wealth funds – and to ensure that proceeds are appropriately spent. This remains a significant challenge in many resource-rich countries that, on average, have weaker institutions and higher corruption.” Stressing that SWFs have to be transparent, the IMF advised that countries should ensure that the natural resources of countries should be channelled properly to the people that need them.
Nigeria’s SWF is managed by the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). In another development, the IMF has said that Nigeria and other sub-Saharan African countries could raise their tax base, on average of 3 to 5 per cent of GDP in additional revenue over the next five years if they improve the efficiency of their current tax systems.
The Fund, which stated this in its Fiscal Monitor report, also recommended that governments should cooperate to reform taxation of large multinational corporations, in particular digital ones. According to the Fund, this would help raise revenues, including for low-income developing countries, by limiting profit-shifting and global tax competition. Besides, it said that these actions would help raise long-term economic growth, which is key to reducing the burden of high public debt. Equally, they would also spread economic benefits more widely within and across countries, and restore the public trust in institutions necessary for economic stability.