…lady dies, boyfriend in coma    Police in Lagos have arrested four sergeants and one inspector for allegedly killing a 21-yearold lady, Adaobi Ifeanyi, at the Wilmer area of Ajegunle. Her boyfriend, Emmanuel Akomafuwa (32), is said to be in coma in the hospital where he was rushed to. The arrested policemen are Inspector Adamu Usman, Sergeant Adeyeye Adeoye, Sergeant Kashim Tijani, Sergeant Lucky Akigbe and Sergeant Paul Adeoye. The policemen were alleged to have opened fire on the lovers just as they were returning from a nightclub. While Adaobi died instantly, Akomafuwa was rushed to the hospital. He reportedly slipped into come yesterday. According to witnesses, one of the policemen shot Akomafuwa in the head, thinking he was dead. But to keep the killing secret, the killer turned her gun to Adaobi. He shot her three times; twice in her abdomen and the third one in her head. She died instantly. But a second lady in the vehicle, identified simply as Faith, was said to have hidden herself in the car. The shooting and subsequent death of Adaobi came about two weeks after Kolade Johnson, a South African returnee was shot dead by policemen from Anti-Cultism Unit at Onipetesi, Mangoro, Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, while he was watching Tottenham versus Liverpool match at a viewing centre with some friends. A source said: “The policemen opened fire on the lovers about 7a.m., while they were returning from a nightclub. The victims were rushed to hospital, where Adaobi was confirmed dead. Emmanuel is still in the hospital.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, yesterday said the five policemen had been arrested in connection with the incident, while Inspector Dania Ojo, the sixth policeman, alleged to be part of those who committed the crime, had absconded. A source close to Adaobi’s family said the policemen deliberately killed the lady to silence her. “Adaobi and her boyfriend were on their way from a nightclub on Saturday morning when they were waved down by policemen. When the boyfriend, being the driver, didn’t immediately stop, the police chased and caught up with the vehicle. The police shot the young man on the head. The young lady, seeing that her boyfriend had been shot, raised her voice at the policemen, who promptly shot her also. Adaobi died instantly on the spot,” the source said. Another source said there was a third person, identified simply as Faith, in the vehicle during the encounter with the killerpolicemen. It was learnt that Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Trinity Police Station on Saturday night paid Adaobi’s father a condolence visit. It was also learnt that the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has invited the father of the late lady to his office for discussion. Meanwhile, the police have declared Inspector Ojo wanted. A lawyer to the victim’s family, Mr. Phillips Obuesi, said it was already day break and everything occurred in the presence of people. He said: “They were three in the car; the young man and two ladies. “They were coming back from a night out. The police stopped them. The young man didn’t know they were policemen. They were not in uniform. “They chased him. When he realised they were chasing him, he stopped at a place where there were many people. “Police got there and descended on him. The policeman shot him on the head. He slumped. They thought he was dead. They didn’t know there was a second lady in the car. “Adaobi confronted them. She asked them why they had to shoot, since the guy was not armed, and that he was her boyfriend. “They shot her, twice in the stomach and one on her thigh. She died immediately. “One of the policemen ran to the police station, deposited his rifle and escaped. Others returned to the station. We initially got information earlier today that the boy was dead, but he didn’t. He went into coma.” Obuesi said Adaobi’s body had been deposited at the mortuary. He added: “The state Commissioner of Police and Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, spoke with me; they said they would be coming tomorrow. “They had earlier promised to come today, but we didn’t see them. The CP called this evening; he said that I should extend his condolence to the girl’s family. He said that he would be coming tomorrow to see them.” Elkana said that the shooting of Adaobi and Akomafuwa occurred on April 13, about 7a.m. He said: “The victims were rushed to hospital and Adaobi was confirmed dead while Akomafuwa is currently on admission, receiving treatment from the injury he sustained as a result of the shooting. “Members of the team suspected to be involved in the shooting are from Trinity Police Station and are currently facing internal disciplinary proceedings at the command headquarters, Ikeja. Their rifles have been retrieved for forensic analysis by ballisticians. If found wanting, they will be prosecuted in conventional court for murder. “Lagos State Police Command condemns in total these senseless killings of unarmed civilians by few ‘bad eggs’ in the force, who are bent on denting the image and reputation of the nation’s Police Force. The command will not relent in its efforts in ridding the force of these criminal elements. Those involved in extra-judicial killings and abuse of power are promptly identified, isolated, tried through internal disciplinary proceedings, dismissed from service and prosecuted in conventional courts. “Within the last one month, Lagos State Police Command has dismissed four policemen for abuse of power and conducts unbecoming of police officers and awarded various degrees of punishment to 41 others. The four dismissed policemen were charged to court and remanded in prison custody. “Our collective resolve in building a more humane, professional, dedicated and courageous and people-oriented Police Force is a task that must be done together. We can make it a reality.” According to Elkana, the CP has extended the command’s deepest condolences to the family and friends of Adaobi and promised to foot the medical bills of Akomafuwa. “The CP calls for calm as the command will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that justice prevails,” said Elkana.