The Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, David Oleyeloogun and his deputy, Iroju Ogundeji, are walking a tight rope as they bid to retain their positions despite the fact that the zoning arrangement of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state doesn’t favours them. Baba tope Okeowo reports  After the battle between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and over which of the two main political parties dominates the Ondo State House of Assembly has been won and lost, the attention has now shifted to who leads the 9th state Assembly among elected members of the ruling party.  Interestingly, the incumbent Speaker, Hon. Bamidele Oleyeloogun and his deputy, Mr. Ogundeji Iroju, are among the re-elected members of the Assembly putting them in a vantage position to retain their positions.  However, there are threats to their positions as new and returning members of the Assembly are interested in the leadership position of the Ondo State House of Assembly.  Aside from Oleyeloogun and Iroju, others including Prince Abayomi Akinruntan, Felemu Gbedudu, Sunday Olajide, Suleiman Maito, and two others from Ondo North senatorial district were re-elected to the Assembly.   In all, the APC produced 23 members, while PDP had two with the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) taking the remaining one. Since the governor (Oluwaritimi Akeredolu) is from Ondo North, the position of speaker of the state Assembly has been zoned to the Central Senatorial district, while that of deputy speaker was   zoned to the South Senatorial district, which has also produced the deputy governor.   This zoning arrangement has made the elected and re-elected members from the zones to eye the leadership position of the state Assembly. Undoubtedly, presiding officers of any parliament are vital to the executive arm of government as friendly lawmakers are required to deliver programmes and policies of any governor or president, especially in African democratic settings. This was the argument of the APC during the March 9 House of Assembly election.  The party reasoned that having the overwhelming majority in the Assembly will give Governor Akeredolu the leeway to execute people-oriented projects and programmes.  But there are indications that some political gladiators in the APC and key members of Akeredolu’s cabinet are no longer comfortable with the current leadership of the state House of Assembly to retain their positions, particularly the speaker and deputy speaker. Both returning and newly-elected members of the Assembly are lobbying and searching for who becomes the speaker and deputy speaker of the 9th Assembly.  The position of Majority Leader is already zoned to the North even as the Minority Leader may also come from the zone.  These developments have made some lawmakers-elect to commence lobbying for a change of the speaker of the Assembly ahead of the inauguration in the first week of June with an argument that the incumbent speaker, Hon Bamidele David Oleyelogun has not carried members of the Assembly along in his running of affairs of the parliament since he became the presiding officer.  While the incumbent, Oleyelogun and his deputy, Iroju Ogundeji have been re-elected to the House, there were also re-elected members from their senatorial districts, thereby making the retention of their respective leadership positions difficult.  While some APC leaders are of the opinion that Oleyelogun should be retained as speaker for what they described as “a loyal boy,” others argued that the speaker has lost confidence, respect and popularity among his colleagues due to what they referred to as sycophantic disposition and poor handling of issues affecting the House and state matters.  It was learnt that lack of confidence from outgoing and incoming members of the state legislature in Oleyelogun is giving Akeredolu’s team a sleepless night, which has made the governor’s strategists to consider available options among the returning and new lawmakers from Ondo Central Senatorial District.  By the rule of the Assembly, the re-elected lawmakers are the only members qualified for the positions of speaker and deputy speaker. Despite this, there is intense lobby by new members to occupy the exalted positions.   Despite the shenanigan over who becomes the speaker of the Assembly of the Ondo State legislature, the people of the Akure Division want the status quo to remain in order to retain both the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and speaker which were zoned to their district. Mr. Ifedayo Abegunde from Akure South is the SSG.  The argument of the Akure Division is that if Olajide from Akure South Local Government Area gets  the position of the speaker of the Assembly, the governor might be forced to take the SSG to Ondo or another division in the district.  The argument is that it would be wrong for Akure South to produce both the SSG and speaker of the state House of Assembly. The division said it would not allow the opportunity to produce the speaker and SSG elude the zone that has not produced a governor in the present political dispensation.   Other local government areas in Ondo Central include Ondo East, Ondo West, Idanre, Ifedore, Akure South and Akure North. The Akure Kingdom under the auspice of Akure Division Unity Forum (ADUF), in a letter to Governor Akeredolu and signed by its Secretary, Prof. Olu Aboluwoye, said it was the unanimous decision of the group to support Oleyelogun as speaker of the state Assembly.  The letter titled “Ondo State House of Assembly Speakership” and signed by Prof. Aboluwoye, stated that the “Division supports the nomination of Bamidele Oleyelogun as speaker of the 9th Assembly. He is a humble, loyal and honest person. Your outstanding and remarkable achievement as Mr. Governor needs an assiduous and patriotic speaker like Oleyelogun.  The Division supports his candidature.” Although three of the six local government areas in Ondo Central Senatorial District are said to be pushing for the retention of Oleyelogun in office as speaker, those in government are thinking of using a fresh blood to replace him, especially as Oleyelogun survived rejection through impeachment that took extra efforts by   Akeredolu to save the day.  In Ondo South, Ogundeji will battle his kinsman from Odigbo Local Government Area and a former deputy speaker of the Assembly, Samuel Aderoboye, for the deputy speakership’s seat.  However, other first time lawmakers from the zone are also being considered by Akeredolu’s political strategists to become the deputy speaker although the rule of the Assembly says only ranking lawmakers are qualified to hold the offices of the speaker and deputy speaker of the House.  Aside from Ogundeji, a returning member of the Assembly from Ilaje Local Government Area, Prince Akinruntan, is said to be eyeing the deputy speakership slot.  The argument of his supporters is that Odigbo had always occupied the position each time the position is zoned to the South Senatorial District. But, political experience and loyalty of Aderoboye will make it easier for the governor and party’s leadership to settle for his choice.   A political analyst said: “Hon. Aderoboye has never left the party since the days of AD (Alliance for Democracy). This type of experience and loyal leader should be considered in deciding who leads the 9th Assembly in Ondo State. Aketi (Akeredolu) needs this strategy.”  Since the beginning of the political dispensation, there has not been strict adherence to the rule that only returning member would be made principal officers of the Assembly.  For instance, Ogundeji was a first-time legislator, when he was made the deputy speaker of the Assembly. A political observer said of this: “The argument that only returning officers can hold leadership positions does not hold. In 2003, Victor Olabimtan was made the speaker without being a ranking member.  Examples are many; I think merit should take precedent because Ondo State needs a vibrant speaker and deputy speaker at this critical time and not a rubber stamp like Oleyelogun.   Unfortunately, the executive arm prefers people like that.” Irrespective of the situation, the political plots from the APC national secretariat to frustrate the re-election bid of Governor Akeredolu will play a key role in determining who become the speaker and deputy speaker in the state’s 9th Assembly as many political observers are insinuating that the incoming legislature might be used to unseat the governor.   