 Nigeria’s pedigree at youth level of global football has never been in doubt. Nigeria has won five FIFA U-17 World Cup titles and this is a good sign for the future. In the U-20 cadre, the country has also won silver and bronze at global stage of the FIFA U-20 World Cup. The U-23 team has also not disappointed the teeming fans of football. The team popularly referred to as the Dream Team has won gold, silver and bronze in the football event of the Olympic Games. We, however, frown that there is no transition process in the national teams. We believe it is not good enough that the Super Eagles have not benefitted much from the successes recorded at the age grade football level over the years. The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) should work towards having technical people who can ensure some of the promising players at one level graduates to the next stage. One of the mistakes of the federation is the style of abandoning the players in a team that fails to do well in a tournament. For example, the U-20 team led by Coach Emmanuel Amuneke failed to qualify for the World Cup couple of years ago. The team lost to Sudan and the authorities abandoned the players in that fold rather than making them get better to play in the U-23 team.  Now, we believe there is fresh hope for the country to effect a good transition for a promising team. The current national U-23 team under the tutelage of Coach Imama Amakapabo stunned the continent to move on in the Africa Nations Cup qualifiers for that category. No one gave the team a chance to overturn the 2-0 deficit suffered against Libya in Tunisia. The first leg result was bad enough to conclude that Nigeria might not feature in the U-23 AFCON in Egypt and compete for the Olympics Games 2020 football event ticket.  At the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba, the team proved many wrong with an emphatic 4-0 victory. The movement of the players, the skills exhibited and the overall performance were fantastic. Four players – Keeper Francis Uzohor, Victor Oshimen, Chigozie Awaziem and Valentine Ozonwanfor – were drafted from the Super Eagles to boost the U-23 team. People have different views on this but since the team was in a tight situation at the time, it was a good move especially because it is of note that Alex Iwobi, Moses Simon and Wilfred Ndidi are still eligible to feature for this team but were not invited. Oshimen was amazing against Libya. Samuel Chukwueze, Kelechi Nwakali, Taiwo Awoniyi, Orji Nwankwo, Azubike Okechukwu were all on parade. They were a delight to watch. This team gave Nigerians so much hope about the future because they were indeed good enough for shirts in the Super Eagles. In fact, if the Eagles are disbanded today, the U-23 team that played against Libya can step in as the senior national team. They will only require few months to attain better understanding, cohesion and experience. The problem in this cadre is the fact that FIFA do not recognize the Olympic Games football event in its calendar yet and so it might be difficult to have a full complement of players for future qualifier games. We were impressed with the ball movements, aggression and the determination of the players. This team has the potential to book a ticket to the Olympics and also go all the way to perform well in Tokyo. We make bold to say that the future Super Eagles stars are here and it is important to also state that about 50 per cent of these players are good enough to feature for Nigeria at the forthcoming Nations Cup in Egypt. Nigeria has the talents in abundance, but this time the authorities should plan well to maximize the talents scattered all over the world. We believe modern football has embraced the youth such that the movement, speed, stamina the game entails could best be derived from the young ones. A few experienced players could be in the team but it is apparent that there is need to graduate most of the current U-23 players so that they will be able to serve the country for another eight years and feature at two World Cups. When Coach Fanny Amun succeeded with the U-17 team in 1993, Nwankwo Kanu, Wilson Oruma, Celestine Babayaro, Mobi Oparaku and Karibe Ojigwe made it through the U-20 team, U-23 team and to the Super Eagles. The country has never had it that good and so we hereby charge Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, to monitor these U-23 boys and ensure they are fast integrated into the Super Eagles. Today, football belongs to young people with energy, skill and mentality to deliver results.  Unlike many ignorant followers of the game, we are aware that the major objective of FIFA for age grade football is to promote smooth transition from one cadre to the other and boost the drive of the federation to identify talents at a very tender age. We call on the NFF and all technical people involved in the game to actualize the objective of the world football body in Nigeria especially with the talents in the current U-23 team. 