The Nigerian Copyrights Commission (NCC) yesterday disclosed that Nigeria was losing three billion dollars (N918 trillion) annually to activities of pirates. Director General of the commission, John Asein, made the disclosure at the 2019 World Intellectual Property Day with the theme, `Reach for Gold’: IP and Sports,’’ held in Abuja. According to a report by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Asein, who was represented by the Director, Legal Services, Abdul TerKohol, charged government to put adequate, responsive and effective legal frameworks for the protection and enforcement of sporting and associated industries rights. He said with the advent of new technologies, the task of sport-related copyright had become more daunting. The DG also noted that the expansion of high-speed internet around the world, the proliferation of portable devices and the rise of online streaming platforms, had made tackling illegal exploitation of rights more difficult. “Thousands of websites that illegally stream sporting and entertainment content in real time threaten the copyright in content. “For full potential of the sporting ad associated industries to be realised, countries must put in place adequate, responsive and effective legal frameworks for the protection, administration and enforcement of rights. “The intellectual property system, especially copyright, offers a practical and effective mechanism for achieving this.’’ Asein further stated that intellectual property, particularly copyright, lies at the heart of the commercial exploitation of sports and contributes substantially to the growth of a community of players and fans whose net worth is more than 300 billion dollars. He said that Nigeria occupied a unique place in the world of sports given its exploits and remarkable successes in various sporting events. He urged stakeholders to continue to support government in its determination to build a functional copyright system that would deliver the expected dividends to right owners and guarantee sustainable development of sports. The Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) has appointed John Asein as its director-general. He was the former director of Nigerian Copyright Institute (NCI), the training and capacity building arm of the NCC. Asein, who joined the commission in 1988 rose to the position of director of the NCI. He has for… In “Business” A national policy that will facilitate the use of the copyright system to enhance the operation of the broadcast industry for rapid national development will soon be formulated by the Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC). Director-General of NCC, Mr. John Asein disclosed this on Thursday, in Abuja, during a consultative… In “News” The new Director General of Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC), Mr. John Ohireime Asein, has declared his commitment to the reconstruction and repositioning of the Commission for effective regulation and development of the nation’s copyright industries. Following his appointment as DG by President Muhammadu Buhari, Asein, made this declaration at a… In “News”