The All Progressives Congress (APC) governors and party state chairmen from the North-Central geo-political zone have endorsed the two candidates of the party for the leadership positions of the 9th National Assembly. Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau disclosed this while addressing newsmen after a closed-door meeting of stakeholders in Asokoro, Abuja yesterday, according to a statement by his media aide, Mark Longen. Lalong said: “A meeting of governors and the party chairmen from North- Central today (Thursday) resolved to go along with the decision of the party’s endorsement of Senator Ahmed Lawan as Senate President and Femi Gbajabiamila as the Speaker of the House of Representatives for the 9th National Assembly. “Since it was a party affair, our decision is in line with the wish of the party and that is why we the governors and state chairmen of our party from the zone are in support of the decision of the party.” When asked about what the zone will gain in the power sharing formula, Lalong said: “We are still deliberating. We have not exhausted the positions with respect to zoning. “Our decision and position are only on two issues, while the rest deliberations are ongoing. “There is going to be a continuation of our meeting in respect of positions to the North-Central with both Mr. President and the party.” The meeting, which lasted for more than one hour, also had in attendance Governors Abubakar Bello (Niger), Tanko Almakura (Nasarawa) and Benue State APC governorship candidate, Mr. Emmanuel Jime. State APC Chairmen in attendance were Mr. Jibrin Imam of Niger State, his Kogi counterpart, Alhaji Abdullahi Bello, Nasarawa State’s Philips Shekwo, Chief Letep Dabang of Plateau State, Comrade Abba Yaro of Benue, as well as the FCT’s Abdullahi Usman. National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and elected members of the House of Representatives will meet with President Muhammadu Buhari tomorrow (Today) at the Presidential Villa. The APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu confirmed the meeting to New Telegraph but could not state the agenda… In “News” The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will, today, meet to take a decision on the leadership of the 9th Assembly. A member of the NWC, who disclosed this to New Telegraph, said the meeting would be held to decide on the zoning of the positions… In “News” There are strong indications that the battle for the Senate Presidency has begun, with the South-East and the North-East geopolitical zones striving to produce the next President of the upper chamber of the National Assembly. Although the All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to announce a zoning arrangement for the… In “News”