Comrade Sunny Ofehe is the Founder and Executive Director of Hope for Niger Delta Campaign based in The Netherlands and former Delta State governorship aspirant for All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, from his base in Rotterdam, the environmental and human rights activists, speaks exclusively on the state of Nigerian Foreign Missions and Embassies around the world, calling on the Federal Government to act and save the country from global disgrace  Nigeria is set to close down 80 foreign embassies around the world due to lack of funds. What is your take on this?  As we speak right now, Nigeria has 110 foreign missions and embassies around the world, so if you are shutting down 80 embassies and foreign missions, it therefore, means that we are left with only 30 foreign embassies. Nigeria is the most populous black nation in the world with a population of about 180 million people. Nigeria has a huge Diaspora population living within Africa, Europe, America, Asia, Caribbean and the Middle East.  Nigerian is currently Africa’s largest economy and Africa’s largest producer and exporter of crude oil and a leading African global player in world politics. Nigeria is a member of several regional, continental and international organisations such as Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Africa Union (AU), United Nations (UN), Commonwealth, Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and International Criminal Court (ICC), among others. So, a country like Nigerian that enjoys this robust global acceptability and respect must not afford to compromise and diminish its international diplomatic posture before the world. It is therefore imperative that as a country, we must ensure adequate representation in global affairs and at the same time serve our citizens and promote our core socio-economic values around the world. In other to stand out in the comity of nations, we must retain all the current existing 110 Foreign Missions and Embassies. Africa has 54 countries and Nigeria being a leading country in the continent has foreign missions and embassies in 42 countries. I have carefully reviewed the location of our African foreign missions and can’t see why any of them should be shut down or merged. The 30 countries that will be left should Nigeria shuts down 80 foreign missions will not be sufficient to serve our citizens and foreign interest on the continent of Africa.  How important are the Foreign Missions and Embassies to the growth of a country such as Nigeria? The role of Nigerian diplomatic missions abroad is to function as the channel of communication between the Nigerian Government and that of the host country, to act as the official representative of Nigeria’s interest in general, and in respect of specific public agencies with local interests in the host country. Also importantly, to promote the interests of Nigeria and its citizens in that country. In order to carry out their work, diplomatic missions must have a strong grasp of the host country’s politics, society and culture. They must be able to explain Nigerian policies, identify potential threats to and opportunities for Nigerian interests, and provide political and economic analysis of local conditions to inform decision-making back home. Much of the day-to-day work carried out by diplomatic missions involves promoting Nigerian trade interests.
The consular section of our foreign missions attracts huge number of Nigerians in the Diaspora who visits the embassies to sort out all their immigration related matters. The Nigerian embassies in The Hague, Berlin, Brussels and Paris attract a minimum of 100 visitors daily for passport and visa applications even though these four countries share borders.  Why should Nigerian spend foreign currency to maintain 110 Foreign Missions at a time when our economy is struggling and our currency has depreciated against the dollar? Don’t you think that shutting down some of them will enable the government to direct such funds to other sectors like education or healthcare back home?  I clearly understand the challenges the economy is facing but you must remember that these problems are peculiar with all countries around the world today. Despite the need to cut spending and prioritize government expenditure, we must set our priorities straight. The education and healthcare sectors you have mentioned are critical areas that require government funding. The country need to boost its economic revenue in other to be able to fund these critical sectors. One of the impacts of the global recession is that it has compelled a number of countries to scale back their diplomatic representation overseas by closing some of their embassies, even some advance countries have taken such step. The Netherlands scaled down their diplomatic representation in Nigeria when there was a cut in the Foreign Ministry’s budget. They expanded their economic unit and delegated the consular services such as short term visa applications to Belgium and France. The economic unit is significant to sustaining and expanding bilateral business and trade.  Faced with the economic and financial realities of our current economic downturns, governments often have little choice but to cut back on the spending that is involved in maintaining and operating embassies overseas. At a time Nigeria is facing issues such as poverty, serious income inequality, battered economies and poor quality of life for average citizens, it can be quite difficult to justify the allocation of limited government funds to maintaining embassies. However, Nigeria as a developing country will require foreign direct investments and increased market access for their goods and services to help grow the economies, and embassies play key roles in bringing these into the country. I am aware that our embassies usually send profile of foreign companies willing to invest and do business in Nigeria to the relevant ministries and government agencies after properly vetting the legality and legitimacy of such companies. Viewed from this context, devoting significant percentage of our GDP to improving the chances of securing much-needed investments, broader market access overseas and developmental aid seems to constitute a worthwhile outlay. During the Foreign Ministry’s defence of its 2019 budget before the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Secretary, Mustapha Suleiman spoke on the cost-saving and survival measures the ministry had embarked upon to keep the missions afloat. Suleiman said that there was a rationalization of local staff and their conversion to contract workers as a cost-saving measure to reduce personnel cost and avoid huge terminal benefits. This clearly shows that the ministry itself has marshaled a plan to help the government deal with the paucity of funds. I was very impressed with the position of some members of the Senate Committee like Senator James Manager who said that there were reasons for opening those missions. He said, the number of missions increased to 110 but the total national budget is increasing every year but the foreign ministry’s budget is reducing. He made a promise that they will look at the budget holistically and find a way to fund the gap. The vice chairman of the committee, Senator Shehu Sani also said no responsible country will deliberately underfund its mission. Year in year out, budgets are presented and defended but things remain the same. Our diplomats have been subjected to all kinds of humiliation because we cannot or refused to fund our missions. Small countries are funding their missions but ours are not funded. No resources to pay the diplomats children fees and others. Sixty years after independence, we are still renting apartments for embassies. You can’t claim to be the giant of Africa if you can’t fund embassies.  I am completely in support of measures to reduce cost of funding foreign missions rather than shutting them down. As it stands today, Nigerian foreign missions have around 2,000 diplomats who are gainfully employed. What happen to the staffers when the missions are shut down? Will they return to the Foreign Ministry in Abuja redundant? There has been discussion or debate as to whether embassies and diplomats are still needed or relevant in the 21st century. Globalization and rapid advances in information and communications technology have connected billions of people. Do we really still need foreign missions since cost of running them are high? There have been arguments made in favour of eliminating embassies, particularly for governments facing harsh fiscal and economic realities like Nigeria. The call for modern technology replacing Foreign Missions is laughable. The United States with all the advance technology in the world and running trillion dollars in deficit still see the need to expand and widen their foreign missions. In The Netherlands, the United States has two Ambassadors with one on multilateral and the other on bilateral. The Ambassador on bilateral is permanently handling the OPCW whereas we have one Ambassador covering the embassy and OPCW.  In Switzerland, the US has three Ambassadors whereas we have only one who covers the embassy and the UN. While the call to shut down most embassies for lack of funds is on, many Nigerian citizens living in Germany, Spain and Italy are calling on the Nigerian government to open consular missions outside of Berlin, Madrid and Rome respectively to serve their consular needs.  In addition, having people on the ground provides added value in terms of obtaining insight into what is going on in the host country. While it is plausible that the information gathering and country assessment functions of an embassy can be done remotely using modern technology, the quality is not the same. Consolidating and aggregating information is not enough.  Analysing local developments is a key part of a diplomat’s work and requires a deep understanding and appreciation of the issues, culture and pulse of the host country and its citizens. While our globalized world is increasingly interdependent, competition for access to markets and resources remains. A country with people on the ground is more likely to get a more accurate assessment of local opportunities, risks and developments. That is a competitive advantage.  If you are completely against the shutting down of some of our Foreign Missions, how can we maintain the 110 missions with the drop in the ministry’s 2019 budget as presented to the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs?  Please just take a look at the size of Nigeria and her population living outside the country, is 110 Foreign Missions and embassies too much for Nigeria? I don’t think so, if you truly understand the benefits of those missions to our nation’s development. Any government who understands how Nigeria is respected around the world will not starve its Foreign Missions of funds.  Let us look at the numbers, for instance, in 2018 the Federal Government allocated N11.333billion to capital votes for the missions but cut it to N4.123billion in 2019, representing a reduction of N7.209billion or 64 per cent. Already, many of the ambassadors serving in most of the missions are said to be unable to pay their children’s school fees, rent, electricity, medical and other utility bills due to the paucity of funds. The situation is even worse at the headquarters of the ministry in Abuja where both volunteers and permanent members of staff are owed the sum of N4.9billion as entitlements.