Chief Yemi Adetoyinbo, a legal practitioner, is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on the travail of former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen and other issues  What is your take on the conviction of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onneghen by the Code of Conduct Tribunal over false declaration of assets? The Code of Conduct Tribunal, sitting in Abuja, under Justice Danladi Umar, found him guilty for false assets declarations. He is now banned for 10 years from holding public office and all his funds in the five banks account forfeited to the Federal Government is a maximum punishment for persons occupying such exalted crucial office and a lesson for others in public life on illegal acquisition. While the Federal Government is justified, it was a shame on the judiciary and overarching given the circumstances of his trial, ambush and conviction in dramatic fashion. What this means is that the Federal Government is justified, but the initial suspension or removal should have passed through the National Judicial Council (NJC), but the President acceded to this and later followed due process, culminating in NJC’s decision, formally suspending him and asking him to submit to CCT trial. The case of other judges arrested by the state and prosecuted by state over fraud emphasise this administration’s resolve to rid this country of corruption irrespective of status or office. The International Monitoring Fund (IMF) has advised Nigeria to remove fuel subsidy. What is your take on that? Nigeria and Nigerians are in dire need of improved living conditions. It is good that the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed and the spokesman of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) have allayed the fears of Nigerians that pump price remains N145 per litre for now. Until government can cushion the effects of any subsidiary withdrawal, our President should satisfy the expectations of Nigerians to retain his goodwill in all performance spheres. Our population according to United States agency report will hit 450 million people by 2050 and Lagos is to be over populated as one of the five largest cities in 2030. We must be prepared on national planning and our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ahead of the population census in 2020 to avoid inadequate overstretched facilities and national regression. Government must proactive continually despite saboteurs sabotage against the Buhari administrations and successive administrations as we have no other place than Nigeria. As National Publicity Secretary of Action Democratic Party (ADP), why did you dump the party for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)? I left the Action Democratic Party (ADP) on February 4, after serving the party meritoriously for two years as Legal Adviser in Ondo State chapter and later National Publicity Secretary. I resigned my membership and position officially on February 5, when President Muhammadu Buhari visited Ondo State on his presidential campaign for the 2019 polls. The fact remains that I was a pioneer member of the APC, but left for ADP for higher responsibility. My name was read out by the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole alongside four members of the National Assembly, who decamped to the APC from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Part of the reasons why I moved to APC was that as a nationalist, lawyer, politician and patriotic Nigeria, I found the ADP becoming divided, factionalised and completely taken over by an absolute dictator, who made himself the presidential candidate of the party. He unilaterally amended the party’s constitution and made himself life National Leader and firmly remained as the party s National Chairman ahead of the presidential polls. How could a party striving to do well at the polls, be so embroiled in crises; no transparency and accountability; only a one man show and states chapters were starved of funds. I cannot fathom using my little hard earned resources to fund the publicity of the party in Nigeria, as I was never given a kobo for publicity for two years and the whole world know where I put the party. Looking back as a welfarist, socialist radical and reformer, an Awoist, a former Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) member, former Legal Adviser of the Labour Party in Ondo State, student union leader in Ife and former presidential candidate, the party I can return to is APC for what President Buhari represents in his anti corruption drive, security efforts and as a reformist towards taking Nigeria out the woods. What is your take on the recent decision of the Senate on the Police Reform Act? The seven recently passed bills by the Senate, including the Police Reform Act, are good news from the Bukola Saraki-led Senate after four years of entrenched rivalry between the presidency and the legislature. While the police reform is coming after the 1948 Police Act, the pegging of the tenure of Inspector-General of Police to five years non renewable, is unsalutory, longer and might lead to self glorification. Why not three years renewal based on performance? The approval by the Senate of presidential nomination of future IGP is welcome. The three year’s jail term and option of N2million on any police personnel, who kills any Nigerian and being personally responsible is in order, but be made life for life sentence. The welfare of improved welfare for the Police and other security agencies and all Nigerians is imperative for efficiency and removal of corruption. The issue of bad eggs would easily be flushed out. The use of soft cartridges instead of life bullets to quell riots is a good innovation. The reworked Electoral Act Amendment Bill re-presented for the fifth time to the President by the Senate for his assent should scale the hurdle this time around to ensure smother and less rancorous elections in 2023 as well limit the flaws of 2019 elections and endless inconclusive elections. Onnoghen: Judgement Day for number one judge   It is judgement day for the immediate past Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnonghen, as the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) rules on charges of non-declaration of assets filed against him by the Federal Government, TUNDE OYESINA reports   History… In “Politics” Bizarre, ridiculous, dangerous development, war against judiciary, judiciary under attack, collapse of the third arm of government and Nigeria’s end imminent were among tens of unpleasant words used by lawyers to describe plans by the federal government to arraign the nation’s number one judge—the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter… In “Law” Tunde Oyesina writes on mixed feelings trailing sudden resignation of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen     Lawyers yesterday expressed shock following resignation of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, blaming the federal government for the former Chief Justice’s travails. Onnoghen at… In “Law”