Chairman of Agege Local Government Area of Lagos State, Alhaji Ganiyu Kola Egunjobi, speaks in this interview on the controversy surrounding local government autonomy among other sundry issues. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  Agitation for local government autonomy has raged on for long. Do you think the call has merit?
In all honesty, it is high time the legislative arms across the country did what is right and grant local governments the full autonomy they deserve. The local government is the closest to the grassroots and we cannot wish away that and the fact the current situation in which the finances of the councils are under the states are a disservice to developments in our communities. No doubt, the 1999 Constitution bequeathed to us this problem of partial autonomy. It recognises the local government as the third tier of government, but restricts its independence. The constitution as we all know is a work in progress. The 8th National Assembly has done its bit by passing the local government autonomy bill and President Muhammadu Buhari’s favourable disposition towards it is well documented, all it requires to change the narrative is for two-third of the states Assembly to endorse it. If it comes into force, grassroots will witness tremendous developments in the area of infrastructure and human capital development and the whole country would be the better for it.
The local government is the bedrock for sustainable development in nation building and this constitutional encumbrance is inimical to effective local government administration. Without fear of contradiction, there is no alternative to local government autonomy if we want to develop as a country. Local government is in fact, a safety net for struggling families at the grassroots. Among the states Assembly that failed to endorse autonomy for local governments is that of Lagos State. Does that augur well for a state that prides itself as the Centre of Excellence? If am right, about eight states Assembly including Ogun, Kwara and Bayelsa voted for it while Imo and Edo are among those that rejected it. About the 8th Lagos Assembly that I know, there is no issue that is an elephant in the house. I am sure that at the appropriate time, the House will endorse it. The State House of Assembly under the leadership of Hon. Mudashiru Obasa has been impressive. Obasa himself sponsored six private member bills, including Anti-kidnapping and Neighbourhood Watch bills that have been signed into law.
He also has to his name, the Cancer Institute Establishment Bill among others. His contribution to the state in the area of legislation in the last 15 years has been positive and in my honest view, he deserves to be returned as Speaker of the 9th Assembly. Like we say in political parlance, ‘one good term deserves another.’ And to your question, the fact that the state Assembly did not treat local government autonomy bill with dispatch does not vitiate the reputation of Lagos as a Centre of Excellence. Don’t you think the divergent views among critical stakeholders in local government administration like the Nigeria Union Teachers (NUT), Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) and National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) is undermining the push for autonomy for councils?  Invariably, there are no divergent views on the issue of autonomy among local government stakeholders. Everybody is on the same page. What I know is that the teachers want their salary and other entitlements on the first line charge in the federal allocation. Experience is the best teacher, they say, so you cannot fault the teachers’ union for its position on the issue. We must also consider that there is a Supreme Court judgement that puts primary education under the purview of the state laws. However, I will be glad to have primary education management and funding the sole responsibility of the local government. Here in Agege, under my watch, the council has been doing quite a lot of interventions in public primary schools in our locality in terms of infrastructural development, teachers’ training and welfare as well as supporting pupils with educational materials, desks and chairs. Recently, we distributed school uniforms to pupils of 26 public primary schools and offered free bus service to them. For the first time, a Lagos council boss was elected ALGON president in the person of Kolade Alabi, who is the chairman of Bariga Local Council Development Authority (LCDA). What are your expectations of his administration? ALGON has been at the forefront of the agitation for local government autonomy, so under Alabi, my expectation is that the struggle will go into overdrive. You know that Alabi is a lawyer and a consummate administrator, having been a former vice-chairman and an executive secretary of the council. He has made history not only as the first person to assume the mantle of leadership of ALGON in Lagos, but the whole of South-West. How would you react to the suggestion that local governments’ administrators lack the requisite skills to drive development at the grassroots?
It is not all local governments that exist nominally and the belief that local governments’ administrators lack capacity to drive development is preposterous, implausible and an insult on the intelligence of many stakeholders in the administration of the third tier of government.