Mercedes-Benz closed the first quarter of 2019 with 560,873 passenger cars sold worldwide (-5.6 per cent). For the third year in a row, sales in the first quarter were therefore well over 550,000 units. In March, 227,644 vehicles with the three-pointed star were delivered to customers all over the world.  Meanwhile, the first three months of the year featured important model changes in the highest-volume SUV and compact-car segments. The company expects an increasing vehicle availability in the next monthsandthereforeglobalsales to increase slightly overall in 2019.  Since the beginning of the year, Mercedes-Benz has maintained its market leadership in the premiumsegmentinGermany, UK, France, Italy, Switzerland, Sweden, Portugal, Poland, Denmark, South Korea, Australia, Canada, Brazil and other markets.  “We are delighted with the best quarter ever for Mercedes-Benz in China and the successful market launch of the new B-Class in Europe. The first three months of theyearwerechallengingworldwide due to the ongoing model changes for SUVs and compact cars,” said Britta Seeger, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler AGresponsibleforMercedes- Benz Cars Marketing and Sales.  “In the coming months, further highlights of our current model offensive at Mercedes- Benz will be launched; the CLA Coupé, forexample, willbeavailable in our showrooms in May. From the middle of the year, the ungradedgenerationofourvery popular Midsize SUVs GLC and GLC Coupéwillthen be available at our dealerships.”  Mercedes-Benzunitsalesby  regionandmarket In Europe, Mercedes-Benz sold 103,155 vehicles in March and as per March the sales amounted to 224,678. The discontinuation of the CLA and the GLE due to the model change had an impact on unit sales in many European markets.  In Germany, the region’s core market, sales of 70.542 units were achieved in the first quarter. In the United Kingdom, first quarter sales increased by 1.1 per cent, while the best-ever first-quarter unit sales were achieved in France, Poland and in Denmark.