…recovers exotic cars, laptops  Ibadan Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday arrested 32 suspected internet fraudsters otherwise called “Yahoo-Yahoo Boys.” The suspects were arrested at Liberty Estate, Laderin area of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital in an early morning sting operation. Ranging between the ages of 15 and 39 years, the suspects were taken by surprise when EFCC operatives swooped on them at one of their havens in the estate. The Acting Head, Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Tony Orilade, said in a statement that 14 of the suspects claimed to be undergraduates, while 18 others said they were self-employed in various vocations. He said: “Their arrest was sequel to a petition detailing their alleged fraudulent activities, including internet fraud through which they obtain illicit funds from unsuspecting victims. “Items recovered from them include six exotic cars, laptops, mobile phones, several documents containing false pretences and fetish objects. “The suspects are already helping operatives of the Commission with useful information.” Oriade said the suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigations were concluded. Officials of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday arrested six suspected internet fraudsters at their hideout, Kolapo Ishola Estate, Akobo area of Ibadan, Oyo State. The EFCC officials embarked on the early morning raid following petitions received from residents of the community detailing the alleged illegal activities of… In “Metro and Crime” EFCC recovers exotic cars, 300 sim cards, 18 laptops Nine ladies, undergraduates and others were among 36 suspected cyber fraudsters recently arrested by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibadan Office. The EFCC acting Head, Media and Publicity, Mr. Tony Orilade, said the suspects were arrested at… In “Metro and Crime” Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibadan Zonal Office, have arrested and recovered two different models of exotic cars, laptops, telephones and several documents, including international passports, and Automated Teller Machine (ATM) cards, from seven suspected internet fraudsters. The suspects are Ola Sam, Demeji Abiola, Segun… In “Metro and Crime”