Lobbying by stalwarts of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and even technocrats for ministerial and other appointments has commenced ahead of the May 29 inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office. FELIX NWANERI reports   The jostle for ministerial and other appointments have commenced ahead of the May 29 inauguration of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led presidency under President Muhammadu Buhari. The President is billed to take oath of office for a second term, having been re-elected in the February 23 presidential election, and unlike his first term, is expected to constitute his cabinet within the shortest possible time. It would be recalled that it took the President about six months to constitute his present cabinet, which was inaugurated on November 11, 2015, after his inauguration on May 29, 2019. The list of 36 ministerial nominees picked from each of the 36 states was submitted to the Senate by Buhari in two tranches between September and October 2015. But, there is an indication that there would not be such delay this time, given the recent directive by the President to ministers to submit handover notes. The order is part of the final process for the dissolution of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) ahead of his inauguration. The directive ordered ministers to submit a comprehensive status report of their policies and projects on or before April 24. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the president, Garba Shehu, read in part: “As the first term of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration winds down, the President has asked for a comprehensive status reports on policies, programmes and projects from cabinet members on their respective ministries, departments and agencies.” A circular to this effect, issued by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, also requested members of the FEC to “ensure that all outstanding memoranda they intend to present to the FEC are submitted to the Cabinet Affairs Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, not later than Tuesday, 30th April.” Before the directive, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, hinted shortly after Buhari was declared winner of the 2019 presidential election that he (the President) might dissolve his cabinet before his May 29 terminal date. Adesina said that will pave the way for a fresh team that will help him navigate his second tenure. “One thing about governance is that the first mandate was for four years and it lapses on May 29, and shortly before May 29, the president is likely going to officially dissolve government, that is the way it is usually done – he says thank you to everybody he has called to work with him and then, he dissolves that government officially. Then when he is inaugurated for a second term, he now recon-stitutes government. He appoints his personal aides; he forms the cabinet; he appoints people to fill other positions,” Adesina said. As expected the ministers and heads of agencies have been turning in their handover notes, but the directive has, as well, revved up the jostle for ministerial appointments in the states by party stalwarts (including the outgoing ministers) and technocrats, who have their eyes on the federal cabinet. The constitution provides that a president shall appoint a minister each from the 36 states of the federation. It is against this backdrop that intense lobby has commenced among the party bigwigs for who gets the respective lots for the states. Some of those being reached out to by the lobbyist, include the President’s wife, Aisha; his nephew and long time close associate, Mamman Daura as well as his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. New Telegraph investigation reveal that the jostle is more intense in states, where the ruling APC is not in charge or where its governors are among those, who would be leaving office by May 29 due to completion of second term or failure to win a second term. Among the states are Lagos, Oyo, Cross River, Adamawa, Bauchi. The jostle in Lagos is interesting as many are waiting to see if the President will drop the immediate past governor of the state and current Minister of Works, Power and Steel, Babatunde Fashola, given the pressure from some quarters to have outgoing Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in the federal cabinet. Fashola is seen as one of the “poster of the Buhari administration given his track record, particularly, when he was governor of the nation’s former capital, and as a result, many are rooting for his return to the cabinet though his critics say he has performed below expectation as a minister. No doubt, whether the “super minister” as Fashola is referred to makes the cabinet a second time is solely in the President’s hands as he hires and fires, but those rooting for the outgoing governor are not only predicating their push on what Ambode has to offer, but as a compensation for the way he worked for the party both at the state and national level during the recent general elections despite that he was denied a second term by the powers that be in Lagos APC. However, the question is: Will Buhari drop Fashola for Ambode? While the President is the only one to proffer an answer to this puzzle, nothing can be ruled out in politics. No doubt, Buhari is known for keeping his plans to his chest, but going by his body language, Ambode is likely to be part of his second term plan. While the influence of APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in determining who gets what, when and how, in Lagos politics cannot be dismissed, the President’s Wednesday’s visit to Lagos during which he commissioned projects executed by Ambode speaks volume of his respect for the Lagos State outgoing governor. In Oyo State, the jostle is likely to be more intense as outgoing Governor Abiola Ajimobi, who lost a senatorial bid is likely to square the likes of Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu (a close ally of Buhari) and even the party’s governorship candidate in the recent elections, Adebayo Adelabu. Shittu, who lost a bid to fly the party’s flag in the governorship election, is likely to cash in on his relationship with Buhari to lobby for a return to the cabinet, but Ajimobi, is also said to be scheming towards making the cabinet or at worse secure an ambassadorial appointment else he glides into political oblivion after May 29. It is a similar scenario in Cross River State, where the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani Usani, who not only lost his bid to fly the APC flag in the governorship election, but was recently suspended by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, might find it difficult to return the cabinet. Usani’s predicament is likely to open the door for former Senate Leader and immediate past chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Senator Victor Ndoma- Egba to join the federal cabinet. Ndoma-Egba, who represented Cross River Central in the Senate between 2003 and 2015 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) before he defected to APC, lost a comeback bid to the upper legislative chamber in the recent elections. However, there is no doubt that his impact was felt in the state (a stronghold of the PDP) during the polls as the APC won the Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency seat in the central senatorial district of the state, where he comes from. The former Senate Leader has filed a petition before the election tribunal, challenging the declaration of Dr. Sandy Onor as Senator-elect for Cross River Central, but opinions within the state chapter of the APC are that he (Ndoma-Egba) should take the state’s ministerial slot if he fails to upturn the victory of the PDP candidate. Those rooting for him, say he is the most qualified among APC chieftains in the state eyeing the ministerial slot. He has a 12-year experience as federal lawmaker, four out of which was as leader of the Senate and during which he displayed capacity in lawmaking, legislative advocacy and proficiency in building bi-partisan alliances. Besides this, Ndoma-Egba, who has an LL.B degree from the University of Lagos and an LLM degree from the University of Calabar, and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1978 before his elevation to the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) in 2004, has also been Director of the Cross River Basin and Rural Development Authority, and Commissioner for Works and Transport in the state. In Adamawa State, Governor Jibrila Bindow, who lost his bid for a second term, following his defeat by PDP’s Ahmadu Fintri, is also jostling for a ministerial appointment, but this is likely to hit the rock like his second term bid. Reasons are that he is not in the good books of the President’s wife, who hails from the state and some APC chieftains in the state, who even worked against his return to power during the polls. Outgoing governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar, who also lost a re-election bid to PDP’s Bala Mohammed, is also bidding to make the Federal, but how he will make it remains unclear. Again, it is echoes of affirmative action ahead of President Muhammadu Buhari’s inauguration for a second term in office on May 29.This is against the backdrop of the composition of the President’s current cabinet that was inaugurated on November 11, 2015.   The list of 36 ministerial nominees picked from… In “Politics” •Akpabio, Ambode, Aregbesola, Ojudu, Udoma-Egba on the card     With less than three months to the May 29 inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari for the second term, intense lobby is now underway as many ministers battle to retain their portfolios while new ones are lobbying to make the new… In “Politics” ...to spilt ministers' portfolios President: I’ll bring in more ministers Indications have emerged that President Muhammadu Buhari will, any moment from now, effect major changes in his cabinet. A competent presidency source who prefers anonymity confirmed yesterday to New Telegraph that beyond the reshuffling of the cabinet, President Buhari… In “News”