 Football in the domestic league was fun in the 80s and 90s because of the traditional teams in the elite cadre of the league at the time. The stadium is always full when some of the big teams meet one another and spectators are always there to add colour to many of the games both in the league of the Challenge Cup now called the Federations Cup.  The notable traditional teams in the country are Rangers International of Enugu, Spartans of Owerri (now Heartland), Stationery Stores of Lagos, Shooting Stars of Ibadan (formerly IICC), Mighty Jets of Jos, Calabar Rovers, Raccah Rovers, Abiola Babes of Abeokuta, New Nigeria Bank of Benin, NEPA of Lagos, Ranchers Bees of Kaduna and Bendel Insurance of Benin.  We can recall that any match in the league or the Challenge Cup bringing each of these teams against another was a big game. Rangers vs IICC, Abiola Babes vs Stores, NEPA vs Stores local derby, Insurance vs NNB in Benin, Rangers vs Insurance, Abiola Babes vs Ranchers, etc. These are classic games at the time but we do not have that anymore.  However, most of these teams have been relegated to the lower divisions while some have been disbanded. Stores and Shooting Stars have been in the lower division for over a decade. Shooting Stars managed to come back but they were again relegated.  Dolphins, Enyimba, Kano Pillars, Lobi Stars, Heartland, Plateau United, and Sunshine are the teams on the cards in recent years playing continental and struggling to make impact in Africa. One of the traditional teams of old is Insurance of Benin. After 11 years in the lower cadre, the Edo Arsenal only, this season gained promotion back into the elite league, the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). The excitement that greeted the return of Bendel Insurance is amazing. We recall that similar excitement was exhibited nationwide when Rangers of Enugu won the Federation Cup two years ago. The Flying Antelopes were yet to win any laurel for over three decades and it was a great feeling for the fans of the team and many who follow football in the 80s and 90s when the players of Rangers and Shooting Stars dominated the national team camp.  We commend Governor Godwin Obaseki and his sports-loving deputy, Philip Shaibu, for the motivation given to the players to bring one of the traditional teams of Nigerian football back to the elite class. We are aware the Nigeria National League is tough with huge logistics to contend with.  The first home match of Bendel Insurance took place at the University of Benin football pitch last week Wednesday. It was a tie that ended 0-0 against highly skillful Kwara United side. The fans came out in their thousands to watch the encounter. We also commend the youthful players who worked so hard with the technical crew led by former International Baudwin Bazuaye to bring Insurance back to the top. The deputy governor, Shaibu, motivated the players with his presence at the training and dressing room since he is a registered player of the team at the age of 49. It was nice to see the crowd go home quietly after an 85th minute goal was wrongfully disallowed by the referee. We charge the football authorities in the state led by Frank Ilaboya and Chairman of the Sports Council, Godwin Dudu-Orumen, to keep educating the fans on the need to embrace peace always. However, since the current season is an abridged league, we want to charge the players of the Edo State team to raise their game and amass points early to retain status in the elite cadre. This is because traditional teams are darling teams of football lovers in the country.  We recall Shooting Stars stayed just one season in the elite class the last time they gained promotion. Eight teams will go down in this season that has only 22 match days and so all home matches are as crucial as away ties. Four teams will be relegated in each of the two groups that consist 12 teams. There is urgent need to fortify Insurance especially in the midfield and attack. The officials should do this during the nearest window. We also advise that while work should move fast on the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, the football pitch of UNIBEN should be worked on for the players to perform better. It was observed that during their first home match, the state of the pitch affected the result posted because the ball was not bouncing well. If officials can ensure the grass is watered for just two weeks, the pitch will be better. Overall, Insurance as a traditional team that made waves in the past will boost the glamour in the current league season, but much work must be done to retain the status of the team in the NPFL. This is a huge task and the government of the state should not relent in its support for the team at this crucial time. 