Members of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) Zone B, consisting 11 states of the North-Central and North-East including the FCT have vowed that the indefinite nationwide strike embarked upon by the union would not be suspended or called off until the government addressed their demands for the good of the education sector.  Coordinator of the zone, Abdullahi Yalwa, who made the union’s position known during a press conference held at the Plateau State Polytechnic, Jos Campus, said ASUP was poised to ensure that federal and state government implement their demands, saying the union was determined to ensure improved standard of tertiary institutions. According to him, the union shall impress it on government to set a ground work for an education  system that is capable of advancing technology to an innovative level.  “It is on record that no nation can develop above its education system, particular technological education. It is also clear that technical and vocational education have no space in the psyche of the policy makers, and perhaps of an  average Nigerians,” he noted.  He pointed out that these among others resulted to the poor handling of the sector as concerns are always low when it comes to issues affecting the sector, lamenting that instead of government at all levels to do the needful and ensure proper positioning of the sector, they have turned the other way.  “As we progress on this strike, we assure our members that we will continue to protect their interest and rights,” Yalwa pledged, noting that part of what necessitated the strike is the gross underfunding of the sector, non-implementation of  the NEEDS Assessment Report on polytechnics, shortfall in personnel cost, withdrawal of allowances and poor condition of state ownedinstitutions.  Others demands, according to the coordinator, include nonrelease of CONTISS 15 migration arrears, delay in assenting to the amendment of the Polytechnic Acts, infractions in the appointment of Rectors and victimization of union leaders. ASUP also condemned, what it described as abuse and infraction in the appointment of university Professors as substantive Rectors, especially at Kogi and Adamawa State Polytechnics, saying professors are not qualify to take employment in polytechnic sector since the polytechnics have competent Chief Lecturers across the Nigerian polytechnics that could fit into the position.  “We seize this opportunity to call on Governor Simon Lalong to ensure that the appointment of a Chief Lecturer as substantive Rector of the Plateau State Polytechnic, Barkin Ladi for the smooth running of the institution.