Osun State Governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola yesterday commenced a ‘Thank You’ tour in the state. He, however, kick-started the tour of nine federal constituencies beginning from Osogbo, the state capital and headquarters of Osogbo/Olorunda/Irepodun/Orolu federal constituency. He visited the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun before being received by teeming supporters at the Nelson Mandela Freedom Park where residents reiterated their unflinching support for his administration to deliver on his promises. The governor will also visit two federal constituency headquarters – Ila/Boluwaduro/Ifedayo Federal Constituency and Ifelodun/Odo-Otin/Boripe – today At the Ataoja’s palace, Oyetola explained that his tour was to show appreciation to the people for voting him and the support so far given. It was also to interact with the people on what they desired from the government so as to meet up with their aspirations. He said his administration remained resolute to ensure inclusive and participatory government to give every citizen the opportunity to have a say in the socio-economic development. He said: “The purpose of this visit is to say a big thank you to all. You have been showing unprecedented and unquantified love and passion to our administration since 2010 that my predecessor took over the mantle of leadership. “We conceptualized this visit in fulfilment of our electoral promises to run all inclusive and participatory government where every citizen will be carried along in a bid to advance the state. “We do this so that our people will have a say on what they really want and how they are being governed so that our policies can be tailored along their yearnings and aspirations. The governor, however, urged the people to continue to vote for the APC by returning President Muhammadu Buhari for the second term. Oyetola added that his victory would not be complete unless his party controlled the House of Assembly. He urged support for the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates.