The General Overseer, The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Monday night refrained from giving straightforward prophesies for 2019 for fear that politicians might twist the prophecies to suit their purposes.  While preaching during the evening service to herald the New Year, the cleric said when enquiring from God what 2019 held in stock, he expressed fear that “if you (God) tell me, and I tell them, it could be twisted; in Nigeria, this is an election year, and anything I say will be twisted by politicians.”  Adeboye said God, however, said the prophecies would be coded instead.  According to reports, Adeboye, therefore, quoted Bible verses, indicating that the prophecies for 2019 were embedded in them. As for what 2019 hold in stock for Nigeria, the preacher quoted Lamentations 3:22-23 from the King James Version of the Bible, stating that, “It is of the Lord’s mercies that we are not consumed, because His compassion fail not. They are new every morning: great is Thy faithfulness.”  Adeboye said: “So, those of us who are already praying for God to be merciful, continue your prayers, you are on the right track.”  Meanwhile, the General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries Worldwide, Dr. Daniel Olukoya, in his own prophesies described 2019 as a year of many strange happenings. Olukoya said many people trying to get rich through satanic means would be destroyed, while sexual perverts would receive a “death blow” from “sanitizing agents”. T  he cleric, according to a statement, said these on Monday night, during the church’s cross-over vigil service at the Prayer City along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Olukoya said to survive 2019; Christians would require many strange prayers, which many around them might not be comfortable with.  He told the congregation that sacrificial giving was key to their success in 2019, saying “any teaching telling you not to give to God is from the pit of hell, because the apostles gave and God blessed them abundantly.” He also told them “to pray seriously against the rage of the waters” in 2019.