 Following the reported award of the contract for the construction of the Second Niger Bridge in June 2018, and payment of N30 billion mobilisation fees to the contractor, Julius Berger Construction Company, few months to the February 2019 general elections; Igbo leaders and groups have decried government’s delay in constructing the strategic bridge, which is the main gateway to the Eastern part of the country. They Igbo groups and leaders, who spoke to Sunday Telegraph in different interviews, wondered why the Muhammadu Buhari administration had to wait till close to the 2019 elections before awarding the contract for the construction of the bridge, saying the action is not different from what previous governments under Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and Dr. Goodluck Jonathan did with the construction of the bridge, using the project to canvass for votes from the zone – but ending up not completing it. The project was initially awarded in 2007 by President Obasanjo some months to the end of his administration and was again re-awarded by ex-President Jonathan in 2010 and now President Buhari, in June, about eight months to the 2019 election. With this record, for many, construction of the bridge has become an election campaign tool for successive administrations in the country. Those who spoke on the matter decried the delay to so many factors; for instance, the Obi of Onitsha, Obi Alfred Achebe while receiving the Minister of Power, Works, and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola at his palace in Onitsha recently, said that the project has become a source of embarrassment to the people of the zone and the entire country. The Royal Father contended that the project if completed would be of service to not only the people of the South East but to the entire country. Obi Achebe, however, paid glowing tribute to President Buhari, whom he said has shown genuine commitment to the completion of the project. He appealed to the minister to ensure that the project was completed this time around. On his part the President of Ohaneze Ndigbo Anambra State chapter, Chief Okeke Ogene, said that the completion of the project will go a long way in determining the position of Ndigbo and where they would belong this year. Ikem Ohanugo, governorship candidate in the last gubernatorial election in Anambra State, said that President Buhari’s administration cannot complete the project. According to him the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is using the project to just canvass for votes in the South East. He warned Ndigbo not to be deceived by anybody but to cast their votes wisely in the 2019 elections. However, traders in Anambra State, under the aegis of Anambra Markets Amalgamated Traders Association (AMATAS), welcomed the change in the contract arrangement from Public Private Partnership (PPP) to government financed project, but said the almost four years’ delay in commencing real work on the project is scandalous.  AMATAS President, Chief Okwudili Ezenwankwo, who spoke on behalf of the association, said awarding the project months to the election as past regimes did, is an indication that President Buhari intends to follow the footsteps of his predecessors in scamming Ndigho. Also speaking, an Onitsha-based lawyer, Emeka Aghaonu lamented that successive administrations had continued to marginalise the Igbos, especially when it comes to sharing of infrastructure across the country. He said that President Buhari and the APC government should forget 2019 if he has come to use the Second Niger Bridge project to canvass for votes as usual. Aghaonu stated emphatically that Ndigbo as a matter of fact, are no longer interested in the project after all. Other projects awarded alongside the bridge including the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, are either nearing completion or have been completed and put into use in other parts of the country. He blamed the President for cancelling the contract for the construction of the bridge in 2015, saying an on-going project which was awarded at just N117 billion then will now cost the government N206 billion because of “the foolishness of a government, which claimed it suspected corruption in the N117 billion contract, only to now award the same project at N206 billion”. According to Aghaonu, all federal projects in the South East, had been abandoned only for projects to be revived as the election draws closer and politicians are gearing up to use them to canvas for votes. He also accused the federal lawmakers from the zone of compromise. He queried what they were doing at the National Assembly when all the federal roads in the zone are not functional, saying the recent fire brigade actions on the Enugu- Onitsha, Enugu-Port Harcourt and Port Harcourt-Aba roads cannot mislead the people from voting wrongly in 2019.  According to Aghaonu, all federal projects in the South East, had been abandoned only for projects to be revived as the election draws closer and politicians are gearing up to use them to canvas for votes. He also accused the federal lawmakers from the zone of compromise. He queried what they were doing at the National Assembly when all the federal roads in the zone are not functional, saying the recent fire brigade actions on the Enugu- Onitsha, Enugu-Port Harcourt and Port Harcourt-Aba roads cannot mislead the people from voting wrongly in 2019.  Sunday Telegraph learnt that the government spent over three years doing the phase four of the preliminary works which it awarded at the cost of N14.4 billion because it did see any need to hurry up the completion of the preliminary works and award the main contract. It was as a result of this delay according the Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Works, Hon Toby Okechukwu that the monies allocated for the project in the 2015, 2016 and 2017 budgets were not accessed by the executive arm of government.  Meanwhile, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, has said that the project, which he expects would be completed in 36 months, would be funded under the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF).  According to him, funding the project under PIDF means that work will no longer stop on account of lack of money. He said that the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano road projects would also be funded under PIDF. Fashola said that the contract for the main work on the Second Niger Bridge was awarded after the completion of the four phases of the project.