Last weekend in Saudi Arabia, Nigerian-born British boxer, Anthony Joshua, put smiles on the faces of Nigerians as he reclaimed the heavyweight boxing belts. Following his defeat by Andy Ruiz Junior in June, his victory last week now made him a two-time world heavyweight champion with a unanimous points victory recorded over Ruiz in a tension-soaked rematch. Ruiz was not close to landing a knockdown and when scores of 118-110, 118-110 and 119-109 were read out, Joshua jumped up and down in the ring in jubilation, just as Ruiz did in US six months ago. No doubt, it was a close shave as Joshua’s career was in the balance and a defeat could have been a major setback for him. After a grueling 12 rounds of movement and well-timed punching, Joshua’s tactical discipline worked for him and his corner as he won back the IBF, WBA and WBO titles. Keen followers of boxing will call Joshua’s tactics ‘stick and move’ while many who have been a fan of the game for long will simply refer to Joshua’s style on the night as Muhammed Ali’s ‘float like a butterfly and sting like a bee’ style. Joshua has a weak jaw and cannot receive much and so because of his reach advantage over his opponent, he danced round the ring to pick his points and avoided heavy jabs from Ruiz. He was a great boxer on the night with smart professional decisions and maximum concentration to get the job done. At 30, Joshua now joins boxing legends like Muhammad Ali, Lennox Lewis, Evander Holyfield, Mike Tyson and Floyd Patterson as boxers to have reclaimed the world heavyweight title. A boxing pundit, Steve Bunce, told the BBC: “AJ was absolutely clinical and he never wasted a shot. That was class and he stuck to his plan. He got it right in spectacular fashion. He has been steely and nasty.” There are so many angles to the Joshua victory. It shows the never-say-die spirit of the average Nigerian. It also shows that Nigerians can get to the very top with the right mentality, exposure and hard work. He lost the belt and did not give up. I am particularly happy that he is a proud Nigerian. There is a tattoo of map of Africa etched on his right arm with Nigeria as the only country clear in the continental map. He appeared in videos and adverts to project Nigeria’s image and it is not a surprise that there are moves to bring him ‘home’ to visit President Mohammadu Buhari. Joshua is a role model to thousands of athletes in Nigeria. It is on record that Samuel Peter was also a heavyweight WBC champion. This is enough for the boxing federation to know that there are more Peters and Joshuas in the country. With the right exposure, facilities and good technical men to work with, more quality boxers can come out of Nigeria. I also recall than in 1964, Nigeria won her first Olympic medal in the boxing event of the Tokyo 64 Games. Joshua has done great to Nigeria’s image and we should look inwards to bring out more of such boxers to rule the world in future. Wrestling, weightlifting, athletics (especially sprints), table tennis, taekwondo are other sports where Nigeria can produce number one athletes in the world. We currently have athletes who are number three, number four in their respective disciplines and so with hard work, they could be number one. After his win, Joshua said he was ready for Deontay Wilder and Tyson Fury. I strongly disagree. He has to work harder, buy more time by beating some ‘lesser known’ boxers at least for a year before thinking of either of the boxers. Joshua said: “I’m not a running champion, I’m someone who will fight the best in the world. I would love to have the opportunity to either beat Deontay Wilder or beat Tyson Fury. “I’ve displayed different styles of fighting. I believe I have their number, because I can display a variety of skills when it comes to boxing.” I appreciate his confidence but there must be tactical discipline in dealing with the rest of the world in boxing because it is much more than what we see inside the squared ropes. Congrats AJ, Nigerians are proud of you!