President Muhammadu Buhari, last week, stirred the hornet’s nest when he said that Nigeria has wasted N1 trillion in the past 10 years on constituency projects. Constituency project is a unique package for members of the National Assembly to reach their constituents directly through popular projects. Such may include rural electricity, water, community halls and other sundry projects, which originally were to enable the lawmakers connect to their communities. But, according to Buhari, the amount spent by the Federal Government on these projects has not impacted on the lives and welfare of ordinary citizens. The president spoke at a national summit on “Diminishing Corruption in the Public Service,” in Abuja. Buhari had urged the National Assembly to fast-track the passage of the Special Crimes Court Bill and the judiciary to embrace and support the creation of Special Crimes Court. “It is on record that in the past 10 years, N1 trillion has been appropriated for constituency projects. Yet, the impact of such huge spending on the lives and welfare of ordinary Nigerians can hardly be seen. “The first phase report of tracking these projects by ICPC confirms our worst fears that people at the grassroots have not benefited in terms commensurate with the huge sums appropriated for constituency projects since inception,” the president said. Expectedly, the president’s comment attracted a sharp rebuke from lawmakers, to whom the arrow of the president’s attack was directed. Caucus of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Senate rejected the president’s claim. Rather, they asked Buhari to ask his ministers and heads of agencies to explain what happened to the money spent on the projects. Leader of the group, Enyinnaya Abaribe, stated that constituency projects were domiciled with the executive, saying that “if he has not seen anything, he should ask his ministers and the head of agencies.” Similarly, the House of Representatives accused the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) of misleading the president with their statistics. The House Minority Leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, on a point of order, argued that the said figures were incorrect and breached his privileges as a member of the National Assembly. He said that the figures budgeted annually were not matched with the released funds. “Last year, there was release of about only 40 per cent and we are not sure if releases will be up to 50 per cent this year,” he noted. Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, said the matter affected the collective privileges of members of the whole House and may yield a bad consequence. “I am concerned over the unintended consequences out of this, which is to put people’s well-being at risk,” the speaker said. He said there was the need for government to differentiate between monies budgeted and monies released. We strongly believe that the technicalities of the execution of such projects are known between the executive and the lawmakers. We are not party to the intricacies that are woven around the proposal, execution and actual visibilities of the projects. But we know that for long, the issue of constituency projects have been a recurring one between the executive arm of government and the lawmakers. It was previously a subject of debate how it should be executed, if it should be part of the lawmakers’ entitlement and other arguments surrounding it. Although the lawmakers may dispute Buhari’s claims as they have done, we have no doubt that a humongous sum has gone into the projects, across the country. What is in doubt as the president pointed out is whether such expenditures have had a bearing on the welfare of the people or not. We strongly believe that judging from the sum mentioned, there is little or nothing to show for such appropriation. We know for a fact that the sundry projects called constituency projects are small projects, which individuals and communities actually undertake at local levels without assigning billions of naira to such. We also know that in some cases, like water and electrification projects, most of such constituency projects are only objects of showmanship, which stop working as soon as the last sets of seats and canopies are taken away from the inauguration venue. We are fully convinced that more questions should be asked by Buhari from those who computed the figures for him and those whom such projects were given. There is a strong need to know where the money went and how much was actually expended on such projects. We say so because we believe that N1 trillion is such a huge fund that cannot be allowed to just vanish untraceably. In a country with roughly N10 trillion annual budget, we are talking of 10 per cent of the annual budget going into freebies. That amount could be used in roads construction and the provision of other infrastructure that the country is in dire need of. We are not aware that Nigeria has constructed a N1 trillion road yet. And the country might not need to do such so soon. We therefore believe that both the president and the lawmakers need to further look deeper and discover the actual sums that have been expended on such projects. That would, at least, let Nigerians know how much the country is sinking into such projects and whether or not there is need for the continuation of such an expensive voyage into ego trips.