…seeks Senate’s confirmation for FIRS board  P resident Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, asked the Senate to confirm the appointment of Mr. Edward Lametek Adamu, as the Chairman of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON).  Adamu replaces Dr. Muiz Banire (SAN) who was appointed in December 2018.  Although no reason has been given for the removal of Banire who has spent barely a year in a term of five years, there were speculations that it may not be unconnected with a recent amendment to the AMCON Act which prescribes that the position should be reserved for a serving Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).  Adamu served as the Director of Human Resources at the CBN, and subsequently rose to the position of a Deputy Governor at the apex bank.  The President also requested the apex legislative chamber to confirm the appointment of Muhammad Mamman Nami as the Executive Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service   (FIRS), following the exit of Babatunde Fowler. The requests of Mr. President were contained in two separate letters he forwarded to the Red Chamber, which were read during plenary by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan.  The letter on AMCON, dated December 9, 2019, reads: “In accordance with Section 10(1) of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) Act, 2010, I hereby present Mr. Edward Lametek Adamu for confirmation as Chairman of the AMCON by the Distinguished Senate.” In a second letter dated December 9, the President requested for the confirmation of Nami as the new boss of the FIRS.  The letter reads: “Pursuant to Section 3(2) of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (Establishment) Act, 2007, I am pleased to forward for confirmation by the Senate, the underlisted names of nominees as the Chairman and Members of the Federal Inland Revenue Service.”  Others appointed alongside the Chairman, Muhammad Nami (North-Central) included: James Yakwen Ayuba, North Central; Ado Danjuma, North-West; Adam Baba Mohammed, North-East; Ikeme Osakwe, South-East; Adewale Ogunyomade, South-West, and Ehile Adetola Aibangbee, South-South.  The President also appointed persons to represent some ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) on the board of FIRS.  Those in this category of appointment are: Ladidi Bara’atu Mohammed, Office of Attorney-General of the Federation; Godwin Emefiele, Central Bank of Nigeria; and Fatima Hayatu, Ministry of Finance.  Others are: Maagbe Adaa, Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission; Umar Ajiya, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation; DCG Isah, Nigeria Customs Service, and Registrar General, Corporate Affairs Commission. Buhari expressed hope that both requests will receive “the usual expeditious consideration” of the Senate.  Meanwhile, indications have emerged that the immediate past chairman of the FIRS, Babatunde Fowler, was actually not prepared to leave office when the Presidency named a replacement. New Telegraph gathered that earlier on Monday, Fowler had written to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, seeking a renewal of his mandate to continue to serve as the Chief Tax Collector of the Federation. In the letter dated December 9, 2019, Fowler had expressed the desire to be allowed to continue in a bid to consolidate on the achievements of his regime. The letter read in parts: “I write to notify the Secretary to the Government of the Federation that my first tenure as the Executive Chairman of the Federal Inland Service (FIRS) ends today 9th December 2019.  “In view of the above, I wish to present myself for reappointment for a second term. This is consistent with the provisions of the FIRS Establishment Act 2007 and would grant me the opportunity to consolidate and build on the achievements we have recorded in the past four years.”  Instead, President Buhari appointed Muhammad Nami, a tax consultant, to replace Fowler on Monday, putting paid to months of high wired politicking that had ended his tenure. It could not be confirmed why he chose to seek an extension of service on the last day of his tenure and whether the Presidency actually received his letter before naming a successor.  The former FIRS boss attended the launch of Federal Government’s financial transparency policy and open of treasury portal same Monday in Abuja.  The event, which had in attendance top government officials, including Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed; and Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), Idris Ahmed, among others, held at Abuja International Conference Centre (ICC).  Fowler formally handed over to Coordinating Director, Domestic Taxes Group, Abiodun Aina, who is to oversee the affairs pending resumption of newly appointed FIRS Executive Chairman. 