Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says Manchester United have “come through a sticky patch” and insists his young side have “always believed” in themselves. Recent victories over Tottenham and  Manchester City gave United back-to-back league wins for the first time this season and lifted them to within five points of the top four. Despite boasting an impressive record against fellow ‘top-six’ sides, United have lost to Crystal Palace, West Ham, Newcastle and Bournemouth this term, and draws against newly-promoted sides Sheffield United and Aston Villa raised question marks over Solskjaer’s future, reports Sky Sports. However, the Norwegian remains confident his players will improve with experience and believes they have come through a difficult period. “Consistency is vital in football if you’re going to win trophies and this young team need to learn how to put on performances when they don’t feel like it, when they don’t feel great,” the United boss said. “You don’t feel great every single time that you walk onto the pitch and we’ve had some games this year where we’ve not been able to perform as well as we would have liked. “That’s a learning curve and I’m sure these young boys in the next couple of years will improve and hopefully for the rest of the season. “We’ve come through a sticky patch with bad injuries and bad results and we’re looking brighter now. “Results are the proof in the end but inside we’ve always believed what we are doing. There’s going to be ups and downs but we are on the right track. “I see these boys every single day in training and what their attitude is, as well as the skills and the quality they’ve got, so I’ve not been that worried.” United still without Pogba United return to action on Thursday night when AZ Alkmaar visit Old Trafford in the Europa League, with top spot in Group L up for grabs between the two sides. Midfielder Paul Pogba – who has not played since the end of September – remains out as he continues to recover from an ankle injury. “It is too early for him to play against Alkmaar,” Solskjaer said. “He’s working hard to get fit so hopefully we will see him in 2019. “Let’s get Paul fit and back in form. Paul will play loads of games. For me, he’s one of the best players in the world and we’re looking forward to having him back.” 