 … as group calls for probe of Sowore’s foreign associates  A group of civil rights activists yesterday staged a protest in Abuja, demanding the investigation of Omoyele Sowore and his foreign counterparts in the RevolutionNow protest. The protesters, led by Congress for Defence of Democracy (CDF), marched to the office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami SAN, calling for probe on the nefarious activities of the detained convener of the Revolution Now Protest, Sowore and his foreign collaborators. In a petition signed by Convener, Stephen Okenarhe and submitted to the AGF, the CDF revealed that it would be a disservice to the unity of Nigeria should Sowore be granted bail without identifying his foreign sponsors. According to Okenarhe: “The controversial human rights activist has proven to be acting a script by enemies of Nigeria, that are envious of the giant strides recorded in critical sectors of the economy in the past four years under President Muhammadu Buhari.” Besides the on-going seven-count charge trial, the group pointed out that Sowore has secretly been receiving illicit funds from some foreign sources while also covertly running the propaganda wing of Boko Haram. Okenarhe added that the presidential candidate of the African Action Congress even signed a pact with the proscribed Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) and some disgruntled opposition politicians to destabilise the nation. According to the group, “The Attorney General of the Federation may wish to know that the charges brought against Sowore are not a reflection of the enormity of the havoc he intended for the country with his planned Revolution Now. The Honourable Attorney General may wish to be informed that Sowore has been secretly receiving illicit funds from some foreign sources since the build-up to the general elections for vote-buying. However, he mismanaged the funds, and the alternative was to stage a violent revolution to impress his paymasters. This is on the heels that Sowore indeed planned to cause unrest in the country by receiving a massive amount of money from questionable sources to procure arms and ammunitions.” He further stated: “Sowore is also known to be courting members of the opposition party, and because he runs a popular internet news site, Saharareporters.com, he availed himself to members of the opposition to aid their destabilization plot after they lost the elections. Sowore has been covertly running the propaganda wing of Boko Haram in conjunction with other intellectual asset of the terrorists group in Nigeria. This has seen his news outlet receiving and publishing information on troops’ movements, casualty figures in attacks that never took place or just before they take place. But to our greatest surprise, these were never investigated by the Department of State Security (DSS) or featured in the charges against him in court. Sowore also planned to orchestrate mass outcry against the Federal Government of Nigeria in order to trigger wanton killings by members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria and the Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) led by Nnamdi Kanu. We have it on good authority that he had a meeting with Kanu and these were discussed before his subsequent arrest by the DSS. He secretly entered a pact with sponsors of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) being Iran to cause unrest in the country in line with an earlier threat that Nigeria will pay for disallowing the lawless activities of the IMN. He has served as the conduit for the transfer of funds to the IMN through the accounts of SaharaReporters where the funds come in donations.” The group also noted that Sowore in collaboration with the major losers of the 2019 was still nursing the intention of destroying Nigeria’s democratic ethos instead of waiting for the next general election to test their self-acclaimed popularity through the ballot. “We wish to inform the Honourable Attorney General that with the avalanche of established cases against Sowore, it would be indeed a great disservice to the unity of Nigeria should he be granted bail without identifying his sponsors, as well as those with whom he plotted with to destabilize the peace and unity of our country,” said Okenarhe.