●Subsidiaries excel in 6 countries  The Banker Magazine has once again selected leading African financial institution, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, as the “African Bank of the Year 2019.” This is the second time UBA has clinched the prestigious award, having been named Best African Bank of 2017 by The Banker Magazine. This year, UBA also won best bank category in six of its subsidiaries: UBA Benin, UBA Tchad, UBA Gabon, UBA Congo, UBA Cote D’Ivoire and UBA Sierra Leone. The unprecedented win marks the first time ever in the history of the Banker awards that any one bank would be given as many as six wins including the grand regional award. The awards ceremony took place at the Sheraton Grand, Park Lane in London at the weekend where UBA was represented by its CEO, UBA Africa, Mr. Victor Osadolor, who received all seven awards on behalf of the bank. John Everington, Middle East and Africa Editor for The Banker, said the aim of the award “is to highlight industry wide excellence within the global banking community. The winner is selected from participating banks in each of the countries from which entries are received for the competition.” UBA’s Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kennedy Uzoka, who expressed delight over the recognition from The Banker, said: “The recognitions come as a reassurance that we are on track in consolidating our leadership position in Africa, as we continue to create superior value for all our stakeholders. “UBA must be doing something right, and for us, these awards mark another milestone for the Group. It is a testament of the diligent execution of the bank’s strategic initiatives geared towards customer service. Being recognised as Africa’s best bank complements positive feedback from customers and is recognition of our improving efficiencies, service quality and innovation. I therefore dedicate it to our growing loyal corporate and retail customers, who are our essence.” Uzoka dedicated the awards to UBA’s customers, “whose loyalty, support and patronage have remained the source of the group’s growth and competitive edge in all the markets we operate.” The CEO of UBA Africa, Victor Osadolor, who received the awards, added: “UBA group will continue to innovate and lead in all our business segments, whilst delivering top-notch operational efficiencies and best-in-class customer service. We are beginning to realise early gains from our ongoing transformation programme and I am excited about the days ahead.” The Banker Magazine is a publication of the Financial Times – a leading global finance news publication, which has been in existence since 1888. The Banker Magazine is the definitive reference in international banking for high level decision makers globally.