As the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gets ready to hold its election in January 2020, OJIEVA EHIOSUN spoke with Kenneth Imansuangbon on the raging controversy within the party. Excerpts…  The PDP is about to elect new executives into office, and three top members of the party have drawn the battle line; the incumbent party chairman, Chief Dan Orbih; Senator Odion Ugbesia and yourself. How true is the report that top executive members of the party are teaming up to ‘impose’ their candidates on the party?  am contesting for the governorship ticket in our great party, the PDP. Dan Orbih cannot stop me from actualising my dream. I heard that they are saying that I’m not a party member, but I am a full fledge PDP man. I have paid my dues in the party, they cannot frustrate me, and we will all go to the polls to prove our acceptance and popularity to the Edo electorate. As far as the PDP is concerned in Edo State, I have made my marks and I have personally made contributions to the party. When PDP was at the verge of collapsing after losing the seat of power to Osh-iomhole, our political leader, the late Chief Tony Anineh of blessed memory, called me and said ‘Ken of Africa, do not let PDP die in Edo’. I know how much I have put into the party just to keep the flag of PDP flying in Edo. As it is in PDP now, I’m the only PDP man that can bring our party back to the limelight. I have no apology to anyone. If we don’t get it right now, PDP will go into total extinction.  There were insinuations that the Dan Orbih-led executives have zoned the party chairmanship to Edo Central, won’t that automatically affect the chances of Edo Central persons vying for the governorship slot? It is very wrong for Dan Orbih and his group to zone the chairmanship position to Edo Central. They are aware that I am vying for the governorship ticåket, and more so, I am from the same senatorial zone with Ugbesia. Going by the constitution, there is no way one zone can produce the party chairman and the governor. My teeming supporters and I will not accept that from Orbih. We want the chairmanship of the party to come from Edo South. I, Kenneth Imansuangbon, am not scared of anybody, I’m a household name in Nigerian politics, I am a man that believes in the struggle for justice and also feel the heart beat of the poor. Because I came from a poor family, I have tested poverty, I know how a poor person feels. I have visited the hospital, paying bills for those that are not able to pay their hospital bills. I have fed prisoners; I have given scholarships to the less privileged using my hard earned money. I’m going into the race to win and help the poor. I have never done government contract, I have never held government position, and everything I do for the people, I do it because that is what God has ordained me to do. I want to use this Medium to tell Dan Orbih and his team not to do anything that will further compound the problems of PDP in Edo State. All aspirants should be given a level playing ground to prove their acceptability to the electorates.