The Ministry of Youth and Sports has said the Athletic Federation of Nigeria cannot declare itself independent, insisting it has statutory responsibilities to supervise over all sporting association including the AFN. The AFN, on Wednesday, at an Extra-ordinary Congress in Awka, Anambra, declared its autonomous from government, saying its action was backed by the statutes of the World Athletics. The Awka Congress provided a new twist to the crisis rocking the federation after the AFN President Ibrahim Gusau, who had earlier been purportedly suspended by a faction of the board, superintended over the General Assembly Meeting. Seven members of the board had on Tuesday met in Abuja where they announced the suspension of Gusau for misappropriation of funds and abuse of power.  It also set up a probe panel to investigate the culpability of the embattled administrator. However, in a dramatic twist to the development, a day after his suspension, Gusua led the Congress to declare the federation autonomous of government. In a release made available to New Telegraph and signed by the Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, the ministry said it approved the decision of the AFN board which suspended Gusau and advised the embattled administrator to cooperate with the investigative panel. It said that the Abuja meeting was duly convened and its decision is binding on the federation. The sports ministry also insisted that the AFN must comply with the rules which puts it and its operations under the supervision of the ministry. “Following from the above, the Ministry cautions the erstwhile President to subject himself to the outcome of the proceedings. We also encourage the Board to continue to carry out the affairs of the Federation in accordance with extant rules and regulations. “The FMYSD hereby reinstates that it has statutory responsibilities for the formulation, supervision, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes on Sports administration in the country. “In the discharge of these responsibilities, the Ministry through the 38 National Sports Federations under its supervision ensures the compliance with laid down Rules and Regulations of the Code of Governance, which the constitution of the National Sports Federations recognizes.”