The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, said that the National Assembly would pass President Muhammadu Buhari’s $30 billion loan request. This was as he assured that the Senate would never pass any bill not in public interest, saying that the passage or otherwise of Hate Speech Bill would be determined by the public. Lawan made these statements at a media briefing with editors, bureau chiefs and Senate Press Corps in Abuja, where he spoke on the achievements of the Senate within six months of its inauguration. On the loan, he explained that the apex legislative chamber would approve it because it would be utilised by the federal government for the provision of basic infrastructural and other needs of the country. He said: “The question of whether we will pass the loan request of the executive arm of government, yes, we will pass it. If we don’t have money and you have projects to build them, how will you provide infrastructure that you need? “But one thing is that, we are going to be critical, that every cent that is borrowed is tied to a project. These are projects that will have spillover effects on the economy and we will undertake our oversight seriously to ensure that such funds are properly, prudently, economically and transparently applied on those projects. “In 2016, the Senate did not pass the loan request of the Executive at that time and the reason was because there were no sufficient details. “I want to inform this gathering and indeed Nigerians that the letter conveying the loan request of the Executive came with every possible detail and in fact we will ensure that we are getting the right information from the Executive arm of Government. So, the situation is not the same. “In 2016, there was no submission of details. This time, I think the executive has learnt its lesson and the letter came with sufficient details.” On the controversial Hate Speech Bill, the President of the Senate said “the Hate Speech Bill to me has enlarged democracy in Nigeria. Nigerians of all persuasions have one thing to say and this is what democracy is all about. “The hate speech bill is not going to be passed without a deserving public hearing so that Nigerians will have opportunity to be there with their arguments, whether we accept it or we don’t want it. “But I want to assure you that the preponderance of opinions of Nigerians will determine the way hate speech bill goes and of course, any other bill in the National Assembly. This Senate will never pass any bill that is not in national interest.”