P olice fired a canister of tear gas which allegedly ignited fire and burnt a thatched house located at No. 6, Murray Street, Calabar South, Cross River State.  The owner of the house, Prince Francis Ephraim, said he was in his house and was about to eat when he heard a loud sound on the roof.  He said: “That early morning, I wanted to go out but decided to prepare something to eat. When the food was ready, I took it to the sitting room to eat. But suddenly there was a lot of firing by the police. I heard sound on the roof of my house. When I came out, I saw smoke coming out from the place the sound came from.”  Ephraim added that the police team from Operation Puff Adder was in pursuit of hoodlums around the area when they fired gunshots and threw canisters of tear gas sporadically around the street, but one of the canisters fell on the roof of the thatched house and eventually set it on fire.  He said: “Somebody brought a car and we drove to the fire service and when we got there, they said they had been informed of the fire outbreak and came with us but while trying to put out the fire, the water was exhausted.” Ephraim said he went to a local radio station, Hit FM, to tell them his ordeal.  He said: “One of the staff followed me to see what had happened and from there to the State Police Headquarters where we met the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations who, on taking a look at the house, asked the Hit FM reporter if he could call this a house.  “From there we went to see the DPO Atakpa and he invited the leader of the Puff Adder team and the man expressed empathy with what had happened. He said the team will on its own do something since waiting for the Federal Government will take time.”  The distraught man added that the DPO booked a meeting with him the next day.  “When I got there, the man asked for the tear gas canister but when I refused to hand it over, the DPO said it will not be well with me,” he added. Ephraim said none of the hoodlums the police were chasing took shelter in his house.  “Neither do I have anything to do with drugs. I cannot understand why the police fired at my house,” he said. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Irene Ugbo, said the command was investigating the incident.  She said: “The DPO in charge of Atakpa Police Station told me that the matter was reported but they are still investigating to ascertain if it was caused by the police or not.” Ugbo asked our correspondent to wait till after the investigation. 