A newly married 26-year-old woman has been arrested on charges alleging she tried to cash almost $1 million in checks from her 77-year-old husband’s account. Lin Helena Halfon was arrested earlier this month at Tampa International Airport. She is facing charges of money laundering, organized fraud and exploitation of an elderly person. During her first court appearance, a judge set her bail at $1 million. On November 7, Halfron walked into a branch of Amscot and tried to cash a $1 million check, claiming it would allow her to buy a yacht for her and her husband, reports dailymail.co.uk. When the bank employees refused her, she left but came back later in the day with another three checks, each for $333,333. They refused her again and instead called police. ‘The Tampa Bay Times’ reports that Halfon’s husband, Tampa businessman Richard Rappaport, 77, was notified by investigators about the checks the following day. Rappaport allegedly told investigators that he wanted to give his wife the benefit of the doubt and did not want her to be deported to her native Israel. The couple did not live in the same home, according to the publication. On November 12, investigators called around to Halfon’s condo. She told them she that she had mailed the checks to her sister in Israel as she and Rappaport had a fight. Rappaport’s family had allegedly urged him not to give Halfon any money. “Halfon advised [investigators] that she does not work, and Rappaport pays all her expenses, like a normal married couple,” Halfon’s arrest affidavit states. However, oddly, despite insisting she had mailed the checks to Israel, two of them were cashed by a man at a bank in New Jersey less than a fortnight later. Investigators subsequently obtained a warrant ordering  the bank to freeze the third $333,333 check. ‘Tampa Bay Times’ have not disclosed the identity of the man who cashed the two checks, as he has not been charged. However, it’s believed he is an associate of Halfon’s. She was arrested on December 16. Later, Rappaport confirmed that he had not signed any of the checks, and told investigators that he felt he had been a victim of fraud at his wife’s behest. Halfon and Rappaport were married in August in Sarasota, but it is unclear how they initially met. Rappaport’s daughter, Dayna Titus, said in an arrest affidavit that family members were unaware of the marriage. Rappaport’s adult daughter ‘believed that Halfon was “conning´ her father due to his age,” FDLE Special Agent Victoria Morris wrote in the affidavit. However, Halfon’s attorney, Todd Foster, said the couple had a valid marriage. “We look forward to bringing forward additional facts to bring clarity to this situation,” Foster said. 