Over 50 per cent of persons in need of rehabilitation in the country are unable to access such services due to several factors including paucity of funds, poor communication and coordination in the health sector. REGINA OTOKPA writes on the way forward  As the years go by, the number of persons in need of medical rehabilitation has increased tremendously, as a result of disabilities arising from accidents, mental and psychological disorders or non-communicable diseases such as stroke, diabetes, cancer, amongst a host of others in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa. These group of persons need special treatment and training to have another shot at living normal lives either physically, socially, psychologically or in vocational sense. As a matter of fact, although a good number of adults need medical rehabilitation, children with congenital diseases such as down syndrome, cerebral palsy, autistism spectrum disorder to mention the least, form a significant portion of rehabilitation users in many countries and are the largest group in need of rehabilitation. Sadly, they are not getting the required attention due to several reasons. These includes ignorance, uneven distribution of service capacity and infrastructure, lack of access to rehabilitation, a complex referral system, inadequate personnel, poor investment, quackery, lack of communication and collaboration among the different sectors within the health ministry. The Registrar/CEO, Medical Rehabilitation Therapists Board of Nigeria (MRTBN), Dr. Akanle Olufunke, said that one way to tackle this issue is the establishment of at least one state- of-the-art equipped one-stop national rehabilitation centre in every geopolitical zone in the country. MRTBN is a regulatory board established to regulate and control the training and practice of seven professions: physiotherapy, speech therapy, occupational therapy, audiology, prosthetics and orthotics, chiropractic and osteopathic medicine professions but most importantly, it is saddled with the responsibility of solving the rehabilitation issues by removing all barriers to improve access to health services, strengthening and extending  rehabilitation habitation, assertive technology, assistance and support services and community based rehabilitation. At the 2nd International Conference of Medical Rehabilitation Professionals (ICMRP) with the theme, “Strategic Initiatives for Sustainable Medical Rehabilitation Services in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa, Olufunke lamented that in Nigeria as a whole, there is no well established medical rehabilitation center as found in other parts of the world “It is long overdue for Nigeria to have well established medical rehabilitation center. This will reduce prevalence of disabilities because it comprised of early intervention and  treatment. So, if you don’t have a well established medical rehabilitation it increased prevalence of disabilities, because some conditions that could have been prevented were not prevented as at when due. “Also, it will help identify disabilities in the hospital because some conditions that lead to disability are some times confused. Without proper diagnosis there cannot be proper treatment. Unfortunately, the accessibility of rehabilitation centres is low, because we only have it in  teaching hospitals, federal medical centers and some general hospitals but we are supposed to have them in the grassroot level so that when a patient  with ailment like stroke is discharged from a teaching hospital, he or she can easily move to a nearby primary healthcare centre  to access the facilities. “Even in the teaching hospitals, what is majorly available is  physiotherapy services,  other specialists are not available. But if all these services are available the patient will just go from one room to the other. That is why the Federal Government needs to establish medical rehabilitation centers in all the six geopolitical zones in the country.” According to the Registrar, the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) global disability action for 2014 to 2021, was to remove barriers and improve access to health services and programme, in order to strengthen and extend rehabilitation, habitation, assertive technology, assistance, and supportive services to community-based rehabilitation. She further stressed the need to strengthen the collection of relevant internationally comparable data on disability support research and related service. But no matter how bad it might seem, all hope is not lost if government and the various levels in the nations health care system  collaborate to address the situation holistically. The Chairman, Governing Council MRTBN, Dr. Umo Udom, harped on the need for a  “strong leadership and governance  at the ministry of health and effective coordination mechanisms with other relevant sectors, adequate allocated funding, efficient service delivery models, effective referral systems across all levels and availability of a multi-disciplinary rehabilitation work force.” While calling on stakeholders to work towards an enabled access to knowledge, tools and access to required resources to scale up rehabilitation, she further maintained that training and employment of more rehabilitation professionals, career development and a good working environment would sustain rehabilitation. The call for training and employment of rehabilitation professionals is germane, given the operation of fake physiotherapists and physiotherapy facilities milking unsuspecting patients at the  detriment of their health. Poised towards changing the narrative, the MRTBN have been embarking on inspection exercises to weed out quackery from the profession, which is a sensitive one. At the last count, no fewer than 300 fake facilities were shut down in various parts of the country. One thing that stands out however, is the fact that fake physiotheraphy facilities  are predominant in the south south and South western geopolitical zones in the country, operating with physiotherapists who are either unqualified or without the much needed license to operate. The registrar MRTBN, has revealed that some  of these fake physiotherapists were presently being prosecuted in various courts of law in the affected regions. “There are two types of quacks; one practice what he is not trained to practice and the other practice what he is not licensed to practice. We are dealing with them together. We have a lot of establishment claiming they have physiotherapy services and when you go in there you discover they don’t have physiotherapist in the center. “In the south west and south south, we have closed about 300 facilities. We have arrested and prosecuting people who claim they are physiotherapists. We also have some NGO who claim they have physiotherapist, those that we need to arrest we arrested them “Some individuals who refused to renew their licences, we have also written to their management to tell them that such individuals should not be promoted except they renew their licences.” It would not be out of tune to say the MRTBN is working in the right direction despite the challenges of inadequate funding among many others, to add its quota to providing quality universal healthcare services to the citizens, including People Living With Disabilities (PLWD). Impressed with the commitment of the board against all odds, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire recently stressed on the need for a meaningful cross examination of ideas that would help lift rehabilitation services to a greater height to provide appropriate, sustainable medical rehabilitation services to the people, especially the vulnerable living in the country.