A former chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Capt. Tunji Shelle, speaks in this interview on the contoversy trailing the emergence of a new executive of the party in the state, among other issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports  You were present at the recent inauguration of the new executive of the Lagos PDP.  What informed your decision to align with the emergence of Deji Doherty as the new elected leader of the party? I have to support whoever appears for the screening, contested for and won the election. The new state chairman, Adedeji Doherty has been in the party for a long time and has paid his dues. He has done a lot of things to convince people that he is a leader. He has contested for governorship elections on several occasions in the past and lost in the primaries, yet, he didn’t decamp. He has remained consistent and continued to support the party. So, I believe he has something to offer the PDP in Lagos and that was why I threw my weight behind him. You are one of Chief Bode George’s loyalists, but he is not in support of the emergence of Doherty. Don’t you think people might think that you have betrayed him? I am still his loyalist and Chief Bode George remains my leader, but I have to be firm and principled on issues. If I know a particular person is not doing well as a member of the state executive of the party and such a person has to be replaced, I will put sentiment aside and ensure that the proper thing is done. The constitution is our Bible in the party and as long as it is followed, I will comply with it as a loyal party man. Despite the emergence of a new exco for the party, Dr. Adegbola Dominic insists that he remains the state chairman of the party. He added that there was a court injunction which barred the conduct of an election. How true is that? I don’t think there was any injunction. If there is any, it was not out on the day of the congress. I don’t think they have a copy of the injunction even up till now. Apart from that, the congress committee was properly constituted by the national body; a date was fixed and they followed due process in all that was done. A date was fixed for the election; it was keenly contested and winners emerged. I don’t think the injunction was served before the congress took place. Apart from that, Doherty has shown enough capability to lead the party. He has convinced everyone that he could do better than the former state chairman and he is passionate about the PDP in Lagos not dying. The person who championed the court case should go and read what the constitution says. He was only given 90 days to act as the state chairman, even if it was by error. He never complained all this while, but when the time to replace him came, he was replaced and that is the basic issue. So, the injunction is just an attempt to make him stop the congress, but it failed. Your party had its worse performance in Lagos State during the 2019 general election. Don’t you think that it is the right time to put your house in order? That was one of the reasons why I complied with the decision of the national body to conduct a fresh congress in order to elect a capable state chairman for PDP in Lagos State. I don’t think that the former state chairman, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, did his work properly while in office. We won some number of seats both in the House of Representatives and Lagos State House of Assembly in 2015, when I was the state chairman, I had expected that those who took over from me will consolidate and build on the results I achieved, but that was not to be. I believe it is time for us to focus on a new direction, reposition the party for greatness, so that we can do better in subsequent elections.  Since he has been in office, meetings have not been held at different levels. Without meetings, where members can interact with themselves and rub minds together, the party cannot function properly. Go to the party secretariat today, it looks like an abandoned war zone. But, I am sure that with the new leadership, the situation is going to change and people will give their support to the new chairman, so that he can put the party in good shape to win elections in the future. Don’t you think that your decision to align with the Doherty-led exco will cause a strain in your relationship with Chief Bode George? Not at all! We’ve been exchanging views and you will expect such a thing in a democracy. It is just a question of wanting the PDP to grow and succeed. To me, if somebody is not good, there are no two ways about it; he is not good. That Chief Bode George and I are not on the same page on this issue is not enough reason to cause a strain in our relationship. I respect him a lot; he is my brother. In politics, two brothers from same parents can even be in different political parties and it will not cause any strain in their relationship even though they will have different political views. But here, we are not in different parties, we are both staunch members of the PDP. The only thing is that both of us don’t agree on the issue of Dominic continuing in office as state chairman. Though I don’t see any reason why he should support Dominic, I still respect him a lot. As a former state chairman of the party, what advice do you have for Doherty and other members of the PDP in Lagos? He has a lot of work to do. So, I am appealing to all PDP members in Lagos to rally round him and ensure that he succeeds. He should be ready to face challenges. As the state chairman, you are the father and friend of all party members. Therefore, you should be able to exhibit leadership at the highest level. He should ensure unity and cohesion among members of the party because in unity, the party is stronger. If there are lapses, he should use his good office to address them. He should also put the PDP in good shape, so that it can win future elections. I pray for the new chairman to surpass my achievements as PDP chairman in Lagos State.