Poor air connectivity in Africa has, again, been highlighted at the on-going International Air Transport Association (IATA) taking place in Geneva, Switzerland. IATA’s Chief Economist, Brian Pearce, attributed the problems to flight restrictions by governments on the continent as against ‘Open Skies’ enshrined in the proposed Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) which many said would be a significant step forward in opening the way for essential improvement in air connectivity in the region. Pearce admitted that “Latin America and Africa in particular have a long way to catch up.” He stressed that inter connectivity would help to grow modern business and supply chain which depend on rapid and efficient air transport connections. Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, is one of the biggest cities in Africa, with an estimated population larger than London and a skyline that peers over the wide, snaking Congo River. But if a traveller wants to go from Kinshasa to Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital and Africa’s largest metropolis, it’s impossible to fly nonstop. Across Africa, the situation is similar. Commercial flights are not frequent; they are expensive, and circuitous. To get from one country to another, an African traveller may have to go thousands of miles out of their way and transfer through the Middle East or Europe. The continent is home to roughly 12 per cent of the world’s population and will be responsible for most of the global population growth over the next three decades. It accounts for just one per cent of the world’s air travel market. The flights that do exist are often more expensive than routes of similar duration elsewhere in the world. A combination of protectionist legal barriers and regulatory hurdles, mixed with inadequate infrastructure, high taxes, and stubborn nationalism have been blamed for the predicament. Airlines trying to launch a new route between African nations need to first secure permission from both countries, which can be a lengthy and expensive prospect that may or may not involve significant bribes. Forty-four African nations signed on to a 1999 agreement promising to promote competitive markets and remove regulatory barriers. To date, few have actually implemented the plan, known as the Yamoussoukro Decision (named after the Côte d’Ivoire capital in which it was reached). The IATA chief said: “Not all regions are as well connected. To improve trade, investments and the other drivers of economic development enabled by efficient air services; many more cities need to be connected in regions outside North America. “Latin America and Africa in particular have long way to catch up. The proposed Single African Air Transport Market would be a significant step forward in opening the way for essential improvement in air connectivity within Africa.” He added that the clearing house for over 290 global airlines would, early 2020, launch a new publication measuring air connectivity and its progress across the world. Earlier in his remark on the industry financial performance, Director-General of IATA, Alexandre de Juniac, said the group supports the $2.7 trillion of economic activity, equivalent to 3.6 per cent of global Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He noted that in spite of all the wealth they have created for the world, profitability has always been a challenge, adding that it is only since the end of the global financial crisis that the airline industry has achieved a stable stream of profits.