Senator Michael Ama Nnachi represents Ebonyi South on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in the Senate, and he is the Vice Chairman, Senate Committees on Poverty Alleviation and Air Force. In this interview with CHUKWU DAVID, he reacts to the outcome of the governorship election in Kogi and Bayelsa states, and other political issues in the country   When the Senate was considering the Electoral Act Amendment Bill for second reading, you urged your colleagues that electronic transmission of votes should be included. What’s your reason for taking the position?  Nigeria is part of the global world. Today, every country is going ahead of Nigeria; they are all moving towards electronic transmission of election results. Of course, you know that if we do electronic transmission, the idea of killing and the rest will stop because even at your own polling unit, you already know what you have, and then you know who is winning. If you are losing, you congratulate your opponent; if you are winning, your opponent will congratulate you because he is fully aware that there is no rigging for me or any other process of manipulating the figures. Even in the 8th Assembly, they passed the bill on electronic transmission but it is still before the President for assent. This means that the electronic transmission of election results is a good idea.   In the Senate we don’t talk of party; we talk of the party which we represent, we talk of our senatorial zones which we represent. And if we have to represent the masses, we have to do what will make the masses to have confidence in us. I think that the masses will follow anything that will bring peace in Nigeria, and not to face one person or one party or one location. Electronic transmission of election results is what will save Nigeria from all these troubles because even if you are in your farm, you can vote and go back to your farm. It mustn’t be done on Saturday. Elections shouldn’t be a source of public holiday. If we start electronic voting, we can vote from Monday to Saturday, and by so doing, everybody, every voter already knows that his/her vote will count. So, by the time the electoral body comes out with the figures, everybody will be sure that the result is the true reflection of their decisions but what we are currently doing is that we have a full day paralyzed, no business, killing the economy of the nation, and at the end we are not doing the correct thing. So, for me, electronic voting is the way to go.  Don’t you think that electronic voting is very expensive and Nigeria may not afford it for now?   It might look expensive from the beginning but in the long run, you will discover that it is cheaper. For me, anything that will eliminate rigging, violence and killing is the cheapest thing we should do.  There is the tendency that those who are benefiting from the absence of electronic transmission will kick against its inclusion in the Electoral Act. What’s your take on this?   Of course, human beings must reason differently. They might think that way but those you have mentioned, what is their percentage in the over 200 million Nigerians? People must always kick against anything that is not in their favour.  I said it on the floor of the Senate; it’s a natural tendency that when it favours you, you dance. Tomorrow it might favour another person and the person will dance. However, let’s look beyond our personal interests and make laws for Nigeria and Nigerians so that everybody will have a common platform. If you lose you hug your opponent; if you win you also hug your opponent.   And you will see that simple inclusion in government will be there because after killing and the rest, you won’t even have that relationship to say, ‘come, you were in this party but I want to work with you because of your expertise.’ But if we have a good electoral process that enshrines peace, if you win, you may call the other person in the other party, and say, come let’s move ahead with the country and forget what happened.   Another thing is that we must reduce the number of political parties. For me, it’s very funny to have the number of political parties we have today. Yes, Gani Fawehinmi used the Constitution to secure multi-party system for the country. He talked of freedom of association and all that but the system is not helping us. That idea shouldn’t be applicable when it comes to political situation. You can have freedom of association in other areas but the question is, at what limit is freedom of everything? Every freedom has a limit; so we should also limit the number of political parties in Nigeria. For me, we are looking funny in the eyes of the other nations. So, they should reduce the number of political parties.   What is your ideal number of political parties you want Nigeria to operate?   For participation, we can take seven. It will make people to participate. But ordinarily, Nigerian unity should have been what Ibrahim Babangida espoused  when he was in power, which is two-party system. Maybe, independent candidates may be entrenched making it three. Two-party system is what will unite Nigeria. So, if you are qualified to stand as an independent candidate, there is no problem, you go. This is my take on the issue of the number of parties to operate in Nigeria.   If you go for three-party system, it will divide the country along ethnic lines of Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo. So, to avoid projecting and promoting tribal dichotomy, let’s go with two parties, so that even if two major ethnic groups grab the two, one major ethnic group will now spread into the two, and minorities will also be there. Then what do you get? Peace.  Is it correct to say that you are advocating for the establishment of a two-party system in Nigeria?   Of course, so that this idea of freedom of this or that as contained in the Constitution will stop, and when you raise the issue of going by multi-party structure, somebody will tell you that two-party system is in the Constitution. Do you intend to sponsor a bill on this matter to give it legal backing?   It is already in the Electoral Act which has passed second reading. It is going for public hearing and a lot of people will come up with this idea and other ideas. So, there is no need for a separate bill on it. Whatever you have to contribute just bring it out at the hearing, and they will listen to you.   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caucus in the Senate has publicly rejected the Bayelsa and Kogi elections. As an individual, what’s your impression about those elections?   As far as we are concerned in Nigeria not just me, people are not happy with the elections in Kogi and Bayelsa, particularly Kogi. That is why when I was contributing on the floor of the Senate, I said that it disheartening for INEC to see an election that was marred by rigging, violence and killing and still went ahead to announce somebody a winner. So, INEC should be empowered to be able to determine which election is sufficiently compliant and what is not sufficiently compliant with election guidelines, and know when to pronounce a winner and when not to do so.   But this idea of trying to do arithmetic on their own: this is less than this or that and declare results based on such controversial circumstances or declare election inconclusive, for me is fraud. How many Youth Corps members died in Kogi before the woman leader? And as I am talking to you, the number of deaths is still increasing everyday in Kogi. Why is it that it was that Saturday they did that election that these people died; why didn’t they die yesterday? So, all of us know that it was election violence. Therefore, we should do something to reduce election violence in the country.   Let me tell you; President Muhammadu Buhari will definitely want to do what will keep Nigeria one and bring electoral process to what is acceptable. That is to say that if there is any document that will be presented before him that will bring electoral credibility, one Nigeria, I bet you, President Buhari will sign it.   Why didn’t he sign the previous Electoral Act amendment bill which contained these provisions you are talking about and was passed by the last assembly? That was his first tenure. That’s point number one; number two, you know he is not the Attorney-General of the Federation.   What has that got to do with his failure to sign the bill when he is even the Commander-in-Chief?   As Commander-in-Chief, he is commanding soldiers to go and kill Boko Haram and not to take over the duties of those he has appointed to advise him. The Attorney-General is the one to advise him on whether to sign any document or not. They did it to Jonathan over the National Constitutional Conference. When they finished their report, the Attorney-General then told him not to sign certain areas of the report. And that’s why he didn’t sign it till he left. Was he not Commander-in-Chief?  Are you saying that the Attorney-General misadvised President Buhari, and that’s why he didn’t sign the Electoral Act amendment bill passed by the last National Assembly?   I will not use that word. I may say he did his work. If you are appointed by somebody, you will also give your advice. I don’t know the advice he gave but the blame should not be that the President refused to sign but the advice that the Attorney-General gave him may have been the reason he didn’t sign. And of course, they gave reason before the election why that thing was not signed. And I think, that is what the Ninth National Assembly should also look into, and look at the real reasons why he didn’t sign it, and do justice to them.   How do you see the idea of deploying soldiers for the conduct of elections in Nigeria?   It is wrong. But you saw the IGP telling that the police men who came to Kogi are fake police men; which means, constitutionally, the use of army is wrong. The use of the police close to the polling booth is also wrong. That was why, in defense of what he saw he said they were fake police.   Why has the National Assembly not come out publicly to condemn the use of soldiers in the conduct of elections in Nigeria?   Who told you that the National Assembly has not said anything? That is why this amendment is on the floor of the Senate. It has passed second reading and was committed to committee for public hearing. It’s not everything that you expect the National Assembly to carry microphone and be talking in the street. Is there any clause in the Electoral Act which bars soldiers from participating in elections?   The Constitution bars them, not only the Electoral Act. They are not supposed to participate in elections.   Can you say that Nigerian soldiers are being abused by using them for wrong assignments? Of course. Sometimes politicians too cause them to come. The race to 2023 presidency appears to have begun. The expectation is that a president of Igbo extraction will emerge in line with zoning principle. However, the South-West and even the North which is correctly occupying the Villa are also showing interest. What is your take on this?   You are an experienced journalist; you know that it has always been so till the last point of the election year. There has always been that struggle for who will produce the President of the country. But at the tail end of the election year, you will see that these are the people contesting. Sometimes, election is not like Mathematics that they tell you that one plus one is two. In politics, even in the last second, any decision can change.   So, I don’t even have a definite answer to what you are asking me now until when it is time for election. You know that politics is all about rumours, permutations and the rest. Again, let me draw your attention to the fact that this government is just five years old. So, why are we talking of something of 2023.   Right now, zoning is unconstitutional; would you want the idea of zoning presidency to be entrenched in the Constitution to end the uncertainty surrounding it?   Well, for me, zoning shouldn’t be a constitutional matter. I still believe that we should be able to choose the best not minding where that person comes from. If we keep talking about zoning, that is still going to be dividing us. But what I am saying is that those areas of the country that have occupied the Presidency can also allow their brothers from those areas that have not handled the Presidency to taste it with or without zoning.  How can this be achieved without a binding legal framework?   When Dr. Goodluck Jonathan came as a President, the issue of zoning was not considered. Still, people who want Nigeria to be one put him, after the tenure of Umaru Yar’Adua. When Olusegun Obasanjo came as a President in 1999, there was no issue of zoning. I know there must have been considerations like Chief MKO Abiola’s issue and the rest but that wasn’t the mood. When you talk of zoning, I laugh because even when Jonathan contested, northerners contested with him. Even when Buhari contested, southerners contested with him. So, what I am saying is that we should get to that level where the best should rule us and somebody that will never talk of South, East or West but Nigeria. 