The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has reminded state governors that all negotiations on the new minimum wage and consequential adjustments must be concluded on or before December 31st, 2019. In a Christmas message released yesterday in Abuja, President of the NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, warned that defaulting states should be ready to face the wrath of Congress in the beginning of the coming year. He maintained that Congress would continue to push for an expeditious implementation of the new national minimum wage in all the states of Nigeria, as workers and pensioners in the country deserve the best of care and welfare. Wabba, who commended the Federal Government for commencing implementation of the new national minimum wage, equally commended Kaduna, Kebbi, Lagos, Adamawa and Jigawa state governments for concluding negotiations and implementing the payment of the new national minimum wage and consequential salary adjustment for workers. He added that the noble gesture of the Federal Government and the few state governments who have implemented the new wage have made a significant difference for thousands of workers and their families this Christmas. Wabba said: “The leadership of the NLC congratulates workers and pensioners, and indeed, all Nigerians on the commemoration of Christmas, the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. “We have already demanded that states which are still negotiating with labour and those yet to set up their negotiating councils must conclude negotiations before the end of December 2019 or we will send them a not too friendly New Year gift. “In the spirit of Christmas, we urge our political leaders and elites at every tier and arm of government to re-dedicate themselves to the ideals espoused by Christmas. We hope that in the coming year, Nigerians would reap tonnes of positive turnaround in their existential realities as a consequence of re-commitment of our leaders to the common good.” Wabba, who stressed that the essence and message of Christmas were joy to the world and peace to men and women of goodwill, encouraged workers and pensioners in the country to take some moments to savour the joy that their toil brings to millions of other compatriots. “It delights the leadership of Congress that Nigerian workers, pensioners and indeed, all Nigerians continue to exemplify the morals of Christmas. “Our gift of selfless service, most times unrecognized, underlines our love for country and humanity. While we look forward to a Christmas season free from violence, pain and sorrow, we wish all Nigerians a very merry Christmas and a most rewarding New Year.”