Eko Hotels and Suites’ Tropical Christmas Wonderland is a premier Christmas event created by the management of the hotel to raise the stakes in the Nigeria hospitality industry.  The month long event with rich and unique line up of events, is designed for families and individuals to relive classic Christmas memories and create new magical ones infused with the one-of-a -kind hospitality that only Eko Hotel offers.  “In the last four years, we organised smaller scale Christmas holidays, but this year, for the first time, your family will relive the true essence of Christmas as was narrated to you as a child,” said the hotel management.  Tagged “Eko Hotels Tropical Christmas Wonderland,” the fun kicks off on December 15 with a “Light up” ceremony, and continues with three awesome packages in one magical venue designed to mirror a place right out of your imagination.  “Our four hotels, including Eko Signature, Eko Suites, Eko Hotel and Eko Gardens, will offer families three – or five-day all-inclusive packages to a place where even mummies and daddies read about in story books when they were young,”  Between December 21 and 31, the hotel will metamorphose into an adventurous Christmas wonderland destination while the highlights of the planned activities include: Ladies night, an indoor and outdoor games arena, sensational carol-key, cinema pads- an in-house cinema experience, and a 24 hour creche service.   December 24 is slated for guests to enjoy a thrilling Santa procession with Nutcrackers and Elves, and fabulous barbecue buffet dinner.  On Christmas day the Kuramo Sports Café will host families and friends to a choice menu of food options from over seven continents for their lunch buffet. The Christmas Costume concert on Christmas evening promises to be sensational.  Boxing Day will also feature a themed high life and palm wine night with spectacular high life music and an exquisite dinner buffet experience while New Year eve features midnight firework. According to the hotel management, ‘‘the hotel will be lit up this festive season and you can enjoy the amazing sparkling holiday décor over fine wine and dining options.  The Eko Hotels team wants you to experience luxury first-hand. “So if you are looking for a truly special place, then come on into Eko Hotels and experience our unique lodging experience and outstanding one-of-a-kind food, beverage and entertainment offerings.”  The series of events promise lots of enriching surprises, especially for children to savour interesting spectacles such as the lights, magic and tropical fun with Santa and his crew.   The hotel among other facilities, boasts over 800 rooms and suites, including upscale Signature, 11 restaurants, an out-door pool, fun gym, high speed WIFI, spa will constitute the wonderland for that special touch among other amenities.