 A United States Senator, Bob Menendez, a ranking member of the United States Senate’s Foreign Relations Committee, unhappy with the goings on in Nigeria, especially the recent re-arrest of rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, has signalled his intention to press his government to impose sanctions of the West African nation.  Sowore was re-arrested on Friday at the Federal High Court, Abuja, by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) right in the presence of a judge.  However, reacting to the latest arrest, the 65-year-old from New Jersey, condemned in very strong terms what happened to the convenor of #RevolutionNow and other events in Africa’s most populous country and even questioned if President Muhammadu Buhari was aware of what is going on.  In a statement on Friday, Menendez, who admitted he had been involved in attempts to pressure the Federal Government, promised US intervention in the matter over Sowore’s case.  He said: “I am outraged by the blatant harassment of Omoyele Sowore, an activist and journalist whose only crime appears to be exercising his right to free expression.  “In a concerted effort to secure his release on behalf of the Sowore family living in New Jersey, my office has been working closely with the State Department as Mr Sowore’s case languished following his arbitrary arrest back in August.  “While we continue to seek immediate answers about Sowore’s treatment and conditions in jail, I will be further engaging directly with US Ambassador, Mary Beth Leonard, in Abuja to raise this case at the highest levels of the Nigerian Government so that the Buhari administration gets the message that we are committed to defending Sowore’s rights and securing his release. “This blatant miscarriage of justice is symptomatic of closing political and media space in Nigeria.”  Menendez said it seems President Buhari is not aware of what the secret police is “doing in his name”. “The United States is watching and the world is watching. I fear that the blatant harassment of Mr Omoyele Sowore, an activist and journalist whose only crime appears to be exercising his right to free expression, is becoming symptomatic of increasingly closing political and civic space in Nigeria.  “The Nigerian court has twice ordered his release on bail. And the state security agencies openly defied the court order each time leaving me to conclude that either Nigeria no longer respects the rule of law or President Buhari is woefully out of touch with what agents of his governments are doing in his name.  “This is unacceptable in a country that calls itself a democracy. Journalists who risk their lives to expose the truth should be celebrated, not incarcerated. “It is unacceptable to that the husband and father of a US citizen with such blatant cruelty. Today, my office contacted our ambassador in Nigeria in an effort to obtain answers on what actions the United States is taking on the Sowore family’s behalf.  “In the next several days, I’ll continue to engage with the State Department in Washington to ascertain the impact of what the arrest of Mr Sowore and other activists and journalists will have on our relationship with Nigeria. “My hope is that the bilateral relationship we have with Nigeria will be reassessed in light of these events,” Menendez said in the statement.  Sowore, who was first arrested on August 3, 2019 by operatives of the DSS for calling on Nigerians to take to the streets in peaceful demonstrations but only released on Thursday evening despite two court orders directing his freedom much earlier, was rearrested on Friday by the DSS, which only a day earlier had said it had complied with the court’s directive to release him and had even paid the N100,000 fine imposed for flouting earlier orders to release the former University of Lagos Student Union President.  Sunday Telegraph sought the views of the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) on the video and the pronouncements of Senator Menendez but no response was received as at the time of filing this report. In the meantime, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has called for the arrest and prosecution of all the security operatives who invaded the hollowed chambers of the Federal High Court Abuja in a desperate attempt to arrest Sowore and his colleague who are standing trial before the court.  Reacting to the incident, which caused disruption in the proceedings of the court, Executive Secretary of the Commission Tony Ojukwu cautioned that “Law enforcement officials must not be above the law”. “The National Human Rights Commission has watched with dismay the conduct of law enforcement officers in facie curie Friday 6th December 2019 at the Federal High court Abuja and reiterates its earlier statement emphasising the need for law enforcement officials to understand that to qualify as law enforcement agents, they must first of all be law abiding and not be above the law,” Ojukwu said.  According to Ojukwu, officials paid with tax payers money, cannot indulge in impunity and utter disregard for the constitution.  “Our democracy is founded on the principle of separation of powers and all citizens including law enforcement officials must understand the implications of that and are enjoined to respect the law and the constitution in the enforcement of the law.   “Accordingly, the Commission directs all the relevant agencies of government to arrest and try all law enforcement officers involved in the desecration of the hallowed chambers of the Federal High Court, Abujafor contempt in the face of the court.   “They should be tried and this should serve as a reminder to all law enforcement agents that they must obey the law in carrying out their law enforcement duties,” he added. The Commission reiterated that law enforcement officers must enforce the law within the ambits of the law.   “Impunity by law enforcement officials cannot be indulged in our democracy because impunity uproots the very foundation of our constitution and our democracy,” he said.   Reacting to the US Senator’s stand, Spokesman of the pan-Yoruba group, Afenifere said it was instructive that President Buhari’s government’s wanton disregard for rule of law is receiving the attention of world leaders.   According to him, Nigeria has descended into anarchy with current spate of events in the country, stating that Senator Menendez, by his action is writing his name in gold, like for Ambassador Walter Carrington who spoke vehemently against Sani Abacha’s dictatorial rule more than two decades ago.