T he Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said state Attorneys-General and Commissioners for Justice were frustrating its efforts at prosecuting persons arrested on election-related offences.  INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at a meeting with state Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) yesterday in Abuja, said the commission has encountered constraints in bringing those who disrupted elections to justice.   He stated that since 2015, INEC has received a total of 149 case files, including 16 cases arising from the 2019 general election, but regretted that some of the cases were thrown out for lack of diligent prosecution.  “The cases are prosecuted in the states where the alleged offences were committed,” Yakubu stated, adding that in some states, “the Attorneys-General entered nolle prosequi to get the alleged offenders off the hook.”  The INEC chairman noted that in 2016, the commission successfully prosecuted about 40 electoral offenders following violence during the Minijibir state Assembly by-election in Kano State, but said it was unclear “how many of the offenders sentenced to prison with the option of fine actually spent time in jail.  “The fine was paid presumably by their sponsors.”  Yakubu called for the establishment of Electoral Offences Commission and Tribunal that will dispense justice dispassionately and speedily in the same way that the Electoral Court deals with violators in other countries such as South Africa. “The best antidote to impunity is the enforcement of sanctions under our laws without fear and favour. Where offenders are not punished, bad behaviour is encouraged.   “The commission is deeply concerned that elections in Nigeria, especially for executive positions, are increasingly characterised by brazen acts of impunity.   “The commission plans for all elections to be successfully concluded and for the will of the people to prevail.  “It is inconceivable that INEC will make elaborate arrangement for the deployment of personnel and materials and then turn around to undermine ourselves in the field on election day. Impunity has become the bane of our elections,” he regretted.   He stated that unlike pre-election and post-election cases, there is no timeframe for the prosecution of electoral offenders, a situation, he added, leads to some of the cases being dismissed for want of diligent prosecution.   Yakubu expressed the hope that security agencies would get to the root of electoral violations and support the INEC to prosecute not just the thugs that terrorise voters and INEC officials, snatch election materials at polling units and collation centres, but their sponsors as well.   He assured that the commission would continue to improve on its processes in spite of the extremely challenging environment created by the action and inaction of actors outside its control.