…says 945 victims rescued  The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, yesterday, said ongoing operations across the country had culminated in the arrest of a total of 6,531 high-profile suspects. According to the IGP, the suspects were rounded-up between January and December. The police said within the period under review, 2, 037 firearms of various calibre, were recovered by intensified operations, spearheaded by “Operation Puff Adder”, even as 945 kidnap victims got rescued from their abductors. A breakdown of the arrests showed that 2,627 of the suspects were armed robbers, 1,621 cultists, 1,527 kidnappers, while 758 were nabbed in connection with the crime of murder. Addressing senior officers at the end-of-the-year conference held at the Force Headquarters in Abuja, the police chief said the meeting was convened to dissect the internal security dynamics in the outgoing year, evaluate performances, challenges and achievements, as well as make projections for 2020. “From January 2019 to date, a total of 6,531 high-profile suspects were arrested in various police operations. This comprises a total of 2,627 armed robbery suspects; 1,621 suspected cultists; 1,527 kidnapping suspects; and 758 murder suspects. “Within the same period, we also recovered a total of 2,037 firearms of various calibre and descriptions; 21,870 ammunition; and 1,662 vehicles. “Similarly, 945 kidnapping victims were rescued in various police-led operations in the country,” Adamu said. In the Force’s determination towards enhancing the operational capabilities of personnel, the police chief disclosed that new patrol and surveillance vehicles, among other assets, had been procured. He claimed that the successes so far recorded were eloquent testimony to the efforts at changing the image of the force. His words: “Furthermore, in appreciation of the need to enhance the operational capacity of the Nigeria Police we have acquired new sets of policing assets comprising of patrol vehicles, electronic surveillance vehicles, civil disorder management trucks and special operations vans and we have completed the Nigeria Police National Command and Control Centre (NPF-C4i) and the first phase of the Nigeria Police Crime and Incident Data Base (NPC & IDB) Centre projects. “…The sum total of these initiatives is that the orientation of the Force is being slowly, but steadily and positively altered and our operational capacity has been significantly enhanced. In consequence, citizens’ confidence in the Police is being gradually restored. Most significantly, our intelligence generation and utilization capacity, as well as our operational competence have been significantly enhanced such that today, I can confidently confirm that we have succeeded in addressing the prevalent crimes we inherited as well as aided in the entrenchment of our democratic values. “This is also evidenced by the successes we recorded in relation to emplacing and coordinating security during the 2019 general election and other off-season elections that were conducted in the year. It is also corroborated by the fact that our capacity to prevent crimes, disrupt highly organised and deadly criminal networks and apprehend high-profile felons, has been strengthened, thereby engendering unprecedented volume of arrests and the phenomenal reduction in the rate of crime.” Moving forward, however, Adamu pledged the full implementation of community policing strategy, improved efficiency among others. He said: “Having covered these grounds, however, the Force leadership is challenged to project into the future and emplace strategies that will aid sustainability in our operations. It is for this purpose that this meeting will focus on the content of our future projections. “As a guide, however, let me inform you that the agenda of the Force in the up-coming year will focus on: Improving the overall efficiency of the Force through capacity building in policing technology, intelligence, investigation, prosecution as well as crime prevention and control through a more robust visible policing architecture.”