Jeffrey Owen Igbinovia, born June 4, 1993 is a German-based Nigerian professional footballer who is already carving a niche for himself in the round leather game. The 26-year-old, who currently plays as a midfielder for Westphalian amateur league side, Isv Ibbenbüren, may just be the next big thing on the Nigerian football scene as he is already one of the top-rated prospects in German football. The Edo State-born footballer, who also doubles as a music executive, sat with ABIOLA ALABA PETERS for an exclusive chat. He opens up on his desire to wear the green white green jersey and his music business  You are a footballer playing in Germany, although you grew up in Nigeria, would you say you are a Nigerian?  Yeah, I am footballer, playing in Germany but do not be deceived, I am 100% Nigerian. I was born in Edo State and grew up there, Benin-City to be precise.  Tell us about your experience growing up?  Growing up in Benin-City was actually fun and tough at the same time. It was fun playing and socializing with other kids but challenging because I have a very big family.   Tell us briefly about your family and educational background.  I have a very large family. I have 14 siblings and I’m the eighth in the family. My father had 15 children; I grew up in a polygamous family. I attended Blessing Foundation College in Benin-City that was where I did both my primary and secondary school education, before travelling to South Africa to where I studied Computer Science at Boston College.  When you were growing up, did you ever see yourself venturing into the world of professional football?  I always wanted to be footballer, I remember growing up as a child and I always wanted to play football but I never saw myself venturing into professional football while I was in Nigeria. I was just playing street football, this street versus that street. I just loved playing.  How did your career start professionally?   Back in Nigeria, my career as a professional footballer never kicked off, not until I moved to South Africa for my tertiary studies. As I was schooling, I was privileged to join a team, and I started my journey on becoming a professional soccer player. You play for Isv Ibbenbüren now, and you have also played for VfL Benrath.  How has it been like playing in Germany?  Playing in Germany is actually very competitive; there are a lot of good footballer players in Germany. In Germany, they focus on technique and control, meanwhile Nigeria focus is on power, and it is a very different style of play here in Germany.  Do you see yourself moving to play for other clubs and in other leagues? Obviously yeah! Even before moving to play in Germany, I played in Holland for AFC Arnhem. If the opportunity presents itself, I would play in any other country.   What are your thoughts about football in Nigeria?  I think there should be a lot of youth football systems opened, systems like academies so young ones with or without talent interested in the sport can start very young, training and grooming for the future. This would help developing the sport in the country; also more people should get involved.   Attend stadiums, pay for things, watch games and support in any area, this would lead to a positive change and growth.  Do you plan to play for the Nigeria’s Super Eagles in the future?   If I would get a call up to play for the Nigerian Super Eagles, I would definitely accept it.  As a footballer, you have launched several entertainment businesses on the side. Did you always have a passion for entertainment?   Despite playing football, I have always had a deep passion for music and entertainment as a whole. I love entertainment! You recently signed a fresh artiste named Mawthie to your record label, Lexa Records.  Tell us how did you find him, and do you believe he has what it takes to stand out in the highly competitive music industry?   I discovered him on Instagram, I was blown away, reached out to him and we made it happen. I think he has what it takes to be successful in the music industry; he is very talented, versatile, eddy and a go-getter.  The way he fuses genres is amazing, hip-hop, pop, reggae and different genres is amazing, I am positive that despite the tough competition, he will stand out and make it.  As a partner of House of Gold Entertainment, who has worked with 2baba, Timaya, Phyno, Flavour & Lil Kesh, as an event promoter; how do plan to manage, this with a record label, your football career and other businesses you may have?   To be honest, it is not easy combining entertainment, event promotions, soccer and a record label at the same time.   Managing this is tasking, but because of my passion of entertainment, I have to do my best to make it work, and we also have a team of people in different fields helping out and making sure that tasks are executed excellently. What are the future plans you have for Mawthie and Lexa Records?   I hope to put him (Mawthie) out there for the world to see his talent, showcase him to the world.   Currently Lexa Records is working on Mawthie and we are trying to be a label and platform, which showcases talent on a global stage,  As a young business man, what drives and motivates you to venture in new fields?   I am driven and motivate by love and passion, driven by society. There is this desire to solve problems, improve lives of people and build a legacy that can be passed down.   Aside the fact you are a successful footballer and music entrepreneur, you are also said to be a lady’s man – so how you handle your female fans?   I won’t say I am ladies’ man, but I relate quite well with my female supporters.  Are you married?  I am not married but I have a girlfriend and two lovely boys.   So who is your dream woman?  My dream woman is my current girlfriend; she has all the characteristics I am looking for in a woman.   What’s your definition of true love?  Hmmmm!  This is deep, but let me say an intense feeling of deep affection, showing great interest and care to someone or something.   How would you describe your sense of fashion?   I am simple fashion guy. I like street style, mixed a sprinkle of classy or black tie style.    When you are not playing football, and not busy with activities in showbiz, what else do you do?   If I am not playing football or busy with work, I am spending time with my family.   How do you unwind?  To unwind, I swim, it helps ease the tension.   If I am not swimming, I am writing down stuff in my journal to read later, this also helps me relax and focus.   What words of advice do you have for rising footballers and music entrepreneurs?   My advice would be first have the passion, zeal, determination and work hard, always believe in your dreams.   Ultimately God will make it happen!  