Engineer Isuwa Galla is the National President of the Zaar Development Association (ZDA) nationwide. In this interview with ALI GARBA, he spoke on sundry issues. Excerpts…   There are reports that the crisis in Tafawa Balewa is coming from Zaarland. Could you intimate us of these challenges? Zaarland is part of Tafawa Balewa, but it is not only Záar people that are in Tafawa Balewa. We have the Tapshin, the Sigdawas, the Afizares and all of them share common beliefs. The main issue is the relocation of Tafawa Balewa Local Government headquarters from its constitutional place to Bununu, an action that had been described as unconstitutional by many and we are calling on the Bauchi State Government to revisit the issue. Now, if the problem was due to crisis then as it was alleged, now that normalcy has since returned, the government should have looked into that area and return the local government to its original place. For the people of Tapshin, Lere and other places, crossing Tafawa Balewa into Bununu is a long distance, even the people in Zwall know that Tafawa Balewa is closer being the centre and in the Nigerian Constitution, Tafawa Balewa is still the headquarters. So, if the government can make Bununu an LCDA (Local Council Development Area), it would be a plus going forward. If there will be room for the creation of other local government areas in future and Bununu is made a local government, there will be no problem with that. But as it stands now, bringing the headquarters back to Tafawa Balewa will impress so many people. So, we are appealing to the government that since there are no more problems, the local government headquarters should return to its constitutional place. Aren’t you satisfied with the way Bauchi State resources are shared among the 20 local government areas? With the coming of this administration, I think each council is now having this sense of belonging, that Bauchi State belongs to all of us. Before now, you will see that in a whole budget, a particular council like Bogoro would be excluded. Even in Tafawa Balewa, some areas would be carved out, they would not have any presence of government throughout the year and that projected year will come and go. But with this government in place, I believe they are trying their best and I think the future is bright because they try to distribute it equitably. Everybody can testify now that there is a road linking Burga to Alkaleri which will benefit many people. In Sabon Kaura, you can see so many things, people are now feeling the presence of the government unlike before where you see only the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, attracting projects to the community, and nothing from the Bauchi State Government. Are you implying that your people suffered marginalisation from the past regimes in Bauchi State? Of course, the marginalisation had been there. We have been marginalised for long. Like I told you, many budget will come and go and you will see nothing. Although the last administration tried in terms of security, but in the area of development, there was nothing. We did not experience any uprising like we did during previous administrations, we thank God we experienced calmness throughout the period of the last administration and we are hoping that such will be sustained during this present administration of Senator Bala Mohammed. In terms of infrastructural development and other things during the last administration, it was just some pockets of them somewhere and I don’t think the government of Bauchi then has tried in that regard. Which of the problems do you think the government should address first? The relocation of Tafawa Balewa Local Government headquarters to Bununu needs to be reconsidered by the government of the day. If government is really for the masses like they say, and democracy is the government of the people by the people and for the people, I think what the majority want is that the government should bring back the local government headquarters to Tafawa Balewa, a town which the constitution of the land recognises. What about the issue of Zaar chiefdom? You know many people have their rulers and leaders and the Emir of Bauchi is the chairman council of chiefs. So, if given the chiefdom, the Zaar people will celebrate very well because that is what we have been agitating for. That is why, at times, you see people without leaders, without emirs, so many things have gone wrong and some of them that are narrow minded won’t understand. They reject anything you are bringing to them whether it is good or not, because they have their grievances. So, in the interest of justice and fairness, for lasting development, progress, sense of belonging and to also balance everything, Zaar/Sayawa chiefdom should be actualised. Are you convinced of total peace in Tafawa Balewa now? You know, once people hear the name Tafawa Balewa, there is this impression that is registered in their minds, that it is a trouble prone area. But you will discover that those troubles that had happened in the past were externally influenced. It is not that Tafawa Balewa people go out to attack a particular place, no, the problem used to come from different quarters. There were some invaders who used to invade the community, they come and wreck havoc. But with the peace process started by the former Dogara and one Barrister Kefas Magaji are championing now, there will be lasting peace in that area in such a way that we will never witnessed any uprising again. For quite some time, normalcy has returned but there are some people who are still living with some reservations simply because they are not staying there, so they felt that there is no peace. But I am telling you that everybody there is enjoying that freedom of life, freedom of worship, freedom of association and what have you. Everybody is free to enjoy all these rights in Tafawa Balewa as I speak to you now. Right now, if there is anybody who thinks he can harass you, we can take it up and the law will take its full course. I can assure you that adequate measures have been put in place. We do communicate with our brothers in Bununu, they feed us with information. If there is any problem they will alert us, when we get information we also alert them, we exchange information with one another. For instance, if there is an issue, let us say cattle rustling or whatever, we wade into it, we call the community leaders, the youth and all the stakeholders, and it is resolved amicably. If you ask any police here or the DPO, they will tell you all these things that I am saying. So, we try not to condone anything in that nature so that we can live peaceful with one another. As a people, how ready are you for the chiefdom? Yes, we are ready for it in such a way that any time the government call on us we will sit down and discuss and there won’t be any problem. We are very much ready. This is something we have been agitating for, for a very long time and we promised to be law abiding even in our waiting days. If you check the Zaar Sayawa people, we are peace-loving and law-abiding people. Going by our population, we deserved to have a leader and that is what we have been agitating for, for quite a very long time and series of commissions and committees were set up by the government. Starting from Shehu Auwal, Babalakin, Justice Oputa and so many others, there have been recommendations for the creation of Sayawa chiefdom in Tafawa Balewa but I see lack of commitment from the part of the government. If a commission that was set up by the government makes recommendations that this thing should be done, and at the point of implementation you implement only 45 percent and abandoned the rest, you see, that alone is also a problem. If the previous administrations had done the needful and everything is sorted out, I think we wouldn’t have been where we are today. On our part as Zaar community, we have already complied with an Executive Order that we should select one of us to be turbaned as the Gung Zaar, which we did. We call him the Gung Zaar select, we selected him as our community leader pending when everything will take its cause and the government deemed it fit to give him a staff of office. And then, the palace, the escort and many other things would be put in place. But honestly speaking, previous administrations in the state have not been sincere in terms of implementation, they have already approved the chiefdom, the chiefdom has already been created, but they failed to implement it fully. So, we are appealing to the government of the day to look at the issue and do the needful so that this issue will be put to rest once and for all so that we can move ahead to focus on development issues in the area.