Felix Nwaneri and Tunde Oyesina report on the long road to freedom for former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki and Convener of RevolutionNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore, after the duo respectively spent four years and four months in detention  It was breath of fresh air for former National Security Adviser (NSA), Colonel Sambo Dasuki (rtd) and Convener of RevolutionNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore as the Federal Government, yesterday, directed the Department of State Services (DSS) to release them. Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, who gave the directive in a statement, said the decision to release the duo was in compliance with the bail granted them by the courts. Dasuki, who was charged with alleged diversion of about $2.1 billion meant for the purchase of ammunitions to fight Boko Haram insurgents under the administration of former President Goodluck had been in detention since December 1, 2015. Sowore, who was charged with alleged treason, was arrested on August 3 this year. He was temporarily released after 126 days (December 6), but rearrested at a Federal High Court in Abuja less than 24 hours after. However, The AGF’s statement, which ordered their release, read: “The Office of the Honourable Attorney General of the Federation has reviewed the pending criminal charges against the duo of Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) and Omoyele Sowore. “Whilst the Federal High Court has exercised its discretion in granting bail to the Defendants in respect of the charges against them, I am also not unmindful of the right of the Complainant/Prosecution to appeal or further challenge the grant of bail by the court having regards to extant legal provisions, particularly Section 169 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. “However, my Office has chosen to comply with the court orders while considering the pursuit of its rights of appeal and/or review of the order relating to the bail as granted or varied by the courts. “In line with the provisions of Sections 150(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), and in compliance with the bail granted to Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) (as recently varied by the Court of Appeal) and the bail granted to Omoyele Sowore, I have directed the State Security Services to comply with the order granting bail to the Defendants and effect their release. “The two Defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land. “I wish to reiterate again the utmost regard of my Office for the entire judicial structure of Nigeria. This administration remains unrelenting in deepening the rule of law and the administration of justice in general.” Dasuki’s long road to freedom The travails of the former National Security Adviser (NSA), began when the DSS filed a one count charge against him before the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja over alleged illegal possession of fire arms. Though the issue started like a child’s play, it later triggered a big legal tussle leading to claims and counter claims by both parties. After much anticipation, Dasuki was arraigned before Justice Adeniyi Ademola on one count charge. The accused pleaded not guilty to the charge and was consequently admitted to bail, but the Federal Government went back and applied for a secret trial of the former NSA. The government also went ahead to file fresh charges against him. They include alleged retention of funds which formed part of the proceeds of an unlawful act contrary to Section 15 (2)(d) of Money Laundering Prohibition Act 2011. Dasuki had been admitted to bail on six different occasions. He was first admitted to bail on August 30, 2015, by Justice Ademola on self-recognition, following no objections by the then prosecution counsel, Mohammed Diri. On December 18, 2015, Justice Hussein Baba Yusuf, of the FCT High Court granted Dasuki bail again in the sum of N250 million alongside Salisu Shuaibu, a Director of Finance in the office of the NSA and one Aminu Kusa. They were asked to provide a surety who owns a property in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) worth N250 million. The defendants were arraigned before the court on separate charge from the one before the Federal High Court. However, the said charge bothered on the alleged diversion of funds meant for the purchase of arms. In October 4, 2016, the Court of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) declared the arrest and detention of Dasuki, as unlawful and arbitrary. The court also held that the further arrest of Dasuki by government on November 4, after he was granted bail by a court of law, amounts to a mockery of democracy and the rule of law. The former NSA had approached the ECOWAS Court after he was rearrested by the DSS shortly after meeting his bail conditions in 2015. A three-member panel led by Justice Friday Nwoke said the Federal Government was wrong in arresting Dasuki without a search warrant. He added that the pattern of arrest negates the provisions of Section 28 of the Nigerian Police Act. The court also noted that Section 143 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, ACJA, allows that where such a search is proposed by the police or other authorities, an application must first be made to a court of law and and granted after due consideration of the said application, in compliance with section 144 of the ACJA. The court further said the submission of the Federal Government that it came with the search warrant to Dasuki’s house, but could not give it to him because officers at his residence resisted the security operatives, was ineffective in proving its points. Acording to the judge, the search warrant presented before the court was not certified and therefore lacked verifiable authenticity. He said government failed to prove its reasons for arresting and detaining Dasuki, as documents presented before it only emphasised the allegations of fraud and illegal possession of arms. He added that the court was not set to determine whether or not the possession of arms by Dasuki amounted to an offence or not. He, however, held that the arrest was unlawful, arbitrary and a violation of local and international rights to liberty. The court further ruled that the Federal Government should pay a sum of N15 million as damages to Dasuki. It also held that the cost of litigation will be summed up and charged against the Nigerian government. On January 24, 2017, Justice Yusuf of am FCT Court, reaffirmed the bail earlier granted  Dasuki on the grounds that he was entitled to it and having being admitted to same since 2015, when the Federal Government brought criminal charges against him. Dasuki and five others were re-arraigned before the judge on criminal charges that were transferred from Justice Peter Affen of the same FCT High Court. Counsel to Dasuki, Ahmed Raji (SAN) had applied to the court to reaffirm the bail granted to the ex-NSA even though he has not “been allowed to enjoy” same since December 2015. Raji argued that it was wrong for the prosecuting counsel, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN) to have objected to the reaffirmation of the bail condition on Dasuki. He added that Dasuki had in his possession, a judgment of the ECOWAS Court, which in 2016 set aside his unlawful detention. In the same vein,  Justice Ahmed Mohammed, of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on April 5, 2017, reaffirmed the 2015 bail granted Dasuki after hearing the ex-NSA’s application challenging  the amended seven-count charge against him. Justice Mohammed held that since the prosecution counsel, Oladipo Okpeseyi (SAN) did not object to Dasuki’s application, the court had to affirm same. On May 18, 2018, Justice Yusuf further reaffirmed the bail he granted Dasuki in 2015. The former NSA was re-arraigned on 32 counts amended charges along with Aminu Kusa, Acacia Holdings Ltd and Reliance Referral Hospital. Adeola Adedipe, counsel to Dasuki, pleaded with the court to grant the defendants bail in liberal terms in view of the fact that they have been attending their trial since 2015. Justice Yusuf held that they should continue to enjoy the bail he granted them in 2015, when they were first arraigned before his court. In a fresh application, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on July 2, 2018, described Dasuki’s continuous detention as an aberration to the rule of law. Ojukwu subsequently granted Dasuki a N200 million and two sureties in like sum. The Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal also admitted Dasuki to bail in the sum of N100m and two sureties in like sum on July 15 this year. A three member panel of the justices of the appellate court in a unanimous judgement berated the DSS for keeping Dasuki for that long without taking him to court and filing fresh charges against him. The panel led by Justice Tinuade Akomolafe-Wilson, declared Dasuki’s detention since 2015 by the DSS as illegal, unlawful, un-constitutional and accordingly slammed N5 million damages against the government agency for the said illegal act. The court consequently set aside the harsh and stringent bail conditions of the trial judge for being outlandish and replaced them with the fresh ones. It ordered that Dasuki must be allowed to go home on bail upon his perfection of the fresh bail conditions. The judgment was endorsed by Justice Peter Olabisi Ige and Justice Emmanuel Akomaye Agim. Before yesterday’s directive by the Federal Government, releasing Dashiki,  an Abuja  High Court had set up a three-member panel to resolve the logjam arising from the trial of Dasuki over alleged money laundering charges. The three-member panel headed by Justice Hussein Baba-Yusuf is to proffer a way forward for the court in the dilemma being encountered by the court in the trial. The letter was sent to the Federal High Court through his legal team. In it, Dasuki made it abundantly clear that the Federal Government has lost both moral and legal right to continue to prosecute him having deliberately violated subsisting and valid court orders. In the strongly worded letter, the former NSA claimed that the Federal Government has proved beyond reasonable doubt it has no respect for the rule of law. Sowore’s four months in the cooler For Sowore, a political activist and presidential candidate of the Africa Action Congress (AAC) in the 2019 general election, he was arrested by the DSS in Lagos on August 3 after his call for “Days of Rage.” The protest, under the banner, RevolutionNow, was said to have been inspired by the recent popular uprising in Sudan that toppled the country’s authoritarian ruler Omar al-Bashir. The protest was billed to commence on August 5, across the country to demand for a better Nigeria. Sowore had after a meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the AAC on Saturday, August 5, said that the protest would be sustained until the country is put on the right path of honour, where justice will prevail. He noted that the action of the government compelled his party and other groups to go for the option even as he added that there was no level playing field during the 2019 general elections. His words: “Election is a place we would have carried out a revolution of the ballot box, but they stole the ballot box. They hijacked materials meant for free and fair elections and as a result they did not organise any election that was credible enough for people to have faith in the ballot box. “The revolution has therefore become inevitable. We didn’t choose to go for revolution they choose it by ensuring that there was no level playing field in the last elections. “As you know, they did it in Sudan and it was started by some females. They were making fun of them, but they did not stop until doctors joined them, the labour union joined them and what started as five people became 5,000 and 500,000 and became 5,000,000 and the regime fell. “So, don’t let anybody deceive you that in asking for a better government or country you are committing any illegality. The biggest illegality being committed in Nigeria as of today is the rigging of election in 2019. The moment you don’t allow people to express their God giving rights to choose their leaders, you are committing an illegality and inviting resistance.” Though the protest commenced as scheduled on Monday August 5, despite Sowore’s arrest on Saturday, August 3, by operatives of the DSS, the Federal Government termed it a call for revolution aimed at overthrowing the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, had ahead of the commencement of the protest, warned its organisers on the enormity of the journey they were about to embark, describing the planned action as treasonable felony and an act of terrorism. The police boss, through a statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, noted that the nation’s police force would not fold its hands and watch a group of people cause anarchy in the country. The statement read in part: “The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to a video circulating on the social media by the ‘Global Coalition for Security and Democracy in Nigeria and others’ inciting Nigerians, home and abroad, to join a planned ‘revolution’ march against the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Monday, 5th August, 2019 with the sole aim of forcing a regime change in the country. “The Force wishes to state unequivocally that the call amounts to treasonable felony and acts of terrorism and will therefore not stand idly by and watch any individual or group in the society cause anarchy in the land. “While acknowledging the rights of Nigerians to embark on protest, the Force wishes to note that such rights should not translate to a violent and forceful change of government which clearly is the meaning of revolution.” The DSS had on arraignment of Sowore and a co-accused, Olawale Bakare, before a Federal High Court, Abuja, on a seven-count charge, bordering on treasonable felony, cyberstalking, fraud and insulting the president, filed an ex-parte application, seeking to keep him for 90 days for investigation on his call for revolution. But, the court presided by Justice Taiwo Taiwo, approved a 45-day detention, saying that the order was renewable after the expiration of the first 45 days. After the August 8 detention order elapsed on September 21 without renewal, and in view of DSS’s ex-parte motion earlier withdrawn, the judge ruled that there was no extant order for the activist’s continued detention and therefore ordered his immediate release. The order was however not obeyed by the DSS. But counsel to Sowore, Femi Falana (SAN), returned the court with another application for bail to get Sowore off the gulag. The application was granted on October 4 by a Federal High Court in Abuja, presided by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, who, however, barred Sowore and Bakare from addressing any rally pending the conclusion of their trial. Sowore was granted bail in the sum of N100 million with two sureties in like sum, but was barred from travelling out of Abuja and the second defendant out of Osogbo, during the trial. The sureties, who must be resident in Abuja, must also have landed assets worth the bail sum in Abuja, and they are to deposit the original title documents of the assets with the court. The judge equally ordered that the defendants be remanded in the custody of the DSS, pending when they would meet the bail conditions. Falana, however, described the bail conditions as stringent. But, even when Sowore met the conditions, the DSS would not let go. His lawyers at a time claimed that they were being prevented from taking their client despite meeting his bail conditions. The DSS, however, dismissed the claim on the ground that it was then yet to be informed by the court that Sowore had met his bail conditions. “The DSS has not been informed by the judicial authorities or any legal representatives that the bail conditions have been met accordingly. The media shouldn’t allow itself to be used as agents of misinformation,” the agency’s spokesperson, Peter Afunaya, said. After several claims and counter-claims, it was succour for Sowore and Bakare’s December 5, when Justice Ojukwu ordered the DSS to release them within 24 hours. The judge, who gave the order at resumed hearing on the matter, said the DSS has no justifiable reason to continue to hold the duo in custody after she signed the warrants for their release. The prosecuting counsel, Hassan Liman, had insisted that the DSS did not refuse to comply with the order of the court, but Justice Ojukwu held: “The failure of the prosecution to carry out the order of the court to serve the defence and in view if this adjournment is at the instance of the prosecution. And in view of section 396 of ACJA, I will award the cost of N100,000 against the prosecution. And in view of the refusal of the prosecution to release the defendant, this court will give the prosecution the next 24 hours to comply with the order of court.” While the judge insisted that the law cannot change for anybody and all must respect the law, adjourning to December 6 (next day) for a report on the court’s order, Sowore and Bakare were freed some hours later. They were released to Falana, who the DSS had earlier said was not the right person to release the duo to. But, it turned out that it was not yet Uhuru for Sowore and Bakare as they were re-arrested on December in the courtroom and later taken to the DSS headquarters. As expected, the twist in the matter triggered reactions from different quarters, with many condemning what they described as a “Gestapo operation by the DSS,” which might take Nigeria back to the days of military dictatorship.