Popular music artist, Duncan Mighty was in the early hours of Saturday arrested in Owerri, the Imo State capital, in a commando-style operation by men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Imo State Police command.   Duncan Mighty, who was one of the celebrity artists invited alongside Faze and others, for the grand opening of the luxury Penthouse Club in Owerri, had concluded his performance and was leaving the club presumably for his hotel when the SARS operatives swooped on him.  Though residents of the state had feared the artist may have been kidnapped but the State Police Command quickly dispelled the rumour while stating that Duncan Mighty was arrested for alleged fraudulent act.   A statement signed by SP Orlando Ikeokwu stated that the musician was arrested following a petition by an upcoming rap artist, M2 who claimed that the Imo State government under Senator Rochas Okorocha had through the office of the Special Assistant on Entertainment entered into a deal with Duncan Mighty to manage, promote and arrange collaboration (Collabo) with other top artistes for M2 and ultimately sign M2 under the Young Wealth record label owned by Duncan Mighty, all at an agreed fee of N11million which was paid in full.   The Police said that since collecting the said money, Duncan Mighty refused to fulfil his part of the deal.   According to the statement, the artist was earlier arrested following the petition and was released on bail on the agreement that he will pay back the N11million if the contract is formally terminated.  The contract was thereafter, formally terminated but Duncan Mighty since then “absconded and all efforts made to reach him proved abortive”, the police statement read.   “In view of the foregoing, a warrant for his arrest was issued, that led to his arrest early hours of Saturday morning,” the Police spokesman said.   When contacted. Hon. Chukwunonye Irouno, the Special Assistant on Entertainment at the time, who co-signed the agreement with Duncan Mighty, said he was utterly shocked that the artist could resort to such low antics.   He said: “M2 was spotted in a competition organised by my office at the time. The governor was there and all saw how the young lad (M2) performed and wanted to support and give further push to his career in the music industry. The governor agreed to hand the upcoming artist to an established star who will help M2 advance his career and achieve his dream.   “We agreed on Duncan Mighty. We invited him and he came. Duncan Mighty spoke so very well before the then governor that it is difficult to believe he is the one playing all these pranks. The then governor Rochas Okorocha was visibly impressed and then asked for the cost implication for promoting and advancing M2’s career to limelight.   “Duncan gave a bill of N11million and there was no debate, the money was paid in full to him as agreed. From then till date, Duncan did not make any effort to fulfil any aspect of the deal.   “When he was arrested the first time, he agreed to everything we said and promised to pay back the money. He was bailed and immediately he was freed, he disappeared and went incommunicado. It was more like jumping bail. Duncan jumped bail.   “At other times when he was contacted by M2, all he did mostly was threaten the young lad and some of these conversations were recorded.   “Duncan actually told M2 on one of their phone conversations that with the end of the Okorocha administration, that money was gone for good.”