To arrest financial leakage and corruption prevalent across MDAs, the Federal Government recently unveiled open treasury porter. The porter is dedicated to  publishing  revenue and expenditures  of MDAs daily for public glare. In this report, Abdulwahab Isa explores how far the the project would help   The biggest challenge facing governments is absence of transparency in handling public funds by officials. Regardless of  government’s efforts, aided by  policies designed to promote  transparent dealings in government funds, public sector personnel cleverly  find  ways  around  every policy  by   rendering them impotent  and ineffective. When the current administration  came on board in 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari did not mince words on how his administration would deal with public sector corruption. He preached openness, accountability in handling government finances. Prior to his coming, the immediate past  administrations  had   launched a number of public sector reforms,  polices designed to shield public sector purse against pilfering by  officials. These include Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS), Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) launched in 2007 and Treasury Single Account, TSA. Instituted at different times though, the  instruments are  designed to curb corruption in public sector. Each policy faces  implementation hurdles  from the  same civil servants.  TSA, IPPIS as options Up till December 2015, compliance to TSA, a financial policy that compels revenue generating agencies of government to remit their funds into designated  central account at the Central Bank of Nigeria, was breached. The economy unavoidably fell into  recession in 2015.  The government needed massive funds to spend its way out of recession. It became incumbent on the administration to force down TSA implementation on MDAs. The administration set  brief time line for MDAs to move their accounts from commercial banks to TSA account in CBN. As at today, the compliance level is encouraging. The compliance of MDAs  to TSA scheme led to pooling of over  N10 trillion across 1,674 MDAs into TSA. The amount is said to be in  addition to over N450 billion monthly the scheme saved government  both in  interest on ways and means, and another N50 billion revenue from funds mopped from money deposit banks. Ditto for  Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). Initiated in 2007 essentially to block financial leakage, the scheme has dragged for more than 10 years. Most MDAs complied grudgingly. Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) is in charge  of implementation of the platform. It  said the scheme saved for government about N230 billion in three years. Accountant General of Federation,  Mallam Ahmed Idris, confirmed the figure recently  during budget defence before the Senate Committee on Finance. Idris gave the break down of Nigeria’s gains on IPPIS introduction as N50 billion, N100 billion and N80 billion  in 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively. He said the money realised would have been lost to fictitious payment of salaries and pensions. According to  Idris, once workers in public universities and polytechnics are enrolled on the IPPIS payment scheme, more money will be made for government through the Public Finance Reform Initiative. “In line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive in his 2020 budget speech that all Federal Government workers must be enlisted, workers in tertiary institutions would be compelled to submit to government decision,” he said. The push to having IPPIS rooted in all sectors is vigorously being pursued. The only resistance to IPPIS implementation is from the university. Members of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) have picked on the Federal Government, resisting its implementation on members. Government has issued December deadline for academic members of university to join or risk the option of salary forfeiture. Open treasury  porter Much  ground has been covered by the government  in the quest to  enthrone  a  transparent framework guiding  public funds,  no doubt. The war is far from being won. Last week, government  invented fresh  strategy of combating corruption in handling of MDAs finances. The  launch of financial transparency policy  and open treasury porter is the latest measure. The launch coincided with United Nation’s anti- corruption day. President Buhari seized the opportunity of the occasion  to make  important  policy pronouncement. He was  represented by Minister of State for Niger Delta, Senator  Tayo Alasoadura. Other top officials of government in attendance included Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, AGF, Ahmed Idris, and Hon. Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, was represented and  other dignitaries. As part of the new financial rules and regulation, President  Buhari directed the  AGF and all accounting officers to  publish daily payments reports on  the new porter. “The Accountant General of the Federation (AGF) must publish a daily treasury statement which will provide information about what came into  the national purse and what went out every single day. I repeat every  single day. Henceforth, treasury is required to publish this information unfailingly. The AGF and all Accounting Officers must publish daily payments reports. “With these reports, the treasury will publish payments of at least  N10 million while all MDAs must publish payments above  N5 million made out of all public funds under their purview. The information to be published must include the MDA responsible, the beneficiary, the purpose and amount of each payment. “Accounting officers are responsible for providing answers to any questions from the public relating to transactions completed by entities under their charge,” he directed. To drive down enforcement of financial transparency  across  all MDAs, the president further directed MDAs to  publish monthly budget performance reports. “These reports must include performance of the budget by various dimensions including MDAs, functions and economic activities performed by all Federal Government agencies,” he added. In  addition, Buhari instructed the AGF to publish monthly  fiscal accounts detailing fiscal performance of the federation including receipts from all the collection agencies and payments out of the federation account. This, he said,  must be done within 14  days after the end of the month. “The AGF and all accounting officers of MDAs must publish  financial statements for government as a whole and for individuals. “These must be published within a month after the end of the quarter. The AGF must publish annual general purpose financial statements while all public sector entities are required to publish statements for their individual entities. These statements must be prepared following International Public Sector Accounting Standards and mustbe ready within a month after the end of the first quarter of the following year,” the president said. He said his  administration would not backtrack on its  pledge to Nigerians to work towards changing the way business are done. “We promised that we will improve revenue collection as well as spending through better systems. As of today, we have recorded significant milestones including the rollout of the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) to over 800 MDAS, which has enabled us to build a very rich repository of financial information about the affairs of the Federal Government. “Within government, we know who is collecting what revenue and who is getting paid which money and for what purpose. This information is available online real-time, but only to a limited number of privileged government officials. This has to change and now does,” he added. Foreseeable  loophole Fears have been expressed that like  previous government policies, which failed to achieve their purposes, same fate may befall  newly launched financial transapancy/open treasury portal. The policy, like the ones before it, could be rendered impotent by same set of civil servants profiting from leaking system. To insulate the new policy from suffering such fate, the Federal Government must back the pronouncement with enforcement. There must be effective monitoring system, which allows the authorities to evaluate compliance of AFG and other accounting officers given the schedule of publishing what goes out and what comes into government’s purse daily. Someone must keep an eagle eye on the porter before it goes the familiar Nigerian way. Last line Beyond rhetoric and razzmatazz that heralded the unveiling of new financial policy and introduction of treasury porter, relevant authorities must not rest on their oars. They must take it a step further by ensuring strict compliance by designated organs saddled  with the task of loading treasury porter with information on MDAs finances. This is where compliance committee duty is most relevant.