J ustice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court in Abuja, has granted an interim forfeiture order on 60 buildings allegedly linked to a former deputy commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC).  The Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), spokesperson, Mrs. Rasheedat Okoduwa, made the disclosure in a statement yesterday. According to her, the order followed an ex-parte application by the commission.  Okoduwa said the former official of the NSCDC, Ms. Adenike Ishola Bintu, was standing trial “for (allegedly) using her company to hoodwink unsuspecting members of the public into subscribing for allocation in a proposed housing estate while passing off the said estate project as collaboration with her employer”.  She said: “In its sustained determination to recover assets acquired with the proceeds of crime by corrupt persons, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has secured an interim forfeiture order on two assets located at Sabon Lugbe, Abuja.  “Following a motion ex parte filed by counsel to ICPC, John Paul Okwor, Justice Okon Abang of Federal High Court 6, sitting in Abuja, granted the order against the assets linked to an erstwhile staff of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ms. Adenike Ishola Bintu, and her company, Faith Winners Properties Nigeria Limited.  “The properties include an estate of 60 buildings at Plot No. MF1296 (10.9ha), Sabon Lugbe South West Extension (Goza Airport Road), Abuja, and a property at Plot No. ED1295 (9.6ha) located at Sabon Lugbe South West Extension (Goza Airport Road), Abuja.  “Ms. Bintu, a Deputy Commandant, and her company, are standing trial before the Federal Capital Territory High Court in CHARGE NO: FCT/HC/CR/101/2013 for using her company to hoodwink unsuspecting members of the public into subscribing for allocation in a proposed housing estate while passing off the said estate project as collaboration with her employer.