TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports on Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s 200 days in office as governor of Lagos State and the appreciable progress so far made by his administration  It is 200 days that governors of the 29 states, where governorship elections held during the last general election were sworn-in as number one citizens in their respective states. Among the new governors who took oath of office on May 29 is Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State; he was sworn-in along with his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat. Governor Sanwo-Olu, while reading his inauguration speech at a ceremony witnessed by thousands of people as well as millions of Lagosians who watched the live broadcast of the programme in the comfort of their homes and public places, spoke passionately on his plans for Lagos State, especially his dream of building a Greater Lagos. This passion seems to have motivated his quest towards providing good governance and ensuring that Lagosians enjoy dividends of democracy under the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration. Sanwo-Olu, who is the 15th governor of Lagos State is not a novice in the state’s politics and governance, having served under all the three former governors in the present Fourth Republic. He served as commissioner in three different ministries during the tenure of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Mr. Babatunde Fashola. He also served as the Managing Director/CEO of the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC) under the immediate past governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode. This explains his understanding of Lagos State and the various challenges facing the state, which informed the policy thrust of his administration tagged “T.H.E.M.E.S” aimed at delivering good governance to millions of Lagosians. T.H.E.M.E.S covers areas such as Traffic Management and Transportation; Health and Environment; Education and Technology; Making Lagos a 21st Century state; Entertainment and Tourism; Security and Governance. No doubt, the journey of the last 200 days of the Sanwo-Olu’s government is mixture of the bad, good and the ugly, considering several criticisms the governor received from Lagosians, but it is of note that when Sanwo-Olu emerged as APC governorship candidate, Lagos had literally become a dumpsite as heaps of waste littered the streets. The state agency set up for waste disposal had been disengaged in a curious and controversial circumstance, leaving residents to resort to indiscriminate dumping of refuse, which became an eyesore, even to the government of the day. Apart from the issue of waste, there were also several issues of concern that the governor faced after he was sworn into office. The issues were traffic, bad roads and blockage of drainages, among others. It was against this backdrop that many expected the governor to set machinery in motion for delivering of dividends of democracy to the citizenry on taking over the mantle of leadership. To meet this expectation, the Sanwo-Olu hit the ground running from day one in office, considering a lot of bold steps he took within the early few weeks in office. Within a week in office, he announced members of his kitchen cabinet as well as made key appointments in the state to set the ball of governance rolling in the Centre of Excellence. The governor within a week in office also signed the Lagos State 2019 Appropriation Bill into law. He signed the budget which amounts to N873,532,460,725 on Monday June 3. Knowing the task before his government, while some of his governors were still learning the rope without taking critical decision in term of constituting their cabinet, Governor Sanwo-Olu announced the names of members of his cabinet exactly 47 days after his swearing-in and the nominees were properly screened and confirmed by the Lagos State House of Assembly and were later sworn in and assigned portfolios as commissioners and special advisers. The composition of the cabinet members is infusion of technocracy and political know-how. There is also fair representation of women and consideration of ethnic diversity in the choice of the commissioners and special advisers. With the cabinet fully in place, the government switched into action by working hard to ensure that the people of Lagos State start seeing and enjoying dividends of democracy, which seem to be visible in the last 200 days based on several programmes and projects executed by the incumbent administration, which are aimed at promoting the welfare and well-being of the people. The projects were executed in line with the T.H.E.M.E.S Sanwo-Olu promised Lagosians during his campaign. The laudable projects and programmes executed by Sanwo-Olu’s administration in different parts of Lagos State is noticeable and many Lagosians, who seemed to be criticising the government few months ago have changed tune as they are marveled by the transformation in the state within last few weeks, especially in term of the ongoing road construction and maintenance. “We can all see what the governor is doing in the state in terms of fixing the roads. Road construction and maintenance is going on everywhere and it is just like turning Lagos to a project site. Everybody is working, so Lagosians are happy,” Lagos State APC Assistant Publicity Secretary, Hon. Biodun Salami told New Telegraph. Realising the need for traffic management and ensuring that Lagosians enjoy good transportation, many parts of Lagos State today have turned to projects sites, considering a lot of ongoing road construction and maintenance in different parts of the state. The issues of bad roads are now being aggressively addressed to ease movement across the state. For government to achieve this, eight multi-national construction firms mobilised were ordered to carry out massive repair work on critical highways across the State. In addition to the efforts of the eight multi-national companies, extensive palliative and maintenance works are also being carried out by Lagos State Public Works Corporation in different parts of the State. The State government is also engaging in Public Infrastructure Improvement Partnership arrangement to ease traffic considerably in some parts of the state. Also in a bid to strengthen the drive for a multimodal transport system in the State, the government launched UberBoat water transportation service. The business; a partnership between the global ride-hailing company and Lagos State Waterways Authority, LASWA, has begun to explore the State’s abundant waterways and reduce the pressure on roads. Lagos State government in its resolve to expand routes that will ease traffic along highways leading to settlements on the outskirts of Lagos, has also called for Expression of Interest in respect of the 38Km Fourth Mainland bridge project on a Public-Private Partnership arrangement. The arrangement will include the construction and operation of a tolled road plus a bridge between Ajah, Eti-Osa and Mainland Lagos to serve as an alternative route to the eastern part of Lagos State. The health and environment sectors are not left out. Few weeks ago, a new, ultra modern, 149-bed Maternal and Childcare Centre, MCC in Alimosho General Hospital was commissioned. It was facilitated through the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, evidencing a working partnership between the Federal and the State Government. The government in partnership with some non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), has also provided free surgical intervention programme for Lagosians. One of the important steps taken by Lagos State government within the last 100days was the resuscitation of Adiyan waterworks, Phase Two which has a production capacity of 70 million gallons per day. Government commenced the rehabilitation of the dam to increase the provision of safe drinking water to more than five million Lagos residents and address the challenges of water-borne diseases. The state government has also put many measures in place to address waste management and environmental issues in the state, among which are acquiring of 10 new boats by the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) to boost its marine waste operations in the state. The Lagos Blue Box initiative was also launched on September 5 in Community Recycling Centres across five councils with recyclers strategically positioned to help drive the process. Education is very crucial in every society, and this is why Lagos State government in term of its plans for Education and Technology, a Special Committee for massive rehabilitation of public schools was inaugurated to commence the turnaround in school infrastructure as well as supervise the recruitment of 1,000 primary school teachers to complete the three-pronged education strategy of fixing the infrastructure, fixing the curriculum and fixing the manpower through recruitment, training and development of teachers. The administration has also commissioned a new primary classroom block, along with computer laboratories and outdoor recreational facilities at Ajegunle. The functional school building is not just a model, it signposts what is to come in this important sector. One of the cardinal programmes of Governor Sanwo-Olu is to make Lagos a 21st century economy. The incumbent government has recorded a milestone in infrastructural development with the signing of the $629 million funding for the Lekki Seaport project provided by China Development Bank. In line with the national campaign for a return to agriculture, the administration gave a boost to the fortunes of farmers through Agricultural Value Chains Empowerment Programme as hundreds of farmers were empowered with inputs to kickstart or improve their businesses. In preparation for 2020 fiscal year, a N1.168 trillion budget estimate was presented to Lagos State House of Assembly. Out of the total proposal christened “Awakening the Greater Lagos.” N723.75 billion, representing 62 per cent, is for capital expenditure while N444.81 billion representing 38 per cent is for recurrent expenditure. In the area of security and governance, the administration has kept its promise for continuity by convening this year’s edition of the annual Town Hall Meeting on Security to strategise against emerging security challenges. As it is the practice, the event was also used to appreciate individuals and corporate organisations for supporting the Lagos State Security Trust Fund, LSSTF. It is also of note that the Lagos State Special Taskforce on Land Grabbers popularly known as ‘OmoOnile Taskforce’ whose mandate is to rid the State of land grabbers has continued to arrest and prosecute offenders. The state government in celebration of the achievements and legacy of the late first governor of Lagos State, Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson renamed Onikan Stadium as Mobolaji Johnson Stadium. Looking at the last 200 days, Lagosians will have difference views about Governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration, as people will use different yardsticks to measure the performance of the administration, but irrespective of people’s views about the governor, he has done his best for the state as his moves showed the state is on the right path to greatness.