L aLiga co-leaders Barcelona and Real Madrid headline another round of intriguing fixtures including Saturday’s Valencia city derby and Sunday’s relegation six pointer at Butarque.   Third-placed Sevilla remain right in a historically tight title race with Basque side Athletic Club and Real Sociedad also showing championship form through recent weeks, while this weekend’s games should also help clarify the situation towards the bottom as we move towards the winter break.  The action began Friday evening with Villarreal hosting Atletico de Madrid and both teams looking for a lift after disappointing defeats last weekend. This has traditionally been a tricky fixture for Diego Simeone’s men, with two draws and two Villarreal wins over the last four seasons.  Saturday’s action begins as Real Madrid host RCD Espanyol with the two teams currently in very contrasting form. Los Blancos’ current LaLiga topscorer Karim Benzema has six goals in his last six games against Los Periquitos, including a superbly taken double last January.  Granada’s form has faded recently after their fine start and they now sit 10th, with equal number of wins as defeats [six] and goals scored and conceded [20]. Saturday’s visitors to Los Carmenes are D. Alaves, whose strike pair Lucas Perez and Joselu are both in excellent form.  Saturday’s city derby between Levante and Valencia should be a cracker, with the teams currently separated by just three points and three places in the LaLiga table. Los Granotas are strong at home with four wins and just one loss in seven outings, while Los Che are formidable on the road, so a match in the spirit of last season’s entertaining 2-2 draw looks a distinct possibility.  Newly crowned Ballon d’Or 2019 winner Lionel Messi will lead Barcelona out at the Camp Nou against RCD Mallorca on Saturday evening, having either scored or assisted 10 of his team’s last 13 LaLiga goals. The Balearic Islanders have yet to pick up a point away in 2019/20 but did pick up a creditable 1-1 in this fixture in 2010 when Messi also scored.  Sunday starts at Ipurua with an Eibar team looking over their shoulders at the relegation zone after three straight defeats hosting a Getafe side dreaming of Champions League qualification after 11 points from their last five games.   In even better form are Athletic Club who have taken 13 from the last 15 points available to climb to fourth in LaLiga, ahead of their trip on Sunday to Real Betis where Los Verdiblancos have been specialising in grabbing late winners in recent weeks.