…LASEPA seals Quilox night club for pollution  P olice in Lagos yesterday said they had arrested a member of the House of Representatives, Hon Shina Peller, representing Iseyin/ Itesiwaju/Iwajowa/Kajola Constituency in Oyo State.  The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said in a statement that Peller, “the owner of Quilox Club,” invaded the Maroko Police Station, with thugs.   Also yesterday, the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), said it sealed Quilox for noise pollution.   Elkana said that on Sunday, about 9a.m., police officers on traffic control on Ozumba Mbadiwe, Victoria Island, sent a traffic report to Maroko Police Station that the entire road leading to the toll gate was blocked as a result of indiscriminate parking on the major road by customers of Quilox Club, 183 Ozumba Mbadiwe, Victoria Island, Lagos.  He said: “The club owner, Hon Shina Peller, a House of Representatives member, representing Iseyin Federal Constituency, Oyo State, was approached by the DPO Maroko on the need to ensure that customers to his club do not block the major road to mitigate the undue hardship the obstruction is causing to other road users.  “Police eventually cleared the traffic and the honourable member promised to keep the road free of traffic. On 23rd December, 2019, about 8.30a.m., traffic was observed to have built up on the road again. Police traced the cause to the club again. The club activities mostly last up to 9a.m., from night and affecting the free flow of traffic in the area.  “The situation was so bad that commuters have to resort to trekking. Police team from Maroko Division led by the Divisional Police Officer, mobilised to the street and, after much efforts, got the traffic flowing again. Three vehicles parked on the major highway by some customers of the club, which actually caused the obstruction, were removed to the station. The club owner mobilised over 50 thugs about 11a.m., and invaded the police station to forcibly move the vehicles away.  “The police officers on duty at the station sent a distress message to the headquarters, calling for reinforcement. Police teams from neighbouring Divisions and Area J Command, led by the Area Commander were deployed to reinforce the station. The honourable member and five thugs were arrested while others scaled the fence and escaped.”