…‘motion time-barred’, says Court   A gain, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, has failed in his quest to unseat the Imo State Chairman of the party, Daniel Nwafor.  This followed the ruling of a Federal High Court on Friday that Oshiomhole’s argument that the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory has no jurisdiction over the matter since the matter in question has to do with Imo State. The High Court in its ruling of August 14, 2018  had affirmed that Nwafor had been validly elected chairman of the Imo State chapter of the APC.  Dissatisfied with the judgment, the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole initiated a motion urging the court to set aside its judgment.  Oshiomhole maintained that the issues in context in the substantive suit are matters that happened in Imo state outside the fundamental jurisdiction of the court. He argued in his written address and relying on the point of law, that a judgment which is given without jurisdiction is a nullity.   Citing relevant authorities Oshiomhole contended that, “In appropriate and deserving cases, the court can invoke its inherent powers to set aside its own judgment.” However, the Imo State APC Chairman had filed a counter affidavit argueing that Oshiomhole never opposed his counter claims before judgment was delivered in 2018. He averred that the authorities cited by Oshiomhole were not relevant to the case being matters of the primary election of the party.  In his ruling, the Presiding Judge, Justice O.A. Musa held that Oshiomhole’s challenge of the court’s jurisdiction was appropriate, but was done out of time.  He said: “Another factor this court considers important is the time line; the 2nd Defendant (Oshiomhole) waited for over six months before bringing this application and as such, equity aids the vigilant and not the indolent.  “Finally, it must be against public policy for application of this nature being filed after six months in a pre-election matter dealing with congresses. It will open this court to ridicule. There must be an end to litigation, and that is what the interest of justice demands.”  Justice Musa noted that the case was determined within the time limit allowed by law and that any aggrieved party had a legal right to challenge the judgment at the court of Appeal within 14 days.   “But this application was brought on 14th February, 2019 exactly six months after the judgment of the court was delivered and well over the time limit within which the trial court is allowed to entertain pre-election matters,” he said.