EKiti State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC) on Friday, said that a total of 14 political parties would feature in the local government election holding today across the state.   The SIEC Chairman, Justice Jide Aladejana, said in Ado Ekiti yesterday that the commission would allow those whose Permanent Voter Cards are either lost or damaged to vote with driver’s licence or national identity card to allow for more grassroots participation in the election.  “We have decided that those without PVCs but have their names on the voter register should vote with other universally acceptable means of identification because we are not using smart card readers.  “INEC decided to insist on the use of PVCs only in national elections because of the smart card readers and once we are not using the gadget, registered voters without PVCs can still identify themselves with acceptable ID cards and vote”.  The SIEC boss added that the main opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) would participate in the election and had fielded candidates across the 16 councils and 177 wards contrary to trending rumours that the party might boycott the poll. Aladejana, who also briefed party leaders, however, said only four political parties fielded candidates for the election.   He explained that 14 political parties that purchased the expression of intent forms were put on the ballot despite that many times they failed to present candidates for the poll.   He assured that adequate security has been put in place in collaboration with the security apparatuses from the police, Nigerian Security and civil Defence Corps and the Department of State Services (DSS) to ensure peaceful conduct of the election. “The election of Saturday will be free, fair and credible.  Tell your supporters that they should allow peace. All the sensitive materials will be distributed before all the leaders of the participating parties. We are going to be credible and be upright.” Aladejana added that materials will be ready at polling units as scheduled while voting will take place between 8am and 2pm before collation of election results across the 2,195 units.  “I am optimistic that this election will be peaceful. But only four parties out of 14 that expressed interests presented candidates for the election have candidates.  This election shall be a huge success, I can assure you.” On the fear that the election will be rigged in favour of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Aladejana said: “I am a judicial officer and I am not going to get involved in any rigging.”