Recently, Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, was in France to stimulate the state’s relationship with France on educational development. During the visit, much was done, including the signing of an bilateral educational agreement. MUHAMMAD KABIR reports   T here is no doubt that Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s visit to France has attracted lots of goodies to Kano State, especially as regards to educational development. During the visit, Ganduje renewed an educational agreement between the state and French Government under the Kano, France Governments Scholarship Agreement for five more years from 2020, when the existing agreement comes to an end. The current agreement was signed in 2016.   The governor said the extension for a period of five years was to enable those who would run doctorate degrees to have enough period to complete their studies in case of an extension of their academic engagements due to the peculiarity of their chosen fields of study.   Commending the existing academic partnership between Kano State government and the French Government, Ganduje said: “What we are doing now is targeted at educational programmes. In this programme for example, we target lecturers of our tertiary institutions, who will come back and impart what they were taught and trained on to their students.”   He made the disclosure, when he visited Kano students, sponsored under the programme at Campus France in Paris, while explaining that his administration accords priority to all stages of the education sector.   Campus France is a body that shoulders responsibility of managing Kano France Governments Scholarship Programme among others across the globe. The body currently has 4,000 students under its watch. It works by way of collaborative effort with all institutions of higher learning in France.   Ganduje, who expressed his believe that the education sector needs to have complete overhaul, said: “That is why we said for basic education; let us have free and compulsory primary and secondary education. A policy we have since started implementing. Because of the quality of students that are going to be produced from our primary to secondary schools, we now said that we have to prepare for quality tertiary institutions.”   According to him, the need to quip lecturers of institutions of higher learning, explained why they were encouraged to further their studies under the French programme. “It is not an issue of taking people to places without any direction. In our effort to prepare our tertiary institutions for quality response, we came up with this educational programme,” he said.   Speaking during the governor’s visit, the Director-General of Campus France, coordinating the programme, Beatrice Khaiat, who expressed satisfaction over what she described as exceptional performance of the Kano postgraduate students, numbering 26, out of which, 19 are running masters programmes and seven, doctorate programmes, informed Ganduje that more French universities are willing to accept more students from Kano.   Khaiat disclosed that Kano has set a standard by sending students for postgraduate studies in France. “What the Kano State government is doing by sending students, who are selected on merit, is extremely good for state, Nigeria and the world in general,” she said.   Noting that the Kano students are taking the lead in all their choice areas, she said the initiative of the Ganduje-led government will contribute to the development of the state and would be reflected as part of the legacies of his administration.   Governor Ganduje was in the course of the visit invited by the French Education Attachee at French Embassy in Nigeria, Mrs. Laila Matthew, to facilitate the participation of Kano State in the upcoming Nigeria Day in France, when Nigerian institutions of higher learning would be in France to meet with French institutions to explore opportunities for postgraduate studies.   “Kano is doing well in this agreement that was first signed in 2016. It is indicative to note that this agreement with the Kano State government opened doors for Nigeria as some other schools started showing interest in this great programme. So, Kano is a pacesetter. It may interest the governor to also know that most of the awardees, who are sponsored through the Petroleum Trust and Development Fund (PTDF), come from Kano,” Matthew disclosed.   She further revealed that at that commencement of the agreement with Kano State, it was predicted that many Nigerian states would follow suit. She therefor congratulated Governor Ganduje for the exceptional performance of the Kano students sponsored under the programme, noting that some of the PhD students are doing exceptionally well.   “We have a Kano student, who was even selected for a renowned international conference, where he did well as well,” she said.   As a show of appreciation and encouragement to the Kano State government, the French Committee of Vice Chancellors, which was represented at the visit, also acknowledged how Kano State students under the scholarship programme are excelling in French universities.   Meanwhile, after meeting with the officials, Ganduje had special a meeting with the Kano students. In his remarks during the meeting, the governor commended them for being good ambassadors of Kano State and Nigeria.   “While commending you for your exhibition of good character, I am also on behalf of the government and good people of Kano State, commending you profusely on your giant strides and performance in your fields of study,” he said.   While reiterating the commitment of his administration to provide quality education at all levels, he said: “We started with the accreditation of our higher institutions of learning. We then said education is now free in both primary and secondary schools. But that is not enough for us. We signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the French government in 2016 and we said this time around it must be a targeted educational programme.   “We found it extremely necessary to inform you first before doing that. Being stakeholders in this effort, as education is dynamic, we found it necessary to help you go deeper in global learning. We are also thinking of increasing the number of studenta and lecturers coming here for postgraduate studies,” he said.   The governor received a standing ovation, when he mentioned that.. Another standing ovation was accorded to the governor when he mentioned before the students that he doesn’t care about political party affiliation, when it comes to the selection process of beneficiaries.   The Chairman of Kano State Joint Scholarship Awardees, Bashir Ado, commended the governor for the untiring efforts. He revealed that they do not face any form of difficulty in their stay as students in France.   “We do not experience any hitch in any payment. We are comfortably facing our studies. For your information sir, Kano has the highest number of students studying in France among all other states in Nigeria. We are grateful for that,” he said.   The students’ body crowned Governor Ganduje with an Award of Excellence and Performance, as an appreciation of his effort in the education sector. The students emphasised that, when Nigeria is blessed with leaders like Ganduje, the country would, within the shortest possible time, compete with other big nations on earth.   “We do appreciate His Excellency’s committed commitment, dedication, patriotism and above all political will. We will not complete our remarks without thanking the Vice Chancellor of Kano University of Science and Technology, Wudil, Prof. Shehu Alhaji Musa for his unrelenting support and encouragement. So also the Coordinator of the programme, Dr Usaini Jarma, who has also being up and down to make sure that the programme succeeds and all other officials who give their support in one-way or the other,” they declared.   They also decorated Prof Musa and Dr Jarma with Awards of Excellence, with the permission of the governor, as protocol arrangement of such gatherings and meetings demands.   At CY Universite Cergy-Pontois, Ganduje was briefed by the Political Affairs Officer of the university, Clara Doly-Tacconi; Joelle Gury of International Relations department and Joachim Amdreas Honecker of Master Physics and was acquainted with the need for global partnership between the university and the Kano State government.   An MoU that was already signed between Kano and French governments would also include the university for the establishment of the vibrant synergy for the advancement of education in the state, where the state would be sending students to further their education at both masters and doctoral degree programmes.   Tacconi said their dream was to develop campuses in Nigeria and other African countries, adding: “We have found good partnership with the Kano State government. And looking at the high ranking nature of the university among others, calls for our serious partnership with the state government.”   In his remarks, Governor Ganduje assured them that the university would be part of the institutions to be considered in the already signed MoU between the French government and Kano State, which provides for the sending of lecturers from institutions of higher learning in the state.   His words: “We will be good partners in the area of education, especially looking at your position in the education ranking in the world. This university will be part of our MoU. And our target is to let our lecturers improve in their areas of specialty and capacity and to also expose them to research world.   “The state is tilting towards science and technology, so that we can continue to have productive manpower. While on urban development, as you have just briefed us, we need that in place. Kano being a mega city, there are issues like that of security, sanitation and transportation. So, for us, demographic studies is important.”  The need a population that is an asset, not a liability in the state, was what governor Ganduje assured that he would make the synergy between work, adding that “we are after affordability, accessibility and sustainability, that is why we are executing free and compulsory primary and secondary education policy in the state.”   Governor Ganduje and his entourage later proceeded to EPITA Bilingual School of Engineering and Computer Science, the first of all universities in France in the area Engineering/Computer Science. The school has working synergy with over 2,000 companies.   The Director of the institution’s International Programmes, Prof. Rabid Haddad, commended the Kano State government for its effort in sending postgraduate students the under Kano France Joint Scholarship Programme, where lecturers from tertiary institutions of learning are being send to further their studies at the postgraduate level.   On the entourage of Governor Ganduje were the Vice Chancellor of Kano State University of Science and Technology (KUST), Wudil, Prof. Shehu Musa; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Higher Education, Dr Binta Umar Bala; Executive Secretary, Kano State Scholarship Board, Abubakar Zakari and Usaini Jarma, former Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Higher Education, who is also the Programme Coordinator of the French/Kano Governments Foreign Scholarship Programme.   Others are the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, Auwalu Iliasu Riruwai; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Garba Ahmad; Managing Director, State Water Board, Tukur Makama Getso and Managing Director State Refuse Management and Sanitation Board (REMASAB), Abdullahi Mu’azu Gwarzo.  