The Federal Government at the weekend expressed readiness to improve the country’s power sector through effective metering that will meet consumers’ demands and also address liquidity challenges rocking the sector. Investors in power sector have put the figures of liquidity in the sector at N1.1 trillion. The crisis, the investors including Group Head, Finance, Sahara Group Limited, Aigbe Olotu, argued, was growing by N30 billion per month. Minister of Power, Mr. Saleh Mamman, who – during facility inspection of Momas Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company (MEMMCOL) factory in Ogun State, declared plans to tackle the power crisis including this liquidity with adequate monitoring, maintained that effective metering of electricity consumers remained the best option to help distribution companies get more money to pay generating companies. Metering, the minister said, “is one of the things bothering Nigerians particularly the electricity consumers. When I resumed, I took it as my priority as one of the important areas on electricity market liquidity and sustainability. “I have to produce meters to get more money for the sector. We will get more money from distribution companies to pay GenCos. And, the only way to justify that is to go by metering. That is why I’m here to see it and believe it and to also direct on how to get meters soonest. “I am here to inspect the factory of MOMAS Meter Manufacturing Company because I don’t believe in sitting in the office and listening to story. I want to see things for myself and today am convinced that we have a Nigerian that has capacity and capability to meet metering gap in the country. “This has now encouraged me to also tell our local companies has the capacity to produce meter that is expected and required in-country.” The minister commended the management of MEMMCOL for puting up the gigantic meter manufacturing company that has capacity to meet Meter Assets Providers (MAPs) specification in the country. “I am very much impressed with the local content driven initiative by MOMAS company. It is good to see a meter manufacturing company, to see a Nigerian producing meter up to 1,000 per day. This, is indeed commendable. Momas is one of the top meter manufactures in Nigeria that we should be proud of. “We should allow and encourage investors into the country and also gives consideration to our own local manufacturers to grow.” Chairman of MEMMCOL, Mr. Kola Balogun, said that his company had the capacity to produce above 50,000 smart meters per month if given the support by government and adequate patronage from distributing companies. Balogun commended the minister for inspecting his meter manufacturing company, while assuring the minister that the company will continue to produce quality and standard meter that meets international best standard. “I want to tell Nigerians that we have the capacity and the capability to deliver metering solution to also bridged metering requirement in the country. All we need is government interventions to be able to make liquidity available to us to produce for the larger populace that requires metering.