…as NEPZA targets $30bn revenue from export yearly …lift ban on goods Nigeria cannot produce –ANLCA   Though there is little on ground to show Nigeria’s preparedness for the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) which is taking off in March 2020, like in the telecommunications sector where Nigeria came from behind to become Africa’s leading nation in the sector, experts say the country will repeat feat in AfCFTA that is set create a single market of over 1.2billion people. PAUL OGBUOKIRI reports  AfCFTA The AfCFTA acronym stands for African Continental Free Trade Agreement, and it establishes the largest free trade area in the world since the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in 1995. The African Union Heads of States (Au-HoS) had, on March 21, 2018, adopted the Phase I Agreement on the AfCFTA at its 10th Extraordinary Summit in Kigali, Rwanda. And on May 30, 2019, the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) officially went into force. It was sequel to this that President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated the committee in October 2018, with the mandate of reviewing and assessing the potential impact of the AfCFTA on Nigeria’s national development plans as well as fiscal-cum-monetary policies. It was consequent upon the completion of its assignment, and the favourable review of the Guobadia- committee’s report that the president finally signed the AfCFTA agreement on July 7, 2019, during the 12th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of the Union on African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) in Niamey, Niger.  With Nigeria being the 54th  nation to sign, only Eretria remains out of the 55 member AU to join the  AfCFTA which will cover more than 1.3 billion people and over $3.4 trillion Gross Domestic Product. But anyone familiar with discussions on the agreement will realize that its biggest trumpeted benefit is the removal of tariffs, put at 90 per cent – which is argued, would promote free trade in the 1.3billion-strong African market. The AfCFTA has the potential to put in place mechanisms to address many of the non-tariff challenges frustrating intra-African trade. It could do so in a manner which will provide more certainty, predictability and improve the trade facilitation environment.   The potential dynamic benefits of the AfCFTA are particularly important.  Larger integrated markets may well be more attractive to investors. New investment could come with new technologies and learning that will boost productivity. It is important to note that the existing Regional Economic Communities (RECs) will not disappear. Intra-Africa trade is highly concentrated within the RECs.   More than half of the total intra-Africa trade takes place within the Southern African Customs Union (SACU), and more than 65 per cent takes place within the Southern African Development Community (SADC). Intra-African trade will continue on multiple tracks. As the AfCFTA advances and becomes more consolidated, there should be more policy convergence, and a simplification of rules across the different trading regimes.   The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) estimates that if signatory-countries dutifully follow with the well, though-out policies, the AfCFTA could boost intra-African trade by 52 per cent by 2022; and grow a yearly continental GDP by 6 per cent.   According to the Ag Managing Director of Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Engr. David Terhemba, the development raises two big issues: Manufacturing on one hand, and smuggling on the other.   Nigeria, Africa’s biggest market, set to be biggest beneficiary Nigeria is unarguable Africa’s biggest market as well as her biggest economy. This informed the belief of Landry Signé, a Brookings Institution fellow, that, although Nigeria was one of the last countries to sign the AfCFTA agreement, she stands to be the biggest beneficiary from the free trade area. He said: “The unique continental market access combined with the increasing focus on industrialization as a catalyst for growth and priority of the government to shift away from over-reliance on volatile primary commodity exports will contribute to boosting Nigeria’s manufacturing sector and exports.” He added that for Nigeria to maximise gain, the country must “increase its global competitiveness plus improve on the Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) to attract investment.” According to Engr. Terhemba, Nigeria is doing fairly well in this area.  In the latest index from the World Bank, Nigeria is ranked 131 globally, moving up 15 places from its last ranking. This is as the Presidential Environment Business Enabling Council (PEBEC), launched in 2016 by President Muhammadu Buhari is said to have gone a long way in promoting a conducive business environment in the country by easing the bottlenecks that usually hampered quick and efficient business transactions.  Shedding light on Nigeria’s latest ranking, the World Bank disclosed that: “Nigeria conducted reforms impacting six indicators, including making the enforcement of contracts easier, which placed the 200-million-person economy among the world’s top improvers. It added that the enforcement of contracts entered into as well as bouquets of economic reforms were key factor s in improving Nigeria’s standing. “The challenge for us at NEPZA (and we are taking it serious) is historic: We are updating/providing infrastructure; we are deploying technologies and the New Media to improve service delivery, we digitalizing our operations and simplifying procedures etc all in a bid to get the most from the AfCFTA.   “The President of Afreximbank, Dr. Benedict Orumah, recently disclosed that the bank is boosting trade across the country with $25 billion, with the first tranche of $8 billion going to Nigeria, Egypt and Cote d’Ivoire. With a repositioned NEPZA, with the standardization of facilities in the zones, there is renewed investor confidence in the zones. So, we hope to see part of this money ending up in the zones as investment.  The imperative of a manufacturing agenda This was President Muhammadu Buhari’s position on the AfCFTA when, on  October 22, 2018, he inaugurated the Desmond Guobadia-Committee to independently assess the benefits and risks of the AfCFTA to Nigeria and to propose short, medium and long-term measures to manage them.. President Buhari said: “Africa, therefore, needs not only a trade policy, but also a continental manufacturing agenda. Our vision for intra-African trade is for the free movement of made-in-Africa goods. That is, goods and services made locally with dominant African content in terms of raw materials and value addition.”   Buhari’s position was echoed by Sylvester Bagooroo, a Programme Officer Third Word Network Africa, who equally believes that there is too much emphasis on the cutting of tariffs without sufficient consideration for manufacturing or production capabilities and the ever-present challenge of smuggling.   Nigeria is already Africa’s biggest market, but with the coming on stream of the AfCFTA, Nigeria’s market has got only bigger. Engr. Terhemba said the coming of Industrial parks and Special Economic Zones (SEZs); and the breadth of NEPZA’s investment opportunities/activities under the NIRP “as well as our basket of incentives as listed above make our zones prime targets for foreign capital in search of safe, investment destination. “And we aim to take full advantage of the AfCFTA by bring the biggest player in the burgeoning market. We project to have about 30 FTZs fully operational in the foreseeable future, and to get $1 billion from each, from exports. This means we are looking at $30 billion yearly.”   Border closure and the menace of smuggling   Speaking at the AMJON conference in Lagos on ‘Boosting the Nigerian Economy in AfCFTA, the Head Corporate Communication, NEPZA, Simon Tsuwan said Nigeria must check the menace of smuggling for her to maximize benefits from AfCFTA. He disclosed that a recent World Bank report states that about N1.45trillion worth of goods are smuggled into Nigeria annually through the Benin border alone. “This prompted Africa’s foremost industrialist, Alhaji Aliko Dangote to lament that “there is no country that can survive with Benin Republic as a neighbor.” And he went further to call for drastic action so as to save the Nigerian economy,” he said.   He said the Buhari administration has taken the bold decision of closing the land borders, saying although there have been protests from majorly ECOWAS member-states; Nigeria insists that the closure would remain in force till January 31, 2020! “The ban is to help boost local manufacturing, job-creation and economic growth by checking the smuggling of goods into the country. It is in this wise that NEPZA supports, 100 per cent, the Federal Government’s stance on land border closure.”   Nigeria positioning for the stiff competition in AfCFTA Speaking, President of Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) Hon. Tony Iju Nwabunike said Nigeria needs to look into our import and export trade procedures, including import guideline and trade facilitation as it affects Nigerians. He said equally important to be looked into are deficits in electricity supply, roads networks, incentives to local manufacturers and farmers to multiplicity of government agencies as its affects trade and services. “Also imperative is the attitudinal change of our importers and exporters must be a paramount issue to be frequently discussed at every fora.   “Most importantly and bearing in mind that everything borders on implementation and strict adherence to rules and regulations.   “Freight Forwarders and Customs Brokers should have the same level of training on tariff and trade procedures. Hard decision should be taken against defaulters of the agreement,” he said.   According to him, by virtue of Nigeria’s population and big economy she will be an attractive market from all kinds of goods under AfCFTA, “but care should be taken to avoid using Nigeria as dumping ground by other sister countries.” He said local manufacturers as well as farmers should be encouraged to export their goods and services by providing the enabling environment. Customs should be encouraged to continue to safeguard Nigerian territorial boundaries and trade facilitations, security of goods, in bound and out bound the country.   Nwabunike said that giving customs a target every year by the Federal Government should be discouraged, “I strongly believe that the Nigeria Customs Service has been over stretched and Nigerians seeing them as not being friendly, a situation I sincerely believe should be revisited and allow the Customs to remain what they are suppose to be according to the standard of World Customs Organisation.   He said while, stimulation of local manufacturers must be encouraged, the Federal Government must be sensitive to lift ban on some goods that are not made or being manufactured in Nigeria as of today. “If the Federal Government provides a value benchmark as a means to standardized tariff charges, the misunderstanding may end. It is happening because government has encouraged it. Nigeria is the only country where Customs is being given revenue target. Customs’ responsibility on import and other port levies are supposed to be administrative cost to cushion maintenance, logistics support and infrastructure provisions.” Last line Hon. Iju Nwabunike said if the rights steps are taken, Nigeria will the dominant player in the African market within 10 years.