 National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has appealed to members of the party in Edo State to remain calm following the mayhem unleashed on the people of the state yesterday by armed thugs loyal to the state government. Oshiomhole made the appeal while addressing party members who escorted him to his house. The party chair and other members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party was in Benin to receive over 30,000 members and leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led by Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, into the APC. But political thugs at the early hours of yesterday took over the Benin Airport, shooting sporadically. Bonfires were observed at strategic places in Benin City, while roads leading to the residence of the party chairman were blocked with heavy duty vehicles. It took the party chair and other members of the NWC over one hour to get to his residence after soldiers came to disperse the armed thugs. Oshiomhole, who reacted while addressing party members, said: “I know you are hurt with what we are passing through here, but I want to plead with you, don’t be provoked. Any reasonable party leader will be happy to welcome people from another party into his party; particularly when those coming were people who fought us in the last election. “And when you look at the margin then, it was like 50,000. So we are in Benin to welcome them, but you could see how their thugs are unleashing mayhem on people. “But I want to tell you, APC is our house and we will not destroy it, neither are we going to allow anybody destroy it. We don’t want anyone to be killed, so please don’t fight back. Those who know me know that I am not a coward, I am not afraid of a fight. But I will not and I urge you to remain calm. “We are getting conflicting report now, the IG ordered the Commissioner of Police to give us protection for our rally. But we are being told now that the same authority said it has been cancelled. But I am going to make calls and find out what the problem is, if the police are saying they cannot protect a political rally. “I will find out and let you people know. But even if they said we cannot hold it, please don’t fight anybody. I will meet them and find out when it will hold. But the rally will still hold some day. We have the right of association. This is not the first time we are seeing situations like this, but I can assure you it will not last forever. “No condition is permanent. We must do everything to keep APC in Edo State no matter what the devil thinks. APC is our house, so we must resist any temptation to fight back. We must remember that our President, Muhammadu Buhari is a peaceful man. We must remain peaceful and go home and tell everyone, we remain strong. Nobody can shake our spirit. We will receive our brothers into the party to fortify our party.”