The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, announced plans to distribute tablets to teachers in the state’s public schools. The governor, who also kicked-off a 10-day training of 2,400 teachers in the state, reiterated his administration’s commitment to developing the state’s education sector in line with what was expected anywhere in the world. Speaking at the flag-off the EkoExcel, an event organised by Lagos State Universal Basic Education, LASUBEB, Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo explained that the whole essence of the programme was to deliver on the commitment of equity, by closing gaps between the rich and the poor access to quality education for all. Sanwo-Olu described the training as part of an effort by the state government to improve and enhance the quality of education as well as provide a template to galvanise a standard education in the state through the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda. He said: “This tablet has our scheme of work. It has our curriculum on it, so teachers will definitely use it to teach. The tablet also teaches on classroom management, how to attend to children with special needs, access learning properly and how children can learn. It goes beyond just pressing a tablet; it is a whole lot of ecosystems of teaching. A lot of thinking has gone into it and our technical support engineers are grounded to assist whenever any problem arises.” The chairman of LASUBEB, Hon. Wahab Alawiye-King, said that with the initiative, every child must have access to good and quality education, stressing that government would continue to provide an atmosphere for this to be achieved. Alawiye-King, who hinted that the training was planned to equip teachers with the use of technological driving learning skills, said the programme came after due consultations with critical stakeholders in the education sector on how to transform teaching and learning in the state. Alawiye-King said that the overall objective of making teaching and learning more effective for the 21st century would be realised,  noting that the state remains committed to improving on teachers ‘quality and performance.