A Chieftain of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and a former president general of Onitsha Amalgamated Traders Association (OMATA), Chief Pius Ozoanekwe has asked Ndigbo, to forget about the Igbo presidency in 2023 and instead go for the restructuring of Nigeria which he said without it would make an Igbo presidency counterproductive.   Ozoanakwe, who made this known in Onitsha while addressing journalists, also said that such Presidency would be controlled by the Hausa/Fulani oligarchy. He cited the 9th National Assembly as an example which he described as a “rubber stamp” of the executive.   “They all want to be in the good books of the Northern power block in order to have a better bargain another time. Such struggle will be an exercise in futility and unless Ndigbo resists the attempt they would be heading for doom,” he added.   The former market leader said none of the senators nor their counterparts in the House of Representatives are making any impute because they don’t want to risk their chances like M.i Okpala Senator Chuba Okadigbo, former governor Sam Mbakwe and Francis Ibiam did in their own time.   He said only through restructuring those institutions like INEC, judiciary, Nigeria Security and National Assembly could work as an independent body devoid of external control.   He called on the Ohaneze, Afenifere and other socio-cultural organisations in Nigeria to save this country from total collapse.   He said:  “They should let the world know Nigeria’s predicament by sending delegates to the United Nations and tell them that Nigeria is tired of the present military democracy.”   On Ndigbo’s demand for the presidency, he said: “Let the Igbo lead a delegation to the North and dialogue with them on way forward and forget 2023.”   Chief Ozoanekwe contended that Nigerian cannot get it right now because the present democratic dispensation was founded by the military and the constitution took its root from the military decree which is incompatible with the conventional democratic principles and ideals.   “We must re-write the Nigerians constitution to bring back the country to the part of growth and development if we are sincere in building a better Nigeria for our children and children yet unborn.   “I have no confidence in the 9th Assembly. A situation where an elected member of the National Assembly could change his Religion for political position is a source of concern for every Nigerian, and not only to his constituency.”