* Allen Avenue, Maryland, Lekki, Ikotun affected Muritala Ayinla As part of the strategies to completely tackle gridlock across the metropolis, the Lagos State government has begun the removal of some roundabouts identified as the major causes of traffic gridlock frequently experienced by motorists. New Telegraph learnt that the identified four roundabouts are: Ikotun, 2nd roundabout on the Lekki-Epe Expressway, Allen Avenue roundabout and Maryland. It was learnt that the roundabouts were responsible for the hindrances and traffic bottleneck experienced by the motorists in the areas. With the removal, statues, giant billboards and other things located at the roundabouts will be removed while the structures is expected to wear a new looks to ensure the free flow of traffic. Briefing journalists on the plans, the state’s Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Fredrick Oladinde described the decision as part of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s committment to ensuring reduction in traffic congestion by resolving key gridlock points. According to him, the government started off through discovery of 60 traffic gridlocks junctions and areas across the state. He said: “We are gathered here this morning to discuss the update and progress report this Ministry has made in combating these traffic gridlocks. Seven pilot schemes were unlocked, we progressed in the traffic management measures to 27 locations and now we are working on 4 major junctions by removing the roundabouts presently causing chaos during turning movements.” He added that motorists encountered a lot of challenges during peak hours, saying that that the junction improvement would enhance free flow of vehicular movement when completed. He added: “Sufficiently, the junction improvement work that is being conducted on the four roundabouts includes the following: “Removal of roundabouts, separate streams of traffic through Traffic Signal Lights, (TSL) synchronize all TSLs through intelligent traffic systems which will recognise the densities of traffic streams and give priorities accordingly. “Introduce stacking lanes for both left and right turns at these junctions which will also contribute to increasing the capacities of our roads at the junctions thereby reducing travel time.” To address the traffic gridlock challenge when the junction improvement project is ongoing, he added that the government will upgrade alternative routes so that traffic can move upstream of choke points. 