The move by insurance industry operators and regulator to give the sector a new image through rebranding may take a longer time to achieve as the initial step taken in this regard suffers a big blow. Sunday Ojeme reports   A s a way of giving the insurance industry a new image and place it on its proper spot in the country, Nigerian underwriters had planned to deploy strategies in this regard through a rebranding project to change the poor perception of the sector.   The much celebrated project anchored on a N300 million initiative was aimed at restoring confidence in the sector as well as boosting its abysmally low penetration and raising the industry’s paltry 0.6 per cent contribution to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).   The beginning The rebranding project, which was in the works since 2015, finally kicked off  early 2018 with the Insurers’ Committee that is driving it promising to lay emphasis on prompt claims payment, being one of the blights that have drawn the sector backwards over the years.   Although recently improved claims payment has provided a fillip for the image of the sector, penetration still appears very low due to a number of factors including the bad shape of the economy as well as poor awareness that was left to degenerate for years.   Besides the Motor Third Party policy, which sells faster than others for obvious reasons, and a few others that are compulsory under the law, the other policies have been left at the whims and caprices of the public.   Why rebrand? As part of espousing their seriousness to get deeper into the grassroots, the industry regulator, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), as well as the operators took the firm decision to rebrand the industry in order to showcase unique benefits to Nigerians, especially the younger generation, who constitute the largest segment of the population.   According to the committee, the aim of the rebranding initiative was to emphasise the benefits of insurance and change the mindset of Nigerians on the general insurance industry. The second aspect was to involve pushing insurance companies operating in the country to up the ante on service delivery to their insured with the aim of having fewer complaints from such clients going forward.   As part of the arrangement, the project was designed to cover the whole country through massive insurance education and awareness with Lagos and Abuja as pilot states.   It will utilise the online medium such as Facebook, Twitter, among other platforms to create awareness on the need to subscribe to insurance products and services, following the rapid increase in the number of Internet and online users in the country.   This would later be followed by jingles on broadcast media, while also utilising the print and billboard mediums. Commitment/implementation   Part of the exercise, which was outsourced to a consulting firm, was to create a tempo and hype to attract public attention to insurance through print, electronic and social media platforms.   While NAICOM was said to have contributed N40 million towards the project, the 58 insurance companies were expected to contribute the remaining N260 million, just as the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB), Institute of Loss Adjusters of Nigeria (ILAN) and Association of Registered Insurance Brokers of Nigeria (ARIAN) also promised funding support to this rebranding initiative.   Amid the excitement and expectation, investigation revealed that the first phase of the project gulped N30 million while another N90 million was released to initiate the second phase of the project. This brought the total amount spent so far on the project to N120 million. The failure of the project, according to market observers, is that apart from poor financial response from some of the operators, the initial campaign was devoid of physical interface with the public as it was mostly restricted to radio, social media and limited editorial publications.   One factor that led to the poor financial response was the regulator’s earlier attempt to reclassify the industry. It was gathered that as soon as NAICOM announced the recapitalisation plan, first with cancelled Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Capital (TBMSC) and later the current recapitlisation regime, companies channeled their financial energy to boosting their capitalisation, neglecting financial commitment to the insurance rebranding initiative.   Throughout the four-year it lasted, the project seems to have done little to redeem the image of the industry despite several millions of naira committed into it. Speaking on the failure of the exercise, a member of the Media and Publicity Sub-Committee of the Insurers’ Committee, Toye Odunsi, said: “The rebranding project has been stopped. We did because of issues regarding poor participation by operators. We have to come back to it. We are back on the drawing board.”   Initial expectation While initiating the project, the Chairman, Sub-Committee on Publicity and Communication, Insurers’ Committee, Hassan Oye-Odukale, said prompt settlement of claims remained the best advertisement for the industry, stressing that the operators would ensure that companies observe their claims responsibilities.   He decried the relegation of insurance by corporate organisations and individuals in the country, saying that foreign investors take the strength of a country’s insurance sector into consideration more than the population. Odukale pointed out that over 80 per cent of foreign investment inflows into the country was made possible by insurance underwritings, adding that most foreign investors demanded that there must be structured insurance for their investments before they can invest into the country.   He said: “There are times when major investments were to come into this country. However, it took a while because we had to structure the insurance and eventually they were delivered to the federal government.   “Without insurance, such investments cannot take place in Nigeria. Investment cannot come into this country if there is no insurance support. By law now anything in this country must be insured in Nigeria. “Insurance operators pay huge claims but nobody gets to hear about it. We hear so much that insurance don’t pay claims and such accusations are connected to most small claims where the insured probably have not conformed with one policy condition or the other and in the process create a lot of hullaballoo. Insurance is doing a whole lot in the economy and is moving the economy forward.” He called for cooperation to keep the sector in business, saying that no nation could develop without a strong insurance industry.   Odukale promised that insurance firms were set to deepen insurance at the grassroots through the deployment of retail products, stressing that those small and medium enterprises owners should take advantage of insurance to keep their businesses going. On her part, the Vice Chairman, Sub-Committee on Publicity and Communications, Insurers’ Committee, Mrs Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu, said it had become imperative for Nigerians to imbibe insurance as a lifestyle and not as a regulatory necessity.   Nwachukwu said this narrative necessitated the rebranding of the country’s insurance industry, stressing that the Insurer’s Committee, comprising of CEOs of all insurance companies in the country, engaged a consultant to rebrand the industry and make it better understood by Nigerians, adding that the initiative was borne out of the need to redefine the narrative about insurance and to educate Nigerians on its importance.  According to her, “the campaign was also designed to change the perception of the sector and increase the market penetration on insurance in Nigeria, considering that less than one per cent of Nigerian adult population was insured. About 80 per cent of those insured are 35 and above. Millennials below 35 years, who form over 70 per cent of Nigeria’s population, or about 138.6 million, form a large part of the uninsured.   “In line with the foregoing, the project was designed to showcase the advancements made in the insurance sector and to encourage more Nigerians to take up insurance. It would also highlight real customer testimonials of insurance. At the end of the day, insurance would be positioned as desirable and not just a regulatory necessity.”   Last line Now that the project has failed naturally to achieve its objectives, all hope is not lost as the industry players have more time, especially now they are going back to the drawing board, to consult widely, spend their funds wisely to get result whenever they decide to embark on the project again.