T he Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja is set to deliver ruling on the appeal filed by the All Progressive Congress (APC) against the pre-election judgment of the Federal High Court, Abuja, delivered on December 11 by Justice I. E. Ekwo.   The Appeal filed by the APC, in a suit numbered CA/A/1055/2019, was called on Thursday before the presiding Judge, Justice Abdul Aboki.   After the hearing of the appeal by both parties, Justice Abdul Aboki adjourned the matter for judgment together with Appeal NO: CA/A/ 1053/2019 on a date to be communicated to the lawyers to the respective parties.   Barr. C.V.C Ihekweazu, Lead Counsel to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Douye Diri and Senator Lawrence Ewrudjakpo (1st to 3rd Respondents), in his submission to the Court, said the disqualification of Lyon and his running mate from contesting the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State was properly founded by the Federal High Court.   Ihekweazu (SAN), pointed out that the said documents in support of Degi’s nomination were riddled with various false information.   He said: “The case at the trial Court was proved against the Defendants, Degi, Lyon, APC and INEC both on the preponderance of evidence and beyond reasonable. However, it was considered and that the learned trial Judge Hon Justice I.E. Ekwo did not make any mistake in placing the burden of proof in the case.”   According to the Legal team of PDP, the admission by Degi that there were  mistakes in the educational qualification Certificates he presented to INEC then, the onus to legally apply and correct the  errors which are part of the false information rests squarely on him and not any other person.   He said even the newspaper publication and the affidavits before the Notary Public, were as conflicting as the Certificates are.   He continued: “As it stands, the provisions of Sections 186 and 187 of the 1999 Constitution, which provide for the office of Deputy Governor of a state and further provide that in the absence of a Deputy Governorship candidate, the nomination of a governorship candidate becomes invalid is what the Court of Appeal is invited to apply in this case.   “The Deputy Governorship candidate of APC provided and submitted information concerning his identity and the educational certificate he submitted to INEC among others as follows: First, 1976 Primary School Certificate as Degi Biobaragha.”   “Two, 1984 WAEC School Certificate as Adegi Biobakumo. Three, in 1990 University first degree Certificate as Degi Biobarakuma, Four, in the year 2002 in University MBA as Degi Biobarakuma Wangagha. Five, in 2018 and 2019 INEC Forms CF001 as Biobarakuma Degi-Eremiwenyo. 6 in the Newspaper publication and the affidavits sworn to by Degi before two different Notary Public the names of Degi were conflicting and varied.   “In the trial Court, Sir FN Nwosu who handled the case said that the only way any person could have answered such varied and multiple names and has explanation which will not be a palatable one would be a multiple married and frequently divorcing woman but not a man.”   The SAN in his synopsis of the false information demonstrated that Degi in his Form CF-001 stated on oath that his real name is Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo. This contrasts itself with approved official name; the name on the First Leaving Certificate of 1976 submitted by him is Degi Biobraha.   “To make matters worse, Degi Biobraha’s WAEC Certificate he submitted bears Adegi Biobakumo, 1st Degree Certificate submitted by him bears Degi Biobarakuma, while the 2nd Degree certificate he submitted bears Degi Biobarakuma Wangagha respectively.”  