 The Federal Government has confirmed the release of N1.2 trillion in the 2019 budget for financing of capital projects across the country. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, said the release of the amount, which represents 50 per cent performance of the total funds for capital projects, was achieved last week. Records indicate, however, that the 2019 budget has a total of N2 trillion for capital expenditure. Ahmed disclosed this yesterday while briefing State House Correspondents after the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Finance Minister had earlier announced that as of November this year, a total of N650 billion was released; bulk of which was used for the financing of roads projects. She said: “First, in terms of revenue performance, the revenue performance prorated to third quarter of 2019 is N4.25 trillion and that represents a performance of 81 per cent. That is to third quarter, so it’s nine months prorated, not full year. “The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth that we planned for 2019 was 3.5 per cent and the third quarter GDP performance was reported as 2.28 per cent. “On expenditure, we have been able to release all that is required for personnel; so personnel expenditure is on course, debt service is also on course. “On overhead, we have been able to release eight months overhead for general MDAs and 11 months overhead for some MDAs we classify as critical. “This includes the security services, the Federal Government Unity Colleges as well as NYSC and Prison rations. So, a few agencies that we classify as critical have received 11 months and we are working on the 12-month overhead release for this category of MDAs.” The minister continued, “So far, as at last week, we have released up to N1.2 trillion in capital expenditure and that is a 50 percent performance of the capital for the whole year 2019. “Now that Mr. President has assented to the 2020 budget which is a major achievement for this government, it is clear that the 2019 budget is also a six-month budget. So, we have achieved 50 per cent capital release or 50 per cent performance of the 2019 budget. “We have also been able to pass through the National Assembly and the National Assembly has passed the Finance Bill of 2019. I believe that by today or tomorrow, the bill will be conveyed to Mr. President for his assent. “We have started the process of the new long term development plan, we prepared a road map, and it is going to be subjected to various stakeholders’ reviews before we start the actual planning process.” In his remarks, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said the government, next year June, will get the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) currently before the National Assembly passed into law. Sylva said: “On Wednesday, we reported to Council that we have achieved at least one of those mandate areas, which is the passage of the deep offshore amendment Act. “We also reported that work is ongoing on the PIB and that, hopefully, it will be passed into law by June next year. “We also reported that next year, we will open up the gas sector and a lot will happen in the gas sector in Nigeria. Rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt Refinery will commence in January and, hopefully, 2020 will be a very busy year for the oil industry in Nigeria.” Also speaking, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, said he briefed Council that the ministry will be bringing in additional diesel locomotive for Abuja-Kaduna for rail way system. He said: “It will be eight coaches and two locomotives that will drive them. This is to reduce the pressure we have on the Abuja-Kaduna route.”