*Say Ogun gov hijacked by ‘hyenas, power mongers’ There appears to be a major crack in the Ogun State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) as loyalists of a former governor, Chief Olusegun Osoba, are spoiling for war over the list of commissioner-nominees submitted to the state House of Assembly by Governor Dapo Abiodun. They alleged that the list does not represent Abiodun’s proclamation to run an all inclusive government, adding that it also failed to take into consideration the Osoba political family. The aggrieved APC members, therefore, appealed to the party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and South West Caucus Leaders, including Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande and Chief Niyi Adebayo, to prevail on the governor to correct the alleged imbalance in the commissioners’ list. This was contained in a statement made available to reporters in Abeokuta on Sunday and signed by Otunba Ayo Martins, Olaonipekun Tajudeen and 22 other APC chieftains. New Telegraph reports that Abiodun had, on Thursday, last week, forwarded the list of 18 commissioner-nominees to the state legislature for screening and approval. While the commissioner-nominees are billed to appear before the House of Assembly for screening on Monday, loyalists of ex-governor Osoba Sunday kicked against the list in its entirety, saying it was devoid of the inclusive arrangement promised by Abiodun. The APC members, who recalled how Osoba worked assiduously for the governor’s victory at the polls, expressed regret that his administration had allegedly been hijacked by those they described as “hyenas, power mongers and manipulators.” They demanded the intervention of Oshiomhole, Tinubu and other well-meaning Nigerians towards addressing the “imbalance” in the governor’s appointments. The statement partly reads: “The Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, after his victory at the poll, promised to run all inclusive government that will represent the interest of blocs that worked for his victory and other groups interested in contributing positively in running the affairs of the state. “However, to our dismay, the words of the Governor was reduced to stillborn on the face of the list of commissioner nominees and other appointments made by the Governor so far. “We have observed that the slang ‘all inclusive,’ is a ploy to specifically ease out the Osoba Political Family from the administration of Prince Dapo Abiodun and which was sold to the Governor by some power mongers and unscrupulous elements who participated actively in the misrule of the state in the past and are now surrounding the Governor like hyenas, ready to pounce on anyone who does not belong to their camp or pay homage. “Meanwhile, Osoba Political Family has patiently observed the activities of these individuals who are conservatively greedy business men and hijackers of power who have succeeded in hijacking the soul of the present administration in Ogun State.”