Dr. Glory Emmanuel Edet is Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Agriculture and Women Affairs. She speaks, in this interview with Tony Anichebe, on efforts by her ministry to boost agriculture in the state as well as implementation of the Child Rights Law. Excerpts:  Perhaps, out of confidence, Governor Udom Emmanuel has given you two big ministries to manage, how do you cope with the big task? Well by God’s special grace, I have been coping very well with the task of handling activities involving the two ministries and other activities outside the ministries. Firstly, I believe when God gives you any position, you are expected to give in your best. My present portfolio is from God through His Excellency Governor Udom Emmanuel. Secondly, I believe in commitment. If God lifts you as a person, you must work hard to justify it and I believe that I am bound to add value to the two ministries. I am a team player and will ensure I carry all my staff along, especially the permanent secretaries and directors of both ministries. I am a very meticulous person who gets firsthand information on important issues not through third party. I personally go to the field to have firsthand knowledge, so that when I want to brief my boss, I do so with precision. I also encourage my staff to work hard because whatever opportunity one has is to serve the society and humanity. Let us start with the Women Affairs Ministry; in your last few years on the saddle, what are the positive changes you have brought there to justify the job given to you by the governor. All glory belongs to God, being the longest serving commissioner for Women Affairs, I have added value to the ministry through new innovations and still adding value till date. It is in this tenure that we have children parliament cut across the entire 31 local government area of the state. Before now, it was only at the state level. The ministry is the one implementing the Child Right Law on behalf of the state government and had been organizing seminars and trainings for members of children parliament. From the children parliament, we get reports of when a child is defiled, raped or hurt in their local schools. They do send texts to us because they have our numbers and we keep confidential, the person who sends in the message because the most important thing to us is to prosecute the offenders in the court. In appreciation of what we are doing, our governor was recently given an award as the Best Child Right implementing Governor in the country because we have not only domesticated the law, but implementing it with seriousness. Before now in this ministry, there was nothing like a gender base violence centre, but today we have one in collaboration with UNPA and we try always to sensitise our women and public on the need to report abuses. Even abuses against men too, we make sure we handle the matter with the attention it deserves, without sentiment. No matter your position in the society, if you abuse a woman or a child, you must face the law because the law is no respecter of man. We have had issues of gender violence and rape cases reported to us and for the NGOs and others working against such issues, this is the mother ministry. Again, before now, women were not that organized on how best to synergise with government, but today, other states are learning from our ingenuity. We have impacted on our women to be useful to themselves and their immediate communities. It is not just about money, but collaborating and sharing useful information that will be of importance to one another. By God’s grace most of our women are impacting their communities. We have been able to inculcate very positive virtues on them. We are also doing retreat and seminars for women because as leaders, they are expected to add value and through constant training, our women learn more on how to address the complex issues affecting our societies. We do hear of maternity homes turning to baby factories, what is your ministry doing about that? We are appealing to the general public, anybody who knows those dealing in sales of children or baby factories should draw our attention immediately. We have closed down many maternity homes and we work in synergy with security agencies on this issue. Once we get information on any hospital or maternity home involvement, we send security agencies after them close it down and arrest all those involved. There is one in Ikot Ekpene and the woman who was arrested is still in prison custody. We had one around Abak/Oruk Anam axis and we shut down the place, once we storm there we evacuate all children found there. Notwithstanding your efforts at implementing the Child Right Law, we still have children going through child labour, hawking on major roads in the state… The implementation of Child Right Law is a collective responsibility. Sometimes I go as a private person along with one staff on a private car to around Itam Market area and ask one of them to help me carry my goods and in the process engage them in interactions. You hear pathetic stories; one of them told us that her stepmother brought and dump him at Itam junction, asking him to remain there because government will come and take care of him. He cannot even trace his way home again. Some said their stepmothers labeled them witches, brought and abandoned here when their fathers have gone to work. That is why we carry out sensitization because nobody knows tomorrow and who will turn out to be the Joseph of the family. They never know who will turn out to give them succor in old age irrespective of whether the person is educated or not. For some of the children, we traced their parents and gave them forms to sign never to allow children return to the street or face persecution. Child labour is a serious crime and government frowns seriously at offenders. The problem of children being labeled witches and gotten victimized by relations was at alarming rate few years back, has that been successfully curbed by government? It was an unfortunate incident. However, if you accuse your child or stepchild of being a witch today, we will charge you to court. In some cases, we invite the person involved, warn and inform him or her of the consequences. Some will apologise and claim ignorance, but you know that ignorance is no excuse before the law. Again, I want to tell people that female circumcision is against the law and if you are caught involving in female genital mutilation, we will charge you straight to court. Our law discourages such acts and I have been encouraging people to feel free to pass information to us with the assurances of confidentiality. Even in the way you discipline your children, if you inflict injuries or serious harm in the name of disciplining your children, we will charge the person to court. One person was brought here some time ago for using hot iron on a child, he said he was disciplining him, but that is child abuse. We encourage parents to discipline their kids properly, but not with objects like rods and machetes which is total abuse and if you do it no matter who you are, we will come after you. During the last administration, a spot called “Maitama” in Ewet Housing was raided by government and ladies were arrested and charged to court. Today, they are still out there doing their business? I led that raid against those ladies at “Maitama” during the past administration. We use to go there and preach to them to quit the illicit business. We use churches to carry out evangelism there. Even at a time I visited there with the wife of the former governor to counsel them in a very polite language to reawaken their conscience of guilt on what they are doing. We use to go with buses and carry them to the Banquet Hall of the government house for counseling and on a particular night, we spend whole night doing that. We interviewed them on the reason for their actions and we discovered that some are from rich background. Some will blame their parents and some cited the maltreatment from their boyfriends for their actions but I told them that such drastic decisions will be more detrimental to them than the man. I told them that while they vowed never to have a permanent man, the man in question is happily married with kids and they are here wasting away. And we gave funds to them to go start businesses for themselves and am glad some still call me to inform me  of the progress they are making but we don’t expose them or remind them of their past by making their identity public. But there are some, who returned to the spot after one week they got empowered, those were the ones we came after because they have no excuses again and we are serious about ending the social malaise. Therefore we arrested and took them to police and the court. Some of these things are encouraged by our men because if they are not patronizing them, they won’t be coming out anymore. If we are to storm there again for such ladies, we will not spare the men either, we will arrest them too. You successfully mobilized women for the governor’s victory in the last election. As commissioner for Agriculture, what do you have in stock for them? The governor has not made any mistake to promote agriculture through women. By God’s grace, as the first female Commissioner for Agriculture in the state, I have started meeting with women on how best to take advantages provided in the Agriculture Ministry by the governor. Over 70 per cent of those who cultivate farms are women. We have reoriented our women’s not to see agriculture as a vocation for the poor. I discovered that there are group of farmers, who have been ignored; vegetable farmers and I invited their leaders to a meeting and will soon give them soft loan during the dry season, so that they plant, harvest and sell. If not for climate change, we ought to be in dry season and the funds will be made available to them. We must also encourage coconut planting among them because of government’s interest on the product and the new Coconut Refinery in the state. Government provided improved seedlings of every needed plant for them free for them to go and cultivate. We got them to register as groups, so that in the next framing season, we will help them with land clearing. One of that issues that discourages new farmers is that of land clearing because of the resources involved, but we will do that for them. What are you doing to ensure that envisaged bumper harvests are not wasted owing to the challenges of preservation, processing and marketing? We have many processing mills, some of the operators of the mills go to the various farm to pick the produce especially those who cannot bring out their produce easily owing to transportation challenges. We want the farmers to have confidence that what they are producing will have people to patronize it and production cannot be complete until it gets to the final consumers. We won’t have any issue with marketing the produce by God’s grace.