The victory of Senator Smart Adeyemi at the Kogi West Senatorial election has effected change in the political landscape of the senatorial district. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the change of baton that didn’t come cheap  The battle for whom to represent the people of Kogi West Senatorial District in the Senate was determined at the second ballot last Saturday as the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate; Senator Smart Adeyemi defeated his main opponent, Senator Dino Melaye of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). With the outcome of the election, Senator Adeyemi has stopped Senator Melaye from extending his stay in the Red Chamber for another four years. The outcome of the election has brought about change of baton in Kogi West Senatorial District. Melaye’s effort to return to the Senate met a brick wall last Saturday, as he lost his re-election bid to Adeyemi, who represented Kogi West in the fourth and fifth assembly between 2007 to 2015. Announcing the final result of the senatorial poll, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer, Prof. Olaide Lawal, from the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, declared that Adeyemi won with 88,373 votes as against 62,133 votes scored by Melaye. The senatorial election was keenly contested between Adeyemi and Melaye as both candidates proved their worth in an election a winner was determined after a supplementary poll. The supplementary election became necessary because INEC declared the November 16 senatorial rerun poll inconclusive. INEC had on Sunday November 17 declared the election, which was held simultaneously with the state governorship poll as inconclusive because the margin of lead between the frontrunners was less than total cancelled votes. While announcing the results of the November 16 senatorial poll, Prof. Lawal, said Adeyemi scored a total of 80,118 votes, while Melaye polled 59,548 votes. He also declared that the margin between the APC candidate and that of the PDP was 20,570. Declaring the election inconclusive, Prof Lawal said he decided not to declare a winner because of the slim margin between the two leading candidates, noting that the margin between both candidates was lower than the 43,127 registered voters in 53 polling units of 20 registration areas in the zone, where elections were canceled. Voting in the 53 polling units, which spread across the seven councils in the senatorial district, was cancelled as a results of violence, killings, ballot snatching, snuffing of ballot boxes and other electoral malpractices, which forced INEC not to reckon with results from some of the polling units. Kogi West Senatorial District is made up of seven out of the state’s 21 local government areas. The councils are Kabba/Bunnu, Ijumu, Lokoja, Kogi/Koton Karfe, Mapomuro, Yagba East and Yagba West. According to results announced by INEC on Sunday November 17, Adeyemi won in five local government areas, while Melaye won in two. The APC candidate won in Kabba/Bunu, Ijumu, Lokoja, Kogi/Koton Karfe and Mapomuro, while his PDP counterpart won in Yagba West and Yagba East. In Lokoja, Kabba/Bunu and Kogi/Koton Karfe, Adeyemi polled 19,788, 15,037 and 14,168 votes, respectively against Melaye’s 12,712, 8,974 and 9,978 votes in the three councils. The APC candidate also won in Ijumu Local Government Area with 11,627 votes to defeat the PDP candidate, who scored 7,647 votes. Adeyemi also coasted home to victory in Mapomuro council by polling 4,874 votes against Melaye’s 3,704 votes. Senator Melaye defeated Adeyemi in Yagba East Local Government Area with 7,745 to 6,683 votes. He also won in Yagba West council, polling 8,980 votes as against APC’s 7,941 votes in the area. The outcome of the election and its declaration as inconclusive led to accusations and counter-accusations between political parties and key players, who blamed each other for disruption of the process and cancellation of results. While some believed that the election was credible, free and fair, others were of the view that it was fraudulent and not a true reflection of the wishes of the electorate. In other to ensure that the process was completed for a winner to emerge, INEC in a statement by its National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Mr. Festus Okoye, on Thursday November 21, said the commission has fixed November 30 for the conduct of supplementary and rerun elections for Kogi West Senatorial District and Ajaokuta Federal Constituency, affecting 22 polling units, respectively. In respect to INEC’s directive, Melaye, his predecessor, Adeyemi and about 20 other candidates returned to the poll last Saturday for the supplementary election. Prior to the supplementary election, many political analysts believed that it is was going to be a test of might between Adeyemi, who is already leading comfortable with 20,570 votes, and Melaye, who is battling to return to the Senate. The supplementary election, which was peaceful and devoid of violence and killings like what happened during the Saturday November 16 governorship and Kogi West Senatorial poll, witnessed low turn out across the polling units where the election took place. Speaking on the low turn out, the Kogi State Residence Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof. James Apam blamed the voters’ apathy in most of the polling units on the failure of political parties to effectively mobilised their supporters to go out and cast their votes. Announcing the results of the supplementary election held in 53 polling units of 20 registration areas across the seven local governments in Kogi West Senatorial District, where elections were canceled on November 16, Adeyemi won in five local governments – Lokoja, Mopamuro, Yagba West, Yagba East and Kabba-Bunu, while Melaye won in Kogi/ Koton Karfe and Ijumu councils. Adeyemi won in Lokoja, Kabba/Bunu and Yagba East with 4,649, 1,901 and 580 votes, respectively as against Melaye’s 920, 546 and 135 votes in the councils. The APC candidate also won in Mopamuro and Yagba West with 309 and 165 votes to defeat the PDP candidate, who scored nine and 22 votes in the councils. Melaye defeated Adeyemi in Ijumu Local Government Area with 577 to 364 votes, and also won in Kogi/Koton Karfe council, polling 376 votes as against APC’s 287 votes in the area. Therefore base on the conclusion of the process, the Returning Officer, Prof. Lawal, declared Adeyemi as senator-elect for Kogi West Senatorial District, having polled total votes of 88,373 votes to defeat Melaye, who got 62,133 votes. The outcome of the election has settled the scores between Melaye and Adeyemi, who have been squaring against each other since 2015 for the Kogi West Senatorial District seat. Senator Adeyemi, a former President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), was first elected to the Senate in April 2007. And on assuming his Senate seat he was appointed to committees on Privatization, Industry, Federal Character and Inter-Government Affairs (Chairman), Federal Capital Territory and Appropriation. He was also appointed vice chairman of the Northern Senators Forum. Adeyemi won the PDP primary to compete for re-election in the April 2011 elections and won the poll but his aspiration to remain in the Senate beyond 2015 was truncated by Melaye, who contested under APC platform. Adeyemi later defected from PDP to APC and served as the Director-General of the Bello/Onoja Campaign Organisation during the Kogi State November 16 governorship election. Melaye was elected into the House of Representatives in 2007 to represent Kabba/Ijumu Federal Constituency and was re-elected in 2011. In 2015, he ran for Kogi West Senatorial District seat on the platform of APC and defeated Adeyemi who was then the incumbent. Due to the internal wrangling in APC, which led to massive defection of some of the party’s chieftains at the federal and state levels, and having fallen out with Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Melaye defected to PDP and contested for a second term during the 2019 general election and was declared winner by INEC. He also contested the Kogi State PDP governorship primaries but lost the party’s ticket to Engr. Musa Wada. While in the Senate, he served in many committees and is a former chairman, Senate Committee of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). But a court of appeal ruling, which sacked him from the Senate, cut his stay in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly short on October 11. Though the contest may have been decided at the poll with the emergence of Adeyemi as the senator-elect, the battle is not yet over between the long-time rivals, as Melaye had already rejected the results and announced his decision to challenged the APC’s candidate in the tribunal. Melaye while reacting to the results in a series of tweets on Sunday, vowed to challenge the result of the election at the election petition tribunal, insisting that he defeated Adeyemi. His words: “I want to specially thank God Almighty that he preserved my life after five attempted assassination, combined forces of security agencies, INEC, federal, state and local government powers. I was fought on land, in the air and spiritually. It was not about election but my life. God I thank you. “I will challenge the temporal and evaporative victory of Adeyemi at the tribunal. Victory attain by violence and fraud is tantamount to defeat..for it is momentary. It is not about Dino Melaye, it is about Nigeria and our electoral system. I stay the course, not over yet. “The reaction of men and women of goodwill all over Nigeria especially the wonderful people of Kogi West who truly voted for me is a testimony that God is with me and with us all. I won the election and Adeyemi remains my political wife. Thank you Nigerians. Victory is certain. “The forces against me are not beyond God. People should not worry about me; I am fine and will always be. I just thank God that the plan to kill me did not succeed. A living dog is better than a dead Lion. I thank God for life. My name is Daniel; I cannot fall or fail.” Barring any last minute change of situation, Senator Adeyemi is expected to be swear in at the Senate before end of the month but his continuous stay at the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly would be determine by the tribunal or appellate court depending on how far Melaye wants to go in challenging the election of the new senator for Kogi West Senatorial District.