Foremost rights group, Access to Justice (A2J), has filed a suit against the National Judicial Council (NJC) following an alleged meeting convened by the NJC to consider nominees for appointment to the Supreme Court Bench.  A2J said that it had on 27th November, 2019, filed an action against the Federal Judicial Service Commission, and the National Judicial Council.  According to its Director, Joseph Otteh, in a statement, regardless of their persistent defiance of the 2014 Appointment Guidelines, the respondent at the meeting recommended four Justices of the Court of Appeal- Justices Adamu Jauro, Emmanuel A. Agim, C. Oseji and Helen M. Ogunwumiju- for elevation and appointment as Justices of the Supreme Court.  Otteh said that the suit was filed at the Abuja division of the Federal High Court as No. FHC/ABJ/CS/1460/2019, while naming Justice Tanko Muhammed, the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan, the President of the Nigerian Senate and President Muhammadu Buhari, as respondents.  He said: “This lawsuit is the latest in the series of steps taken by the applicant (A2Justice) as part of a longstanding advocacy to reform judicial appointment processes in Nigeria and ensure that judicial selection procedures are conducted transparently, competitively and are merit-based as well as meet required standards of integrity.  “More particularly, that judicial appointment processes comply faithfully with the provisions of the National Judicial Councils Extant Revised Guidelines and Procedural Rules for the Appointment of Judicial Officers of All Superior Courts of Record in Nigeria and the National Judicial Policy 2016.  “These two instruments were, incidentally, made and adopted by the National Judicial Council.   “The reliefs sought by the suit include; declarations that the 1st respondent (Federal Judicial Service Commission) did not fully, and in materials particular comply with the aforesaid Judicial Appointment Guidelines, particularly with respect to making a public call for expression of interest in the vacant positions and notifying the Nigerian Bar Association of the vacancies and calling for nominations before it drew up a list of candidates it submitted to the National Judicial Council for the latter’s consideration for appointment as Supreme Court Justices which the National Judicial Council considered at its meeting of the 22nd and 23rd October, 2019 and;   “An order of the Honourable Court quashing the list of candidates submitted by the Federal Judicial Service Commission (1st respondent) to the 2nd respondent (National Judicial Council) for consideration as Supreme Court Justices.”