 The Power Station Components valued at $35 million belonging to the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) abandoned at the Port Harcourt port in Rivers State since 2017 was yesterday uncovered by the Interim Management Committee (IMC). This was as the IMC, led by the Acting Executive Director of Projects, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, and Executive Director of Finance and Administration, Chief Bassey Etang, on receiving a report on the NDDC Cargo immediately visited the port in Port Harcourt in Rivers State to inspect the abandoned equipment meant for NDDC sub-station in Ekparagwa and Ikot Epkene in Akwa Ibom State. Addressing newsmen during the inspection of the facilities, Ojougboh thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for inaugurating the IMC, saying the new board would have continued on the same pattern of maladministration like the former Boards. He said: “First, I thank Mr. President for bringing in the IMC. I know that the new board coming in would have continued in this same pattern. But, this time, there is a call for change and the change is positive. “More credits to Mr. President. It is very unfortunate that since the equipment was imported in 2017, no official of the Commission or Managing Director of the NDDC has ever come to this place. You can see where a project, valued about $35 million has ended. But, I want to assure you that the IMC will resuscitate and complete the project. “You can see that there has been a deviation from the master plan of the NDDC to the extent that every management that comes will start on a new course and thereby abandon the projects of the previous administrations. But this time around, we have come to realise that the government is a continuum. So, we are concentrating on the legacy projects of the NDDC so that the people of the Niger Delta region will know that indeed there is NDDC in the area.” Also, the Head of Marketing Department, Ports and Terminal Operations, Adaku Ugochukwu, said the equipment were the components of power station brought in to the ports since 2017. Ugochukwu added that no officials of NDDC has visited the facility to inspect the equipment. He noted: “We do not know why the owners have not come to clear the equipment because, as a terminal, we are bordered about space. Every terminal needed space to do its business, but the equipment has been abandoned here. Since 2017, we have been looking for how to make the people that brought the equipment to take them. No NDDC official has come for the equipment, this would be the first time that officials, led by the Interim Management Committee would be coming to inspect the NDDC Cargo since 2017.” On his part, the Executive Director of Finance and Administration (EDFA), Etang, expressed dismay that NDDC equipment shipped into the port since 2017 are still lying fallow at the port. “There is serious need to question why the items are still here. We are here to see things for ourselves and make sure that we evacuate the items as soon as possible because the equipment, we understand, are meant for the NDDC sub-station in Ekparagwa and Ikot Epkene. “So, we will see what we can do about the equipment. From the Batch Numbers, you can see NDDC to confirm that they are really NDDC’s equipment. Mr. President brought us in to restore sanity to the NDDC and that is why we are here to stop corruption and ensure that proper thing is done,” he noted.