The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, explained that the Ninth Senate was in a hurry to deliver on some of the targets set in its legislative agenda, in order to beat the 2023 political season, which might slow down governance. Lawan gave this explanation at the end-of-the-year get-together/award ceremony, organised by the Senate management for the staff of the Senate. He said: “We came with our own ideas, our own agenda as Distinguished Senators of the Ninth Senate. “We passed our agenda.  What we intend to do as Senators to enhance good governance in Nigeria is to make Nigeria better for the citizens. And, of course, the way we want to go is different from the way of the past because perhaps the goals and targets are different. “And we are also in a hurry.  We know the need for us to act fast. Time is of essence. In the next two years or so, the Nigerian political landscape will be dotted by people campaigning for presidency, for governorship and the rest of it. And that will in a way cause some disruption or slowdown in governance. “So between now and the next two years we have told ourselves that we have to work hard to ensure that, as a legislature, we are able to perform our roles creditably to enable government function very well for Nigerians.  And that is what we have been trying to do. The President of the Senate said that by the time the lawmakers returned from their break in January, the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), which appeared to have defied passage and the constitutional amendment which is a continuous exercise, would be addressed. “The mode of operation of this current Senate is: we don’t give space. We don’t create any space in the middle. We just want it done and done away with it,” he said.  Lawan thanked the staff for their dedication, hard work and noted that they are so significant to the achievement so far recorded by the Senate. “We are supposed to celebrate you. That is why I’m here because we have put all of you to test when we came in. The first test we had for ourselves as Senators and you as supporting staff was the screening of the Presidential ministerial nominees. “We were supposed to go on break, but we held back for one week and it was a very exhaustive week. We sat up to about 8p.m. from morning.  We succeeded because you were there for us. “And the subsequent activities including, of course, the budget that we have just passed. The National Assembly turned into a beehive of activities right from the day we said the budget defence will start and the budget defence will end. Most of you were always in the National Assembly. You worked so hard. You made us to succeed,” he said.  Clerk to the National Assembly (CNA), Alhaji Mohammed Sani-Omolori also commended the staff and assured them that the management would continue to strive hard to meet their needs within the available resources.  “We have never, as a management, failed to acknowledge the fact that we are within a very serious constraint. But what we have said is that, whatever is due to you, you will get it, within the context of the available resources,” Omolori said.  Clerk of the Senate, Nelson Ayewoh, assured the staff that the get-together had become an annual event. The highpoint of the event was the presentation of the 2019 Senate President Award to Usman Labaran Gumama for his dedication to duty, vigilance, valour and enforcement of security at the National Assembly complex.