In a sweeping success, Stallion Motors was early this week conferred with four prestigious awards by the Nigerian Auto Journalists Association (NAJA) amongst an array of auto players.  This came as the firm in a statement described as fake news the report that trended last Thursday in several online platforms that it showrooms and headquarters was shut down by a court order over N330 billion it own Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria including Assess Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON). Mr. Anant Badjatya, group ceo, Stallion Motors, in a statement released on Friday stated that the news was completely baseless and false.  He explained that a few of their rented & leased properties were affected in the shut down because of the court’s ex parte order, which was done without any notice. While stating that they will be unable to comment further on the matter because it’s under judicial consideration of which their legal team has appropriately taken it up with the judiciary.  The statement further stated that the company has banking lines with local banks for regular business operations like all other major conglomerates in Nigeria and clarifies that it does not owe N330B to the banks as specified by the media report. According to the statement, “we enjoy a very good customer loyalty across businesses and have a sound financial position with more than N750 billion in assets with approximately N150 billion liabilities, most of which is a receivable from Federal Government, which translates into a very healthy debt to equity ratio.  “We are poised for further expansion with investments across business divisions; agriculture, aqua culture, auto, flexible packaging, logistics, business solutions Meanwhile, Stallion’s VON was awarded, ‘The best assembler and manufacturer of the year’. Honda Accord was clearly the favourite choice for “The Best Executive Car of the Year’. Hyundai was chosen as the “The highest selling brand of the year” and the fairly new, yet the formidable player Changan was awarded the “Fastest Emerging brand of the Year”.  Stallion group’s automobile division consists of a collective sub-group of companies which represent globally renowned automobile brands on an exclusive basis for distribution, sales and aftersales service. Stallion group represents these brands through independent management and collectively contribute to over 49 per cent share of the new automobiles market in Nigeria.  The company in reaction to the award said the best assembler and manufacturer award to Stallion’s VON is a testimony to the investment done by the organisation to get global brands to the Nigerian customers that are locally produced and are best suited for these roads. It disclosed that the assembly plant has an annual capacity of 200,000 units and 6 dedicated lines for passenger cars and 2 for commercial vehicles. The company employs hundreds of employees in the sector and has invested more than N 130 billion in auto sector from manufacturing to sales to service and after sales.