M atch Day 17 of the English Premier League continues today with three games and all six managers hoping to make a statement with their respective sides on what can be dubbed ‘Super Sunday’   In action in the early kick offs are Manchester United, which is hosting Everton, while Tottenham Hotspur is at the Molineux Stadium to tackle Wolverhampton Wanderers and in the late game Arsenal welcomes champions Manchester City to The Emirates.   For Ole Gunner Solskjaer this afternoon is an opportunity to further cement his standing with United fans following his impressive victories over Tottenham and City all within the space of three days – matches perhaps only the die-hard Red Devils fan had any belief that he could get a result.   Following two uninspiring performances against Sheffield United and Aston Villa, in which United got only two points, the tabloids had gone to town that the 46-year-old former striker had called his players together and told them that should he lose both games (Spurs and City) he would be out of job.   Whether there was any truth in the report or not, United fans were treated to glimpses of the side they were used to under legendary Sir Alex Ferguson as Ole engineered victories over more experienced coaches in the persons of Jose Mourinho (Spurs) and Pep Guardiola (City).   And both wins were not flukes as Ole’s wards were deserved winners, especially with professional manner they carried out the wins.   Incidentally, Mourinho’s return to Old Trafford threatened to expose Solskjaer for what many claim him to be; an out-of-his-depth manager with little more than the goodwill of a fan base indebted to him for his legendary status at the club. That accusation has been thrown at Solskjaer after every bad result but the reality is that he’s outwitted some of the game’s best managers during his 12 months at Old Trafford and Mourinho was added to the list. United’s 2-1 win against Spurs was arguably the best performance under Solskjaer since he permanently took over. His side had at last combined purposeful, counter-attacking play with defensive solidity and they would have kept a clean sheet had it not been for a wonder goal from Dele Alli. That United were able to raise their game against a top six rivals, especially one with Mourinho now at the helm, was no surprise. Solskjaer’s record against the top six since he’s arrived at the club is outstanding and only Jurgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola have bettered it in that time.   But not many could have scripted what happened a few days later at the Etihad, when for 45 minutes, United dominated City like no side has managed in their own backyard since Pep Guardiola took over the reins of the team from the blue half of the city some three years ago.  In truth, City had lost just four league games at home under the Spaniard before Saturday’s defeat and while the likes of Chelsea and previous United sides had come away with victories, nobody has made the champions look as ordinary as Solskjaer’s men did during that first half.   A number of outstanding saves from City’s Brazilian international, Ederson ensured that the Citizens were only two down at the break.  Naturally City stepped up their game in the second half and were rewarded with a late bullet headed goal from defender, Nicolas Otamendi; while David De Gea had to be at his best to deny Riyad Mahrez from salvaging a point for City, as a collective the Red Devils ensured that largely although City dominated the ball they did so without creating many clear chances.  This afternoon Ole goes up against a manager that is equally determined to lay down a marker in the person of Duncan Ferguson.  The former Everton striker, now 47 and who retired in 2006 years ago, was thrust into the hot seat last weekend following the sacking of Marco Silva.  Ferguson passed his first test in the dugout in flying colours engineering a stunning 3-1 win over Chelsea ending a run of three straight defeats under the now departed Silva.  Man enough to know that he might not be in charge for a long time, however, naturally Ferguson will also relish the opportunity to win as many matches as possible – after all there is no harm in laying down a marker for a possible future shot at another managerial chance.  The Toffees on display last weekend was a completely different proposition to previous Everton sides as they chased and harried Chelsea players all game.  Ole can expect another such performance from the visitors this afternoon as they strive to upset the home side at every opportunity.  The Norwegian will also be acutely aware that it was this same side that inflicted his heaviest defeat since he became United manger – 4-0 on April 21 at Goodison Park.  He will, however, no doubt be buoyed by his side’s impressive Thursday night performance in the Europa League, where a largely second string United thrashed AZ Alkmaar 4-0 to top their group and safely secure passage to the knock out stage. Topping the group ensures that they will avoid Benfica, Ajax and Inter Milan in Monday’s last-32 draw.  The victory was United’s third in a row in all competitions, coming after impressive triumphs against Tottenham and Manchester City.   It is only the third time United have done that since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer began his spell as United manager with eight successive wins after he replaced Jose Mourinho on 19 December last year.   The opening period lacked a competitive edge but Solskjaer will be delighted at the way it turned out, particularly as, from the team that started against Manchester City, only Harry Maguire and Martial kept their places.   This is crucial as, with a Carabao Cup quarter-final against Colchester in which they are overwhelming favourites, Solskjaer’s side were starting what could turn out to be 19 games in 77 days, which will end with the second leg of their Europa League last-32 tie.   Speaking afterwards a delighted coach said of the performance of Greenwood and his team in general: “The lad’s a natural finisher, he’s always done it.  “He’s good with both feet and always composed. He probably just needs to develop his heading. Seriously, though, to change nine players and still win so comfortably is a great credit to the players.”  In the second game of the afternoon Nuno Espírito Santo will try to outwit Mourinho when he arrives with Spurs, which bounced back in emphatic fashion from the 2-1 loss to Manchester United with a clinic 5-0 demolition of Burnley.   But the former United boss knows he will not have such fun at the Molineux, because Santo’s side is equally on a role having overcome their early season blues in which they failed to win any of their first six Premier League games and appeared to struggle with juggling domestic and Europa League commitments.   But Nuno Espirito Santo’s side have roared back impressively since recording their first Premier League win of the season on September 28, when they beat Watford. Now they have gone 11 unbeaten – their longest unbeaten run in the top flight since 1962 and are looking well placed to challenge for a top-six finish.   Wolves like United was in Europa League action on Thursday night and just like the Manchester club triumphed 4-0 over Besiktas to book their passage to the knock out stage, with their coach delighted with their form.   “The first game at home we did not play so good,” reflected Nuno. “But progressively through the competition we have got better and it took us to the knockout stages. We are delighted to be there.”  This was Wolves’ 30th match of what has already been a memorable season. Acknowledging the demands his team face, Nuno omitted several key players so they could prolong the recuperation that began with three days’ warm-weather training in Marbella this week.   Thus Wolves should be in good stead squaring up against Spurs this afternoon.  Match Day 17 rounds off with Arsenal hosting champions Manchester City in the evening kick off.   In years past this would undoubtedly have been the tie of the weekend, but with the Gunners having last won the title 15 years ago in recent time the fixture has lost its shine with visiting side often emerging victorious.   However, in recent time City too has appeared to have lost its way slipping 14 points behind leaders, Liverpool in the wake of last Sunday’s 2-1 home defeat to cross city rivals United.   This is the furthest a Pep Guardiola’s side has ever been since he started coaching, which is clearly unfamiliar territory for him.  The former Bayern and Barcelona manager, however, knows that whatever very faints hopes he has off hauling Liverpool in will be totally extinguished should City fail to win today; which should ensure that the intensity lacking last weekend will be on display this evening.   But with the Gunners finally showing some improvement under their stand in manager, Freddie Ljungberg, intensity alone might not be enough to ensure a win for the visitors.   With so many managers having points to prove today, football fans should be in for another afternoon of thrills and chills and nail-biting excitement from the world’s most watched league.