From Muhammad Kabir, Kano President Muhammadu Buhari has waded into the lingering crises that is rocking the Kano Emirate Council caused by the strained relationship between Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II by backing the setting up of an eight-man committee headed by a former Head of State General Abdulsalami Abubakar to reconcile both men. The face-off between the two has caused serious tension within the state, with likely consequences on peace and security in the state. However, a group of Northern elders, under the chairmanship of General Abdulsalami Abubakar (GCFR) has been formed to intervene in the crisis, with a view to bringing about, full reconciliation, and effective resolution of the matter. According to a release, personally signed by a prominent Northern elder, Adamu Fika (Wazirin Fika), a  former SGF and Head of Civil Service, two state governors are also members of the committee. They are Governor Kayode Fayemi (who is also the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum) and his Katsina State counterpart, Aminu Bello Masari. Other members of the committee include, Alhaji Adamu Fika (who is the secretary), Gen. Muhammadu Inuwa Wushishi (rtd), Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim (SAN), Dr. Dalhatu Sarki Tafida, Dr. Umaru Mutallab, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari and Sheikh Sharif Ibrahim Saleh. In the release, which was issued late Sunday,  Alhaji Fika said the committee is working with the full understanding and cooperation of the Federal Government and initial contact has been made with the Governor of Kano, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, as well as with the Emir of Kano, Sarki Muhammadu Sanusi II. Both parties are said to have agreed to stop taking any further action until the committee has fully undertaken and finalised this exercise of reconciliation and resolution. “Similarly, both men have respectively undertaken to call on all their supporters and sympathisers, including social media operators, to refrain from making statements, declarations, songs, articles, blogs and all actions inimical to the spirit and process of good governance, order and reconciliation. We call on everyone to hearken to the call of their principals. “May God Almighty continue to bless our country, grant us greater peace and prosperity, and may He bless, guide and protect our leaders. Amin,” the statement concluded. 