Over $60 billion worth of transactions have taken place on the Investors and Exporters (I&E) foreign exchange window since it was established by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on April 2017. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, disclosed this yesterday at the opening of the 2019 Bankers’ Committee Retreat, taking place in Ogere, Ogun State. The CBN governor stated that the country’s foreign exchange reserves, which are currently at $39 billion, compared with $23billion in October 2016, could finance 9 months of current import commitments. Emefiele also attributed the huge volume of transactions on the I&E window to the impact of the apex bank’s tight monetary policy regime, as well as its measures aimed at ensuring attractive yields in the money market, He also noted that the CBN’s measures had resulted in the naira-dollar exchange rate remaining stable at the I&E window over the past 30 months at N360 – $1, adding that there had been significant convergence in the exchange rate across the various market windows. Furthermore, Emefiele, stated that since the financial crisis, the country’s financial system was now in a much stronger position as capital buffers and liquidity in the banking system had continued to improve. Specifically, he pointed out that: “Industry wide Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) has increased from 10.2 percent in Dec. 2017 to 15.5 percent in September 2019. The percentage of non-performing loans in the banking sector has declined from its high of 14.7 per cent in January 2017 to under seven percent as at October 2019.” He also noted that credit conditions in the banking system had improved in recent months due to the CBN’s new policy measures, which require banks to maintain a minimum 65 per cent Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) coupled with the new policy which allows lenders to recover delinquent loans from a customer’s accounts in other banks. “As a result, gross credit increased by N1.16 trillion between May and October 2019. These measures have placed our banks in a much better position towards supporting a stronger economic recovery,” Emefiele said. He, however, stated that despite the positive indicators, the nation was still far from its potential as GDP growth rate remained below estimated annual population growth of 2.6 per cent. In addition, he noted that although headline inflation had moderated, it was still above the CBN band of six to nine per cent, even as unemployment continues to be a challenge. The CBN boss pointed out that this year’s Retreat titled, “Delivering Inclusive Growth: Leveraging Digital Finance” comes at a critical time in our nation’s history, when efforts are being made by the monetary and fiscal authorities to structurally rebalance and diversify the Nigerian economy.” While noting that this could be achieved by leveraging digital finance tools in supporting growth across key sectors of the economy, including agriculture, manufacturing and the creative industries, Emefiele, however, said this would require Nigerians having unique identification numbers. He said: “This is important in order to verify the identity of individuals and to avoid duplicity. It enhances the comfort level of financial 16 institutions in providing services to verifiable entities through digital channels. “Even when they possess mobile devices, individuals in rural communities may be unable to provide unique identification numbers that are required to open accounts and ewallets.”