The 2019 governorship election in Bayelsa State has come and gone, but PAULINE ONYIBE reports that it is one that will linger in the memories of many, given the intrigues that altered the political equation in the oil-rich state   Unlike what happened in 2015 Bayelsa State during the general elections, when women stood their ground in places like Southern Ijaw that another party will not succeed, but the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the same women and this time, the youth and in fact, almost all Bayelsans, agreed that they didn’t want the PDP again in the November 16 governorship poll. Even in former President Goodluck Jonathan’s local government area, a supposed leader of the PDP in Nigeria, the outcome was not different as the All Progressives Congress (APC) also won. The PDP governorship in the 2015 election, Seriake Dickson defeated his APC counterpart, Timipre Sylva, by polling 134,998 votes against the latter’s 86,852 votes. Of course, it wasn’t an easy win for Dickson then, but the electorate helped him pull through, though then President Jonathan, who was instrumental to his rise to power, played a major role. The PDP had been in power in Bayelsa State for about 20 years since the advent of democratic rule in 1999 and the people of the state were not ready to give another party a chance in the recent November 16 election. However, the PDP ran in to trouble waters, when it failed to manage its primaries that led to the emergence of its candidate for the poll. As a result of what many described as assurance from Governor Dickson to the numerous aspirants, who showed interest in the party’s ticket, PDP raked in about N420 million from purchase of nomination forms. Each of the nomination forms cost a whopping N21 million naira and 21 aspirants picked the forms. They were Oliver Tariela, Kaniebi Okoko, Great Joshua Maciver, Franklin Osaisai, Ndutimi Alaibe, Benson Agadaga, Fredrick Agbedi, Reuben Okoya, Douye Diri, Talford Ongolo, Kemela Okara, Gboribiogha John Jonah, Benson Konbowei, Godknows Igali, Johnson Kiyaramo, Paulker Emmanuel, Anthony George-Ikoli, Robinson Etolor, Nimibofa Ayawei, David Alagoa and Igiri Ziperedein. But, their displeasure with the way the PDP primary was conducted made some of the aspirants like Tmi Alaibe who felt cheated to head to the court to challenge the outcome. The former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) came second in the primary with 561 votes. His argument was that the then eight newly inaugurated local government chairmen and the 105 councilors, who voted during the primary, were not legible to vote. Though he didn’t leave the party, it was so glaring that most of his supporters left and those who stayed were not there in spirit and in truth. Also a gale of defection hit the party when the governor made the party members to understand that there was restoration caucus which eventually produced the candidate. Those, who left felt there was no need staying back since there was division in the party. One of the persons, who left PDP that also contributed to the defeat of the party, was Gabriel Jonah, who has been one of the forces keeping PDP in Nembe local government. Jonah led thousands of his ‘Otita Force’ members to the APC. Also, Senator Nimi Barigha Amange, also dumped the PDP for the APC. Abenego Don Evarada and Helen Bob all former aides to the governor also dumped the party for the APC. A former member of the state House of Assembly, Parkinson Markmanuel, Glad Stone Amabibi, Abadani Dick, Omonibeke Kemelayefa and Robert Enogha among other prominent PDP members left, but the governor still assured the remaining members that such won’t stop PDP from winning the governorship election. Jonah left because of the ill-fated treatment he felt was done to his elder brother, who is also the deputy governor of the state. Nembe people also felt that the governor should have supported his deputy to take over from him instead of another person and he felt slighted which has made him to somehow abandon the restoration since after the primaries. The deputy governor has not been seen in the public performing any government function since that time. This, perhaps, explained why the people of Nembe warned PDP not to come anywhere close to their area and the crisis when the party went to the local government during the campaigns. There were also issues over the choice of PDP’s deputy governorship candidate. The argument was that since the governor who claimed to be the leader of PDP in Bayelsa State has made his choice of the governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri, some stakeholders felt that the deputy governor should have come from Ogbia – former President Jonathan’s local government area. Other stakeholders felt that the governor shouldn’t have also picked the deputy governorship candidate after choosing the governorship candidate. They complained that the governor exhibited highhandedness and felt belittled. Even some of the aspirants, who contested the primary, disappeared with just two or three of them supporting Senator Diri. All the governors’ effort it was learnt was to make way for him to get to the senate after his tenure as the governor of the state. Amidst the discomfort within the party, Jonathan didn’t say a word because it was learnt that he tried talking to Governor Dickson on the need to allow Alaibe fly the party’s flag but did not succeed. Even when the governor was told by other stakeholders that Senator Diri was not “a marketable candidate,” he reportedly didn’t listen to anybody as a result the former president kept quite hence APC won in his local government. The, perhaps, explained why most political analysts and observers in the state and even beyond, were quick to insist that the PDP lost the election because of the peoples’ protest votes in favour of APC. To these analysts and observers, it was the desire of most Bayelsans to vote out PDP because of what they termed the highhandedness of the PDP administration. The electorate, including those staying in areas prone to flooding, defied the rain on election day and came out en mass to exercise their franchise. At Opolo, women were seen chanting APC with their brooms. In the market and the streets of Yenagoa, it was the decision of many to try another party and they made good their decision by voting massively for APC. After APC’s victory, it was wild jubilation across the state as residents celebrated the coming of the APC. Lyon won in six out of the state’s eight local government areas, while senator Diri won in two local government areas. Lyon polled 352,552 votes to defeat Diri, who polled 143,172 votes. The six local government areas won by the APC are Brass; Nembe; Ogbia, Southern Ijaw, Ekeremor and Yenagoa, while the PDP won in the Sagbama and Kolokuma/Opokuma local government areas. In Sagbama  local government area, the APC polled 7, 831 votes while the PDP scored 60,339 votes. In Nembe, APC got 83,041 votes, while the PDP polled 874 votes. In Kolouma/Opokuma, the APC scored 8,934 votes, while the PDP scored 15,360 votes. In Brass, APC got 23,831 votes, while the PDP polled 10,410 votes. APC scored 24,607 votes in Yenagoa, while the PDP got 19,184 votes. In Ogbia, APC got 58,016 votes, while PDP polled 13,763 votes. In Southern Ijaw Local Government, the APC candidate polled 124,803 votes, while his PDP rival got 4,898 votes. Lyon also defeated Diri in Ekeremor by polling 21,489 to the PDP’s candidate’s 18,344 votes. No doubt, Bayelsans desired change and they got it. However, the change did not come that easy as lots of political intrigues and political horse-trading defined it.