Remilekun Adams is an alumnus of Ondo State owned Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko. Adams, who was called to Bar in 2017, speaks  with FOLUSO OGUNMODEDE on her foray into Law profession   Background  My name is Remilekun Adams, an ambitious, driven and industrious legal practitioner. I hail from Akoko South-West Local Government Area of Ondo State in Nigeria. I completed my primary education at L’ecole Nursery and Primary school, Akure, in Ondo State and proceeded to TOFAS International College for my secondary education and thereafter to Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko.  Following my LL.B in 2016, I proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Bwari, Abuja in 2017 and was successfully called to the Bar the same year. I am a member of the Nigerian Bar Association.  Choice of career I chose law because that has always been my life’s dream. While growing up, I had a knack for settling quarrels and disputes among my peers; it was something I did effortlessly. More so, I did very well in my arts and social science subjects in Secondary school. I believe that law is the fundamental of life and liberty.  I chose to study law for the academic challenge, for me, a career in law is intellectually challenging and personally fulfilling. Law is not just a profession; it is a medium through which I can serve my nation and people. When I gained admission to study law in the university, I began to enjoy the course in no small measure, although I found some of them quite challenging (Contract Law) in particular, however, my interest in it made the challenges easy for me to surmount.  While in the university, I was an executive in the Community Justice Group, an arm of the Akungba Law Clinic, a group responsible for sensitizing the indigents about the importance of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR). I was motivated to practice law in order to improve my standard, analytical skills and knowledge, being an intellectually stimulating career path, my goal is to be able to provide pragmatic and lasting solutions to people’s legal problems in the fastest and easiest way possible.  Pupillage  Before I was admitted to practice law, I did not intern with any law firm.  However, during short holidays the school had, I had opportunity of carrying out court externship at the magistrate’s and High Court in the state.  I was exposed first hand to the day-to-day business of the court, I learnt a lot about the rules of court, how to address Judicial Officers in court, the mode of dressing in court, the general demeanor of lawyers in court. In partial fulfillment of being admitted to the Nigerian Bar, I also carried out my two months externship programme at Wale F.Omotosho & Co, a law firm where I was exposed to the dynamics of legal practice.  Upon being called to the Bar, I proceeded to observe my one year National Youth Service Corps programme in the law firm of Babatunde Oni & Co., a top flier firm with offices in Lagos and Ibadan, providing optimum legal services in litigation, property & real estate and corporate/commercial practices. After my youth service, I proceeded to Jejelola & Jejelola & associates law firm where I am presently an associate in the firm’s property & real estate, corporate/commercial practices.  Judiciary  In recent times, there has been much concern about the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of the judicial system. In particular, there has been waning confidence in the performances of the superior courts in regards to justice delivery, such concerns are quite alarming.  Secondly, Justice delivery system has been slow; it is quite appalling to know that there has been unnecessary delay as it has to do with dispensation of cases especially in courts of first instance for as much as 12 years. There is a perception that the judiciary may not be able to satisfactorily dispense with all the matters pending before it in good time, hence, leading to a deficiency in the way justice is being served, knowing full well that justice must not only be seen to be done but manifestly done.  There are also problems like the independence of the judiciary, quality of judgment, inadequacy of resources needed for the judiciary to provide efficient administration of justice, among other problems.  It is my humble opinion that a strong and formidable judicial policy be put in place, one that would guide and provide principles for dealing with issues and providing actions for long lasting solutions to the problems. The Bar as we have it is not left out of the equation, I will advise that lawyers should be up and doing and be readily available to ensure that their cases do not linger for too long. Separation of powers  The 1999 Constitution (as amended) upholds the classification or division of powers among the three arms of government; the legislature, the executive and the judiciary in Sections 4, 5, and 6. In this regards, while the legislature makes the laws, the executive implements them, while the judiciary is for the interpretation of the laws and its adjudication.  The aim is to avoid dictatorship and tyranny. The concentration of powers in one arm of government may lead to dictatorship and arbitrary rule, therefore there is the need to avoid the concentration of power in one arm of government, and for one arm of government to be independent of the other such that there will be no interference or control among the arms of government.  However, looking intently at the judiciary in Nigeria in recent times, the independence of the judiciary is being threatened in so many ways; it has been largely influenced by the executive arm in carrying out its function.  The role of the judge is best described as appreciated in the words of R. Ekpu when he said, “when you look at the courts today and you find judges who are willing to turn the law topsy turvy in order to serve interests other than those of justice, then the courage of a few who realise that they are sitting on the throne of God and that the only expectation is that they should do justice to all manner of men, strikes you deeply, for indeed the seat of a judge is the throne of God.” However, I believe that in years to come, the judiciary will truly be able to assert its independence and function strictly based on the rule of law. Court orders  It is trite that the rule of law must be obeyed by all persons irrespective of the power they wield and their positions in government. An order of court binds the one to whom the order is made until set aside. If the government of a nation or the executive arm of government of a nation which boasts of the supremacy of the rule of law constantly and flagrantly disregards or disobeys court orders, then that nation is already in a state of lawlessness and anarchy, and the life of the citizens under such government is likely to be brutish and nasty. Death penalty for rapist, others  On the issue of propriety or otherwise of death penalty, I hold very strongly that penalty is appropriate only for the offence of murder; he who kills by the sword should die by the sword. However, I do not think that death penalty is appropriate for other offences. The criminal justice system in Nigeria has laid down four, five purposes of criminal punishment. They are:  Retribution: which serves to prevent future crime by removing the desire for personal avengement thereby assisting the offended in avenging the crime by just punishment provided under the law. Deterrence serves to prevent future crime by frightening the defendant or the public thereby preventing further acts of crime.  Restitution is also a future prevention of crime by punishing the defendant financially. Incapacitation is a prevention of crime by removing the defendant from society either by incarceration or the death penalty.  Rehabilitation is a future prevention of crime by altering the behaviour of the defendant through the introduction of vocational and educational programs which aims at making the defendant better and useful to the society.  Going by all these, I do not see the need to punish certain offences which are not anywhere close to capital offences by death; it is simply inappropriate. Every punishment should serve its own purpose according to the gravity of such offence otherwise certain offence simply need to toe the line of punishment by utilizing the appropriate methods and do not need the punishment of death.