 A woman, seen in a viral video hurling an underage maid to the ground in manner depicting intent to kill, has disappeared.   The incident, which occurred in Enugu State, has left many social media users, who watched the video, nonplussed and outraged. The maid appears to be between ages four and five.  The police, who are now in possession of the video, have launched manhunt for the woman.   The seven-minute video shows the lady levying aggravated assault on the hapless maid. She first grabbed the girl, raised her up and angrily hurled her to the ground. While the child was still writhing in pain, she pounced and rained blows on her.   Although the identity of the woman is yet unknown, her sister has been identified. The incident in the viral video occurred after the woman, who is now on the run, visited her sister who lives at New Haven Extension, Enugu. When our correspondent visited the residence, some people seen in the compound declined giving information about the particular lady whose visiting sister was caught on video maltreating her maid.   But when our correspondent visited New Haven Police Station, one of the police officers said that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) was not around. The policeman, however, confirmed that the station had received a report about the video and the woman’s brutality towards her maid.   The officer informed our correspondent that a Human Rights Activist, Daniel Onyeonagu (a barrister), brought the report following which police commenced investigation. When contacted on the phone, the DPO, Adamu Garba, confirmed the receipt of the complaint.   He said: “We are working with Good Samaritans who will help us to identify the woman. We are on it. We will get her soon.”   Onyeonagu told our correspondent that he was at Eke Town in Udi Local Government Area of Enugu State, along with some policemen and members of the town’s vigilantes, trying to track the country home of the husband of the sister to the woman that committed the act.   He said that the woman in question remained elusive and could only be identified through the man from Eke, whose wife “is a sister to the elusive suspect”.   Onyeonagu said they were yet to locate the family compound of the man, identified only as Ejike, from a royal family.   He said he had already contacted the landlord to the said Ejike at New Haven Extension Residence in Enugu but that the landlord could only remember the first name and not the surname which could have made it easier for him to track the Ejike down in the village.   He, however, informed our correspondent that police had already invited Ejike to the police station on Monday (today).   He promised to be at the police station and to follow the matter to ensure that the little girl was rescued and the woman punished.   He said: “I have just spoken with the landlord, Mr. Emeka Oranezi. To a great extent, he assisted me on how to trace the woman.  The woman doesn’t even live in the yard.  She came to visit her sister. The child she abused is her sister’s house help. Her sister is a lawyer married to Mr. Ejike from Eke in Udi Local Government Area, Enugu State.  Ejike, whose surname the landlord couldn’t remember, is from a royal family in Eke.”