 •Warn against replacing Nigerian doctors with foreigners  •‘We must rise against Act that allows patient’s organ theft’   Medical practitioners, pharmacists and other stakeholders in medical sciences across the country have warned that Lacuna in Nigeria’s National Health Act 2014, will encourage human tissues, eggs and organs theft should the Minister of Health allows the establishment of 260 foreign specialist hospitals across the country to man the country’s health sector. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports  F ew weeks after the Health Minister, Osagie Ehanire, said Nigeria will employ the services of medical experts from Europe and America to curb medical tourism and improve the country’s healthcare system, stakeholders in Nigeria are currently calling for stiff opposition to the decision, saying it would worsen the already damaged situation in the country.   The stakeholders in medical sciences and other health practitioners across the country also call on Nigerians to rise up and fight against certain sections of the current National Health Act (NHA), which deny a patient right of consent during a medical emergency, to clearly state that only the donor can permit organ transplant and harvest.   The stakeholders were reacting to the current Federal Government move to bring in foreign medical doctors to drive the country’s health care system. They held that the failure of Nigeria’s health system has nothing to do with doctors’ competence rather system and government failure.  According to them, the call was necessitated by the alleged lacuna in the country’s National Health Act 2014, which the foreigners, in their desperate moves to harvest tissues, gametes and organs among others for their home hospitals, would wreak havoc on Nigeria and her citizens.   While opposing the idea, they insisted that there is nowhere in the world a country builds her health system with foreigners; saying that the so-called foreign doctors are not well equipped to fight the diseases in the country as they will be dealing with tropical diseases in Nigeria, which they are strangers to.   Recall that the Health Minister had on October 24, 2019, said Nigeria would employ the services of medical experts from Europe and America. The disclosure came at a time that some stakeholders are expressing concern over the migration of health workers from the country.  Ehanire said officials of the ministry were in touch with foreign embassies for specialists who would work in hospitals across the country for specified periods.   The minister, who stated this during the 2020 budget defence session, while responding to a question asked by a member of the House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Matters, said the move would strengthen the nation’s health sector.  Ehanire said the experts, who are already exposed to sophisticated practice in the advanced world, would not only attend to the health needs of Nigerians, but also use the opportunity to share expertise with their local counterparts.   He noted that the country’s teaching hospitals were adequately equipped and manned by experienced and qualified doctors though he acknowledge the fact that more work needed to be done to build the confidence of Nigerians on the facilities.   But this decision elicited a serious disgruntlement among the medical practitioners, including pharmacists and others, who took turns to criticise the unpopular policy and showed their fear on what they described as a camouflage.  Former President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Pharm Olumide Akintayo is wondering if the Federal Government was planning to sell or concession the teaching and other government owned hospitals to the foreign private medical practitioners.   He said: “I hope this is not connected with the plans to sell all the teaching hospitals and federal health institutions in the name of privatisation? We should be thinking of how to improve the conditions of service of health professionals in the system and stem brain drain.  “The plan by the minister is unfortunate and ill-advised. I am sure that all health workers except the doctors will reject this plan. This is not what the country needs now.”    Also reacting, the President of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Dr.  Francis Adedayo Faduyile, queried the plan to bring experts from abroad, wondering if the ministry will do such with the 4% budgetary allocation for the country’s health sector.  He said: “Is it the four per cent budgetary allocation for health? Is it the equipment that is not there and is not working? Where will they work, with empty seats and chairs at most hospitals? The health Minister needs to tell himself some truth.  “No doctor in the Diaspora will want to come back under the present circumstances. The health system is not functioning optimally and we have to fix it and prevent brain drain before thinking of attracting doctors practising abroad.”   More so, a Consultant Public Health Physician, Prof. Akin Osibogun, had earlier said the brain drain could be reversed if the Federal Government made the National Insurance Scheme (NHIS) compulsory for all citizens.  According to him, this would provide enough funds to improve the conditions of service and working environment for health professionals.  “The few doctors we have are leaving the country because of poor conditions of service, working environment and after service package. It means the physician-patient ratio has worsened, maybe from 1:3, 000 to 1:5, 000,” he said.   When compared to those countries with better physician-patient ratio, they have better treatment outcomes, he noted.  He continued: “We need to make our working conditions attractive. If they know they will have a house after 20 years of training, the lure to leave would be reduced. What are the benefits attached to the job? What are the provisions for the doctor’s family? What are the long-term prospects for the staff?  “We need to improve the work environment in terms of financing. Make it work-friendly, not crowding 10 persons in one office. Talk about electricity supply; you come to work and you are scheduled to do a surgery but there is no electricity.  “We need to be more drastic; re-organising the way we fund health service. There should be compulsory NHIS that will bring a pool of funds. We have to adopt a more holistic approach.”  On the other hand, Prof. Philip Njemanze alleged that the Minister’s announcement was in connection with Bill Gates plan to take over the country’s health sector for the gains of his country and numerous Biotech laboratories he established.  He alleged that Bill Gates wants to build 260 modern hospitals in Nigeria to take over the country’s healthcare system and has given out the contracts already.  He also alleged that the Federal Government collected money from these foreigners and wants to concession the country’s health facilities to them, lamenting that there are services that can’t be concessioned by a country.  He said: “You can’t concession Nigerian health sector of a country or its Army or police. This will be to put the lives of our citizens, governors and president in the hands of foreigners and when there is an international conspiracy, they will kill all of them. What they want us to do is the worst form of slavery.   “You cannot entrust the health of Nigerians to foreigners and anybody fronting American agenda in Nigeria. The failure of health system in the country has nothing to do with the doctors’ competence, rather the system, government.   “If you develop only the teaching hospitals, will it treat the whole Nigerians? Nigerian doctors abroad are the best anywhere they go. An average Nigerian doctor has wide scope of knowledge. The system and governance have failed.”  Corroborating Njemanze, a sourced told Sunday Telegraph that the Minister’s decision was borne out of Bill Gates moves to build 260 specialist hospitals of international standard in Nigeria. It was learnt that these hospitals will gradually replace the private hospitals in the country.   Sunday Telegraph learnt that a meeting was called by General Electric (GE), a major partner of the Bill Gates Foundation in this project to seek collaboration with the Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (AGPMPN), at their Abuja headquarters in Nigeria, but no agreement was reached on any partnerships.   The hospitals, if allowed, will be built according to the International Building Code of hospitals. The Certificate of Standards for hospital buildings are based on the International Building Code of hospitals, which has stringent standards that no hospital in Nigeria meets.   The plumbing is with conduit, all wiring with conduit, high floor to roof height, wide window width, 24-hour lighting, 24-hour air conditioning, 24-hour water, specific humidity, and airflow purification among others. These standards could be met in very advanced countries but not easy to comply with under our own conditions.  These allegations were further given a shot in the arm by Njemanze’s disclosure, when he stated that the International Organ Cartel headed by Bill Gates Foundation, have two major aims for pushing for passage of the National Health Bill 2014 now an Act in Nigeria.  He said: “Bill Gates has two major reasons for pushing NHA in Nigeria. The first is to harvest human organs from Nigerians for transplantation to rich Western patients arriving in Nigeria as Organ Transplantation Tourists, and/or getting the organs flown abroad to meet the needs in Western countries who have severe shortage of organs for transplantation.  “This is the reason all international UN and granting agencies most notoriously the UNICEF, UNFPA, British Department for International Development (DFID) who front as Health Reform Foundation of Nigeria (HERFON), and the Unites States Agency for International Development (USAID) are all supporting the Bill Gates Project Africa.  “In fact, it is key to cutting healthcare costs in most advanced Western countries who can take many people off dialysis, artificial heart valves, and intensive care life support as they receive Nigerian organs for transplantation while many innocent Nigerians die untimely.  “This is the health reform in Nigeria that has gone too wrong for Nigerians in much the same way as in other countries, like India, Kosovo, Malaysia, the Philippines, Burma, Nepal and other poor East Asian countries.  “However, most of these governments have only realised the enormity of damage to their countries and have practically short down or limited the operations of the Cartels in these countries.  “Some hospitals in India such as the Apollo Hospital, the second largest transplant organisation in the world, are now under strict parliamentary investigations for organ trafficking.”  According to him, many people hear about the NHB 2014 now called the National Health Act 2014 and they were told that it is a legal framework to improve medical services in Nigeria.  He insisted that what they are not told are what exactly the improvements are, saying that the free maternal and child care has always been free in some states in the country.  He continued: “Some people say that there is free maternal and child care, as if it has not been free in most parts of Nigeria for years. Others say, that it is to stop medical tourism out of Nigeria, but they will not mention how?  “For others, they say, new better health facilities by foreign investors will be built, but they do not mention for whom because foreigners cannot build the health sector of a country.”  Sunday Telegraph learnt that the Global Prolife Alliance (GPA), the Association of Catholic Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (ACMPN), the AGPMPN and other stakeholders have long opposed the signing of the National Health Bill 2014. Their opposition to this law, it was learnt, is not clearly understood by the ordinary Nigerian and hence the reason they went on to discuss the contentious sections of the law that opens Nigerians up to manipulation.  According to the group, Section 51 does not give the right of consent to patients under emergency and didn’t define what emergency mean, which may empower the foreigners to harvest Nigerian organs, eggs and blood products among other without their consent.  It was observed that Section 51 of NHA didn’t mention any donor, which means the person, who owns the organ, rather it said that only the medical doctor or manager of the hospital has the right to authorise that an organ (heart, liver, kidney, lens, cornea, ovarian eggs and sperms among others) be taken from a living Nigerian called a donor, for transplantation into another living person who receives the organ, the recipient.  “For example, if a hospital in Nigeria receives an American patient who has paid $1million for a heart to the American hospital in Nigeria and you visited the hospital in an emergency, your tissue may match that of the American patient and the Medical Director of that hospital can order that your heart be taken and given to the recipient under the provisions of Section 51 of the National Health Act 2014,” Njemanze interpreted.  “You lose your life and the American Organ tourist lives. Therefore Section 51 is inconsistent with the Right to Life of the Fundamental Rights under the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.   Now, the proponents of the law will tell you that in Section 48 there is a provision for donor consent,” he added.  Section 48(1) says, Subject to the provision of section 53, a person shall not remove tissue, blood or blood product from the body of another living person for any purpose except; (a) with the informed consent of the person from whom the tissue, blood or blood product is removed granted in prescribed manner; (b) that the consent clause may be waived for medical investigations and treatment in emergency cases; and…   According to Njemaze, Section 48 (b) waives the right to Consent in Emergency, which he said is forbidden in medical practice to waive the Right of Consent under any circumstances for living or even dead persons.  He explains: “Even when a living patient is unconscious or unable to make decisions that Right of Consent is temporarily transferred to his next-of-kin or guardian or parents in the case of a child, but is never waived. Note that Section 48 (3) forbids selling and buying of organs.  “This provision is deceptive, because to pay money to the person whose organ was collected is illegal but for the hospital to sell the organ to another person may not be in the scope of this law in Nigeria because the commercial transaction could take place on the internet hence not under any territorial jurisdiction.  “In order to make sure that organs are collected from millions of Nigerians who will die in organ pouching, the law makes in Section 20, declares Emergency Services  “20 (1) A health care provider, health worker or health establishment shall not refuse a person emergency medical treatment for any reason whatsoever.   “All medical conditions could be considered an emergency under this law because there is no definition of what is an ‘emergency’. This would mean that the hospitals will admit many people in a purported emergency and under that clause the Medical Director decides under Sections 48 and 51, ordered that the organ of that patient be taken for transplantation to another living person, who is the ‘Organ Transplantation Tourist’ who paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to receive the heart of a Nigerian who was admitted for stomach upset or any other minor condition.   “He would be operated unnecessarily to pouch his heart and other organs. Since there will be no Nigerian owned hospitals and even if you ask for a post-mortem their doctors will arrange the report to suit them. As a result, Nigerians will die in millions over time and the foreign recipients would go home with new organs.   “Note that, since they own all the hospitals, they also control the ‘health research’, so statistical figures of improved healthcare could be well arranged, and no questions asked. Therefore, Section 48 is inconsistent with the Right to Life of the Fundamental Rights under the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.   