National President, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Alhaji Aminu Muhammad Goronyo, in this interview with Abdulwahab Isa lauds Federal Government’s decision on land border closure, describing it as a golden decision that has turned Nigerian farmers to kings  Nigeria’s land borders were shut since August this year.  One of the reasons was to combat smuggling of foreign rice in addition to halting trafficking of illegal nationals into Nigeria. What do you make of government’s action?   Border closure is a hard decision. I believe it is one decision long overdue. It’s a hard but necessary decision for a rational leader to take. We thank the type of person we have as president one gifted with the capacity to take a hard decision. It will augur 100 per cent well in favour of Nigeria and Nigerians. The border closure isn’t only in favour of small holder farmers; it’s about Nigeria and Nigerians. It’s a welcome idea by Nigerians. This is because Nigerians desire progress; they want to see Nigeria amongst top developing nations. And this is one of the steps that will position Nigeria. So we thank Mr. President for taking this very hard but economically good and benefitting decision. It’s very pleasing and okay for Nigeria, particularly at this material time.   But is it not a negation of the cardinal principle of African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCTA), which provides seamless trading, movement of people and goods among Africa countries?   Which agreement?  Agreement that leaves our people to die uselessly of hunger. What agreement is that? Who put the agreement together? Are they not human beings that put the agreement on the paper? The president discovered he needs his country to progress; to be comfortable first before every other consideration .The rule of self first is paramount in every agreement entered into by human beings.  His country is first priority.  Nigerians trusted him and they vested every trust in him to lead them to the Promised Land. That’s the covenant; that’s his guiding principle. He decided to say, ‘look my country first.’  So how is it playing out with regard to production of local rice?   The situation is that Nigerians are now getting it better than before.   Nigerians are now eating fresh, sweet Nigerian rice,   instead of what they were previously eating as rice.  The diseases that were being imported into the country in guise of eating foreign rice have been cured. This is a good thing that ever happened to Nigerians in terms of rice production. If you look at the activities that have emanated from border closure, you will know it’s a decision that was supposed to have been taken long time ago. Today, the value chain of activities in farming alone, from cultivation, processing, packaging and bio- products processing are enormous. Nigerians are gainfully engaged, doing so many activities that give them income. With the border closure today, manufacturers of bags sprang up everywhere. If you go to Lagos today, manufacturers of bags for rice are busy; go to Onitsha, manufacturers of thread are busy; if you go Kano,  millers are busy; go to Calabar,  you find Ayade’s seedling factory busy. These alone will tell you the border closure is God’s approved decision. It’s not about the president, but God-sent decision.   We thank God for giving us a president with this kind of quality to take this kind of decision.   One strong point that counts in favour of foreign rice that endeared it to majority of Nigerians is its high quality, both in terms of taste and production. As president of rice farmers, why is Nigerian rice not produced with such high quality?   It appears you’re not in Nigeria in the past few years. If you were around you won’t ask this question.  In Nigeria today, wherever you go, it’s in newspapers, radio and television.  Nigerians prefer our locally produced rice to the so-called foreign disease rice. The standard and taste of local rice today can match that of Thailand, India, Japan and elsewhere. I don’t think your assertion is correct. It’s an old story that is not valid today. Our rice can stand the test of time globally. Farmers are now being identified electronically.  No more analogue; no manual as was the case before. All our participating farmers are participating electronically and CBN initiated all of   these. Before the end of the tenure of this government, like I said, Nigeria would be among the critical stakeholders of rice production in the world.   In terms of quantity, there is an argument that local producers don’t have capacity to cater for demand surge by Nigerians; this partly explains the reason for high price of rice. Do you have a contrary view?   Firstly, let me tell you why the price is high. There are enemies of this country who are hell bent on sabotaging effort of government. They brought out huge monies and send people across the country wherever this rice is being processed.  They send their people there; they are buying and hording. In fact, the initial plan was to make rice difficult to get in Nigeria especially at a time like this. They had planned to ensure a bag of rice goes for as much as between N50,000 and N60,000. But they won’t succeed. A bag of rice as I speak to you now {selling, from RIFAN mill} is  N14,000. We brought our rice to Abuja, Lagos and other parts of the country. So there are enemies of this country. They bought this rice and horde them to create artificial scarcity. They are enemies of people with support across the globe that want to see Nigeria unprogressive. We have more than enough rice, we have produced enough. The bumper harvest we obtained this year has never happened in recent history in Nigeria. Go to airport, you find rice being cultivated right inside Nnamdi Azikwe Airport. Every portion in Nigeria that is water-logged has rice being cultivated in it. The rice we produced this year, Nigerians will only be able to consume may be in one and half years to come. Nigeria has enough land to cultivate rice.  We have over six million hectares of land in the country for rice cultivation.  We have enough farmers cultivating rice, and we cultivate rice twice minimum in a year. There are areas where rice is cultivated thrice a year. We have the manpower, we have the land; we have the water and efforts are being made to ensure we are sufficient in rice production in the country.    The festive season is here. The demand for rice is likely to triple and it will come with high cost. Any plan by RIFAN to protect Nigerians from price hike and exploitation by Marketers?   Well, the festive season is already here. Christmas is a few days away. For your information, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has already invited all rice producers and critical stakeholders in rice production business to a meeting. They converged us in their office (CBN). We took a decision.  We are on the same page. We have agreed that there would be enough rice, sufficient for Christmas and New Year and beyond festive season.  Producers who are rice farmers represented RIFAN;   the processors who are millers represented by RIPAN and rice dealers also attended the meeting. CBN drafted MoU for the three stakeholders to ensure rice is sufficiently available during the festive season and beyond. I’m just coming from that meeting with CBN. No doubt about it, rice will be sufficiently enough.   CBN’s Anchor Borrower Programme has been faithfully administered in the past four years. Rice production is one item that enjoys sustained support of ABP. What’s your appraisal and perhaps grey areas of ABP?   You know Anchor Borrower is a programme initiated by this government through CBN. The assessment is open to everybody. It’s a programme that has succeeded and is succeeding. It has succeeded because it has a national appeal. It’s everywhere. It started from Kebbi State as one state and today ABP is in 36 states and Abuja. For you to know it has recorded huge successes, farmers are now selling at profit margin. They don’t have glut as they used to have before. The millers are selling, they don’t have glut. The input suppliers are enjoying, they are now selling unlike previous years when they have to wait before they sell. Sometimes their products even expire. Today, they don’t have that challenge because of Anchor Borrower Programme initiative. So, ABP, by my assessment is a complete success, 100 percent success.   What are the grey areas you will recommend to CBN for improvement?  The areas are suggested every now and then when we meet for appraisal. They listen to us and they take note.  They accepted and promised to go back to the drawing board and effect changes.   RIFAN, RIPAN and other stakeholders in poultry and steel sectors were in CBN a few days ago for a meeting. What was the outcome of that crucial engagement with CBN governor and others?   I told you we were at CBN. Apart from MoU to ensure we have sufficient rice during festive- season and beyond, we also discussed border closure.  We reviewed it and we all agreed it’s a good thing for Nigeria. The steel association was there, rice farmers represented rice milers there and all the commodities you can think of were represented. RIFAN went there for the preparation of dry season for rice farming, we all attended.  We witnessed what happened and we supported the move that borders should be permanently closed.   As stakeholder in agriculture, what is your assessment of Nigeria progress in agriculture?   Farming business is the only way to Nigeria’s prosperity as a nation. It is one business that supposed to be leading other businesses in all countries, including Nigeria, but it is yet to attain that level.  When he came on board, Buhari’s first priority was agriculture. He says farmers must be king. Initially, we thought it was just a mere statement like every other leader that we have had. We later discovered he was serious and he is still serious about it. You can see that by yourself. Today, farmers are rubbing shoulders with governors, with ministers, even the president. Farmers are king today; farmers are wealthy today because of commitment of Mr. President. He is still pursuing that commitment. Today, Nigerians have witnessed that farmers are the leading team in Nigeria.   Could you tell us the sort of relationship that exists between RIFAN, RIPAN and other stakeholders?   We have a cordial relationship. You can’t do without the millers. Millers can’t do without us. There must be a cordial relationship and that is happening. Our relationship is cordial. RIPAN, the rice processors and RIFAN enjoy cordial relationship and we have time and places where we meet. We are on the same page; we are supporting this government; we are supporting CBN and we are one and same brothers.   Your organisation is planning a conference. What is the motive of the conference? What do you hope to achieve?   It is just to express our appreciation. The support we have been by this government through the Central Bank of Nigeria.   It has never happened before. They say to whom much is given, much is expected. The government and people of this country expect appreciation from us and that is what we are going to do.  To tell Nigerians thank you and tell them where we are and where we are headed. Our plans for rice and rice business in Nigeria.      