S ending birthday greetings these days has become a necessary tradition. It was not unusual on Wednesday therefore, to read a statement from President Muhammadu Buhari congratulating one of his closest aides, Mallam Garba Shehu on the occasion of his 60th birthday. A momentous “three scores.”   For most people, Mallam Garba is just another ‘spokesman’ among several others serving politicians in Nigeria. But, he is really a senior colleague who has paid his dues in the journalism profession. Those who have followed his steady progression attest that at various times, he had served as a reporter with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) before crossing over to the Triumph newspapers in Kano, his home state. While in Triumph, Garba at different times became editor of all the newspaper titles and eventually held the position of Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief in 1998.   I first heard about Mallam Garba while studying Mass Communication as an undergraduate student at the Benue State University in 1997. I was in my first year in the university. He was on the verge of completing his tenure as the ninth President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors, (1994-1997). Few years later, now as a young journalist reporting for the Abuja Inquirer and later Financial Standard, I wrote stories from Mallam Garba’s statements as spokesman an for former Vice President Atiku Abubakar.   Considering how Mallam Garba managed his then principal especially during the ensuing crisis between former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Atiku, the presidential spokesman became so known for his brilliance and a keen eye for details. These qualities obviously may have endeared him to the then government.   No doubt, in his congratulatory statement to the Senior Special Assistant on media and publicity on his 60th birthday, President Buhari did not mince words in declaring that as a frontline journalist and an accomplished editor, Mallam Garba deserves all the feats that he has achieved in life so far. While praying for a long life for him, Buhari said: “I salute you on the milestone. You deserve every good thing that can come your way. You stand in for me at very crucial times, and I congratulate you.”   Without prejudice to those who have differences in political affiliation with this presidential spokesman, I find him as a quintessential gentlemen who epitomizes excellence in Nigeria’s media landscape. One thing stands Mallam Garba out as an expert in reputation management, his readiness for access and quick response to inquiries from journalists. For us media practitioners, nothing can be that frustrating as the inability to confirm and balance reports at critical moments.   As someone saddled with the task of shaping the president’s image along side his colleague, the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President Femi Adesina as head of the media unit in the presidency, Mallam Garba never hesitates to react to issues. I am one of those several journalists who pester him both on phone and inside of office at the presidential villa with array of questions. He shares in the pressure coming from my bosses in Lagos with me. “At lease you spared me of your trouble this weekend,” he would jocularly say to me sometimes in the corridor, referring to some of the days I don’t call for inquiries.   However, I have long expressed fear for Mallam Garba with regards to his background as an aide former Vice President Atiku. Reports indicate that the former Vice President had really donated him to the Buhari’s campaign team after the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primaries held in Lagos, where his current principal emerged as a candidate ahead of the 2015 general elections.  Close observers of the Buhari presidency also argue that no sooner than the eruption of disagreement between the present administration and the former Vice President, did doubt began to cast around Mallam Garba’s loyalty in Aso Rock. As far as these individuals were concerned, the declaration of interest by Atiku in the 2019 general elections worsened the matter. One of Atiku’s first criticisms of the Buhari government was in 2018 when he declared that Nigeria’s economy was in bad shape because members of the President economic team did not posses what it takes to turn the economy of the country around.   At some point in 2018, Mallam Garba was put on the social media ‘hot seat’ following his unrelenting verbal attacks against the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Many news reports had also named him as one of the bigwigs likely to dump Buhari and sail along Atiku ahead of the 2019 general election.   Its important that I share this information here with you for point of emphasis. Undoubtedly, President Buhari at some point, it was gathered had reason to summon Mallam Garba to his office for questioning about his loyalty. This came barely months after his minister of Women Affairs Aisha Alhassan had openly confirmed that Atiku remained her political godfather. Believe me, a bird in hand is worth two in the bush. Doing the job as a professional is one thing, displaying loyalty is another. Combing both is yet necessary. Whether the President received a definitive commitment from Mallam Garba in deciding to retain him on the job, is something for discussion on another day.   Having survived through the muddy waters of power corridor politics, apparently tactically swinging loyalty between his two bosses, one a former Vice President and the other an incumbent Commander-in-Chief, it will be safe to say that the presidential spokesman possesses some exceptional skills garnered through his over 40 years foray in the media, and which many journalism and Public Relations practitioners must learn from.   Except for critics, Mallam Garba has relentlessly discharged his responsibilities with unalloyed loyalty, commitment and devotion to his duties, working together with Femi Adesina as a team. No doubt, his principal firmly attest to this fact. I see a perfect blend of loyalty and professionalism in Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity.   Now a sexagenarian, Mallam Garba has seen it all up to the top. Turning 60, he has earned the right to be just as he is. In the remaining years of the Buhari administration which terminates on May 29, 2023, I admonish Mallam Garba to carry on true to himself. There is no need to change like a chameleon at 60. A good name they say, is more valuable than riches. It can not be bought with money. It has to be earned moment by moment, day by day. Happy birthday to a media icon.