T he Ferry Terminal, Ebute, area of Ikorodu, Lagos, was agog with arts and cultural activities at this year’s Asa Festival which resonated across Ikorodu town and its environs.  As early as 8am, enthusiasts the venue came alive with several cultural activities, including horse rides, stilt dancers, Imowo-Nla Parade, Okeletu Parade, Agura Parade, Aga Parade and special parade by Council of Elekus. For several hours, the venue was agog with pomp and creativity, as it brought together sons and daughters of Ikorodu, including royal fathers and lawmakers representing the region at federal and state levels.  The lawmaker representing Ikorodu in Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr. Sanai Agunbiade, who is the founder, the non-governmental organisation (NGO), Ikorodu Rebirth Project (IREP), the organisers of the festival, said the festival was organised to re-awaken interest the people’s cultural heritage as well as transform Ikorodu into a tourism hub in Lagos State.   He added that the festival needs more government support, having been approved by the Lagos State government as one of the events in its cultural calendar.  Agunbiade, whose commitment to protecting this heritage took him and his IREP team members to Ife, where they paid a courtesy visit to the Ooni of Ife in order to carry out more research on the festival and Yoruba heritage, further stated: “Asa Festival is to preserve the cultural heritage of our land in Ikorodu, so we want Ministry of Art and Culture to give us more support.”  He therefore advised youths to see Asa as part of their heritage that must not be allowed to die.  Also speaking at the festival, the Speaker of Lagos Assembly, Mr. Mudashiru Obasa, emphasised the need to promote Yoruba language and culture. He also called for extensive use of Yoruba language among the people in order to continue to propagate Yoruba culture.  Asa Festival is a yearly cultural carnival where various communities in Sagamu, Ogun State, and Ikorodu, in Lagos, display their cultural heritage.  Eminent monarchs that graced the occasion were the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi; Ranodu of Imota, Oba Bakare Agoro; Adegoruwa of Igbogbo, Abdulsemiu Kasali; Otunba Ganiu Abiru; Olubeshe of Ibeshe, Oba Richard Abayomi and Obateru of Egbin, Akeem Oyebo.