Security expert, Dr. Ona Ekhomu, has condemned the execution of four aid workers by a Boko Haram splinter group, the Islamic State of the West African Province (ISWAP), describing it as “horrendous, barbaric and a wanton act of terror”.  Ekhomu predicts that insurgent attacks on aid workers are likely to grow in frequency and “we are likely to relive the anguish we are feeling as a result of these senseless murders if the federal government does not act aggressively to protect humanitarian workers”.  Reacting to the news of the recent execution of the four Nigerian employees of Action Against Hunger (AAH) who were kidnapped by ISWAP insurgents in Damasak, Borno State on July 25 2019, Ekhomu extended condolences to the “families of the lost aid workers, their colleagues and the government of Borno State” and urged the government to do its best to rescue Grace Taku, the only hostage that was spared and condemned to a life of slavery by the insurgents.  Dr. Ekhomu, who is the President of the Association of Industrial Security and Safety Operators of Nigeria (AISSON) said that the murder of the four aid workers was to prove to the Federal Government and the French employers of the aid workers that Boko Haram/ ISWAP meant business in its ransom demand. Ekhomu said that it was not possible for the Federal Government to pay ransom for all person kidnapped by Boko Haram/ISWAP.  “In this wise, aid workers should be adequately protected so that they can continue to safely carry out the life-saving humanitarian work they do” he added.  The security expert advised the Federal Government to redouble its effort in fighting this 4th generation Boko Haram/ ISWAP warfare, adding that the 4th generation conflict the lines between combatants and civilians were blurred. “So, a successful attack by insurgents against soft targets is also considered an attack against hardened military targets.”  He advised the government to stay focused and engaged and not ‘’take eyes off the ball’’. He renewed his advice that the Federal Government adopt the troops surge strategy earlier recommended. He said that surging 10,000 troops into the conflict zone in the North-East to vigorously pursue the enemy will likely bring the conflict to a quick end. He described the Boko Haram/ISWAP insurgency as Nigeria’s longest war.