 The crisis in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is gradually being resolved as the embatled National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and other National Working Committee members Monday soft peddled and lifted the suspension placed on some members early this year.
Those suspended earlier this year were the former governors of Imo and Ogun states, Senator Rochas Okorocha and Senator Ibukunle Amosun respectively.
Also suspended were the governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, former Minister of Niger Delta, Usani Usani and Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON) Osita Okechukwu.
But on Monday, after its NWC meeting at the National Secretariat of the party in Abuja the NWC members lifted the suspension.
In the statement issued by the APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party said: “The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has lifted the suspension on Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, Senator Rochas Okorocha, Mr. Osita Okechukwu and Pastor Usani Uguru Usani.
“This is in line with the party’s deliberate policy of fairness and actions targeted at ensuring harmony within the party across the country.
“Through the suspension, our party has shown the capacity and willingness to implement its own rules and enforce discipline when there is an infraction. We have also shown that no individual is above discipline and that the party would always apply equity and justice in the day to day running of the party.
“We hope the concerned party members will seize this opportunity to fully reconcile themselves with their ward, local government, and state party structures, key into the party activities, and continue to make their own contributions to the growth and stability of the party
“We urge them to also take steps to reconcile with groups and individuals that are important to ensuring a lasting solution to any conflict that may exist in their respective states.”
However, a chieftain of APC who spoke on the condition of anonymity said they lifted the suspension as a way to save the party from the present crisis.
They were all suspended in the buildup to the 2019 elections.