A s part of preparations for Nigeria to host ‘The Global Goal Live: The Possible Dream’ campaign in Nigeria that is expected to lift millions of the nation’s population out of poverty, its organisers, Global Citizen, in partnership with Teneo, have convened a forum in Lagos and presented its benefits. The campaign was unveiled to stakeholders from Nigeria’s public and private sectors, civil society and the media in Ikoyi, Lagos last week. According to the organisers, the10-hour global media event taking place in Nigeria on September 26, 2020, will showcase simultaneous festivals in Lagos and New York’s Central Park — as well as satellite events in Seoul, Korea, and to be announced cities in Latin America and Europe  — and will see the worlds of pop, policy , and business unite to create unprecedented change and lasting impact. The most recent Global Citizen festival in South Africa secured financial commitments of $7.2 billion. The campaign in Nigeria aims to exceed this, by mobilising billions in commitments for Nigeria, according to the organisers. Specifically, $2 billion of the money allocated to Nigeria for the event will be used to impact the lives of millions of impoverished women and girls. The campaign will feature a series of events throughout 2020, culminating with the global events on September 26, 2020. The policy forum was attended by Tunde Folawiyo, Chairman, Global Citizen Nigeria, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, Vice- Chairman, Global Citizen Nigeria, Mick Sheldrick, Co-Founder, Global Citizen, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Dr. Paulin Basinga, Country Director, Gates Foundation, Mr. Oscar Onyema, CEO, Nigerian Stock Exchange, Mrs. Solape Hammond, Acting Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Lagos State Government, Yebeltal Getachew, Manging Director, Coca-Cola Nigeria and Olakunle Oloruntimehin, General Manager, Cisco Nigeria. Global Goal Live: The Possible Dream was launched by Global Citizen, in partnership with Teneo, during the UN General Assembly in New York on September 26, 2019. Speaking at the launch of Nigeria 2020, Folawiyo, said: “Achieving Nigeria’s pledge to lift 100 million people out of poverty in the next decade will only be possible if the public sector, private sector and civil society collaborate closely. A co-ordinated, multi-stakeholder approach is essential.” Aig-Imoukhuede, said the government alone cannot deliver the resources  needed  to win the fight against extreme poverty. Global Citizen Co-Founder, Mick Sheldrick, said: “The world needs $350b annually if we are to end extreme poverty and achieve the Global Goals in the 59 poorest countries by 2030, hence the need to work with the Nigerian government to help drive progress toward the goals.