…applauds DSS’ efforts at checking threats to peace A coalition of civil society groups, the Committee on Peace and National Cohesion, has bestowed the prestigious award of “Excellence and Professionalism” to the Director General of the State Services (DG SS), Mr. Yusuf Bichi.  The organisations that honoured the DG SS included, Centre for Peace and Interfaith Dialogue Initiative, Religious Organisations and Episcopal Missions, Conference of Ethnic Minorities in Nigeria, Gender and Social Equality Advocacy Groups, and Trade Union coalition.  Present to bestow the award were Bishop King Abel, Dr. Ndubuisi Nwankwo, Mr. Oduma Richard Oduma, Ms. Maagbe Ahemen and Prince Shima Ikper. The award, which was presented to the spymaster, Tuesday, at the secret service’s headquarters in Abuja, was  in recognition of efforts at detecting and preventing threats to national security.  Specifically, the organisation said the untiring efforts of the DSS under the leadership of Bichi, has continued to engender national unity and cohesion.  Accordingly, the committee said the “symbolic” award was meant to encourage the DG to remain steadfast, firm and resolute, in the quest for a united and indissoluble nation.  “The Committee on Peace, National Unity and Cohesion is a multipurpose adhoc committee with members drawn from across the civil society, religious organisations, trade unions, ethnic minorities and the traditional institutions.  “The committee’s sole purpose is to promote and facilitate the peace process of.governmeny as well as other institutions that are critical in enhancing peace for the overall objective of national peace, unity and cohesion.  “The committee notes the determination, commitment and dedication of the Department of State Services under your leadership to enhance the realisation of national peace and unity, notwithstanding the various security challenges in the country.  “Above all, the committee appreciates and observes that the firmness of the DSS not to yield to this problems is worthy of encouragement and recognition.  “To this end, this award is symbolic to encourage to continue to be firm, resolute and unshaken in the performance of your constitutional roles of detection and prevention of internal security threats within the country.  “Consequently, the committee is honoured to present to you the award of Excellence and Professionalism as a mark of honour in recognition of your commitment to national peace, unity and cohesion. “It is our hope that this recognition will thrust upon you a greater responsibility and challenge so as to further consolidate on the existing giant strides going forward for peace and national cohesion in the country,” they said.