The Network on Police Reform in Nigeria (NOPRIN) has called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to take appropriate steps to curb acts of sexual violence allegedly being perpetrated by his men. This was stated by the National Coordinator of NOPRIN, Mr Emmanuel Ikule in Lagos recently, at this year’s International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, and the beginning of the 16 Days of Activism, which has as its theme, “Orange the World: Generation Equality Stands Against Rape.” Ikule, who said that the law enforcement officers were not above the law, added: “They are supposed to protect, not abuse women and girls. Thus, if they commit acts of sexual abuse, they should be dismissed from the force and made to face the civil court on criminal charges.” Ikule also bemoaned the fact that those acts of sexual violence were either ignored or allowed to continue with impunity. “It happens every day. It has come to the level whereby people that are supposed to be defending us are the ones defiling us,” said Ikule. He cited the case of Akungba Akoko in Ondo State, where some policemen at a checkpoint close to the state university were harassing two female students of the school. He said: “I think it is high time we made that change and ensure that change is affected! And it has to start with us. It is not only acts of sexual violence perpetrated by law enforcement agents that are not reported by the media.The media should assist us in the dissemination of information about the scourged.” The Programme Officer, Project Alert. Mrs Nsini Udonta, also raised the alarm on the rising spate of sexual violence against women and children. She stated categorically that “No day passes without a reported case of sexual violence against women and children.” She added: “It was for this reason that the 16 Days of Activism has come to stay as a global activism, whereby individuals, governments and non-governmental organisations are expected to engage in various advocacies, including against sexual abuse.” Udonta, however, drew attention to the fact that a research carried out by her organisation some time ago, and published, showed that 77 per cent of victims of sexual violence in Nigeria were children. Explaining the reality of sexual violence against children in Nigeria, Udonta said: “You’ll agree with me that there is no day that cases of sexual violence against children are not reported in the media. We have a case whereby a two year old child was defiled. We also have a case whereby a six months old baby was defiled. We have recorded several cases which we need to draw the world’s attention to.” Representing the Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Mrs Philomena Nneji, said her organisation was passionate about women and children, particularly with respect to the prevalence of sexual violence in Nigeria.