Osun State government, yesterday, officially unveiled a multi-billion naira investment in industrial and real estate development. Tagged: “Central City Project,” project is to attract the presence of investors from all walks of lives and make the state a pacesetting one among other states in the Southwest in terms of adequate provision of modern city cum commercial hub for all its inhabitants.   Speaking at the event held at the Centre for Black Culture and International Understanding in Osogbo, the state governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola assured that his administration would do its beat to see that, shelters of his people are attended to. The governor, who spoke through the state Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Dr. Bode Olaonipekun, stressed that the central city project is a multi-billion naira project that will be driven by public private partnership.   He further hinted that the main objective of the project is part of its mission to project the state as a strategic place for investment in different sectors. “This administration is highly committed to creating enabling environment for investors as the state is blessed with resources that would aid their businesses,” the governor maintained.   Earlier in his address, the Director General of Osun New Towns Development Authority, Architect Muyiwa Ige revealed that the project has been made to also accommodate investors on small medium and development agencies.   He said, “Central City Project was initiated and proposed by one of our development partner, Akbeeb Investment Limited. The project is expected to be delivered within a period of five years with massive infrastructural development solely funded by the private sector on a Public Private Partnership basis.   “The Central city project is divided in to three sections. The first section is the industrial hub which will attract investors through incentives that are designed to solve the problem of industrialisation in Nigeria; some of those incentives include uninterrupted power supply, power   subsidy, tax incentives, and partnership for sourcing raw materials and off taking industrial product among others.   “The project site has rail station which makes movement of goods and passengers easy. Industrial infrastructure like road, drainage, water among others shall be provided. “The second and third sections are the farm settlement and residential development respectively. Details of the entire project shall be unveiled formally by the Government of the State on Thursday 19th December 2019.”  In his analysis, the representative of Akbeeb Nigeria Limited, Barrister Salawu said the company has made the payment easy for all and sundry to acquire. He said with a sum of 5,400 naira every month, interested person can acquire a land at the estate to start building.  Other partners who spoke at the unveiling ceremony are representatives of banks – UBA, Zenith and FCMB; and the Royal fathers present.   Among the traditional rulers present at the occasion were the Akirun of Ikirun, Oba Adewale Adedeji, Oloba of Oba Oke, Oba Adams Yusuf and other top government functionaries, among several stakeholders invited.