T hat every society, whether in the developing or advanced economies of the world, face all manner of challenges in their dynamics and evolution , cannot be over emphasised.  However , the truth is many of these challenges have been overcome, even in the so – called third world thus precipitating the changes in people’s form and standards of living.  Such feats were not accomplished by luck , magic , drama or wishful thinking but by focus, conscious and concerted efforts as well as can – do -spirit of both the leaders and the led to engender the desired changes.  This is the major reason a country like Rwanda, which many used to refer to as “war torn” is today receiving global acclaim.   Though, it is not yet Uhuru in that country, the fact that it is has become a reference point in global politics and economy can not be trivialized having rose from the abyss of a mindless  war that threatened the very foundation of its existence.   To the eternal credit of Rwandans, the once crisis ridden country is now standing on its feet, a pointer to the fact the black man can achieve whatever goal he set for himself, not minding the odds.   For Lagos, the heartbeat of the economy of West Africa and the nation’s economic capital, that the state can do far better than its currently doing in view of its potentials is a great possibility.   This was clearly manifested by the iconoclastic and trail blazing national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Governor of Lagos State, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu who gave the state’s economy the quantum leap when he held sway as helmsman   .   Leveraging on his extensive experience in the corporate world , Tinubu, it was who catapulted Lagos internally generated revenue from less than three hundred million that he inherited to the billion naira monthly benchmark.   Ever since, the story of Lagos has never been the same, .Successive administrations all being of common tendencies have no choice than to build on that redefining foundation.   However, the world owes its development to the adventurous rather than the complacent , hence the need for contemporary administrators of Lagos to draw inspiration from the courage of Asiwaju nd in fact capitalize and advance on it. Nature has no regard for permanence. Every living thing ; plant or animal either blossom or  plummet  into ruins . In the thoughts of Einstein ,one can not persistently do a thing the same way and expect a different result. The prognosis of stagnation therefore shall be retrogression   Thus there’s no marking the time on a spot.  We either advance or relegate.  Leadership is by courage not by sentiments.  Therefore , we need to take our people out of the woods and break new grounds contemporaneous with world best practices subject however to the dictates of our economic realities.   Nevertheless the narrative needs to change, especially in the area of transportation, which is at the heart of economic development, but a major headache in Lagos. It is one of the major index of a smart city. Surely with functional and modern transportation systems , we can evenly distribute the populace and functions across the metropolis thus making life more abundant   With a population of over 20 million , dependence on road transportation, which is the most common for movement of people and goods, needs to be reviewed for social and economic prosperity.   This is in view of the fact that Lagos records the most visits, from across the country averagely 5, 000 daily with not less than 600 of that number staying put and taking a residence  in spite of the state’s disadvantaged position in  land mass.   It was therefore very thoughtful of the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly Rt. Hon Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa, when he suggested other means of mass transportation in the state, especially rail, at the presentation of 2020 budget by Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu recently   Obasa equally admonished Governor Sanwo-Olu to take advantage of the state’s aquatic endowment by embracing water transportation.   The spontaneous and thunderous applause which greeted these suggestions from Obasa, by Obas, Chiefs, top politicians, critical stakeholders, the intelligentsia artisans, activists and citizens across societal spectrum  was an unstated endorsement.   Indeed it was as if Obasa, who was also Speaker of the immediate past Assembly, spoke their minds, and this is understandably so as every Lagosian, irrespective of status is negatively affected by the “go slow’ syndrome.   That the speaker hit the nail on the head of the nagging issue which also has negative consequences on the health of the citizenry as a result of stress is not surprising. He has overtime manifested genuine and sterling qualities of a populist and progressive politician with the welfare of the people always uppermost in his words and deeds.   Under his speakership, the  phenomenon of constituency stakeholders” meeting which allows residents of the forty constituencies across the state to have an input into state affairs annually and simultaneously has been on in the last five years.   Obasa who is also the Chairman of Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures recently recorded another feat  with the financial autonomy granted to state Legislatures after many years of wrong constitutional arrangements.   Living up to his popularly acclaimed democratic prowess and practice , Governor Sanwo – Olu  manifested his leadership qualities by  doffing his hat for the Speaker when he acknowledged to his audience the benefits of the constituency stakeholders’ meeting enunciated by the Speaker.   For Lagos to retain its leadership seat in the comity of states, it has to continually break new grounds   Leadership they say is by example and not by precepts.   Upward mobility from a level of survival to the next level of comfort or abundance is somewhat strenuous, stressful , beleaguered and sometimes avoided as unnecessary   However, we roll backward when we fail to move forward.   In view of the background of the Obasa – led Lagos Assembly as a deliverer on its promises, there is no doubt that work will soon be completed on the budget in the overall interest of Lagosians who desire  the translation of those lofty ideas of Mr. Speaker  into real time action. As representatives of the people, this is the least we can do, in conjunction with the executive, based on our avowed commitment to make life more abundant for Lagosians   What is worth  doing at all is worth doing very well in good time.   With the redefined synergy and unity of purpose between the Lagos lawmakers and the Executive ,  Lagosiams are definitely in for a better deal   •Tunde Braimoh is the Chairman Lagos State House Committee on Information, Publicity and Strategy