As Christians all over the world celebrate Christmas to commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ, organised labour under the aegis of Trade Union Congress [TUC] has advised Nigerians to display the spirit of love towards one another as the country is currently going through difficult moments. In a statement made available to New Telegraph, the union congratulated Christian faithful, saying “it is indeed worthy of commendation as it would afford people the opportunity to show love and also contemplate on things eternal to humanity that bring peace of the hearts. “We are a country in dire straits and we require all hands on deck to get it fixed. We are expected to reciprocate this by first, doing His Will and also showing love to our neighbours. This is the time when our thoughts and deeds must reflect God. We cannot claim to love God but hate and deny people what is due to them. It is called hypocrisy. “Our staple food for the season is rice. How many Nigerians can afford it today? Almost nobody. Some have blamed it on the border closure but as a reputable organization we blame it on greed; corruption, inept leadership, etc. Virtually all policies of government are wrongly placed and benefits nobody at the end.” On the plan to renovate the Natio AL Assembly with N37 billion, the congress wondered how a country adjudged to be the poverty capital in the world; a country that lacks basic health facilities, infrastructure and has never spent up to 10 per cent of her annual budget on education be talking about spending such an amount just for National Assembly renovation. It described it as ridiculous and unheard of. According to the statement signed by the President, TUC, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, FCIA,                  and the Secretary General, Comrade (Barr.) Musa-Lawal Ozigi, mni, “this rob-my-back I rob yours kind of government mischievously orchestrated by a few negates the tenets of Christianity and humanity. “We are tempted to think that our leaders do not really ponder on God’s love for all at all. An environment devoid of crises attract development and peace. “Ours has been a tale of woes. Joblessness has led a substantial number of the youth into crimes, ranging from kidnapping, robbery, ritual killing, cyber crimes, etc. The peak is the terrorism and suicide we are being faced with presently. This is not who we are; we need to find our real identity. “We condemn criminality no matter the shade it comes; but it is not enough to do so. What plans does government have in place to give the youths a sense of belonging? We must begin to set our priorities right. If we claim to love God but hate our neighbour we are already in contradiction with ourselves. “We must be willing to give a helping hand to those in need, succour and comfort to the vulnerable, etc. At Christmas, we are expected to spare time to contemplate, and not to dwell on the mundane things of the world. We are strangers on this part of the earth and it is important we live with this consciousness so that when we return home we shall be in peace with ourselves.” The labour center observed that in the midst of all these, “we must pay a special tribute to President Muhammadu Buhari for being worker friendly in the following areas; minimum wage, pension, budget support fund to clear salary arrears, etc. “As we celebrate, let us be human and kind enough to remember and show some love to the less privileged. Religious garb is not enough if we ignore personal essentiality. To achieve a better society we must have a rethink. The change we seek can only come if we all begin to do the right thing, especially the public officers. “May this Christmas serve as an end to an incongruous reality and usher in a new dawn of law, human rights and happiness for all. The current administration has a great role to play on realising these ideals.”