Music enthusiast, friends, artistes, critics among others, were feted to inspiring rhythms, vocal and dance performances by, perhaps, one of the newest entrants into the highly competitive Nigerian music scene, C-Clear, as he released his brand new work on the Morning Side Entertainment music label, last Sunday. The official release and media presentation of his mini EP featuring the single entitled, “Samantha”, which was held at the serene pool side of Morning Side Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, brought together quite an impressive number of friends, associates and the media in a  convivial atmosphere who watched in awe as C-Clear thrilled them with numbers such as “ Omalicha”, “Oko Iyawo” and “Samantha”. Speaking at the event which also witnessed a performances by number of other budding acts, the Group Executive Director of Morning Side Group, Mr. Shedrak, who represented the company’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Alex Oti, stated that Morning Side Entertainment would ensure that the first artiste from the stable would be provided with the relevant support that would take him to the summit of his career in music. He promised that in the next two years, C-Clear would be a lot more improved brand better than he is. “Much as we respect the older folkes who started before us, we are taking the entertainment industry by storm,” Shedrak said. Morning Side Group, according to him, has vast experience in the areas of marketing, content provision for broadcast, artiste management, hospitality,finance, banking and insurance. All this, said Shedrak, will play in pushing their artiste and his work to an enviable level in the entertainment industry. Fielding questions from the press, a visibly excited C-Clear who is a serving police officer, keyboardist and vocalist, stated that he would not quit music even when he is 80 years old, noting that he would carry his family along in his music career. Highpoint of the event was when  C-Clear performed his songs including Omalicha”, “Samantha” and “Oko Iyawo to the admiration of those in attendance. The work is produced by Top Edge.