Security expert, Mayor Felix Amah Nnachi, was recently elected President, Development Association of Ebonyi State, in Lagos. In this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, he gives insight into his programmes for the people and why consumption of home grown staples like Abakaliki Rice can grow the economy   Congratulations on your election. How do you feel about it?   The election that brought me into office on October 6, 2019 was a fierce contest, the first of its type in the history of the association, especially since I had two other aspirants from my Senatorial Zone.  Fierce in the sense that it generated a lot of interests as the association was hungry for a good leader. When you come out of such election with 97 per cent success, you cannot but be happy that the electorate who were delegates from Ebonyi State really wanted you to lead them. I feel honoured being elected as the President of Ebonyi people in Lagos. It is a very big task though.   During the election, you must have observed that the election did not only witness a massive turnout of Ebonyi indigenes in Lagos, but the state government was represented by the State Liaison Officer in Lagos, Mrs. Ogechi Anaso Kalu and the immediate past President is Elder Peter Alo and other top  members of the association relished the occasion. We are united to take the state to greater heights.   What are your programmes for Ebonyi indigenes residents in Lagos?   Like I made known during my campaign in September, the first thing to do is to create an enduring administrative and operational leadership structure. Secondly, we want review our constitution so that we can have a workable constitution defining in clear terms our vision and mission, duties and responsibilities, qualifications (membership, local government area coordinators, senatorial leaders, Board of Trustee members and Elders’ Council), welfare and benefits, sources of funds and other developmental issues affecting Ebonyi people in Lagos.   Do you have any development programme for your people during your tenure?   We have a lot of programmes for 2020 and they include Empowerment and Skills Development, Youths and Sports Development, Educational, Transportation and Infrastructural Development in terms of having a functional secretariat. We cannot make any meaningful progress without the support of our state government under the leadership of our digital Governor, Engineer David Nweze Umahi.  We cannot also make progress without the support of our Ebonyi elder statesmen and women, professional and business moguls and other stakeholders resident in Lagos, who have distinguished themselves in their various fields.  We will therefore, align and partner with and tap from their wisdom and wealth of experience to ensure peaceful co-existence and development of our state.  We will support and align to the programmes of our governor who was recently given an award as the Best Performing Governor in Nigeria and by extension in Africa.   Your governor just won Business Day’s Best Performing Governor in Nigeria. How do you feel about this?   On the award to my dear Governor, Engr Umahi, it is an award he well deserves, having worked and is still working to better the lives of Ebonyi people. His Excellency’s  developmental strides across the 13 local government areas of the state in incomparable and unprecedented in the history of political leadership in Ebonyi and Nigeria as a whole.  One of his success factors, I think, is that he has a good and supportive wife besides the fact that he is a listening governor.  He is the millennium leader Nigeria needs.  He has repositioned Ebonyi State positively and I’m proud of him and his teaming supporters. We expect more from him as our god-sent leader.   He has been doing very well in the areas of agriculture and infrastructural development. For instance, in the area of cassava production, the government procured and distributed 150 metric tons of best varieties of cassava cuttings (TMS 305572 or Vitamin A for flour production and TMS 305506 for starch production) to the profiled farmers in  all the local governments, under the one-man, one-hectare program in 2016.   It also cultivated of about 100 hectares of land at Oshiri Cattle Ranch and planting up with Vitamin A cassava, and also over 26 integrated poultry farm Nkaliki and CAS farmlands has been planted up with improved cassava cuttings sourced from IITA (International institute for Tropical Agriculture in Ibadan).   It is also on record that he has done well in oil palm plantation where, the state government under Umahi revitalized the nursery complex at Ezzamgbo that was in comatose and procured and planted 127,500 sprouted nuts from NIFOR (Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research) Ibadan which matured in July 2017 for transplanting. He also did well in the area or  livestock development with the Integrated Poultry Farm, Nkaliki was comprehensively articulated by TABAR group Israel. Arrangements are on to reactivate and expand the farm for optimal returns.   Your state is popular for the cultivation of Abakaliki Rice. How well do you think your state can key into the current ban on importation of rice?   Before now our rice tagged “Abakaliki Rice” which is highly nutritious has gained acceptability in the market and consumed by many Nigerians. Already, there are three government-owned rice mill clusters, one in each of the senatorial zones where rice is milled heavily. Besides, there are about 1,000 other mills owned by private individuals and I‘m aware that dozens of trucks load of rice leave the state daily to other parts of the country and the list has increased with the current border closure. What we as Ebonyians and government can do is to increase the production base from an annual or seasonal production circle to a quarterly production circle with high yielding rice seeds on well irrigated soils using improved technology. This will help in sustaining the demand base.   Culture is integral part of human development. How do you intend to promote your people’s culture during your tenure?   Ebonyi people have great cultural heritage and going by our association’s constitution, we must uphold our rich culture across the different cultural divides.  His Excellency, Dr. Umahi, for the past three years has consistently sponsored, participated in and moved all the apparatus of government in Ebonyi State to the National Stadium in Lagos where we hold our Annual Cultural Day.  As new executives of the association we will continue to seek his unflinching support to us in showcasing our cultural prowess which is fun fair. How can you maximize the potentials of Ebonyi indigenes residents in Lagos in terms of business and participation on politics?   As you know, Lagos is the Centre of Excellence but very soon Ebonyi State will take over.   There is no doubt that we have resident in Lagos great Ebonyi citizens with potentials in private and public sector.  Under my leadership, we will recognise and partner with them as key Stakeholders for guidance, direction and support.   The new executives of the association have been sworn in and I have set the governance structure in motion by appointing a Legal Adviser, Local Government Coordinators, Senatorial Leaders from the three zones and 10 standing and three Adhoc Committees made up of seven delegates each across the three zones. We are ready to serve our Ebonyi people as community service is the best service you can bequeath to mankind.   We have a compendium of membership which based on delegate from the 140 communities in Ebonyi State.  Our email is there and our website is being created.  We earned the support of the people we are leading and other stakeholders to enable great success.