Sifax Group has created more than 3,000 direct jobs across its subsidiaries, in the last few years, as part of its contribution to the Nigerian economy. Its Group Managing Director (GMD), Mr. Adekunle Oyinloye, disclosed this on Wednesday during a courtesy visit to the company’s head office in Lagos by the management of Daily Telegraph Publishing Company Limited, publishers of New Telegraph newspapers. The GMD noted that the group was a multinational corporation with diverse interests in maritime, aviation, haulage & logistics, oil & gas and hospitality. He noted that the company was leading changes daily in the maritime industry, saying that the group was in the eyes of the people. Oyinloye explained that a number of the group’s subsidiaries were in the same value chain. He said: “We are leading changes daily in the maritime industry and we want to ‘Nigerianise’ the maritime industry as soon as possible. We are excited to meet you in the changing phase of maritime. If we are not dissatisfied with the status quo; we won’t be able to create a change. We want many Nigerians to be in the industry. This is our desire. Our partnership with you is going to be an enduring one.” However, the GMD lamented that the decayed infrastructure in the sector was a national embarrassment, saying that the body of a truck could disappear in a hole on Apapa road. Oyinloye said: “The Federal Government is attending to the roads. The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has said that the embarrassment was getting too much. In the next few months, I am sure Apapa will come back to its glorious past and you can be there in 30 minutes.” The GMD, who appreciated the management team for the recognition accorded the group, was hopeful that in the next few months, when the roads are fully rehabilitated, Apapa would come back to its glory. “In the maritime industry, we don’t just want to appear and disappear but we want to be there,” he said. He praised the newspaper for the outstanding appearance and contribution in the country. Reacting, Mrs. Juliet Bumah, Sunday Editor and Mr. Waheed Bakare, Saturday Editor of the newspapers, said that the visit by the management of the company to Sifax Group was in recognition of its achievements in the country. Bumah explained that the newspaper would continue to support the growth of the company. Also, Bakare said that the newspaper, like Sifax, had made a mark within five years of its establishment.