Contrary to complaints by some groups in the Niger Delta region over the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Interim Management Committee (IMC) inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari to oversee the forensic audit of the Commission, Chief Edwin Kiagbodor Clark, has said the Federal Government’s action was a step in the right direction. The elder statesman and Ijaw national leader, disclosed this at the weekend as he broke his silence over his stand on the inauguration of the Interim Management Committee by the President While addressing journalists at his country home in Kiagbodor when the members of the IMC, led by the Acting Executive Director of Projects, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, paid him a condolence visit during the burial of his younger brother’s burial, Late Major Gen. Henry Clark (rtd), who died at the age of 71. It would be recalled that various groups and some Senators had at their separate reactions faulted the composition of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) put in place by President Buhari, calling for the disbandment of the IMC and inauguration of the substantive NDDC Board. However, the elder statesman and Niger Delta region national leader at the weekend threw his weight behind the Interim Management Committee, saying: “It was a good step to overhaul the Commission and clear the mess before a new board should takeover in future.” Clark added: “The NDDC was created by law from the then OMPADEC when I was an executive. It is important that the needs of people in the region are met. This region is an oil producing region, a hub of the nation. I, therefore, urge the Interim Management Committee to do its job effectively and efficiently. “On behalf of the Pekederimor family, we appreciate the gratitude given to us by the NDDC. Death is inevitable, no one can question the will of God because we will all go one day; how it will come, no one knows so we leave it to God. I thank you very much for coming.” Earlier, the NDDC Acting Executive Director of Projects, who led the Commission’s delegation to the burial and visit to Chief Edwin Clark’s family, expressed the Commission’s delight over Chief Clark’s contributions to the establishment of the NDDC. Ojougboh, however, noted that they were aware of his great contribution to the Niger Delta region and the country as a whole, saying: “When we were informed that you lost your younger brother, General Henry Clark (rtd), I was immediately dispatched by the Commission to spend time with you and give you a message from NDDC. “As a leader of the Niger Delta region, your contributions are remarkable and we are all aware of this. It is important that we give honour to whom honour is due. Therefore, we appreciate your contributions and as members of the Interim Management Committee, we are bent on restructuring the commission for optimal efficiency.