Felix Nwaneri reports that despite mounting opposition to Governor Godwin Obaseki’s second term bid, the Edo State helmsman could leverage on his achievements so far to scale the hurdle   N igeria is said to have failed to attract investment because the local dynamics are too shoddy and loosely defined, which it makes it difficult for serious investment to place a bet on the country or its subnational entities – the states. But one state that has somewhat scaled this hurdle and is now a darling to international development institutions and investors is Edo State under the leadership of Governor Godwin Obaseki, an investment banker, who cut his teeth in deepening reforms in Nigeria’s investment sector.  There is no doubt that in the last three years that Obaseki has been at helms of affairs in the Edo, which prides itself as the “Heartbeat of the Nation,” he has brought his expertise to bear on the development of the state, helping to facilitate the siting and mobilisation of funding for the Edo-Azura Power project, which has the World Bank Group, Siemens and Julius Berger, among others, on board. This was to ensure that the state has a proven record of attracting and keeping investors to build the right infrastructure that can drive industrialisation. Though Edo-Azura supplies power to the National Grid, its presence has spurred the incursion of more power companies into the state and also guarantees other large industries in the state a source for relatively stable power.  Interestingly, the Obaseki administration has also been able to replicate its giant stride in other sectors, especially education, sports, urban renewal and civil service reforms, among others. As it is, the world is paying attention to the education reforms in Edo State. In a recently published commentary on its website, the World Economic Forum (WEF) applauded the Edo State Basic Education Sector Transformation (Edo-BEST) initiative for improving learning outcomes among pupils in primary schools across the state and described Governor Obaseki, as a trailblazer who is “quickly and dramatically lifting the quality of government schools and up skilling teachers in his low-income state.”  According to the WEF, “education experts around the world and across Africa in particular are paying close attention to EdoBEST that has become a beacon of light to other education ministries because it is improving learning for marginalised children and up skilling both novice and experienced teachers at scale, within existing state budgets and without western aid.”  The Forum further said that the changes are happening within the existing system and being spearheaded by existing teachers and school leaders, and hailed the reforms as “a Nigerian solution to a Nigerian problem.” The World Bank and the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) have also highlighted EdoBEST as a crucial programme that can be a template for transforming education in educationally disadvantaged societies. Last September, the World Bank Group organised a side-event at the UNGA summit in New York to discuss Edo-BEST.  The Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) also recently bestowed Governor Obaseki with the Best Performing Governor Award in recognition of his education reforms, success of the Edo-BEST programme and his prioritisation of teachers’ welfare in the state.  Receiving the award, Obaseki said: “If you are not able to add your sums and pronounce your alphabets, you cannot write and you cannot think logically. So, what we have done in Edo State is to prioritise basic and technical education.” He argued that basic education from the perspective of encouraging teachers, deploying technology to determine and tell when a teacher is in class, among others, form the basis of the Edo-BEST programme. “I can tell from my office today when a teacher is in class. If a teacher is not in class then the teacher hasn’t signed into the database. Once a teacher is signed in, the lesson note for that day will be loaded into the teacher’s tablet. And we’ve trained teachers to understand how to use the tablets and the technology to teach the children.  “So, this is also to motivate them and corporal punishment has been abolished in our schools. The outcome is that children are learning. A child in Edo state today after one term has now learnt more than three terms of work in the old system,” he said.  In the area of urban renewal, the Obaseki-led government has it as one of its key development thrusts, and since the start of the administration, there has been massive construction of roads, reclaiming of gully erosion sites, construction of parks and restoring sanity to public places across the state.  The unprecedented urban renewal projects have earned the governor the sobriquet: “Wake and See Governor,” said to be a product of the governor’s unique leadership style that abhors unnecessary fanfare. The road construction projects span across different parts of the state and are being spearheaded by the Ministry of Infrastructure, State Employment and Expenditure for Results (SEEFOR) and SEEFOR Plus, the state government-funded scheme modeled after the World Bank funded project.  A major aspect of the governor’s infrastructure drive is the renovation of public schools across the state, expected to complement investment in human capital development. Schools, including conventional and technical institutions of learning, are being remodeled to reflect the governor’s commitment to build infrastructure in the quest to revive the state’s industrial sector.  The target, according to the state government, is to have institutions that would serve as grooming grounds for best-in-town technical experts, who will receive training and certification that would be recognized in any part of the world. On sports, Obaseki is leaving no stone unturned to return Edo State to its glorious days and this informs the ongoing renovation, expansion and equipping of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium with state-of-the-art facilities to spur sports development and develop local talents in the state.  The governor said of the project: “We take sports seriously in this state, because 72 per cent of our population is under 30 years of age, and that is why we are building 20 mini-stadia across the state.” The Edo Innovation Hub is another initiative that has been acclaimed by many. A cluster for technology innovators and inventors, the hub was set up to strengthen the state’s nascent technology innovation scene. The hub was commissioned on June 14, 2018 by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Tagged Edo Innovates, the hub provides a range of beginner, intermediate and advanced training in business and technology innovation, providing youths the opportunity to learn a wide array of employability and entrepreneurial skills. Specifically, some of the offerings at the hub include digital skills, business support services, start-up incubation and business acceleration, mentorship, co-working spaces, and entrepreneurship training.  More than 1,000 youths have been trained at the facility since inception, with not less than a quarter of them being females. Besides this, the hub has recently proven to be a resource center for the state’s government plans to build an internationally competitive locally-trained labour force in partnership with reputable organisations, working to mitigate the menace of human trafficking and illegal migration.  This has attracted investment from the World Bank-assisted State Employment and Expenditure for Results project (SEEFOR) Project, United Kingdom (UK) the Market Development in the Niger Delta (MADE), a number of Chinese companies, among others, at the hub.  On civil service reforms, Governor Obaseki has reiterated that he will not sack any worker in the state because he believes in the power of the human intellect and would never work to render any worker a liability. With this thinking, the governor has made the civil service in Edo State a fulcrum of his reform agenda by ensure that workers are catered for while in service and in retirement.  This informed the decision to re-train civil servants for efficiency and through a partnership with the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), the state government is retooling the state’s workforce for effective service delivery.  And in line with its efforts to ensure that no civil servant is redundant, the state government conducts regular training for civil servants with a focus to make them better at their jobs. The government has also undertaken to redesign offices and build a Training School that would provide institutional support for the plan to ensure that workers are brought up to speed with current developments in their areas of expertise.  The state government has also built Judges’ Quarters to ensure that the welfare of members of the top brass of the judiciary is well catered for. New Court complexes are being constructed, with the governor determined to convert Edo into the judiciary hub of the Niger Delta. Stenography equipment and other modern equipment have been procured and court clerks trained to deploy them to ensure an efficient, fast and seamless judicial process.  The pension reforms in the state have also helped in clearing the backlog of pension arrears accumulated for almost 20 years before the current administration. The workers in the state have been migrated to the contributory pension scheme. The success of the scheme at the state level has inspired the extension of the scheme to the local government level.  The state government, also realising that one of the biggest tasks before it, is the challenge of human trafficking and illegal migration, has faced it head-on. This explained why the governor didn’t mince words when he came into office as to the fact that the state had a problem with illegal migration, which deprived it of its human capital. To tackle this problem, Obaseki set to work by employing a mix approach of engagement and dialogue across to get the necessary stakeholders on board. With this, the state was able to set up the Edo Taskforce Against Human Trafficking (ETAHT), empowered by the Edo State Trafficking in Persons Prohibition Law.  The law was a landmark feat to give legal backing to the fight against human trafficking in the state. With such commitment, the governor has appealed to countries that suffer migrant crisis to invest in opportunities of building institutions and infrastructure that will complement the state government’s efforts in engaging and empowering youths in the state.  While it is acknowledged that there is more to electoral victories in emerging democracies such as Nigeria, there is no doubt that Obaseki will leverage on the giant strides of his administration in his quest to return to office as governor of Edo State for a second term.  The governor, who beat his chest on this, told New Telegraph in a recent interview that “if I have the people with me, there is nothing to be afraid of because election is not a war that requires deployment of the military for possible take-over of a territory.  He added: “If God had wanted things to continue the way they were in Edo State, He would not have brought a total stranger like me; He would have selected one of the subsisting faces in politics. I am a different person, so I have to do things differently. But, if some reactionary forces feel that we must go back to where we were before now, they have the people of Edo State to battle with.”