The  National Centre for Women Development  recently organised an  entrepreneurial training for  female artisans in Abuja. DEBORAH OCHENI  reports  Information and Communication Technology (ICT) now plays a major role in all aspects of life and has revolutionized the way we live, work and interact.  It is one of the economic development pillars to gain national competitive advantage as it can improve the quality of human life.  It can also be used as a learning and education media in promoting and campaigning for  patronage in businesses and other important areas  such as  healthcare. It is against this background that the National Centre for Women Development (NCWD) organized a five-day  entrepreneurial training for the deaf and hard  at  hearing female artisans on computer hardware and mobile phone repairs. Director General, NCWD, Marry Ekpere-Eta, who declared the training programme open, said it had become imperative to encourage women to acquire some entrepreneurial skills to empower them to earn a living and support their families. The DG noted that during the five-day training period, 30 deaf and hard at hearing women were trained on various ICT and entrepreneurial courses. She said that the training was made possible by the use of Sign Language Interpreters and computer visual displays. Also 70 female artisans  were trained on computer hardware and mobile phones repairs. Ekpere-Eta attributed some of the incidents of violence against women to situations where women lack economic power and have to rely on others for sustenance. “It is important we talk about gender based violence and one of the cause is that some of these women don’t have the capacity to take care of themselves. So, we believe that if we empower the woman, we empower the nation because she is the first teacher of her children.  It is very pertinent to us to prepare the future generation and the only way we can do that is through the mothers. “If the mother is educated and well informed about ICT, she will be able to guide her children about what to do. She can easily transfer this knowledge at a tender age to the children. So, it’s a very key as a way of life to women. “ICT has revolutionized every facet of life. We need it in everything we do.  We need ICT to succeed in our private business,  farming and many other things in life. People make billions of naira from the ICT. It is a money spinner  and it is  good  to encourage women to make so much profit from the comfort of their bedroom,” she said. According to her, the aim of the training was to empower the young women  so that  they can make progress and be able to actualize their dreams  in life through the use of ICT.  A brand new laptop was presented  to each participant at the end of the programme. “I am overwhelmed by the zeal, effort and dedication each of the participant put in to make this programme a success and I am confident that your minds have been opened to new possibilities as a result of this training. “It is our hope that the laptops will be put to best use. We will continue to support and track the progress of all participants to ensure they succeed in their chosen fields,” she said. Ekpere-Eta expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for his inclusive initiative aimed at ensuring that no one was left out from the scheme of things and his desire to ensure that women took advantage of ICT and  become actively  productive. She promised that the agency will continue to train and empower women and youths  on ICT, vocational and entrepreneurial skill development, so that they can become self-reliant and  confidently contribute their quota to national development. “Being a trainers’ programme, I urge you all to practice what you have learnt and to share this knowledge with others in your states,” she said. Wife of Kebbi State Governor, Dr Zainab Atiku Bagudu,  congratulated the National Centre for Women Development for taking up this initiative, particularly for persons that are living with disabilities.  The Kebbi first lady recounted that during her school days, one of her best friends was blind but a very brilliant student. “I  was always very fascinated at the way she used her equipment. I am sure that today, if we were to go back to school, the help that she will be able to get in her studies from ICT and the kind of computer that you have the benefit of having it  today would have meant a lot and who knows how much more she would have excelled. “I urge you to use the opportunity that you have and maximize it because it’s a rare one. As women, whether we are living with disability or not, we are partly disabled because we are always talking about gender equity. We all go through this once you are a female gender in this country.  So, I can understand how difficult it is for you especially,” she said. She advised participants that under no circumstance must they dispose of the laptops that they have been given as it has become their tool for business and earning a living. Omolu Maryann Nonyelum, a participant, took us through her plans of maximizing the training. “I am happy to be empowered with a laptop. Now, I can do so many things with the ICT training I have gotten. I can expand on my business knowledge and my social media presence. I just finished training on fashion designing and having this laptop will help me to download programmes that will aid me in designing outfits. I already have an existing presence on social media platform. This is an opportunity also to expand my followership. “During the five days training, we were trained on hardware repairs and phone repairs and our instructors also went deeper into software repairs as well because repairing laptop and phones deals with either hardware or software” Nonyelum said