G overnor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State yesterday said his administration had not filled the contentious vacant stool of Aboro of Ibeseland.   Abiodun, who spoke while addressing hundreds of protesters at his office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, promised that once commissioners were sworn in, a process for the selection of Oba in Ibese would be reopened.  The protesters, who were armed with placards bearing different inscriptions, had asked government to respect due process and Ibese Obaship Declaration of 1957 in the selection of monarch for the town.   The protesters presented a position paper entitled: “Your Excellency, Please Give us Justice,” to the governor. It was signed by representatives of Ibese chiefs, family heads, youth associations and market women. Clearing the air on the vacant stool, Abiodun said his administration had not approved the selection of any monarch in the town.  The governor spoke through the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Kunle Osota, while addressing a protest by members of the Oloko Ruling House.   He said whoever was parading himself as an Oba-elect was doing so on his own volition, stressing that the selection process would only be kick-started with the involvement of all stakeholders in the ancient town.   The governor noted that his mantra of equity, fairness and justice would be brought to bear in the process of selecting the new Oba.  According to him, the process will involve the family doing a proper nomination in line with the 1957 declaration, the local government, kingmakers and the Ministry of Justice.   The governor called on the ruling house to support the effort of government in ensuring a hitch-free process.   Speaking earlier, the Asiwaju of Ibeseland, Dr. Hezy Idowu, claimed that some forces in Ibese were threatening the peace of the land by seeking to subvert the selection process of the monarch.   Hezy alleged that those working against the choice of the people had the support of the Secretary to the State Government, Tokunbo Talabi.   He said the sole Obaship candidate of Oloko Ruling House was Prince Azeez Adedimeji Idowu, stressing that he was rightly selected, nominated and presented.  Hezy, who bemoaned how someone, Rotimi Mulero, had been parading himself as Oba-elect of Ibeseland, said no other candidate was selected, nominated or presented to the kingmakers other than Prince Azeez Adedimeji