For the Nigerian entertainment industry, one of those notable events is the drama that goes on within. There have been good things like celebrities that had new additions to their families, those that started a family and so on. But, the entertainment scene is not complete without the drama. For celebrities, a little misunderstanding or disagreement becomes a hot topic among Nigerians on social media. EDWIN USOBOH takes a look at the major celebrity feuds that got Nigerians talking in year 2019   BBNaija: Tacha and Mercy Tacha and Mercy were both housemates in the 2019 edition of Big Brother Naija. While in the house, the two had an epic fight that got Tacha disqualified and got Nigerians talking about it for days on social media. Actress Tonto Dikeh and Blogger Stella Dimoko-Korkus Dimoko-Korkus had published a post, claiming that Dikeh was deported from Dubai. In response to the claims, Dikeh and her friend Bobrisky went off on Dimoko on social media. This reaction led to a lot of secret-spilling that is still yet to be confirmed. Naira Marley and Simi Singer Simi had shared her thoughts on Yahoo boys and the effect they have on the country globally. The singer’s statement about Yahoo boys did not sit well with Naira Marley who said Yahoo boys also listen to her music. Rappers, MI Abaga and Vector The long-standing beef between MI Abaga and Vector took a new turn this year. The rappers released diss tracks against each other. Their beef left Nigerians entertained in a creative way. Toyin Abraham and Lizzy Anjorin The beef began after actress Lizzy Anjorin called out Toyin Abraham. She accused Abraham of creating troll accounts which she reportedly uses it to insult other people and celebrities. This led to a lot of drama on both their Instagram pages, from sending each other lawsuits and proceeding to send video threats. Toke Makinwa and Yomi Black Yomi Black had reposted a comment that dared media personality Toke Makinwa to reveal how she can afford to live an expensive lifestyle. Makinwa who was pissed off by Black’s reaction to the comment used the opportunity to reveal that Black once claimed to be a fan of hers. Biodun Fatoyinbo and Busola Dakolo This year, wife of singer, Timi Dakolo, Busola, accused the senior pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Biodun Fatoyinbo, of molesting her as a child. The accusation got many Nigerians sharing mixed reactions, some called for justice while others refused to believe the allegations, saying this happened a long time ago, that Busola does not have enough proof to accuse the man of God. They eventually went to court and Pastor Fatoyinbo was acquitted and Busola was asked to pay a fine. This also caused quite a stir on social media as lot of people felt the court ruled unjustly against a rape victim, Busola. 