It sounds weird and absurd. Secondary school students, believe that education guarantees no future for them.  They, however, resort to use of hard drugs and unleash mayhem on fellow students and teachers at will. That is despite the efforts by the state government which has given education, a big chunk of the state’s budget. DOMINIC ADEWOLE reports from Asaba   For some students of the Basic and Secondary Schools in Delta State, Education is a scam. That has been the singsong on their mouths since they believe that that education would lead them nowhere. The big question is; what must have informed this conclusion among them? That is important to know because that belief is fast eroding the quality of education in the state, and thereby increasing the number of persons who have abandoned a course of study or rejected conventional society to pursue an alternative lifestyle in the oil rich state. The Lead lecturer during a capacity building workshop for the press corps and media partners, tagged, “Government and Media: Partners of Development,” organized by the Delta State Government in Asaba, two months ago, Prof. Godwin Ehiarekhian Oboh, Head, Mass Communication Department, Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, said that students that have been imposed with such misleading belief were unwilling to work or use energy. According to him, such students viewed their long years of going to school and paying exorbitant school fees in tertiary  institutions to acquire knowledge as fraudulent as they will not be gainful employed after all. “To students in this category, going to school is just to fulfill all righteousness. Let it not be that I didn’t go like others. Their understanding is that if you failed to make money after spending over 20 years in school, what have you gained? But  they forgot in a hurry that happiness (money-making) is not a station you arrive at but a manner of travelling”, he submitted. This belief, especially among students of secondary schools, has made thousands to abandon classrooms, turned to hoodlums by joining various cult groups to become kidnappers or armed robbers. To identify some of them is very easy. They wear all sorts of cloths, including rags, twist their hair-styles and carry extra-curricular materials, including dangerous weapons, such as battle axe, guns and dagger to school, smoke Indan-hemp and take other hard drugs before resuming lectures. Last week, their delusion about education assumed a dangerous dimension in Asaba, the state capital, as some of them teamed up and beat a teacher to coma. They were said to be under the influence of hard drugs. “They launched the attack on the male teacher after allegedly taken a fermented hard drug that was soaked in a water container”, a female teacher in the school recounted. South-South Focus further learnt that the students, having completed their first term examinations, waylaid the unsuspecting teacher while on his way home after the closing hour, dragged him to tight corner before descending on him. An eyewitness, who did not want his name in the print, told the South-South Focus that if not for the assistance of Good Samaritans, who swiftly rushed the teacher to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Asaba, for treatment as he sustained injury on his forehead, he would have bled to death. “Yes, we rushed him to FMC to ascertain whether he sustained internal bleeding because he was beaten to the point of death. If not for the swift response of detectives from ‘A’ Divisional Police Headquarters, they would have lynched him. The security operatives came and arrested the pupils in the school premise”, the source said. When the matter occurred and men of the state police command had raided the perpetrators, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said she has not received signal on the case. Prior to this, the state has witnessed a situation whereby students of Zappa Basic and Secondary School ganged-up, disrupted school activities, besieged their sister school, West-End Secondary School, in Asaba, and sent panic across the metropolis, because their principal was transferred unceremoniously to another school by the state government. It was carried out in a gangster form. Also, the state recorded another incident where students of two schools declared ‘war’ on each other. The matter assumed a dangerous dimension, such that, parents and guardians withheld their wards from going to school for days for fear of the unknown. The cult clash was planned and executed successfully among the warring factions. Five years ago, a former Commissioner of Police in the state, Zanna Ibrahim, who acted on a tip-off, arrested and paraded over 70 students of Osadenis Secondary School, Asaba. They allegedly gathered in their hideouts within the metropolis for their nefarious activities before detectives swooped on them. The initiation of new members they had gathered was botched. An activist, Mr. Victor Ojei, who was one of the people that rushed to the scene to rescue the victim, decried the level of drugs intake by pupils of secondary schools across the state. He lamented the damage it has done to the education system and called on the state’s Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education to be proactive. He said: “The teacher was attacked but has been rushed to FMC for treatment. Hard drugs are now being consumed by secondary school students in Delta State. These kids now take all kinds of drugs and get intoxicated to start fighting themselves and their teachers. They broke his forehead in the process. “The state government needs to support and fund Anti-Cult groups, Man ‘o’ war, Police and Non-Governmental Organizations to curb cultism and thuggery in public schools. Each time the principal calls for help to curb or checkmate the excesses of these children who have gone haywire due to hard drugs, at least N15,000 will be paid to security agency. The pupils need to be re-orientated on integrity, good moral values and the need to avoid joining various cult groups.” Similarly, the Delta State chapter of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) did not take the rising menace lightly with the state government. The group maintained that poor working environment and inadequate funding have collectively led to extortion and violation of children’s rights in public schools across the state. Unfortunately, the bashlash came after Governor Ifeanyi Okowa had earmarked N31.6 billion for education in the budget he signed into law for the 2020 fiscal year last week. The governor did not only make education of children the second top priority of his administration, roads and physical infrastructure gulped N84.54 billion. This was the same way the governor budgeted billions of naira for education in 2019 to make the sector the second largest priority in his scale of preference that year. The governor told those that cared to listen during the budget presentation at the  state’s House of Assembly this year that his intention was to continue to reposition the educational system of the state to equip youths for the new world of rapid change and digital revolution. However, CDHR in a position statement, signed by its Secretary, Comrade Jonathan Giama, urged the Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Mr. Patrick Ukah,  to increase the subventions for Principals and Head-Teachers in public schools from N20,000.00 to N50,000.00 monthly and also make supply of stationery available to them, provide funds and office equipment to the Chief Inspector of Education (CIEs) and Education Secretaries of the 25 Local Government Areas of the state as at when due. He said: “That repeated act of extortion by officials of your Ministry are likely as a result of the deficiency of the above mentioned subject matters as some offices of the C.I.Es/Education Secretaries are in poor working environment and operating without vehicles.” The group heaped the blame of nonchalant attitude of students to their education on poor welfare package, stagnant promotion, non-payment of salary arrears, lack of incentives, training and retraining, for their tutors. “We have discovered that most of your officials are being pushed to the wall in the course of performing their duties as most C.I.Es, Education Secretaries and Principals /Head-Teachers are forced to improvise for cases relating to the above subject matter where there are deficiencies, thereby leading to extortion of students and low morale. “We, as a human right organization have always appreciated your Ministry for giving us audience and the cordial relationship which was built upon by the immediate past Commissioner, now Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr Chiedu Ebie, and we are still expecting same on the above subject matter even though we have not paid you a courtesy visit since your assumption of office.” But Ukah, who sounded modest on the issue, said  Okowa has always been harping on the core values of public service. He said the state has zero tolerance to thuggery, cultism and extortion in public schools.