…swears in Ngige’s wife, 8 others  President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the deployment and re-deployment of some Permanent Secretaries. Permanent Secretaries who were hitherto awaiting posting, but now deployed are: Mr. Olusola Idowu, deployed to the Ministry of Budget and National Planning; Mr. David Andrew, posted to the Service Welfare Office of the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation. Engr. Nebolisa Ariako is now Permanent Secretary, Public Service Commission; Dr. Evelyn Ngige was deployed to the Economic and Political Affairs Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. Others and their new postings are: Mr. Aliyu Ahmed, Ministry of Finance (Special Duties); Mr. Tijjani Umar, Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development; Dr. Nasir Sani-Gwarzo, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Investment; Engr. Hassan Musa, Ministry of Aviation, and Mr. Temitope Fashedemi to Special Duties Office, Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation. Those who were re-deployed include: Mr. Edet Sunday Akpan from the Ministry of Industry, Trade & Investment to the Ministry of Mines & Steel Development; Mrs. Esther D. Walson-Jack, from the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs to the Ministry of Power. Dr. Abdulkadir Mu’azu from the Ministry of Mines & Steel Development to the Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development; Dr. Mohammed Bello Umar from the Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development to the Ministry of Science & Technology; Mr. Olusade Adesola from the Ministry of Youth & Sports to the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs. Mr. Gabriel Tanimu Aduda was moved from Economic & Political Affairs Office (E & PAO) OSGF to the Ministry of Youth & Sports; Mr. Bitrus Bako Nabasu, from the Ministry of Science & Technology to the Ministry Petroleum Resources; Mr. Afolabi Ernest Umakhire, from the Ministry of Budget & National Planning, to the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF – CSO). Mr. Maurice Nnamdi Mbaeri was moved from Police Service Commission to the Ministry of Police Affairs, and Dr. Bakari Wadinga from Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF – CSO) to the Ministry of Environment. Earlier yesterday, President Buhari swore in the wife of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, Dr. Evelyn Ngige, and eight others as Permanent Secretaries. Other new Permanent Secretaries that took the oath of office are: Engr. Musa Hassan, Borno State; Mr. Ahmed Aliyu, Niger State; and Mrs. Olushola Idowu, Ogun State. The six appointed, according to the geo-political zones’ quota, are: Andrew David Adejoh, North-Central; Umar Idris Tijjani, North-East; Dr. Nasir Sani Gwarzo, North-West; Engr. Nebeolisa Victor Anako, South-East; Fashedemi Temitope Peter, South-West and Dr. (Mrs) Evelyn Ngige, South-South.