This year has been full of unexpected events and we have definitely learned that the American singer, Rihanna, is right; we find love in hopeless places. As we all know, Khafi and Gedoni, housemates of the 2019 BBNaija began to have a thing in the house. Upon exiting the house, they continued their relationship. Many people seemed to be of the opinion that Gedoni was a ‘player’ and unserious and that the relationship was not going to last or head anywhere. Well, look at God now, it is leading to somewhere very beautiful. Khafi had mentioned earlier that she wanted a ring for Christmas and it seemed like her boyfriend was listening, as he actually did propose to her. She posted an adorable picture announcing their engagement with Christmas caps on and the caption: “Oh, and I got the best Christmas gift ever. #MrsEkpataLoading” Fans have been sending her their congratulations, while some have been unhappy with this rather beautiful turn of events. Meanwhile, actress, Lala Akindoju, has given an account of how the love blossomed into the engagement that has now become talk-of-the-town. The actress recalled how she once had a conversation with Khafi on “why she followed a man” while still a housemate of the reality show. Lala Akindoju who revealed that she told the reality show star that Gedoni was a distraction, recounted how Khafi told her that she found something more than a reality show. She also said that the couple love each genuinely as she prayed for their love to continue growing stronger and stronger. She wrote; “I remember my first conversation with Khafi when she came out of the Big Brother house…I celebrated everything she did in the house, but I was like ‘why did you follow the man’? ‘He was a distraction’!!! She smiled and told me I was wrong, told me she felt she had found something that was beyond a reality show…she then said I should speak with him and assess him on my own. The first thing Gedoni told me was how much he loved Khafi and wanted to make her happy forever. Despite my many questions, he remained graceful….The rest they say is history! I know you both genuinely love each other, so I pray that your love will keep growing stronger and stronger. Congratulations to you both. Love you both.”