Customers, NECA laud move to slash bank charges  T he Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has clarified the issue of payments of N50 charge by merchants who use Point of Sale (POS) machines for cashless transactions, insisting that nobody should pay extra on goods and services.   CBN explained that the N50 stamp duty is a fee regulated by an act that directs merchants to pay all necessary taxes as regulated by government agencies.   Speaking on Channels Television’s Business Morning programme, the CBN Director of Payment System Management, Musa Jimoh, said the apex bank issued a circular and merchants have misinterpreted the directive.  The CBN director said: “Stamp duty has been misinterpreted. Our circular that talks about merchants paying stamp duties, according to the law, do not say that the stamp duty should be paid by the consumer; that is a misrepresentation of CBN’s directive. What our directive says is that merchants should pay all necessary taxes as regulated by government agencies, including stamp duty.   “What we told the merchants is that we would like the banks to ensure that the merchants comply with this directive by ensuring that every single payment that customers make to them, the merchants pay the regulated stamp duty of N50.   “What has happened is that they have actually transferred this fee blatantly and openly to the consumers; this is very wrong. No single individual should pay N50 in addition to the cost of the goods.   “Stamp duty is not to be paid by individuals that are consuming the goods and services of the merchants; the merchants who are receiving the money are the ones who are supposed to pay.”   Jimoh explained that because the stamp duty is not regulated by CBN, there are no plans to stop it.   He said: “Stamp duty is not a CBN regulated fee, it is a fee regulated by an act and so, we can’t change or push anything in that direction. To this, the stamp duty remains and cannot be changed by CBN. What we are doing is to ensure that the institutions we regulate (the banks) become more responsible to ensure that these fees are collected and given to government.” Meanwhile, banks customers have lauded the CBN for its move to slash various banks charges.   A cross section of customers, who spoke with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja yesterday, described the development as being in the right direction.   The apex bank, in a new guideline, announced the downward review of most charges and fees for banking services, other financial and non-bank financial institutions, with effect from January 1, 2020.   Among the charges, CBN said bank customers would now pay N10 for electronic transfers below N5,000, and N25 for electronic transfer between N5,000 and N50,000, adding that electronic transfer above N50,000 attracts N50 charge. Previously, bank customers pay N50 charge for electronic transfers below N500,000.  The bank also slashed charges for cash withdrawal via other bank’s ATM to “maximum of N35 after the third withdrawal within the same month” from N65. A bank customer, Mr. James Onumah said that the CBN’s directive was a New Year gift to bank customers.  Onumah said most Nigerian banks were still characterised with inefficiency, yet they charge customers for services not provided. He said that withdrawal charge of N65 after three withdrawals in other banks in a month was exploitative.  Funke Akin said she had been celebrating over the reduction as announced by CBN. Akin said she was particularly happy over the removal of card maintenance charges, adding that she never understood the essence of such charges.  Mr. Emmanuel Atama, the Executive Secretary, the National Cooperative Financing Agency of Nigeria (CFAN) said the new guideline was a welcomed development which would facilitate financial inclusion.   Atama said: “I see it as a Christmas gift from CBN to ordinary Nigerians because at this point, you see a lot of Nigerians on ATM queues to withdraw their money. If the charges are excessive, it goes a long way to impede on their purchasing power.  “For us at the financial inclusion end, it is a welcome development because when you are talking about inclusion, a lot has to do with technology.  “A situation where people are being charged at every point in time, then the urge to keep money in the bank will no longer be there.  “But on the maintenance charge, it is uncalled for. Why are they charging maintenance fee while at the point of the card collection, customers pay for it. What are they maintaining?  “Banks are not bearing any cost. All the costs are being transferred to customers. So slashing down on ATM charges is a welcomed development.” The executive secretary said he expected the apex bank to continue with more directives that would make more Nigerians become financially inclusive.  Also, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) commended the CBN on the new guideline to banks and other financial institutions. NECA’s Director-General, Mr. Timothy Olawale, said that the new guideline would make financial services more accessible and affordable to various stakeholders in the economy. Olawale said that the guideline would encourage Nigerians to be more aligned with the Cashless Policy of the CBN.  He also applauded the reduction in the remote-on-us, that is, from other banks’ ATMs, to maximum of N35 after third withdrawal within the same month from N65.  “On the electronic funds transfer, although, the new guideline introduced new additions for transactions below N50,000, attracting N25 and N10 respectively; we suggest that transactions of N100,000 and below should fall within the newly reviewed charges of N25, taking into account the low income earners,” he said.  The Director-General called for a total cancellation of N50 Point of Sale (POS) charges on stamp duties still in operation.  According to him, the N50 stamp duty charge is a burden on Nigerians and businesses.  “As the citizens grapple under the weight of inflation and eroding purchasing power, these charges, under any guise, tend to further impoverish the banking populace,” he said.  Olawale urged the CBN to continuously promote policies and guidelines that facilitate the ease of doing business and banking in the country.  He said: “Efforts should be made to deliberately align monetary policy with the fiscal policies in order to drive development of the economy.  “Aggressive sensitisation should be embarked upon to enable customers acquaint themselves with the provisions of the guideline and be properly guided.”