When Jose Mourinho took over as Tottenham boss last month, his side were 12 points behind Frank Lampard’s Chelsea and looked out of the running for the Top Four.  But on Sunday (tomorrow) the Special One will be looking forward to overtaking the Blues in the race for the Champions League ticket. Sunday’s clash in London is more symbolic because it also represents a big test of strength between a great manager and one of his former players.  Lampard won two Premier League titles as a Chelsea player when working under Mourinho, fulfilling his potential as one of English football’s greatest midfielders in the process. He practically cemented his status under Mounriho’s guidance and filing the Blues out against his former coach will be an interesting scenario for the former player.  Lampard already knows how to get the better of Jose Mourinho as a manager. Just two months into his first coaching job at Derby County last season, Lampard sent his old mentor crashing out of the Carabao Cup with a third-round, penalty shootout victory over Manchester United at the Old Trafford. It was a result that made the football world sit up and take notice of Lampard’s early steps in management at Derby.  Chelsea have stumbled in recent weeks, losing four of their past five Premier League matches, with the boss hinting at striking reinforcements in the January transfer window.  Meanwhile, Mourinho has overseen five wins out of seven across all competitions since replacing Mauricio Pochettino at the helm, with Spurs suddenly looking like a formidable outfit capable of challenging for major honours.  Lampard says he is determined to get one over on his former mentor in a London derby, which he believes has an extra “special” edge this time around. “I think it will be special. I think it will make a difference to me, I think it will make a difference to him,” the Chelsea head coach told BBC’s Football Focus.   “We’re both professionals, we’re driven, and sometimes when you come across someone you worked with or a club that you worked with, it pushes you on that little bit more in the best possible way.  “And it’s Tottenham-Chelsea, that game has enough anyway. And then you have Jose Mourinho there. And he’s going to be desperate to beat us, let’s make no bones.”  Mourinho is getting results, making players better — Dele Alli in particular has been transformed — and he is once again looking like a manager with a future, rather than one whose best days were behind him. Equally, he will relish the opportunity to take Lampard on this weekend.