Suspected kidnappers, 28-year-old Best Kevwe Iweh and Emmanuel Tomson (30), have reportedly murdered a member of their gang, Raymond Enahon. Iweh and Tomson were arrested by operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) for the murder. According to the police, the suspects, on August 19, 2019, murdered Enahon for fleeing with N5 million ransom, which the gang had earlier extorted from a victim’s family. After fleeing with the money, Enahon bought a Lexus ‘Jeep’ and lavished the rest on his numerous girlfriends. IRT operatives later found Enahon’s remains in a shallow grave at Obiaruku village in Delta State. The operation was led by a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari, who is the national head of the IRT units. According to sources, Kyari and his men launched investigation into the activities of the kidnappers following a directive from the IG, Mohammed Adamu. It was further learnt that Enahon’s body was exhumed after Iweh and Tomson were arrested. The suspects led IRT team to the shallow grave to recover Enahon’s body. A police source said: “The downfall of the gang started after IRT operatives, on the instruction of the IG, went to Delta State on the trail of a notorious kidnapping gang, led by Best Kevwe Iweh. The gang, who is a native of Oria Abaraka in Delta State, was successfully arrested. He is a notorious kidnapper and had been terrorising Delta State. The second suspect, Emmanuel Tomson, was arrested on August 18. “Both suspects have confessed to several kidnappings, including the kidnapping of a former finance officer in Delta State in August 2018. They also admitted to kidnapping and killing Raymond Enahon, their gang member. Raymond bought a Lexus RS 330 from N5 million ransom realised from one of their kidnappings. “Raymond collected the ransom and fled. They confirmed that Raymond bought a Lexus from the money and spent the remaining part of the ransom with his girlfriends. According to the suspects, they lured Raymond somewhere and killed him. After killing Raymond, they sold the jeep for N1.8 million.” Kyari and his men, it was learnt, are still working round the clock to arrest other fleeing members of the gang.