Alhaji Yerima Shettima is the National President of Arewa Youths Consultative Forum (AYCF). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on recent developments in the polity, especially North’s quest for the 2023 presidency, calls for restructuring and electoral reforms, among other issues  The Acting Chairman of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) recently said that the North is going to support northerner for the presidency in 2023. What is your take on that and do you see Northern youths also going in that direction? Did he say anything different thing from what I said before? Was I not the one who started it? Do you think I would just come out and say something I am not sure of? It is not possible, and that is why I will advise all political parties to zone their presidential tickets to the North. Any political party that makes the mistake of presenting a southerner as presidential candidate in 2023 is wasting its time. Why informed your conviction? The North will massively go one way, so I will advise the various political parties to present a northern candidate. My argument is based on the fact that rotation of the presidency was jettisoned in 2011 by former President Goodluck Jonathan. So, if President Muhammadu Buhari eventually completes his second term in 2023, the North would only have had nine years, while the South would have had 15 years. Chief Olusegun Obasanjo had eight years of uninterrupted administration; Umaru Yar’Adua had only one year, the second year he was sick and Jonathan acted for one year before becoming the substantive president as a result of the Doctrine of Necessity and after Yar’Adua’s demise in 2010, Jonathan became president. So, out of the four years of Yar’Adua’s first term, he had only one year, while Jonathan had three years of the administration. When some of us came out in 2011 to say it is important for the country to allow a northern candidate to emerge through the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), so that the North can complete the Yar’Adua administration and northern administration by extension, some people raised eyebrows, saying ‘it is not constitutional, there is nothing like agreement, it is the right of every Nigerian to contest’ and that was how the issue of rotational presidency was jettisoned. I also think that it is fair to allow the North to retain power beyond 2023 given the challenge the region is facing in terms of insecurity and lack of infrastructure. No doubt, one of our own is heading the country today, but we are the most backward, most marginalised in this administration. Everything is being cornered by the South-West in terms of road network, rail project and anything you can talk of. But prior to the present Fourth Republic, the North has been at the helm of affairs for many years compared to other geo-political zones… Despite that look at what is happening to us; we have suffered enough. If we are talking of justice, we never got justice from Nigerians. I gave you an analysis of the South occupying the presidency for 15 years and even if with Buhari’s two terms, we would only have had nine years. Can we compare nine to 15 years? Even if we are given the 2023 ticket freely without anybody opposing us, you will realise that we will only have 13 years. We have not even catch-up with the South’s 15 years. But however, let us just have one shot more so that we can be able to look at somebody else because we do not see anything meaningful coming out of this administration or anything in the best interest of the North for now. So, we are saying that by the time we have one more shot between 2023 and 2027, we would have been able to put things on ground because we are not going to assume that four years is enough for us to solve all our problems. At least, there would be template that successive governments that come from any part of the country can also build on. What is the assurance that if the North produces the president in 2023, the person coming on board will address the region’s problems, considering the fact that many northerners have been at the helms of affairs for almost 38 years since Nigeria gained independence 59 years ago? What is the guarantee that if we leave it and somebody from the South becomes the president, he would do projects for us? Does that not show that where a president comes from is not an issue? We will ensure that the candidate we are going to produce from the northern part of Nigeria is somebody who has the capacity, age and energy. Those are some of the criteria we are going to consider and at the same time, we must be able to assess his antecedents on his relationship with other parts of the country. Does he have a say and does he see himself as a Nigerian or just a northerner? We want a pan-Nigeria person from the northerner part of the country, who sees the country as his constituency and at the same time knows where he comes from. Who are the likely presidential candidates the North is looking at for the 2023 presidential election? I won’t give names because it is too early to talk about that. In the Northern part of the country today, when I make a statement, you hardly see anybody opposing it because I don’t talk just because I want to talk. I talk from facts because I am an insider. I am a member of Northern Elders Forum (NEF) and by extension, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF). I have my platform too. So, anything I come up with, be rest assured that there is was a wide consultation before I pronounced it. I don’t just sit down in my comfort zone and talk because I want publicity. We have two major parties in Nigeria today, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). What do you foresee if the two parties zone their presidential tickets to the South in 2023? There are other political parties, so we will look for an alternative platform without considering the size of the party. Do you think it is possible for you to get an alternative to the two major parties? Why was it possible for APC to do what it did in less than two years? But APC was a big party when it confronted PDP, which was the ruling party in 2015… It was a merger of Congress for Progressives Change (CPC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) and other political parties. So, it is possible again; we can still do that magic. In less than one year, you will see things taking shape. We are working mindful of the fact that timing is also one of the factors we have and we are working around the clock. In less than one year, you will get to hear that this is a different dimension; a lot of things will come to play. By the way, what makes you think that people will go for APC or PDP? Think beyond that. We are thinking of an alternative beyond APC and PDP and we will get there. The next general election is about three years away, but the conduct and outcome of the last month’s governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states caused some apprehension over what may happen in 2023. What are thoughts on that? Was there any election in Kogi? It was an act of shame as state instruments were used against the will of the people and leaders forced on them. That was what happened in Kogi at the expense of peoples; lives. An election that was supposed to be calm and cool with the over 30,000 policemen deployed as claimed by the Nigerian Police Force to protect lives and property, but look at what has happened. Lives have been wasted. There was a broad-day light robbery; everything was done in the open. Was that what you called election? For me, the last election we had was in 2015. In every other election after that, we were just going backward. We have not done anything meaningful under the present leadership of the Independent National Electoral Committee (INEC). This is the worst experience we ever had. With what happened in Kogi and Bayelsa, do you have any fear about the 2023 elections? I am worried over what happened in the Kogi and Bayelsa elections and without carrying out electoral reforms before the next general election, I foresee a situation where the whole country go up in flames. I am worried and I am afraid. The only thing left for this government to do that will be meaningful beyond any other thing to save the future of this country is to pass the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. Why do you think that elections are gradually turning into war in Nigeria? It is because people are becoming more desperate. Holding of political office in this country pays more than running any other business and to that extent, people believe the moment they secure a political office, they will make money than they ever imagined within a short period of time. No matter how stupid the office looks, they make money. That has made people to become more desperate. So, we must begin to act in the right way by looking at the electoral law. For me, I am looking beyond amending the electoral law; I am also looking at a situation where we ensure that we reduce the power at the centre. If power at the centre is reduced, people will begin to yearn for political positions in their regions and communities. If you know you don’t have the pedigree or capacity within the community and you want to contest to represent your people, ordinarily you would be knocked out because everything would be put on ground to measure your capacity and people will see it. So, the moment you are not supposed to be among their first 11, they will drop you and they will bring people who are competent. If they knew from time that your family is into fraudulent act, those records would be used to disqualify you. So, at that level, we will begin to have good leaders and no matter where you come from, nobody cares; whether you are rich or poor. The son of a nobody can be president, governor or minister and on that basis, we will begin to have a Nigeria that is peaceful, coordinated and development will be there for everybody. Without that, there will be problem. We should also decentralise power, but you cannot decentralise power without restructuring. Restructuring is one of the issues that have been in the front burner. We need to look at this issue of system of governance; what kind of system of government we need and how to run it? It is only when we sit down and discuss that we can arrive at a conclusion. Talking about restructuring, the South and Middle Belt parts of the country have been clamouring for restructuring, but the North seems not to be in support… Whoever told you that the North is not in support of restructuring is a bloody liar. The opinion of few northern people who don’t understand the meaning of restructuring does not mean that the entire North is against restructuring. The Northern Elders Forum is not opposed to restructuring and that was why it entered into an alliance with leaders from other parts of the country to form a pan-Nigeria movement – the Nigeria Elders Forum that brought together the likes of Prof. Ango Abdullahi, Chief Edwin Clark, Chief Ayo Adebanjo and Chief John Nwodo, among others. So, if you see somebody saying that the North is against restructuring, probably the person doesn’t have an idea of what he is talking about. We are prepared to discuss; we are prepared to reshape the country , so that we can move forward. So, you are hopeful that Nigeria would be restructured one day… Definitely, it will. It is a matter of time. Do you think restructuring is achievable under the incumbent administration? It is not possible under this administration. They will not do it. Why do you say so? Because the characters we have in the administration do not believe in restructuring. There is a rumoured of third term agenda for President, which many still believe despite the President saying he is not interested in a third term… I also heard about the speculation, but I am one of those who see things beyond just hearing. Though President Buhari has come out openly to say he is not interested in a third term, we have realised that sometimes he might not want to do something, but the forces around him wouldn’t let him be. To that extent, we cannot fold our hands and assume that because he has said it, it is over; it is not yet over. As they are saying they will not, we will not also sleep because nothing is impossible. We have seen that so many things the government promised not to do are what it has done. For instance, when they came to power, they promised that fuel price would go back to N45 per litre, but instead of that there was over 100 per cent increment in the price of fuel. They also said there won’t be an office of the First Lady, but wife of the president has suddenly become first lady. We have seen a case where they said fuel subsidy was a scam, but in fact, this government is even paying more than what the previous government paid. Are you saying that the APC cannot be trusted on the third term issue? They cannot be trusted under; it is not just about Buhari because Buhari is an individual. But the President has said that he is not running for a third term… It is not enough for Nigerians to go and sleep. We hope he doesn’t, but if he does, it is going to be as good as dead on arrival because tension is high. Nigerians have suffered enough, so anything you bring that goes against their mindset would be resisted. The Federal Government few months ago closed the nation’s borders, but some Nigerians believe that the decision has brought hardship to the people, while government is of the view that the decision is in the interest of the country. How would you react to that? I don’t understand and my thinking maybe because I am a layman or because I am not in government. There is saying that he who drives on the road knows exactly where the potholes are than somebody who is just a passenger. I don’t know how somebody can justify this issue of border closure at the expense of Nigerians, who are suffering. You said the reason for closing the borders is for us to focus on what we have in-house. What are those things we have inside and has closure of the borders really given Nigerians the opportunity to consume our own products. You said we are producing enough rice locally, but today, a bag of local rice is sold for over N22, 000. How does that help the common man? If you are buying a bag or rice for almost N22, 000 and getting what you want from the rice, it is a different thing. But we have a situation, where the rice has stones and even tasteless at that expensive amount of money. Does that help us in any way? I don’t think so. We should have more locally produced rice at a cheaper price. If the rice is being sold at cheaper price, people will buy it and they will know that they are either faced with eating the rice with the stones or take time to select the stones from the rice and eat it tasteless because they want to be patriotic Nigerians. Let the government be courageous enough to tell people what they have benefitted from the boarder closure. The only benefit I am aware of is the money the country is making on a daily basis coming from the angle of Nigerian Customs, but is that enough to hold the entire country of over 180 million people to ransom. Because of what you are making, you deprive families’ their means of survival. And this money you claim to be getting for government, does it anyway impact on the country? If it had impacted, we wouldn’t have heard just few days ago that the government is going for another loan; writing the National Assembly for approval of about $30 billion loan with over $287 billion that is already on ground. So, where is this money that they are talking about that we are making? Where is the money that has been recovered from looters? Where is the money that we have saved in the Single Treasury Account? Where is our foreign reserve? Why are we still going about borrowing? In fact, the World Bank has warned Nigeria to be careful of taking any loan again and we are still in it. Some Nigerians have attributed high cost of governance as major problems of the country and they are therefore calling on government to cut cost. Wheredo you stand on that? What is wrong in reducing it? Are they not the people that are supposed to do it? Are they doing it? Just few days ago, we heard of this issue of arrears that governors are collecting. The smallest one announced was the one of Zamfara State, where a former governor was collecting N10 million per month. I commend Zamfara State governor and members of the state House of Assembly for kicking it out and I hope other governors who are not in tune with this godfatherism issue would also kick it out, so that we can begin to save from that angle. Don’t you think it is time we reduced the number of public officers too? We should do that, especially if we can place the National Assembly on part time basis; they will only collect allowances, it will be better. In fact, it will reduce people thinking that the only business they can do is to go into politics because you see people spending over a billion naira just to become a senator, while someone is spending about N10 billion to be a governor. What do you expect if somebody invests up to N10 billion in an election? How do you expect him to be accountable to his people? Certainly, he will plan to make 10 times of the money he invested to get into office. So, if he invests N10 billion; he is expected to get back N100 billion.