Wife of the Lagos State Governor, Dr.  Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu has acknowledged the contributions and sacrifices of teachers in the state in impacting knowledge and virtues on school pupils assuring them of the state government’s commitment to their welfare. The governor’s wife also commended all stakeholders in the education sector for their cooperation and commitment in helping to scale up service delivery in terms of quality education to school children in Lagos. Speaking at the 2019 End of the Year Party for Head Teachers and other basic education stakeholders organised by the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LASUBEB) in Lagos, Mrs Sanwo-Olu commended the teachers for their dedication to the service. She said: “Let me start by heartily and warmly commending all our teachers in Lagos State for their great efforts and sacrifice in impacting knowledge and virtues on our pupils in the State. “In the same vein, I congratulate the Executive Chairman of State Universal Basic Education Board, Hon. Wahab Alawiye-King; and the Permanent Board member of the LASUBEB family for the reforms they are championing and their unwavering commitment towards transforming the education sector in our dear state.” She maintained that since assumption of office on May 29, 2019, several initiatives have been implemented to reposition the education sector for efficiency and top-notch service delivery, stressing that the teachers and other stakeholders have been active participants in actualizing the vision of government for the sector. The governor’s wife, who was represented at the event by the wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat, urged teachers and other stakeholders within the education sector to recommit themselves to quality service delivery in the New Year. The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Education, Mrs. Abosede Adelaja speaking at the event buttressed the fact that the teaching profession stands tall among other noble professions globally. Extolling the sterling qualities of the teachers, the Chairman of LASUBEB, Hon. Alawiye-King said: “As teachers, you play essential roles in helping our pupils unfold, blossom and discover their true capabilities as they journey to become responsible, fulfilled and productive citizens of our dear nation.”