Barring any last minute change of plan, the 2020 budget of Lagos State will be passed by the Lagos State House of Assembly and possibly sign into law by the state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu not later than January 2, 2020. The Chairman of the Assembly’s Committee on Information, Strategy and Security, Hon. Tunde Buraimoh, disclosed this during an interaction with journalists in Alausa, Lagos. It would be recall that Governor Sanwo-Olu, on November 8, presented the 2020 proposed N1.68 trillion budget to members of the House for consideration and subsequent approval. The budget, which is christened, “Awakening to a Greater Lagos” is higher than the previous year by 37 per cent. Speaking on the budget, Hon. Buraimoh said the state Assembly is working hard to ensure that the Year 2020 proposed budget of N1.68 trillion is signed into law not later than January, 2, 2020 so that executive can have ample time and opportunity to execute all the proposals that are contained in the budget. Buraimoh, who represents Kosofe Constituency I, also disclosed that the House of Assembly has resolved to give the budget proposal speedy consideration and passage in consistence with the realisation of the laudable programmes and plans of the present administration. His words: “The Lagos State House of Assembly because of its cognisance of responsibility to make the lots of the people good and that the good of the people to get better and the greatest happiness to go to the greatest number of people is cautious of the fact that whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well and in good time. And there is no point taking any day not to talk of any week or any month out of the 52 weeks or 12 months that makes a year. “So, the Lagos State House of Assembly is trying as much as possible to get the executive ready to action and to hit the Year 2020 running by making sure that the 2020 budget estimates and proposals are made into law on or before, but not later than the first working day of January, 2020, so that the executive can have ample time and opportunity to execute all the proposals that are contained in the budget.” Hon. Buraimoh further said the Lagos State House of Assembly is working round the clock to ensure that people of Lagos State enjoy dividends of democracy and good governance from the Sanwo-Olu-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration.