 H omicide detectives from the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, Lagos State, have arrested Mr Amos Ekuma for allegedly killing a laundry operator simply identified as Actor. The incident, which occurred at Sabo, Ikorodu on Saturday at about 9p.m., has left many residents in the community reeling in shock.  Eyewitnesses confirmed that the two men had a squabble in the early hours of the day, which many thought was over following intervention from neighbours.   But the matter turned bad after Ekuma in the evening time, went to attack the deceased. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, while confirming the incident, explained that after the initial altercation, people resolved the matter between the two men.  Elkana went on: “Later in the evening, Ekuma went to meet Actor and pushed him. He fell and was immediately rushed to the Ikorodu General Hospital for treatment. He was, however, confirmed dead by the medical doctor. His remains have been deposited in the mortuary for autopsy. The suspect has been detained by homicide detectives for further questioning.”  Also, Elkana disclosed that the Command has arrested three suspected cultists for allegedly killing Enoch Obaro, at Agbowa, Ikorodu area of the state. Obaro was declared missing after his wife, Yemisi Obaro, reported the case of a missing person at Agbowa Police Station.   The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Agbowa Police Station immediately placed a radio message to all police stations across the state through the Control Room, asking for help to find Obaro. Elkana, while speaking on the incident, said that on 8th of December at about 2.30a.m. Police received a call that the remains of Obaro had been sighted at an isolated bushy area of Fadayin Junction in Imota.  He said: “A team of homicide detectives were immediately drafted to the scene. The decomposing body of the deceased was evacuated for autopsy.  When the corpse was observed, it was discovered that the deceased’s body had been mutilated, while his two hands and a leg had been chopped off. Expended cartridges and broken bricks were recovered from the scene. Three suspects have been arrested in connection with the murder. The suspects, who had been on Police Wanted List, are members of Aiye Confraternity. They were declared wanted for various offences ranging from armed robbery, violent attacks, cultism and land grabbing.”