H omicide detectives from the Lagos State Police Command, Ikeja, have arrested a 19-year-old boy, Orji Ifeanyichukwu, for allegedly setting his 24-year-old lover, Tolani Alabi, ablaze over allegations of infidelity.  The incident took place at G54, Army Post Service Housing Estate, Ojo, Lagos, where they both lived in Ifeanyichukwu’s N600, 000 per annum apartment.   It was learnt that the suspect met Alabi on February 28, through a hookup and Alabi moved into his house in March.   The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, while speaking on the matter, explained that Ifeanyichukwu was into internet fraud, popularly known as ‘Yahoo Yahoo.’ He explained that the suspect had been into internet fraud for three years and was able to make enough money from it to rent his N600, 000 per annum apartment.   Elkana said: “They have since then being living as lovers because the victim’s parents live apart. Ifeanyichukwu brought Alabi into his house with a condition that she should quit prostitution and stick to him alone. However, trouble started on Thursday when the victim left home to fix her hair and did not return until the following day. She equally left the house on Friday under the guise of visiting her father but ended up seeing another man. “Ifeanyichukwu got to know on Saturday after she returned and he got hold of her phone and scrolled through. He saw her chats, video calls and naked pictures, which she sent to a client. As a result of that, Ifeanyichukwu became angry and used the petrol he kept for his generator to set her ablaze. A team of detectives visited the scene and the victim was taken to the General Hospital, Igando, where she was admitted. She died in the early hours of Sunday. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has directed the immediate transfer of the case to the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Yaba, for further investigation of the matter.”   Elkana, however, noted that the suspect has confessed to the crime and would be charged to court for murder.