Mason Greenwood had a night to remember as Manchester United dismantled AZ Alkmaar’s challenge with a barrage of second-half goals. The 18-year-old striker scored two of them and won a penalty for another as Ole Gunnar Solskjær’s side cantered to victory in their final Europa League group game. “The lad’s a natural finisher, he’s always done it,” the United manager said. “He’s good with both feet and always composed. He probably just needs to develop his heading. Seriously, though, to change nine players and still win so comfortably is a great credit to the players.” For 45 tortuous minutes such a free‑scoring spectacle had appeared the last thing the evening might produce but once United broke the deadlock their opponents capitulated alarmingly and Solskjær’s experimental selection was fully justified. The United manager can do no wrong at the moment and, though at first this encounter looked as though it might interrupt his sequence of wins, it ended up the most emphatic of his three in a row, reports The Guardian. All the more surprising because the first half, at least, had been firmly at the tepid end of the European spectrum, with barely enough entertainment or excitement to warm spectators who had braved the cold and rain. United spent the first few minutes trying to convince their opponents they were relaxed enough to pass the ball around in their own penalty area, mostly without success. Ashley Young was lucky to get away with one turn too many in front of his own goal and on a couple of occasions the reserve goalkeeper, Sergio Romero, looked less than comfortable with the ball at his feet. At the Molineux, Diogo Jota sprang from the bench to score a hat-trick in 12 second-half minutes and ensure Wolves finished their Europa League group campaign in style. Leander Dendoncker also scored as Nuno Espírito Santo’s men blew Besiktas away with a powerful second-half performance. That was not enough to leapfrog Braga at the top of the group but Wolves’ ability to play like this even after resting several regular starters is one of the reasons why they can be confident of advancing further in this competition no matter whom they are pitted against in Monday’s draw for the last 32. As group runners-up, their potential opponents include Internazionale, Ajax, Red Bull Salzburg and Celtic. There are more exciting times ahead at Molineux. After a goalless first half, and with Braga being held in Bratislava, there was still a chance of Wolves finishing top of their group and earning a notionally easier and less glamorous tie in the next round. They chased that prospect with gusto and romped to victory; but so did Braga in their game, meaning the Portuguese side retained top spot. Beating Wolves here in the first group match turned out to have been the group’s critical clash. In the early kick off, exactly how this became a successful evening for Arsenal will remain a mystery but Freddie Ljungberg may consider that, at this point in his young managerial career, there is no need to apologise for a stroke of good fortune. Two goals in three minutes late in the second half, the excellent Bukayo Saka setting up the first for Alexandre Lacazette and then scoring a classy equaliser, pegged back Standard Liège and rescued a scrappy display but the most important turning point came elsewhere. Had Vitória Guimarães not contrived an improbable late turnaround at Eintracht Frankfurt, Ljungberg’s side would have finished second in Group F and be confronted with the possibility of facing, among others, Internazionale or Ajax in the last 32. Instead they are group winners and will face a softer set of options, although their performances will need to improve markedly if further complications are not to arise. At least they never looked remotely like falling to the five-goal defeat that would have ended their interest in the competition. Not even this side is capable of a capitulation that dramatic although there was a brief spell in the second half when Standard Liège, ahead through two deflected goals and threatening more, could have made the final stages distinctly awkward. 