…sends new borrowing plan to NASS soon   P resident Muhammadu Buhari has signed a record N10.594 trillion budget into law.   The president, while performing the ceremony yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said that with the current global oil market outlook, the Federal Government remains optimistic to finance the 2020 budget significantly.   He said: “With today’s global oil market outlook and our strategic approach to revenue growth, we are optimistic that we will be able to finance the 2020 budget.”  The 2020 budget passed by the National Assembly provides for aggregate expenditures of N10.594 trillion, an increase of N263.95 billion over the executive’s proposal that was submitted in October 2019.   The budget has seen an increase of over 16 per cent, compared to the 2019 N8.9 trillion budget.  According to the president, being a deficit budget, an appropriate 2020-2022, government intends to forward Borrowing Plan to the National Assembly, in due course.  He said: “To optimise the desired impact, I have directed the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and all federal MDAs to ensure effective implementation of the 2020 budget.  “We have examined the adjustments and may revert to the National Assembly with a request for a virement or other relevant amendments.”  Speaking to State House correspondents after the signing ceremony, Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, also expressed confidence that government would generate adequate revenue to fund the 2020 budget.  He said: “Once we are able to get our revenues, we are all determined on both sides to ensure that the budget 2020 is implemented fully and we believe the Nigerian public will be in support of this. We continually ask for the support of Nigerians because governance is not about those in office, it is about everybody playing his/her role.  “I’m so confident and optimistic that we will have the revenue to implement the 2020 budget. We will work with the executive to ensure that the revenues continue to stream in,” he added.  Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, told reporters that there is a lot of responsibility on the part of lawmakers to monitor and ensure the effective implementation of the 2020 budget.  “I believe there’s a lot of responsibilities on us to monitor the budget, and we will do that. We have a year to monitor; from January to December. I don’t think there’ll be any problems in terms of monitoring and oversighting.”  Commenting on the relationship between the executive and the parliament, Gbajabiamila said: “We have a lot of naysayers; many will say we are rubber-stamps, on the other hand, others will say the budget has come out with higher figures.  “So, which one is it; are we rubber-stamps or are we doing what we are supposed to do as a legislature? There’ll always be naysayers, but we’ll continue to do what we need to do as a legislature and the executive will continue to do what they do and the harmony between the two, guess who benefits – it’s not the legislature, it’s not the executive, but the Nigerian people,” he added.  