As a sequel to recent happenings in Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), OLALEKAN OSIADE looks at the turn of events and asks: whither Ogun APC?  What will become of the Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) after the return of Adekunle Akinlade? Which faction will take control of the party? What will be the role of former governor Ibikunle Amosun? Is the return of key Amosun’s loyalists a threat to the leadership? Can the new entrants alter the present structure? These are some of the questions begging for answers as the return of Amosun’s loyalists is beginning to cause ripples within the party. Prior to the 2019 general elections, a former House of Representatives member, Hon. Adekunle Akinlade, representing Egbado South and Ipokia Federal Constituency signified his intention to run for the governorship of Ogun State. Akinlade, who was the preferred governorship candidate of former governor Ibikunle Amosun dumped the ruling APC after losing the gubernatorial ticket to Prince Dapo Abiodun, who is now the governor.  The prodigal beginning Announcing his defection to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) on the floor of the House, Akinlade said he was billed to contest the 2019 governorship election on the platform of his new party. His move was followed by many others loyalists of the former governor, including the then Majority Leader of Ogun State House of Assembly, Yinka Mafe, and the Chief Whip, Idowu Olowofuja, as well as two other state legislators, Tunde Sanusi of Obafemi- Owode state constituency and Ganiyu Oyedeji of Ifo II state constituency, who also defected from the APC to APM. The defection had earlier been exclusive reported by our flagship, New Telegraph, noting that loyalists of Amosun in the Ogun APC would defect that same week. The governor however stayed back to work for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, though the action later earned him a suspension from the party. The exit of Amosun’s loyalists was adduced to the refusal of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to uphold Akinlade’s candidacy for 2019 election. The victory of Governor Abiodun led to a fierce legal battle, which got to the Supreme Court.  Abiodun’s olive branch Shortly after his victory at the tribunal, Abiodun had called on his APM rival to rejoin the APC. Urging Akinlade to shelve further pursuit of the legal challenge, Abiodun, in a statement said: “Our victory at the Ogun State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal is a victory of the rule of law. It is a validation of the people’s choice of me to serve the state by giving quality governance. “I urge the Allied People’s Movement (APM) and its candidate to now leave behind the 2019 gubernatorial election. “They are free to return to our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), which they themselves left in the first place, and join hands with us on our #BuildingOurFutureTogether agenda. “However, anyone who feels they don’t want to return should instead begin preparing for the 2023 elections. “This victory couldn’t have been without God and the depth, brilliance and dedication of my legal team led by Prof. Taiwo Osipitan (SAN). I also appreciate the support given to us by the leadership of the Ogun APC. “I reassure the good people of Ogun State of our commitment to quality governance driven by inclusiveness, fairness and equity”, he said.  Hearkening to the call Though the governorship candidate of the APM exhausted his legal options, he however hearkened the governor’s call and announced his return to the APC. This is coming few days after the Supreme Court upheld the election of Abiodun as the governor of Ogun State. Akinlade, while announcing his return and those of his supporters to APC, at the APM secretariat in Abeokuta, noted that the move had become necessary, after series of talks with APC leaders and major stakeholders. Claiming that they all built the APC together, Akinlade, a former member of the House of Representatives, told his supporters that the outcome of the legal tussle was an act of God, as he was welcomed by a mammoth crowd at the APM secretariat. He said: “At the stakeholders meeting which held on Sunday, December 22, 2019, in Abeokuta by leaders, elders and members of our great party, the APC, it was agreed that it is time for those of us who left the APC to contest the elections under the platform of APM to return to the fold. “As loyal party members, we accepted and wish to use this opportunity to thank them for allowing us to explore our aspirations even when it came at great political and personal cost”, he said  Rejecting the ‘prodigals’ But in a swift reaction, the leadership of the state APC rejected the ‘blanket’ return of Akinlade and others to the party while announcing conditions that the governorship candidate of the APM and other Amosun’s loyalists must meet before they could rejoin the party. In a statement by its Caretaker Committee’s Publicity Secretary, Tunde Oladunjoye, the state chapter of the APC said the returnees must withdraw their court cases against the party and return to their various wards, where they would re-enroll and also reconcile with party members at the ward level. The condition, which came some hours after Akinlade announced his return, also enjoined all the Amosun’s loyalists to be ready to abide by laid down rules and regulations as well as the party’s constitution. “The leadership of the APC has received news of the return of the entire members of the APM in Ogun State, its governorship candidate in the last election and the collapse of all its structures into our great party, the APC. “The party, at any point in time, is therefore ready to receive repentant members back into its fold. “However, while we see the announced return of the APM members into our party as a welcome development, we are quick to add that there is a process of joining or returning to our party in accordance with the party’s constitution and established procedures”, Oladunjoye said. The twist and turn of events in Ogun State APC has however shown that it is not yet uhuru with the chapter, prompting the question: whither Ogun APC?