Stakeholders in housing and mortgage finance sectors  are not leaving any stone unturned in finding solutions to housing  crisis in the country. Dayo Ayeyemi reports  Nigeria being the largest economy in Africa is faced with many challenges raging from  over population, high rate of  rural-urban migration and overcrowding, and high rate of insecurity. Apart from these,  absence of quality accommodation is also one of the biggest challenges with housing deficit of between 17million and 20million units. As at the last estimate. the country  needed  to produce one million houses every year in the next 20 years to bridge the gap. Presently, the total number of houses being produced in the country is less than 100,000 units per year. Inhibitors such as high cost of accessing funds,  absence of long-term fund, high cost of land and building materials,  harsh business environment, inconsistent government policies,  bottleneck in obtaining planning approval and title and poor budgetary allocation to housing sector have been blamed for inability of both government and private investors to provide affordable housing units in Nigeria. Overwhelmed by these challenges, stakeholders in housing and  mortgage finance  sector of the economy, at different fora, are already seeking alternative  approaches to the issues in order to nib housing deficit in the bud. While operators in the mortgage sector are calling for a totally new business model, members of the Association of Housing Corporations of Nigeria (AHCN) are speaking with one voice, seeking ways to turn the challenges into opportunities. Speaking on the sideline of the Mortgage Banking Sub-sector CEOs’ annual retreat organised by Mortgage Bankers Association of Nigeria (MBAN) in Lagos, the Managing Director of Family Homes Funds, Femi Adewole, called for the adoption of a different thinking in addressing housing deficit in Africa’s largest economy. According to Adewole, the current approach adopted by stakeholders in the housing sector will not deliver the expected results except a change is made to it. By sticking to the traditional way of doing things, he pointed out that the result that all stakeholders were achieving  in terms of home ownership and access to housing was way off the mark. He tasked them to look at a total transformation and a totally new business model that will yield the desired results. He said: “The truth is, in terms of what we need to do, the results we need to get, and the level of home ownership and access to housing that we need to attain, the result that all of us are achieving is way off the mark. We have barely registered a dot. That calls for a different kind of thinking. “I understand the conversations about improvement. But my little knowledge of business processes and strategies suggest that there are contexts where improvements are inadequate. You must look at a total transformation and a totally new business model.” Themed: ‘’Critical Success Factors for Continuity and Viability of the Mortgage Banking Sub-Sector in Nigeria: Mortgage Digitization, Human Capacity Development and Management Succession.’’ the Family Homes Funds boss threw a couple of challenges at members of Mortgage Bankers Association of Nigeria on how to make the new approach for housing development possible in Nigeria. He said: ‘’One of the things Family Home Funds has committed itself to and I think we will like MBAN to be part of that is sponsoring some kind of centre for innovation for housing finance. “We need to think of a solution that speaks to our context, culture and macro-economic circumstances, which is unlikely to change in the short term. “If anything, we will probably expect a medium term deterioration and, therefore, the discussion must be about what transformation is needed to achieve the results that we have in the face of urbanisation. I can’t think of any better set of people to address that change agenda than the people at MBAN.” In his submission, the Managing Director, Nigerian Mortgage Refinance Company (NMRC), Mr. Kehinde Ogundimu, tasked  stakeholders on demand based housing development. He urged stakeholders, especially those in the mortgage sub-sector, to understudy the needs of customers before rolling out their mortgage plans. According to him, stakeholders in the mortgage sector should not  always be waiting for houses to be constructed before creating mortgages. He urged them to  start doing what  he called “reverse engineering,” pointing out that mortgage providers  were the closest to the customers and that they had better understanding of the kind of housing unit they needed “When we understand what they need, we can now go back to developers to see the things we should build. We don’t have to wait until someone has built a 4-bedroom house before  looking for those who will take mortgage because that is not what the millennials are looking for,” he said. He also tasked stakeholders on the need for  industry survey  to  be able to find out the demand and how to create the mortgage. According to him , stakeholders should influence the kind of houses that are being built, which suit the taste of  buyers. “My challenge to us is to have that introspection and determine what the needs are and have a pipeline of products we can create mortgages for,” he said. According to Ogundimu, with digitalisation,  stakeholders could disrupt the industry in Nigeria like it was  done in many parts of the world. Executive Secretary of ACHN, Toye Eniola, noted that establishment of politically motivated parallel housing organisations by governors and inadequate moral support and backing in terms of loan guarantee were limitations to optimal performance of housing corporations to deliver on mandate Despite these limitations, he said stakeholders should seek opportunity to distinguish themselves and doing something different. While  tasking them to go the extra mile to think through how to succeed, Eniola stated that   available funding options with Family Homed Fund included funds for development,  rental housing funds,  funds for land bank development and off takers loans President of MBAN, Akinniyi  Akinlusi, said it had become imperative for the association to digitalise, noting that over 75 per cent  of Nigerians employed or self-employed in the informal sector needed to be reached with  various mortgage products. “We have a uniform underwriting standard for informal sector and self-employed. We must digitise our services and operations so that we can reach out to them and bring those people whom have been left behind in home ownership back in,” he said. Last line Stakeholders should consider all options to deliver cheap and quality houses to the majority of Nigerians.