Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has accused the governor of Bayelsa State, Seriake Dickson of plotting to create disunity by visiting the state under the guise of coming to see Ijaw people without getting in touch with the relevant authorities. Wike, who made the allegation when Kalabari people paid him a solidarity visit at the Government House, Port Harcourt, yesterday, noted that while the outgoing Bayelsa State Governor professes love for Ijaw people in Rivers State, he was busy working to take the state’s oil resources in Soku and Kula. He said: “Already, we have gone back to court in relation to Soku oil wells. This is the man who is claiming Kula oil wells and Soku. “I have gone back to court and we will reclaim the Soku Oil Wells for Rivers State. This is the same man you claim loves you and you roll out drums against protocol. “It is not good for anyone to come and divide Rivers State, because the state is one. It is unfortunate what my colleague did. I handed him over to God and prayed for God to do his will.” Wike said that Dickson had called two monarchs in Kalabari (which boasts of three council areas in the state; Asari Toru, Akoku Toru and Degema) of his visit without informing him, stressing that the move was aimed at destabilising the state. Wike urge the Kalabari leaders to prevail on the Amanyanabo of Kalabari, King Theophilus J.T. Princewill, not to allow himself to be used by external forces to create disunity in the state. According to the governor, the Amanyanabo of Kalabari deliberately allowed Dickson to use him to promote divisiveness. He said: “I want to publicly lay a complaint on the action of Amanyanabo of Kalabari. The next time it happens, I will act as a governor. “He (Dickson) said he was coming to see Ijaw people in Rivers State and he would be hosted by the Amayanabo of Kalabari and Amanyanabo of Abonnema. “The Amanyanabo of Abonnema didn’t do it, he called me on phone when the Governor of Bayelsa, Dickson tried to create problems in Rivers State. “The Amanyanabo of Abonnema called me and said how can that be? The Rivers State governor did not call me. The Amanyanabo of Kalabari did not call me. What he did was to roll out the drums to receive the Bayelsa State Governor”, Wike said. Wike warned that should the Amanyanabo of Kalabari take such action in future, he will face sanctions. He said: “That day, I would have removed him, but I held myself. What they would do is to go to radio and abuse me. But I am used to insults. I am trying to complain to you people. “If any of such things happen again, I will take the necessary action. I will not listen to any further excuse. That is why I am saying this publicly. Tell him to respect constituted authority.” The governor commended the peace initiative of the Amanyanabo of Abonnema and urged other traditional rulers to emulate him. He said: “I thank the Amanyanabo of Abonnema for his peace initiative. I urge other traditional rulers to emulate him. Work towards peace amongst your people. You cannot live where there is no peace.”