 R ivers State Governor, Nyewom Wike has declared that all Ethnic Nationalities must work together to ensure the emergence of the next governor of the state, stressing that whoever it is will not emerge on turn-by-turn basis. Wike, who spoke at a grand civic reception organised by the Ogbakor Ikwerre Cultural Organisation Worldwide, in recognition of his outstanding contributions to the state and country, noted that the state needs a governor that will carry everyone in the state along.  “We must work with all Ethnic Nationalities to move Rivers State forward”, he said.  He urged Ikwerre people not to be intimidated, saying that there can be no political position without the Ikwerre people playing prominent roles.  He noted that Rivers State remains one united state, where all ethnic groups are important.  He said: “Rivers State remains one united state, where all ethnic groups are important.  “Rivers State is one. Nobody can divide Rivers State.  No outsider can be Governor of Rivers State.  Let us not allow anyone to divide us.  “If you must be a Governor of Rivers State, you must carry everyone along.  No Ethnic Group can do it alone.  Once you say it is your turn, it will not work.  When you say it is your turn, you have started failing.  “We will continue the legacy of Odili.  Anyone with the interest of Rivers State will be supported.  Wherever you are from, you must show that you are a Rivers man.  The chairman of Ikwerre Local Government, recognised Traditional Rulers,  Eze Oha Apara Kingdom,  Eze Worlu Wodo announced the conferment of the title: “Dike Oha Ikwerre “, covering the entire Ikwerre Ethnic Nationality.  Roughly translated,”Dike Oha Ikwerre” means Hero/Pillar  of Ikwerre People. He said that the title is in recognition of the outstanding contributions of Governor Wike to the  Ikwerre Ethnic Nationality and the rest of Rivers State and Nigeria.  President-General of Ogbakor Ikwerre Cultural Organization Worldwide,  Prof Emenike Wami said the organisation is honouring a worthy and deserving leader. He said: “He is a man with a heart of service for his people.  He has distinguished himself as a performer. “   Present at the event were: Ebonyi State Governor,  Dave Umahi,  Imo State Governor,  Emeka Ihedioha,  Bauchi State Governor,  Senator Bala Mohammed,  Oyo State Governor,  Seyi Makinde, Benue State Governor,  Dr Samuel Ortom,  Adamawa State Governor,  Ahmadu Fintiri,Sokoto State Governor,  Aminu  Tambuwal and Taraba State Governor,  Dairus Ishaku . Former Rivers State Governor, Dr Peter Odili said Governor Wike has surpassed the achievements of all his predecessors.