Emmanuel Umohinyang is a political analyst and human rights activist. In this interview, he speaks on issues surrounding the arrest and re-arrest of Convener of RevolutionNow Movement, Mr. Omoyele Sowore and claims of human rights violation by the Muhammadu Buhari administration, among others issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports  Last week Tuesday was International Human Rights Day. What are your perspectives on human rights situation in Nigeria?   Remember, we have a converted democrat as the President of the Federal Republic. During his 1983/84 reigns, it was brutish. Some of us were victims and the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi was a back-to-back visitor to various prisons across the country. President Muhammadu Buhari’s second coming is what I will describe as a far cry from the 83/84 era. He has shown over the years that he has dropped the toga of a Military General and imbibed the culture of democracy. If you listened to him in 1993, when he granted an interview to The News Magazine, he paid glowing tributes to democracy.  Over the years, President Buhari has showed that he has transformed from a military dictator to a democrat. If we are to score him in terms of human rights, we can give him 50 per cent and that is a pass mark. At least, he has been able to operate within the rules of the land, though we have had a few issues, here and there. Some of them are been resolved through court processes. The years’, where a man is yanked off from his house to the prison is long over. It is our prayer that such era will not return again.   How would you react to claims by some people that President Buhari doesn’t obey court orders?   Some of these things are speculative and I am not sure that Buhari, who travelled to Chatham House before the 2015 elections and openly declared that he is now a converted democrat will want to play outside the rules of the game. However, we may have pockets of issues, which is not clear because you and I were not there to know whether a court order exists. Just like the issue of Ibrahim el Zakzaky, where it was reported that some courts had granted him bail, but was not released.    While we were sticking towards that, it was brought to our attention by the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) that he has series of cases in court. The last one was the one in Kaduna, where bail has not yet been granted and I think that it is an elementary principle in law that when you have multiple charges, there is no way you can be released since you still have pending cases in which bail has not been granted.   On that, I think government was correct that court never granted him bail; he was only given permission to travel for medical treatment and you saw the drama that played out in India. The man who was wheeled into the aircraft suddenly started bouncing in a bouncing castle in India. He even had audience with people. Some of this ‘I am sick’ may not necessarily be true.   So, by and large, I don’t think this government under President Buhari will deliberately look the other way, when the courts have decided. As soon as you do that, anarchy is the way to go. You cannot cage the people. Nigerians will rise against any autocratic government and President Buhari will not want to go that way. He has given his word and I think he is willing to stand by it.   How would you react to the Department of State Services (DSS) handling of the Convener of RevolutionNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore’s issue?   The most disturbing aspect of the Sowore issue is not whether he has committed a crime or not; it is for the courts to decide. When this matter started, we had reason to criticise his remark. Sowore is my friend. If you want to protest against government policies, you have the right within the law to do so, but at the same time, I am not aware of any civil society group that supports violent protests. The constitution has laid out how a government can be removed. If you want to do that, you have to go through the National Assembly or wait for another cycle of elections to vote whoever is there out with your thumb.   The beauty is that even Sowore himself was one of the contestants in the last presidential election. Having lost an election does not deprive him the right to contest, if he so wish. If it is based on the election he lost, the rules are very clear that when you lose, the tribunals are there to look at your case and give judgement on it. That does not still deprive Sowore that right given to him by the constitution to protest, but how you go about it is very important.   When you start going about making threatening and inflammatory statements about your intention to remove the government, it is unacceptable. I am not sure any country in the world will take it lightly. It is within the government’s right to arrest him and charge him to court if he has offended the principles of the law. But the recent event that happened has left some of us bewildered, and the most ridiculous aspect are the statements coming from the DSS signed by one Peter Afunaya. He does not appear to me like somebody who has any knowledge about the media.   My six-year-old son can issue the statements he issued to media. Even if they were given to him to sign, by virtue of the PhD he claims to have, he should have had the courtesy to go over them and make corrections where necessary. How do you tell Nigerians that Sowore could be knocked down by a vehicle if he was released? It is the most annoying thing I have ever heard. Worse still, the DSS said the sureties should come to court for verification. The court has given bail. Despite how stringent those conditions were, to some of us, the man has met them.   In the thinking of the court, they are satisfied with the sureties, and you have been directed to release Sowore. For you to say you want to re-examine the sureties, you are indirectly turning yourself to an appellate court, which is ridiculous. I don’t know the kind of training the DSS gives them. I don’t think such will even occur in a banana republic. The DSS have the right to take him into custody after his release if they have new facts, which you and I may not know. The law allows it, but going to the sacred temple of justice to desecrate it in the name of arresting Sowore is the worst thing I have ever seen in my entire life.   The same DSS, which denied the act, went back to the court to apologise. What were they apologising for? A decent agency would have issued a public apology to Nigerians and all these things would have died down. That was an unprofessional conduct on the part of the DSS. While we are strong supporters of Mr. President, and we have no apology for supporting him, we must not allow any agency of government to dent the good image of this government.   Are you in support of the withdrawal of Sowore’s case file from the DSS by the Federal Government?   I think that is long overdue, considering the abysmal performance of the DSS. You cannot say that the agency has done very well. You may have a good case, but if you don’t adopt a good principle, you lose it. It is a settled issue in law. I am not expecting the Attorney-General of the Federation to just withdraw the case; he should take a second look at the proof of evidence. If he finds out that there is nothing to prosecute Soworefor, he should enter a nolle prosequi and get the young man out of the place. The AGF is right by retrieving the case file from the DSS and should do a complete review of the matter.   What is your position on the decision of a national newspaper to address the President as a Major General?  The argument that is raging in the land over a mere newspaper editorial is unnecessary. I see it as elitist argument because the poor man on the street doesn’t want to know the name you call the President; whether he is Mr. Buhari, Alhaji Buhari, Mallam Buhari or Imam Buhari. What the ordinary man on the street wants is food on his table, affordable medicare, quality and affordable education for his children, good roads, potable water and a roof over his head. These are the basic things he wants.   For some of us who know the President, he is not bothered about what you call him; his aim and focus is delivering the goods, fulfilling his promises to Nigerians in 2015 and 2019. The President is now used to being abused because by 2023, he will have no other term, so all his energy are devoted to the promises he made to Nigerians. I don’t think the newspaper has committed any offence because the President once wore that rank.