W orried over the increasing rate of oil theft in the country, the Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday called for the establishment of ‘Special Courts’ and training of judges to prosecute and convict perpetrators of crude oil theft in the country.  Obaseki, who chaired a committee set up by the National Economic Council Committee to find a lasting solution to the issues of oil theft and pipeline vandalisation, made the call during the inaugural Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) policy dialogue with the theme: “Stemming Oil Theft in Nigeria.”  While raising concerns that no one has been prosecuted or convicted for the $41.9 billion revenue reported to have been lost in the last 10 years and the huge environmental degradation in affected communities, the governor explained that within the first six months of this year alone, about 22 million barrels of crude oil valued at $1.35 billion were lost to thieves.  Obaseki, who revealed that most of the crude oil losses were recorded on trunk lines being operated by companies, which owned production fields and pipelines, however, noted that the situation was disturbing as those outsourced to third parties recorded the least breeches.  He called on the Federal Government to take over operations of the trunk lines operated by International Oil Companies (IOC’s) temporarily, pending when the issue would be critically looked into and addressed.  The govrnor said: “We lost 22.6 million barrels of crude oil at an estimated cost of about $1.3 billion, but these losses occurred specifically in the Nembe trunk line; we lost 9.2 million barrels in the Trans Niger pipeline; we lost 8.6 million barrels; and in the Trans Forcados pipeline 3.9 million barrels.  “What is interesting is that the largest losses came from lines that were owned and operated by the same companies which explored and produce oil. We also noticed that the lines that were outsourced to third parties recorded the least losses so there is a very interesting correlation between the ownership production into the lines and the level of losses on those lines.  “When breeches are reported, when products are lost, we just deal with the financial losses to the operators, but what happens to government? Nobody is ever held accountable; nobody is brought to order. Looking through the law, we could not find any concrete evidence of people who were caught, prosecuted and convicted on the crime of stealing crude product.”  Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, who said there was need for a collaborative effort to check oil theft in the country, lamented that amid operating difficulties, it had caused a high cost of production and assets divestment by some companies.  Sylva, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Niger Delta, Mr. Felix Bobnabena, disclosed that despite the sophistication of weapons committed to ending the incidences of oil theft in the region, hinted that the government would continue to review current efforts to end oil theft in the country.  On his part, the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, described the high spate oil theft in the country as a threat to national economy, given the critical role revenues from the oil and gas sector play in the country.  Kyari, who was also represented by the Chief Operating Officer, Upstream, Mr. Roland Ewubare noted that between 2001 and 2017, NNPC recorded 45,374 breeches on its pipelines. “NNPC as a player in the downstream sector has felt direct brunt of the attacks on our facilities and assets. Between 2001 and 2019, we recorded a total of 45,347 pipeline breaks and breeches on our downstream pipeline network. If you do the arithmetic, it comes to about an average of seven incidences on a daily basis,” he added.