TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the Day of Tributes organised by the Lagos State Government on Tuesday in honour of the first governor of the state, Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson  It was a memorable day as Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his predecessors, both military and civilian converged at the Onikan Stadium to celebrate and pay tributes to the first Military Governor of Lagos State, Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson (rtd), who passed on recently. The late Johnson, who is the first and longest serving military governor of Lagos State, governed the state from 1966 to 1975. He died on October 30 at age of 83 and several events were held this week before his remains were interred. Since his demise on October 30 till date, there have been a lot of tributes and condolence messages from different quarters and there is no doubt that majority of the comments are in line with the Biblical verse of Proverbs 10:7, which states that “a good and honest life is a blessed memorial; a wicked life leaves a rotten stench.” Lagos State has had a total of 15 governors both military and civilian since its creation by former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd) on 27 May, 1967, but among the past leaders, Mobolaji Johnson stands tall because of his remarkable achievements in the Centre of Excellence. The late Johnson played a crucial role in the growth and development of Lagos State and many believe that he laid the foundation for modern Lagos, considering the laudable projects his regime embarked upon during the eight years he steered the ship of the state. While in office, he built a 60.7 Lagos–Badagry expressway, linking Nigeria with neighbouring countries of Benin, Ghana and Togo. He also constructed the Itokin Bridge to link Epe to Ikorodu; Eko Bridge as well as construction of a network of roads and bridges in different parts of the state. Another remarkable achievement of the Johnson’s regime is the reclamation of the Bar Beach shoreline. The regime also embarked on the demolition the Ajele cemetery and the consequent disinterment of people buried at the cemetery. Notable among corpses affected by the rather unpopular decision were that of Samuel Ajayi Crowther, James Pinson Labulo Davies, Madam Tinubu, Thomas Babington Macaulay, and several others. The action was met with stiff opposition and lots of criticisms by many opinionated Lagosians back then. Despite leaving office as governor about 45 years ago, Johnson will remain a name to be reckoned with in the annals of the history of Nigeria and Lagos in particular. His achievements earned him the privilege of a road, an avenue, a sports complex and a housing scheme been named after him. Following the role the late Johnson played in the growth and development of the state, the Lagos State government, on Tuesday held a “Day of Tributes” at the Onikan Stadium in his honour as part of programmes for his funeral rites. The event, which was well attended by serving and past public office holders in Lagos State, witnessed outpouring of tributes on the deceased by Governor Sanwo-Olu, his predecessors and other eminent Nigerians and members of the late Johnson’s family Among those who graced the event were the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) and ex-Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his wife, Oluremi; Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; Governor Sanwo-Olu wife, Ibijoke; Lagos State deputy governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat and his wife, Oluremi; first Lagos State civilian governor, Alhaji Lateef Jakande; former military administrators of the state; Commodore Ebitu Ukiwe (rtd), Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu (rtd) and Brigadier-General Raji Rasaki (rtd); Head of Service Hakeem Muri-Okunola; former Ogun State governor, Chief Olusegun Osoba; former Lagos State deputy governor, Princess Sarah Sosan; top military officers, politicians, white cap chiefs and traditional rulers. Governor Sanwo-Olu as part of government’s resolve to ensure that Johnson’s name remains written in gold in recognition of his illustrious service as the first military administrator of Lagos State, renamed the newly renovated Onikan Stadium after the late Johnson. The stadium is now Mobolaji Olufunsho Johnson Stadium. Paying tributes to late Johnson, the governor described him as a symbol of decency, humility and integrity, fairness and justice, who touched and transformed thousands of lives through his foresight, service and industry. His words: “We gather here today not to mourn but to celebrate a distinguished life, the life of Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson, a great patriot, an accomplished administrator, one of the makers of modern Lagos who, sadly, will never share this physical space with us again. “In whatever role we knew him, the first and longest serving military administrator of Lagos State stood out as a special person for his leadership and charismatic personality. If anyone was qualified to be addressed as ‘an officer and a gentleman’, it was General Johnson. Despite his imposing frame, he was as gentle as a dove. He never threw his weight around, even though he was a man of power. “His regime witnessed an increase in the state’s revenue from N36.7million to N99.7million. The increase was largely due to the revenue allocation formula that had just been introduced and increased revenue from crude oil, which was partly shared out to the state governments. Under his leadership, the state government generated the larger proportion of its earnings from Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). “Our illustrious and now departed son of Lagos was a constant source of support and inspiration to successive governors of Lagos State, especially from 1999 till date. He was always willing to offer his wise counsel and experience whenever the need arose. Even while it was obvious that his health could not really rigorous endeavours, General Johnson was a regular feature at every major Lagos State Government groundbreaking events. Such was his unbelievable and unswerving commitment to the cause of Lagos State. How then are we not going to miss him sorely? “In the realisation that Lagos State is the most populous and leading state in the federation, Mobolaji Johnson was determined to turn the state into the pride of the nation. The policy thrust of his administration was shaped by his faith in the creative capabilities and boundless energies of the people, especially the masses. Thus, his early days in office clearly showed him as a man who brought resourcefulness, experience and dynamism to the task of solving some of the teething problems of our dear state. He set Lagos on a course and a race of an unending quest for improvement, innovation and development.” In his tribute, Tinubu described Johnson as a servant leader and man of incorruptible character, who never used the opportunity of power to amass personal wealth. His words: “We are here to honour our hero and founding father, a man of integrity, first military administrator of Lagos state, a fine officer and gentleman, a servant leader and man of incorruptible character. He never used the corridor of power to amass personal wealth, a gallant officer who did not compromise military ethics and left office as governor with a good legacy in public service. “Johnson was a true gentleman, a servant leader and a man of incorruptible character. He never used his position to amass personal wealth. He did not compromise in his profession. He left a good legacy in public service. He laid a durable foundation for Lagos State. He served the people and made them the cornerstone of social and economic policies. “Johnson embarked on re-engineering and assembling the best cabinet to show transparency at that time. He showed courage and strong determination for the benefit of Lagos State. His retirement was sudden following the coup in 1975. He lived a life of great contentment.” Tinubu also recalled that 10 state administrators were arrested for corrupt practices, when General Murtala Muhammed took over as Head of State in 1976, but only late Johnson was the military administrator absolved of corruption. Hamzat, on his part, said the late Johnson lived above pettiness, describing him as a giant “who matched his stature with achievements.” He said the late Johnson always preferred a Spartan life, which was why he chose to live his retirement life among average citizens of the state. Also paying tribute to the deceased, Kanu said he was a quintessential officer, a first-class administrator whose interest was to better the lives of the general public during his tenure, while Oyinlola who thanked God for the late Johnson’s life, said he was marveled by the kind of humility that was exhibited by him. “I learnt a lot from him that helped me as a governor. There is nothing else to give than to honour an untainted soldier, governor and corporate world operator,” he said. Rasaki in his tribute described late Johnson as “an officer and a gentleman as governor. He was a soldier of all soldiers, very nice to his junior, as junior officers under him we learnt simplicity, even as his juniors we go to party together and even as a governor he did not discriminate, he was more of a soldier than a civilian.” Also speaking at the event, Osoba described the late first Lagos State governor as austere, frugal and a disciplinarian, noting that “even as a governor his children attended public schools in public transportation, his humility rubbed off on his wife and children.” The first son of the deceased, Seyi, thanked the Lagos government for the honour done to his father. ”One of the lessons our father taught us as children is the attribute of tolerance. He told us not to discriminate against anyone irrespective of background,” he said.