The Lagos State Government has prosecuted at nine persons for dumping refuse indiscriminately, just as it nabbed a fake environmental officer for impersonation and extortion of street traders. The offenders are; Gabriel Joel (25), Segun Adekunle (30), Joel Godwin (20), Kabiru Aliu (44), Aminu Lawal (44) and Christy Nwamkama. Others are Ochanya Ejembi (20), Mercy Amu (20) and Garuba Abdul Kadiri (20). It was gathered that the offenders were arrested for indiscriminate dumping of refuse in Lagos metropolis during a joint operation exercise of the Lagos State Environment Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) and the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) at different locations, including Ikeja, Agege, Oregun, Jakande and Lekki/Epe Express Way. The offenders were arraigned before Chief Magistrate M. A Ojo of the Special Offences Court, (Environmental Unit) in Ogba. They were accused of dumping refuse illegally at a public place contrary to the Environmental Management and Protection Law of 2017. When their charge was read by the court, they pleaded guilty as charged and begged the magistrate to temper justice with mercy. The Magistrate ruled that the offenders be imprisoned for one week or pay a fine of N5,000. Seven out of the offenders fulfilled their bail conditions while two others,  Kabiru Aliyu and Aminu Lawal, were remanded pending the fulfilment of their bail conditions or acceptance of option of imprisonment. The Corps Marshal of the Agency, a retired Commissioner of Police, Akinpelu Gbemisola, noted that the present administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, was passionate about the safety of lives and cleanliness of the environment and has directed LAGESC officials to clamp down on all violators of environmental sanitation laws in the state. She also warned criminal elements impersonating Lagos State Government workers to desist. She further warned that anyone arrested for impersonation, would be made to face the full wrath of the law. “The Lagos State Government frowns sternly at impersonation of its workers and would ensure examples are made of erring individuals aiming to tarnish the excellent image of the state to feed their covetousness and laziness.” In a related development, a 40-year-old man identified as Mr Hakeem Akanmu Oyediji was arrested while trying to extort money from illegal street traders at Bendel Close, Off Bishop Aboyade Cole Street, Victoria Island. According to the agency, investigations revealed that Oyediji has been impersonating officials of the Lagos Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) for more than three months with a fake Lagos State Government Identity Card.