The Federal Government has lost out in the illegal bunkering case instituted against four Ukraine nationals at a Federal High Court in Port Harcourt. The four men, Vaskov Andriy, Garchev Mykhaylo, Shulga Vladyslav, Orlovkyi Lyvan and a ship, MT. San Pedro PIO, were cleared of the alleged offence by Justice Adamu Turaki Mohammed. They were discharged and acquitted of six counts of conspiracy to deal in petroleum products, dealing in petroleum products, making false documents and uttering contrary to Sections 3(6) and 1(17)(a), 1 (2)(c) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, 2007. Delivering judgement in the matter, Justice Mohammed upheld the arguments of defendants’ lawyer, Babajide Koku (SAN), that government has failed to prove the case. “By virtue of the sale agreement between AUGUST A Energy and ANOSYKE Group of Companies, the amended purchase order together with evidence of the 6th prosecution witness under cross-examination, who admitted that the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) import permit is valid, I have no doubt that the prosecution has failed to prove that the defendants had no licence or authority to deal in petroleum product. “Again, Exhibit A1 has shown that naval approval was obtained in respect of Exhibit J, while the Department of Petroleum Resources import permit attached to Exhibit 63 has shown that the necessary permit was equally secured in respect of Exhibit J from the DPR. “It is clear both from Exhibit A1 and the DPR permit, that the company in whose favour the approvals were granted is ANOSYKE Group of Companies. “Similarly, as I have held above that the prosecution has failed to prove count two of the charge against the defendants, I am equally unable to infer, from the entire evidence adduced by the prosecution, how the 1st to 5th defendants conspired with each other to, without lawful authority or appropriate licence import; distribute or deal in/with petroleum product as contained in Count 1, particularly having regard to Exhibit A1 and the DPR permit attached to Exhibit G3. “Accordingly, therefore, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th defendants are found not guilty as charged and are hereby discharged and acquitted,” the judge held.