 Giving bite to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s order directing Nigerians not to pay N50 charges on Point of Sales (POS) transactions, the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) has urged consumers to report violations (when they occur) with evidence of such violations to it. The agency disclosed this yesterday in a statement personally signed by its Director General, Babatunde Irukera. Citing relevant portions of the law in support of the CBN’s position, the FCCPC maintained that “businesses, by their very nature, already capture the operating cost price of their goods and services. To impose an additional fee on consumers that is exclusive of price and discriminates based on the selected mode of payment essentially amounts to a penalty for the adopted mode of payment.” There has been contention with respect to merchant imposing N50 stamp duty assessments on consumers for transactions. This imposed fee is supposedly a pass through for onward transmission as a government mandated surcharge. Irukera said the consumer rights agency engaged CBN on the issue, pursuant to S.17 (b), (f), (g), (i) of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act (FCCPA), including meetings of the highest levels of leadership of both regulators. “The FCCPC’s strongly held position was that an assessment imposed on merchants necessarily is a component of their cost of doing business and may only be directly passed on to consumer in limited circumstances. “For many reasons, including and particularly the CBN’s effort to promote a cashless economy, the merchants’ response of imposing this assessment on consumers was not only inconsistent with the underlying policy, but also counterproductive and burdensome on consumers. The problems associated with carrying excessive cash in order to avoid a penalty are myriad and multifaceted. “Accordingly, the Commission welcomes the CBN’s definitive statement on December 23rd, 2019, clarifying its September 17, 2019 directive by Circular Ref. PSM/Dir/CON/02/015 that the directive did not intend to pass such fees to consumers. This makes it inappropriate and illegal for businesses to pass a stamp duty cost of doing their business to consumers,” Irukera said. Shedding more light, the Commission noted that pursuant to S.18 (2) FCCPA and prohibits any such assessments pursuant to S.18 (a), (e), (f) and (h). “In addition to the provisions above, such assessments may be in violation of other extant provisions and law, including S. 129 (1) (a) and (2). The Commission, in collaboration with CBN, other relevant regulators and law enforcement authorities, intends to enforce the law to its fullest extent and invites consumers to report violations (when they occur) with evidence of such violations.” It would be recalled that CBN on Monday clarified the issue of payments of N50 charge by merchants who use POS machines for cashless transactions, insisting that nobody should pay extra on goods and services. The CBN Director of Payment System Management, Musa Jimoh, who made the clarification while speaking on Channels Television, stated that the N50 stamp duty is a fee regulated by an act that directs merchants to pay all necessary taxes as regulated by government agencies, adding that merchants have misinterpreted the directive issued by CBN on the subject. The CBN director said: “Stamp duty has been misinterpreted. Our circular that talks about merchants paying stamp duties, according to the law, do not say that the stamp duty should be paid by the consumer, that is a misrepresentation of CBN’s directive. What our directive says is that merchants should pay all necessary taxes as regulated by government agencies, including stamp duty. “What we told the merchants is that we would like the banks to ensure that the merchants comply with this directive by ensuring that every single payment that customers make to them, the merchants pay the regulated stamp duty of N50.”