Prof. Akin Abayomi is the new Commissioner for Health in Lagos. He fielded questions from journalists recently where he discussed limitations of the Lagos Health Insurance Scheme and its workability, tackling high bills in public hospitals and acute shortage of bed spaces, among others. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  What plan do the current government have for the health sector, looking at its numerous challenges? The priority of the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babatunde Sanwolu, through his core mandate: health falls into the second pillar, which is the pillar of health and environment. This government’s theme health with environment is very visionary and it is the bases of our strategy, which we call one-health strategy. One health strategy is set up on three pillars. That is environment, agriculture and human.  So, when you look at the health of community, it sits on these three pillars. Your environment and agriculture. What you eat and environment where you live defines the health of the people that live in the environment. When driving a health strategy, that means, you have to team up with environment to make sure, the air we breathe in, the water we drink, the stresses we are exposed to in an environment are not working against your well being and health. Strategies We have two major issues in Lagos State: addressing the health of underprivileged. We have statistics that suggested which way to define it. About 66 per cent of Lagosians are under this ratio. In order words, they are not far away from extreme poverty. If something happened to them or their families, they don’t have enough capacity to respond. Government is very focused in finding a way of reaching these population with social safety. How to do that is what the state can achieve with the primary health scheme.  That is the bottom of the pyramid and that is where most people will go to for any minor symptoms. There are issues of the people paying much in the government hospitals and getting poor services and non available bed spaces.  What are you going to do about it under your watch? Yes, our health facilities are in deplorable situations. And I want to correct the issue of high charges and that of our tariff that are very low. What you pay for in government facilities cannot be compared to what you pay in private hospitals. That is one the reasons,  we are not able to run our hospitals so successfully because what you pay in government facilities are lower than what’s paid in private hospitals. We want to keep it in affordable state for our community but it is not following the economy trend. Because if you go to private sector, the doctor will charge you, so he or she will make their entity profitable.  Profit is not the goal of public sector, although some level of sustainability is needed to operate the system. So, we maintain the facilities without handout from government. Now, one of the strategy is that we want to change the way in which we construct medical facilities in the state, from primary to secondary level. The moment there is no blueprint, there is no understand. So, we can get any contractor with any experience of building a medical facility to construct our facilities in the state. Someone who is used to building office block is allowed build our healthcare facilities.  Building healthcare facility is a discipline of its own. There are specialists who deal on that and people go to school to learn how to build healthcare facilities. We will develop a blueprint for primary and secondary healthcare facilities to meet up with international standard. Hospital is not just an office block. There is a way our structure is supposed to be constructed to enable medical personal attend to everyone, from children to pregnant women. So, we need to redesign all our facilities. We will, irrespective of  the weather or climate because we can’t always depend on electricity for our drugs but we can cool them naturally. We are setting a standard and we have started engaging the right persons who will help us to achieve our blueprint standard. Shortage of bed space The constructors that got the jobs will be monitored and at the end of the day, we get what we want. Yes, we have a serious shortage of bed space, for 24 million people, we need a certain number of bed space. But, we want to have one general hospital in one council in the state. If we are to achieve the target to build general hospitals in the 57 councils; we will be able to make a huge impact concerning the issue of bed space. Also, if the primary health care sector is doing what they are supposed to do, there will be need for so many beds at the secondary level of the healthcare facilities. What are the plan for Lagos State health scheme? First and foremost, it is not unique to Lagos state. The whole of Nigeria is struggling with the concept of universal Health Coverage (UHC).  State by state, health, the federal health insurance scheme covered the whole country and they are regulator and policymakers. They normally do a score card analysis. Every year, they go around, and based on their findings, they reserve their policy.  So, genuinely speaking, the insurance scheme rises on the platform of the primary health care and the  primary health care at the moment  is disorganised and not running according to the policy and principal that have been prescribed in the National Primary Health Care  Development Agency (NPHDA), which is the federal regulator agency. So, the issue that generally faces most states is the issue around caring for the poor. Mandatory compulsion Now, there are two issues, around it, compulsion and resourcing, for an insurance scheme to be functional it needs to have mandatory compulsion. We need to make it mandatory for all persons to be part of the scheme. The benefit is that, it is a way of getting more privileged people to subsidise for the less privileged people. That is one aspect and  another aspect is subsidy. If more than 60 per cent of the population are not able to afford the premiums, how are you going to enroll them. It is simple arithmetic, I cannot pay and you are making it mandatory. If 33 per cent of Lagosians are the only people to afford the insurance, who is going to pay for the remaining 66 per cent. That is the major issues, and what it means essentially is that the three tries of government, federal, state and local government, have to carry 66 per cent of the Lagosians. When we do our mathematics, that figure is close to hundred of billion naira in premiums only. Now, where are we going to find that? It requires out of the box solution and I am not surprised in the moment that the scheme is struggling to take off. It is struggling take off for two reasons, number one is the lack of confidence in the platform; people are bit weary to go to the public primary health care facility, because a lot of them are in the stage that is not actually desirable. There is shortage of manpower within the facility even though, you take your family to a facility and there is no doctor there.