…as losses to crime hit N288bn  Nigeria’s capacity to fight the surging cybercrime against businesses and government increased in the last year as the number of skilled and certified cyber security experts rose to 3,500 from the initial 2000. However, while this is the largest in Africa, the country is said to have the lowest in terms of experts per person based on the estimated 190 million population. According to Africa Cyber Security Report just released by Demadiur Systems Limited, while countries like Kenya and Uganda have 1800 and 400 cyber security experts respectively, with their population of 46.7 million and 38.3 million in that order, they have more experts per person than Nigeria. This means that Nigerian businesses are more prone to attacks than other businesses in Africa. Already, the shortage of expertise is said to have contributed largely to the rising cases of cybercrimes in the country, leading to a loss of about N288 billion ($800 million) by businesses in 2018. The losses in that period were incurred mostly by commercial banks, government, and telecommunications operators in the country, according to the report. Before now, the Federal Government had said that the country loses N127 billion annually to cybercrimes. Presenting the report in Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer, Demadiur, Mr. Ikechukwu Nnamani, said: “In the course of our study, we found out that the country is ill-equipped in terms of cybersecurity experts to address the challenges facing her. This is in spite of the fact that the number of experts in the country has grown from about 2000 to 3,500.” According to him, with the cost of cybercrime increasing every year across Nigeria, lack of local cyber security skillset is a big challenge to businesses and governments in the country. “From our analysis, we identified that this skill gap comes from two major sources, few skillset in the nation and the inability of companies to have a cyber security team and strategy. With the number of SMEs and large organisations in the country facing cyber security threats compared to the 3500 certified security professionals in Nigeria, it is clear that Nigerian businesses are easy targets for both local and international hackers,” he said. With the low-security expertise, Nnamani said the study conducted in Nigeria also revealed that more Nigerians were going into cybercrimes as attacks from the country have increased. “We found out that locally engineered malware experts on the rise, which indicates that more Nigerians are going into the crime. “In 2016, there was one cyber security expert for every 124,587 Nigerians, while this marginally improved to one expert for every 106,048 Nigerians in 2017; in 2018, it abysmally stood at one expert for every 103,093 citizens. There is a need to have people well trained in that space and also to have a certification process to ensure that the right skill needed is acquired,” he said. Nnamani, however, noted that the country had improved in terms of awareness about cyber security. “We noticed that there is now more awareness, compared to previous years; management and boards are beginning to take cyber security more seriously. We also noticed that the number of successful prosecution has gone up,” he said. The Demadiur CEO added that banks had also increased their investments in cybersecurity in recent years, but noted that there was still a high level of ignorance about cyber security among SMEs in the country. Speaking on the report, the Chief Executive Officer, Cyber Security Experts Association of Nigeria, Mr. Remi Afon, said Nigeria had a Cyber Security Strategy and National Cyber Security Policy, which were published in 2014 to drive the fight against cybercrimes. He, however, lamented that the policies have remained mere documents. “The documents cover vast areas of cyber security domain, which if implemented would have strategically positioned Nigeria in a good place in terms of managing and mitigating cyber security threats we face as a nation. Unfortunately, the strategy and policy documents have remained electronic documents, which not only need to be reviewed five years on but also deserve proper implementation,” he said. Afon added that while private businesses were trying their best to employ cyber security experts, the Nigerian government had remained non-committal to cyber security. “Except for a few government agencies that have a functioning cyber security department, most government agencies do not have any department set aside for cyber security function. So, clearly, they lack information security professionals and rely on the IT department to carry out all their information security-related duties,” he said.