Hon. Bello Hassan Shinkafi represents Shinkafi/Zurmi Federal Constituency of Zamfara State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He is the Deputy Chairman, House of Representatives’ Committee on National Planning and Economic Development. In this interview with CHUKWU DAVID, he speaks on the security situation in the country among other issues  You recently expressed concern on the floor of the House of Representatives over the proliferation of security uniforms in Nigeria. What is actually your worry about the matter? From my observation, I feel that the availability of our security uniforms to every Tom, Dick and Harry is one of the factors causing serious security problems in the country. That is what made me to present the motion on the floor of the House. And I feel that it is a good one and all Nigerians should have insight into what is happening and the purpose of the motion. Who is to be blamed? Is the issue of availability and sale of such uniforms not supposed to be exclusively in the hands of security agencies? Of course, that is one of the reasons that prompted me to bring the motion to the floor of the House for members to seriously deliberate on it and find a lasting solution towards this menace because it is a very serious challenge facing us now as a nation. You know the grave implication of people who are not true security operatives having access to these uniforms. They are simply using them for criminal activities. Armed robbers, bandits, thugs and kidnappers are now using these uniforms to operate. There have been many instances where many innocent Nigerians have lost their lives and property to these enemies of the nation. I am from Zamfara and it happens in my state. Often times, armed bandits come to attack innocent citizens while wearing military uniforms. They have killed thousands of our men and destroyed their property. They went away with their precious women and demanded for ransom, which you have to pay or you lose your relations. More worrisome is the fact that there is no differentiation between these bandits in military uniform and the real military personnel themselves. For instance, when kidnappers and armed robbers stand on our highways, wearing security uniforms, you won’t be able to differentiate and innocent citizens fall victims to these agents of darkness. Both the military and police are all aware of these cases. Look at what happened recently in the elections that took place in Kogi and Bayelsa. There were accusations among the political parties involved in the process on the use of thugs in either police or military uniform. The question is, where did they get the security uniforms from and from where did they get the arms? Even military and police authorities testified that there were fake operatives in their uniforms. This ugly development actually provoked me to come up with the motion. My intension is to alert the parliament that Nigerians are not safe, so that we can find solutions to it before it consumes the whole country. What are your prayers in the motion? My prayer is a single prayer and the reason is that I wanted it to be comprehensively debated, so that other colleagues of mine in the chamber, who have better experience and ideas, will come up with far reaching recommendations on the best way to go in tackling the problem. So, my prayer is that the House should refer the motion to a joint committee of all the security committees; that is committees on Army, Navy, Air Force and Police, to holistically look into the matter and come up with a lasting solution to the worrisome development. In the light of the concerns you have raised, are you asking that government should issue a fresh statement or what can be called executive order, banning the sale of security uniforms in the open market? Yes, it’s only in Nigeria you can see security uniforms available for civilians to access. If you go to other countries, they are highly restricted to the security authorities. In fact, you can’t even set your eyes on them apart from when the security personnel are putting them on. They are very strict with the issue of military uniforms to the extent that you can’t even see where they are producing them. It is just like the currency of a nation, but in responsible societies, where issues are treated the way they should be treated, the military even value their uniforms more than the currency. But in Nigeria, if you go to barracks of our security organizations, you can easily find their uniforms. In Nigeria, there is no provision for uniform in the budget for security agencies. This means that they use their money to buy their uniforms themselves. That should not be so. Most Nigerians believe that politicians are responsible for the aggravating security situation because in their desperation to get to power at all cost, they recruit thugs and all manner of criminals and equip them with weapons including security uniform. What’s your take on that? Even if it is the politicians who are raising and equipping thugs and other bandits, that is not my concern. My concern is about the uniforms because with such uniforms in the hands of unauthorized persons, the lives of many Nigerians could be destroyed. That was why I decided to intervene in the matter. I know why the motion was stopped or killed along the line, but I was able to talk to the leadership and they asked me to reintroduce it because it is a very good one. And I am trying to persuade my friends and colleagues in the Chamber to support the motion. I know that once they accept the motion to be reintroduced, they will make better contributions than my own, and that will help in finding solutions to the problem. What was the reason for kicking against your motion by your colleagues when you introduced it last week? The only reason they gave was that I should include the Order 003 given by Mr. President to discourage the use of foreign materials in the production of security uniforms. This means that he wants us to encourage our local textile industries. For me, this is a good idea. What areas are you are going to accord priority within your stay in the National Assembly? As an elected representative of my people, what I am going to tell you are areas affecting my people. So, one area I want to give priority is education because my people are left behind educationally. I am happy the governor of Zamfara State understands this problem very well and he is giving priority attention to education already. So, he is trying to revive the education sector in terms of infrastructure, teaching aids, welfare of teachers and girl-child education. My second area of priority is agriculture because it is an area that has a lot of employment potentials for our teeming unemployed youths. We don’t have modern methods of farming, and I intend to contribute my quota to fill this gap. We also need to teach farmers how to market their farm produce at profit. In the North, farm produce are cheap to a point that farmers don’t make profit. I believe that it is as a result of lack of education. We produce groundnut oil and tomatoes but they are usually sold at give-away prices. Imagine that the empty basket with which they sell tomatoes is five hundred Naira (N500) but when they fill it with tomatoes, it is sold for between N800 and N1,000. This means that the basket is costlier than the tomatoes itself. But we can improve on the prices of the products by the way we release the products to the market. This again, calls for having knowledge of storage and making storage facilities available to the people. So, we need to educate our people on all these things. The economy is consistently dwindling because the country depends on one product as her major source of revenue. Now that oil is no longer lucrative in the international market, what areas do you think should be explored to diversify the economy? Diversification is very important and this government has been talking of diversification since its inception. I believe that they are trying according to their strength, but there are areas we have to look into like the area of solid minerals. Government has to give priority to solid minerals development. States that have solid mineral deposits are not making any revenue out of them. What is prevalent in the country is illegal mining. So, government has to come up with a policy on how it will benefit from the solid minerals and mining activities across the country. If you look at agriculture, government has to make more investment. I am not saying that government should give money to the people but government should appreciate the value of their goods. In the days of cotton and groundnut pyramid as the main sources of income in the North, it was the government that was buying the products and exporting. It was buying it at a good price, thereby encouraging the farmers to produce more. But today, the farmers are always at a loss. If you are on irrigation, you buy fuel at a very high price; you buy fertilizer at the cost of N5,500, if you are buying it from government. If it is not from government, you pay as much as N10,000. Then, when you go back to farm, you pay labour; labour that was N500 before, is now between N1,500 and N2000. As a result of all these things, most of the farmers operate at a loss. But look at the area of rice production, government is doing a lot in this area and the farmers are making it there because there are factories producing rice in this country. So, by the time a rice farmer does his harvest, he knows the companies where to go and sell it, and companies have valuable prices. Is it true that it is the large solid mineral deposits in Zamfara State that gave rise to banditry? I don’t know about that, but we have plenty of solid mineral resources in Zamfara. Why I even came to know this is that there was a time some Americans visited Zamfara during the time the lead poisoning occurred. When they came, I happened to join them. One of them shouted and I wanted to know why he shouted. He said: ‘Look at poor people sitting on top of gold’ because they were using their cameras and other machines to detect the minerals there. He said that there are different kinds of mineral resources in the land. One very unfortunate and pathetic thing about us in Nigeria is that we don’t do research and we don’t value what we have. But I believe that with the way we are going, things will change for better. What is your advice to government on the issue of research? I don’t know much in the area of research but I believe that government should do a lot in that area especially in the universities and other research institutes, if we want to succeed. Research has to be conducted in all facets of our national life especially in education, agriculture, solid minerals development and other fields of human endeavour. Research should not be restricted to the ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of government.