 T he Niger State Police Command, yesterday, confirmed abduction of two expatriates, a Nigerian staff of Triacta Construction Company and five others in Galadima Kogo Village of Erena in Shiroro Local Government Area of the state. The construction workers were handling construction work on the 52 kilometers roads from Erena Town to Kaure Village, a border town between Niger and Kaduna states, cutting across over 200 villages.  The contract for the road was awarded by a Senator, who,represented Niger East Senatorial District, Senator David Umaru in 2018. He has continued with the work despite his exit from the red chamber.  The Niger State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Adamu Usman, who confirmed the abduction in Minna yesterday, explained that the gunmen wore camouflage and stormed the village in 20 motorcycles. Usman said the incident occurred on Monday at about 12:45p.m. along Shiroro-Galadima road.  He said:“The victims were seized by the gunmen who came through Kaduna State on motorcycles, ambushed them along the road they were constructing and took them into the bush. They overpowered the policemen on duty and left with the victims on motorcycles.” He disclosed that the Police had had already launched a manhunt to track the attackers in order to rescue the hostages. Usman went on: “We have since deployed Operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and Special Technical Squad as well as Anti-Kidnapping Squad to identified areas with a view to rescuing the victims unhurt. We have also reached out to the Kaduna State Commissioner of Police. We are doing everything humanly possible to rescue the victims unhurt.”   He appealed to rural communities to report to the nearest security agencies any person or group of people with questionable character for prompt security responses. The chairman of Shiroro Local Government Area, Mallam Suleiman Dauda Chukuba, said the bandits invaded the community in the early hours of Monday and kidnapped the workers. According to him, several communities in the local government were under siege by bandits. He called on the state government to as a matter of urgency, deploy security agencies to rescue those kidnapped.