Hon. Biodun Salami is the Assistant Publicity Secretary of the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on recent developments in the parties and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration, among other issues  What is your take on the recent emergence of Engr. Adedeji Doherty as new chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state and his promise to end APC reign in Lagos State? Since the formation of political parties in the present Fourth Republic, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has always been there and by the special grace of God the good people of Lagos State have always been in support of the progressives. Lagosians are smart people; very cosmopolitan and responsible people and they know what they want. They knew PDP would never offer them anything good. So, whatever crisis the party is having, it has no effect on Lagosians. We are good to go as a party. At all time, APC will always win elections in Lagos State because people know we don’t sympathise; we empathise and we fill their pains. We feel what Lagosians are feeling. We are having some challenges in Lagos in terms of infrastructural deficit, but we are now facing it headlong. So, Lagosians will always feel and understand who is really there for them. Of course, what I will advise PDP members is for them to go and tidy up their house. They are always having problems, internal crises. It is a party of masters where there is no servant, where somebody is not ready to submit. They are making a lot of errors and Lagosians are not ready for people like that. But with the recent complaints by some people over poor infrastructure, don’t you see Lagosians looking at the direction of PDP in 2023? We know Lagosians will never settle for less. They are smart people and very intelligent people, cosmopolitan, highly responsible and at all time, very responsive. So, we know what Lagosians need and that is why we are facing it headlong now. This deficit is not our making and it is not APC’s design. But your party has ruled the state since the advent of the Fourth Republic.. The basic thing is that Lagos is below the sea level and we have being having this problem. We cannot compare Lagos with a state in the North that is up land. We are far below sea level in Lagos State and we are facing problems associated with that everyday. That is why you see that the Lagos Works Corporation and other agencies responsible for road maintenance putting are always at alert to their responsibilities. Lagosians understand this and they cannot be fooled and that is why at any given time, they continue to vote our party. It is not a question of coaxing; it is a common understanding. Your party has been in power for 20 years, why has it been difficult to address some of the problems occurring on regular basis in the state? These are natural problems; there is no magic about it. But it is for you to be proactive at all time; to be responsible and responsive at all time. That is what we do in Lagos State. When you are naturally deficient about tropical nature, of course there would be problem. We are surrounded by water; over 80 per cent of land in Lagos is surrounded by water. That is why I said we are at disadvantage, but that is not to say we won’t address the problems. We can all see what the governor is doing in the state in terms of fixing the roads. Road construction and maintenance is going on everywhere and it is just like turning Lagos to a project site. Everybody is working, so Lagosians are happy. But some people are of the view that almost 200 days in office, Lagosians have not seen much in terms of the performance of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in respect to fulfilling his campaign promises… We will still have to appeal to them to be patient. One thing about Lagosians, which I enjoy most is that they will put you on your toes and at all times, we are always aware of that because they can never settle for less. Lagosians can never settle for less and that is why we are always on our toes and doing the right things at the right time time. Sometimes you may have lapses here and there, but you must be able to have ability to identify that these are my problems and you must be able to face it. That is what Lagosians appreciate. So, we will always be there. At present, there is internal wrangling in APC at the national level as well in some state chapters of the party. Why is the party finding it difficult to put its house in order? It is a natural thing in any party, but the most important thing is the mechanisms in place to resolve crisis. Politics is about interest and where interest of the people differs, there will be crisis, but where there is a common interest, we say, we are good to go. So, we expect it, but the only thing is for the manager to manage it very well and that is what we are doing in the party. We can always manage ourselves. When the chips are down, we will resolve things among ourselves. How would you react to the ongoing move by some governors and party chieftains to remove the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole? Everybody is entitled to his or her personal opinion, but as far members of the party in Lagos State are concerned, the national chairman is doing a good job for us in the party because any organisation where there is no discipline, there would be problems and that was the genesis and the bane of what they are having in the PDP and that is where we differ. There must be discipline. When there is no discipline or you don’t follow the rule of law; when constitution is not obeyed and some individuals feel they are above the law because they are moneybags, we are bound to have problems like PDP is having. They have lost their chance and I don’t think Nigerians or Lagosians will give them the opportunity again. Are you invariably saying PDP cannot return to power in Nigeria? I don’t see them returning to power again because they have not learnt their lessons. In any organization, where there is no discipline, where there is no respect for the rule of law and lack of respect for the constitution guiding that entity, it is as good as gone. So you believe PDP won’t return to power in 2023? They can’t be anywhere. They cannot return to power because they are power mongers. It is an association of power mongers; people who believe they are above the law. And in an association where there is no discipline, where there is nobody to instill discipline and enforce discipline; there would be problems. And that is why Oshiomhole is having problems with some set of people because they feel he stepped on their toes. But for us, who believe in the rule of law and especially the supremacy of the party, we will never trade off Oshiomhole for anybody. Lagos PDP is presently putting its house in order with the hope of dislodging your party in 2023… They will always be coming back with a view to wrest power, but what is their intension; what is the motive? Is it a genuine intension to better the lots of Lagosians? That is the issue and that is why we are different from them. I don’t know, may be another party will come with another name and people will now see it fairly better than us. But as at today, between the so-called ‘two evils’, APC is the angel here. I am a Lagosian and even if I don’t have this opportunity, I will never do PDP. I have been in PDP before, so I know what PDP is all about. It is a party, where there is no respect for human beings not to talk of rule of law. And in any organisation, especially in party politics, where you lack discipline and respect for the constitution of the party and the supremacy of the party is missing, forget it, you won’t make any progress.