Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State Tuesday named the newly renovated Onikan Stadium after the state’s first military administrator, Sir Mobolaji Johnson, saying Lagos will miss his wise counsels. Sanwo-Olu in his emotion laden-tribute, said it was apt to remember Sir Mobolaji as an iconic figure, smiling and serene, detached from the tawdry preoccupations of lesser men. He described the late military administrator as a quintessential manager of resources. Speaking at a well attended Day of Honour for the late military administrator held at Onikan Stadium, Sanwo-Olu described late Johnson as a symbol of decency, humility and integrity, fairness and justice,who touched and transformed thousands of lives through his foresight, service and industry. At the event were Speaker of the House Representative, RT Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; former governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba; wife of the Lagos State Governor,Mrs Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu; former deputy Governor, Princess Sarah Sosan; Senator Ganiu Soloman,members of the state executive council,members of the state house of Assembly, top military officers, white cap cheifs and other traditional rulers among others. Speaking on the life and time of the late Mobolaji Johnson, Governor Sanwo-Olu said:”Given the sweep of his life, the scope of his accomplishments, the acclaim that he so rightly earned, it is apt to remember Sir Mobolaji as an iconic figure, smiling and serene, detached from the tawdry preoccupations of lesser men. A quintessential manager of resources, Gen. Johnson touched and transformed thousands of lives through his foresight, service and industry. He was a symbol of decency, humility and integrity, fairness and justice. “Our illustrious and now departed son of Lagos was a constant source of support and inspiration to successive governors of Lagos State, especially from 1999 till date. He was always willing to offer his wise counsel and experience whenever the need arose. Even while it was obvious that his health could not really rigorous endeavours, Gen. Johnson was a regular feature at every major Lagos State Government ground breaking events. Such was his unbelievable and unswerving commitment to the cause of Lagos State. How then are we not going to miss him sorely?  “As the First Military Governor of Lagos State, Governor Sanwo-Olu said that late Johnson discharged his mandate equitably – with remarkable dignity,adding that “His indelible record of service remains intact. The ‘Centre of Excellence’that we proudly proclaim today is a product of his vision for Lagos State when he conceived several landmark programmes and projects for the newly created state from 1967.”