Southern Sun Ikoyi The Ikoyi – based hotel is offering discount on its rooms, with buffet breakfast for two and two shirts for complimentary ironing upon arrival beginning from Dec 20 and spanning January 12, 2020.  Also is a bouquet of culinary treats throughout the season, with traditional Christmas brunch and New Year brunch topping the offers. All of these are in addition to the regular offers of the hotel, which have been blended in line with the spirit of the season and the hotel’s culture of excellent service. Sheraton Lagos Hotel The Lagos – based hotel will serenade its guests and visitors, with soul lifting Christmas carol billed to hold between December 23 and 24.  Also on offer are discounted room rates while the gastronomic treats commences on Christmas Day with a sumptuous buffet breakfast and a spectacular Christmas Day gala buffet lunch, featuring live band, with wide selection of non-alcoholic beverages.  The day’s offerings will climax with a memorable dinner treat for the guests. To usher in the New Year with family and loved ones, a New Year’s Eve gala buffet dinner holds on December 31, with wide select of non-alcoholic beverage and a glass of champagne at 12midnight to light up the New Year.  New Year day celebration will feature among others the first breakfast of the year 2020; Buffet lunch, with a live band at the Pumpkin Leaf Restaurant as well as New Year dinner. For those i n t e r – ested in fine d i n – ing and three course meals, the hotel’s Italian Restaurant is the place to be for special Christmas delight, Boxing Day and New Year dinner, with complimentary glass of choice beverage.  D e l i c i o u s cakes and pastries are also added to the packages. Sheraton Abuja Hotel Guests of the hotel and residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), will be treated to what the hotel has tagged as magical Christmas offerings, beginning with the rooms, which has been specially designed and being offered at discounted rates. For children visiting and accompanying their parents, they will have the opportunity to meet with Santa at his Grotto and cart away exciting gift items.  Christmas Day lunch will be set at the Ladi Kwali Ball Room, where you will be treated to relishing selection of tasty Christmas specialty buffet offerings. A complimentary bottle of non-alcoholic wine and a large bottle of water will be on offer for a group of four while a complimentary glass of non-alcoholic wine and a small bottle of water will be for individuals with free goody bags for children courtesy of Santa. On New Year day, brunch will be served at the Papillon Restaurant, with a delicious and elaborate buffet spread from 12noon.  According to the General Manager of both hotels in Nigeria, Barry Curran: “Christmas at our hotels will come to Travel&Tourism life with inspiring ambiences to bring in the festive spirit, gifts to spread the seasons cheer and delicious meals to excite your palate and make this holiday truly connecting for families and friends.  ‘‘We can hardly wait to cheer you all the way with our well thought out packages and enticing meals as we believe it will be a very merry Christmas indeed for all. At Sheraton, the world comes together and infuses the energy of our guests coming into our spaces.’’ The Envoy The Envoy Abuja, is also offering special treats for its guests and patrons, with discounted room rates and delightsome culinary treats topping the chart.  Christmas Day brunch and New Year day brunch are the two front liners when it comes to rich gourmet treats and a whole new culinary experience for the guests. The hotel’s Zanzibar and Pool bar are also other spots to harvest fun, with rich entertainment and live band to the bargain.  Golden Tulip Festac Hotel The Festac town – based hotel is offering special treats to guests with array of its fantastic offerings inclusive of discounted room rates and complimentary breakfast. Christmas Day and New Year brunch offers rich treats with wide selection of menus and drinks.  Special treats also awaits children on Christmas and Boxing days, with Children Christmas party on the bill. Some of the features of the party include: Face painting, horse riding, bouncing castle and popcorn as well as gifts from Santa.