President Muhammadu Buhari, scholars and politicians yesterday paid glowing tributes to the late professor of virology, Prof. Tam David- West, of the University of Ibadan, for his sterling qualities of transparency and zero-tolerance for corruption. The event was the commendation service in honour of the former Minister of Petroleum and Energy, held at the Chapel of the Resurrection, University of Ibadan, Ibadan. West died on November 11, 2019 at the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. President Buhari, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, as well as the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, urged Nigerians to emulate Davi-West’s attributes of patriotism, hard work and transparency for the betterment of Nigeria. At the event, which had the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, in attendance, Sylva said: “Nigerians should learn how to be straightforward, how to have zero-tolerance forcorruption, that is what he stood for. And that is the kind of attitude we need from Nigerians. If all of usshouldimbibewhatDavid- West believed in, Nigeria will make progress more. “For me, it was the departure of a titian. He was in the Ministry of Petroleum; I am now following in his footsteps in the Ministry of Petroleum. This is the time I had thought we really needed him. I personally needed him at this time to guide me in the discharge of my duties as a Minister of State for Petroleum.”But unfortunately, he is gone but the Lord knows best. We are encouraged by the fact that he left beautiful and brilliant children that will continue to work with us,” Sylva said. In his tribute, Adesina said the deceased worked assiduously to ensure his boss’ emergence as President of Nigeria, adding that David- West defended the administration with publications, especially in newspapers, to disabuse minds of people against a campaign of calumny that Buhari wanted to islamise the country. Adesina, described the late professor of virology as someone the president has high regards for and one who relates well with people regardless of their class. “So, when David-West passed on, the president genuinely grieved. They had a lot of things in common; integrity, incorruptibility, accountability and so many other attributes,” he said. Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki said: “You could describe him as a freedom fighter, who believed in the cause of Nigeria. He was a very principled man, a democrat, almost an idealist. He had no tolerance for corruption and he spoke his mind when it mattered most.” Obaseki, however, said he would support the endowment fund set up for the best studentinVirologyattheUniversity of Ibadan by the family of the late David-West. Prof. David Olaleye of the Department of Virology, University of Ibadan, also had this to say of David- West: “He was one of the pioneers of virology in Nigeria. He came in the early days of virology study and contributed so much in training, mentoring, research, and particularly in building up virology study. “You know how important virus is as an agent of diseases. He was in the forefront of the work that led to the discovery of a lot of new viruses in the country and we are grateful for this,” Olaleye said. In his sermon entitled; ‘Finishing Strong,’ Chaplain of the Chapel of Resurrection, Very Rev. Olufikayo Oyelade, said: “We are all pilgrims here on earth and every day of our lives is an indication that we are moving closer to eternal home.”