E choes of political leadership in Nigeria reverberated yesterday at the presentation of a book by former Managing Director of the Sun Newspaper, Mr. Eric Osagie.  The occasion, which had in attendance, the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, as well as the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) counterpart, Prince Uche Secondus, became an opportunity by the leaders of the two leading political parties to throw jibes at each order.  Oshiomhole was first to throw the jibes when he made a reference to an interview of unnamed former Nigerian president, whom he said, appeared on the popular BBC interview programme, HardTalk.  “I watched an interview with former Nigerian president. I have enough trouble right now, so I won’t add to it, I won’t mention names. But Wike knows the person, he is associated with the person, he schooled under the person and still being oversees by the person,” Oshiomhole said.  According to him, when the former president was asked the problem of Africa, he attributed it to lack of population control to match the economic growth.  “But when he was asked that as president of Africa’s most populous nation, how much did he contribute to this population growth? How many children do you have? How many wives do you have whether now or before? That to me is courageous, that leaders should not preach what they are not doing.  “We have it on record that he has so many wives, both registered and unregistered; several children, some in dispute, and yet, you go to the Queen’s land and lecture about population.  “You are part of the people who helped to create problem instead of being role model to young ones,” the APC National Chairman added. But Wike, who responded almost immediately, drew the former Edo State governor’s attention to his statement when he won second term in office.  “I remember during the chairman’s second term as governor of Edo, he came to the Villa and thanked the then president for one man, one vote. Today, do we have one man one vote? He should have carried it along to make sure that we have one man one vote.  “Two, remember in their own time, they have what they called ‘Occupy Nigeria.’ Nobody was arrested, nobody was sent to jail. Are they practicing what they’re preaching? “We cannot be deceived by rhetoric, we cannot be deceived by propaganda. All of us know we are not progressing, rather we are retrogressing. Nigeria is witnessing what we preach but not practising. So as a leader, call our leaders to order,” Wike demanded.  He equally tackled the Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dakuku Peterside, who had earlier cautioned the media practitioners on negative reportage as it might affect foreign investment in Nigeria.  But Wike accused him of de-marketing his state, Rivers. The governor wondered why Peterside could kick against the publication of negative things about Nigeria, but he would say negative things about his own state. Publisher of Vanguard Newspaper, Sam Amuka, said Nigeria does not need any legislation against fake news or hate speech. “We do not have to put up legislation. The constitution says what to do: you can sue.   “Who defines hate news? If somebody criticises you the way you don’t like, does it amount to hate news?” he asked.