Nigeria’s broadband penetration recorded a huge leap in October as telecommunications operators added 4.7 million new customers. This brought the total number of broadband users in the country to 72.2 million from 67.5 million recorded in September. According to the latest industry statistics released by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), the country’s broadband penetration stood at 37.8 per cent as of October 2019. The growth may not be unconnected with the telecoms operators’ aggressive push for deployment of 4G service across the country. Broadband, in Nigeria context and as defined by the country’s National Broadband Plan (NBP 2013-2018), refers to internet access with a minimum speed of 1.5 megabits per second (Mbps). While the number of Nigerians with 2G and 3G internet access has been on the increase, broadband growth has been limited as it requires the operators to deploy more infrastructures across the country. According to a World Bank study, a 10 percentage point increase in fixed broadband penetration will increase GDP growth by 1.21 percent in developed economies and 1.38 percent in developing ones. While the country exceeded the target of 30 per cent penetration by December 2018 as set in the NBP 2013-2018, stakeholders have been clamouring for a new plan to give the next direction for the industry. However, in the absence of a new policy from the government, the operators said they were targeting 70 per cent broadband penetration by 2023 through the rapid deployment of 4G infrastructure. To increase the penetration level, NCC said it was focusing on ensuring that all new base stations to be built by the mobile network operators (MNOs) were 4G-compatible. According to the commission, 56.4 per cent of the country’s population is on 3G, while some are still on 2G. However, while highlighting efforts to deepen broadband penetration at a forum in Lagos, the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, Prof Umar Danbatta, said the commission had been encouraging the operators to upgrade their 2G base transceiver stations (BTSs) to 3G while ensuring that their new sites are 4G. “Through effective regulatory oversight, which the Commission is known for, we are ensuring that all new sites to be built by the mobile network operators (MNOs) are Long Term Evolution (LTE)-compatible. We also strive to ensure the implementation of harmonised Right of Way (RoW) charges on state and Federal Government highways at the cost of N145 per linear meter to encourage faster rollout of telecoms infrastructure. “We are also working with relevant stakeholders to ensure the elimination of multiple taxation and regulations; encourage the spread of 3G coverage to, at least 80 percent of the Nigerian population over the current 56.4 percent of the population covered with 3G networks,” the EVC said. He added that the commission was also ensuring that there is efficient allocation of spectrum resources through re-planning and opening up of some spectrum bands as well as development of framework for the utilisation of unused broadcast spectrum known as television white space (TVWS) for the provision of affordable broadband services in the rural, underserved and unserved areas of the country.