How Reps shut down six-year single tenure bill  The House of Representatives last week kicked against a bill seeking to make provision for a six-year single term for presidents, governors and members of the national and states Assembly. PHILIP NYAM reviews the debate    R eminiscent of Daniel Kanu’s infamous Youth Earnestly Ask for Abacha (YEAA) and former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s alleged third term agenda, a bill seeking to provide for a six-year single term for the president, governors and members of the national and states Assembly sponsored by Hon. John Dyegh, representing Gboko/Tarka federal constituency of Benue State, triggered mixed reactions in the polity.   Although, members of the House of Representatives rejected the bill last week, echoes of the proposed legislation still lingers in the national parliament and political circles generally. This is as different interpretations have been given by various individuals and groups as reasons behind the introduction of the bill.   While some said it was an attempt to extend the tenure of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, others viewed it as an attempt to perpetuate the lifespan of the current set of legislators, just as some accused the sponsor of the bill for doing the bidding of some unseen hands.   But, the questions many have asked are: What exactly is the intendment of this piece of legislation, which has been received with so much suspicion and resentment? Is it truly meant to retain experienced hands, reposition and strengthen the nation’s democracy? What is it in the bill that made many Nigerians apprehensive?   While some political analysts viewed the bill as “self-seeking and unnecessary,” some, however, maintained that there were some positives in the bill. There are those who queried the timing of the proposed legislation, saying it was “ill-timed and not-well packaged.”   One of such Nigerians that gave nod to the bill was former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who expressed disappointment over the expeditious manner the lawmakers’ discarded the bill.   Reacting to the rejection of the bill by the House, Atiku said he was disappointed by the fact that the lawmakers threw away the baby with the bath water at the expense of the larger interest of the country.   His words: “In view of the challenges facing our current democratic order, especially the culture of rigging that subverts the will of the people, six-year single term would have ended such untoward practices in our electoral process.   “The desperation for second term by incumbents is the main reason why they go for broke and set the rule book on fire, thereby making free and fair elections impossible by legitimizing rigging at the expense of their challengers that have no access to public funds.   “A situation where the incumbents deploy more public resources to their second term projects than using the funds for people’s welfare encourages massive rigging that undermines electoral integrity. Six-year single term will remove desperation and enable the incumbents concentrate on the job for which they were elected in the first place.   “Eight-year term of office rewards incompetence because even incumbents that have failed would use their access to public funds to return to power by fair or foul means. I don’t agree with the logic that eight years would give elected leaders better opportunity to fulfill their campaign promises. An inherently incompetent incumbent will perform below average even if you give him/her 20 years in office or give him or her $20 billion dollars.   “Second term obsession rewards incompetence by allowing failed incumbents to be reelected regardless of their performance record. It also denies political parties the opportunity to replace failed incumbents with better candidates within the parties in the name of right of first refusal”.   The debate  While leading debate on the general principles of the bill, a week ago, Hon. John Dyegh (APC, Benue) explained that the need for the proposed legislation was borne out of the fact that a single term, especially for federal and state lawmakers, will allow them to have more experience instead of being rejected or reelected every four years.   The bill was seconded by Hon. Olajide Abdulraheem (APC, Lagos). He argued that since 1999, the percentage of new members who lack institutional experience in law-making have been on the increase, which according to him is having a negative effect on the national and states Assembly.   He some lawmakers have not been retained beyond a single term adding that lawmakers require longer periods in the parliament to garner experience. Speaking on the tenure for president and governors the lawmaker said, monies being spent on the four-year periodic governorship election and other polls would be reduced. He said the six year-single term will help the president or governor to be more focused, more dedicated while reducing the usual do-or-die battles for reelections.   His words: “You will agree with me that the present two terms of four years each is not helping matters, it is taking us backward. Practically speaking, the occupier of the seat spends only two years in the first tenure and the remaining two years fighting reelection, which in Nigeria, is many times more expensive than the first election and mostly dependent on lean resources of the state.   “In the second tenure, he spends two and a half years working on the remaining one and half preparing his exit and soft landing as well as installation of a successor. So, the total times spent for actual work for the state is not more than four and half years out of the eight years.   “If we must deepen our democracy, we must reduce ‘wars’ that occur during reelection of presidents and governors by supporting a single term of six years.   “Amending the constitution to provide for a six-year consecutive term for the legislature – state and national legislature – is a progressive idea and should well be considered by this honourable House.   “The high turn-over of legislators in our nation constitutes loss of experience and institutional knowledge, not deepening democracy and failure of entrenching loyalty to the electorate. This is as opposed to civil service practice, where a fresh graduate rises   through the ranks using over 30 years to become a director or permanent secretary and sets as a custodian/bundle of knowledge of all that pertains to the service,” he submitted.   Support for the bill   Expectedly, the bill did not receive as much support because of the negative impression most lawmakers had about it. Although the body language of some of the lawmakers indicated they were not averse to the bill, they could not voice out their support perhaps for fear of being blacklisted for alleged support of tenure extension.   Supporting the bill, Hon. Sergius Ogun (PDP, Edo) said the proposal will help in addressing the energy and resources being channeled to retain power at all cost by elected representative s which he said sometimes begin immediately after the elections. According to him, “if the executive is, to be honest, and tell us what they spend on the second term, we will be shocked.”   The Rejection   As Dyegh, the sponsor of the bill was presenting it, many of his colleagues were visibly uncomfortable on their seats. In fact, but for the intervention of Hon. Sada Soli (APC, Katsina), who provided guidance, no one would have spoken in favour of the bill as lawmakers opposed to it were ready to shut it down as soon as Dyegh concluded his debate.   Soli had argued that the legislative procedure was that whenever a bill or motion is presented, those in favour are allowed to make their contributions before those against it.   But, kicking against the bill, chairman of the House Committee on Navy, Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi (APC, Plateau) argued that initiating such a bill at this time will worsen the already existing apprehension about 2023, which he said will portray the Ninth National Assembly as planning to make laws that will extend their tenure.   According to him, the present four-year term for president and governors should be retained as tampering with the present arrangement will have negative consequences.   “Our democracy doesn’t need a six-year single term. Let us reform our electoral system. You cannot give a person six years single term and expect him to perform. What we need is electoral reforms that will help Nigerians,” Gadgi submitted.   Similarly, Hon. Haruna Isa Dederi (APC, Kano), while supporting Gagdi’s position, submitted that there are speculations that the Ninth National Assembly and the executive are planning to extend the tenure of the president and governors.   He said if the National Assembly accepts such a bill, the parliament would be playing into the hands of people who have already tagged the current parliament as a rubber stamp and tool in the hands of the executive.   Speaking on the bill, the minority leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu (PDP, Delta) advocated for the repealing of the “immunity clause” instead of calling for a six-year term.   The acting House leader, Hon. Peter Akpatason (APC, Edo) in his contribution dismissed the proposed legislation, explaining that he is not interested in any tenure elongation and will not condone or support any move in that regard.   The debate on the bill generated tension on the floor of the chambers and when it was put to a voice vote for second reading by the deputy speaker, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, who presided over session, it was rejected.