*Workers, residents panic, motorists groan in gridlock  There was confusion early this morning on Victoria Island, Lagos when a 33,000-litre fuel laden taker lost control and fell on the road at the ever-busy Ozumba Mbadiwe Road spilling its contents on the road. For hours, residents, workers in various offices, motorists and other road users scampered for safety and in fear of the possible explosion that could rock the commercial centre. But a swift intervention of the emergency responders, law enforcement officers and traffic management agencies saved the day as the scene was quickly condoned off. Vehicular movement was diverted metres away from the scene to prevent explosion, a development that resulted in a very serious gridlock that backed up to the Third Mainland Bridge. It was also learnt that the 32-year-old driver of the tanker has been taken to hospital by the emergency responders. It was learnt that the unbranded tanker with registration number KRD-280XN was conveying AGO (diesel) to a destination yet to be ascertained as at the filing this report at about 5am when the accident occurred. The combined efforts of the LASEMA response unit, otherwise known as Sharks (Lekki) Response Squad, alongside the Bravo Team (Paramedics), another unit of LASEMA, LASTMA, LASG FIRE, FED FIRE, LCC and Nigeria Police had a hectic time in the management of the accident scene. Speaking on the cause of the accident, the Director-General of LASEMA, Dr Femi Oke-Osanyintolu said that one of the tyres of the tanker burst while in motion, causing the tanker running over the highway median while it compartment detached and flipped over, before it finally upturned spilling its contents onto the road. Oke-Osanyintolu said: “On getting to the scene of the incident, a white coloured unbranded tanker with registration number KRD-280XN laden with 33,000 litres of AGO (diesel) was found to have fallen on Ozumba Mbadiwe Avenue. Further investigation revealed that one of its tyres burst while in motion. This resulted in the vehicle running over the highway median while the tanker compartment detached and flipped over, finally resting on its head.” Muritala Ayinla For hours Friday motorists plying the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway groaned in traffic gridlock as a fully loaded truck with 33, 000 litres of Automated Gas Oil (AGO) lost control and spilt its content on the road. The accident, which occured in the afternoon near the Otedola Bridge of the… In "Metro and Crime" Muritala Ayinla For hours Friday motorists plying the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway groaned in traffic gridlock as a fully loaded truck with 33, 000 litres of Automated Gas Oil (AGO) lost control and spilt its content on the road. The accident, which occured in the afternoon near the Otedola Bridge of the… In "Metro and Crime" Muritala Ayinla For hours Friday motorists plying the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway groaned in traffic gridlock as a fully loaded truck with 33, 000 litres of Automated Gas Oil (AGO) lost control and spilt its content on the road. The accident, which occured in the afternoon near the Otedola Bridge of the… In "Metro and Crime"