CONTINUED FROM YESTERDAY   In this concluding part, Muritala Ayinla reports that thousands of residents of Lanre community and other areas on LASU-Igando Road are at the risk of an outbreak of epidemic and sudden death   In the beginning Investigations revealed that what has now become a major challenge to these residents came about as a result of government’s failure to envision the consequences of the action. Recalling how the government forcibly converted their environment to landfill, a community leader, Joseph Showunmi, 65, knocked government for not considering their plight and that of the general hospital in their area before converting the place to a landfill in the first place. According to him, the area converted to landfill commonly referred to as “bowler,” is a site where red sand was dug and sold by illegal sand miners about 20 years ago. “Tippers of different sizes came to load red sand which they used for filling the road and building construction sites. Part of the sand was used in the construction of LASU-Iba Road. Uncontrolled sand mining led to a serious hole and ditch in the area. Then around 2006 or thereabouts, the government converted the areas to landfill by depositing trucks of refuse in the ditch. “The heaps of refuse supposedly meant to level the land have also become like mountains threatening our lives and making life unbearable to us today. It is depreciating out lives and property daily,” the visibly angry man said. Lamenting how his efforts at making water available for his household were frustrated, Showunmi added: “I have wasted hundreds of thousands of naira in digging boreholes and domestic wells. When the first one became polluted, I dug the second one. I kept buying chemicals to treat the water until it was apparent all the entire underground water in this vicinity has been contaminated by the landfill behind our houses. “And when the government started this, we warned them, we appealed to them to even consider its general hospital located here, but you know whatever the government wants, it will always have its way.” Laboratory Examination on water samples A cursory look at the water in these communities clearly paints a picture of effluents from an industrial area being discharged into a canal or drainage. Whether from the borehole tap or well, water in these communities is usually dark, soapy, foamy and contains visible particles with odour. Further laboratory investigations carried out by New Telegraph on the samples of water taken from houses situated near the three landfills in the area, revealed that the water in the area is dangerous for human consumption. In the investigation, water samples were taken from the houses and firms including the general hospital in the vicinity of Solous 1, 2 and 3 locations and were subjected to a laboratory test. Locations from where the water samples were taken and screened are: One Love Car Wash besides (Solous 3), No 8, Johnkay Crescent (Solous 1 ),  No 4, Rami Ajibowo Street and Alimosho General Hospital, Igando, (both in Solous 3) No 22 LASU­-Isheri Road, (Solus 2). The Laboratory results of the water from all the locations are said to be unsatisfactory according to the World Health Organisation’s recommendation.  The quality of the water samples was pronounced substandard due to “presence of a very high Alkalinity, high total hardness, chloride, iron and microbial loads.” For instance, the water samples from the houses were said to have higher chemical substances such as alkalinity, acidity chlorides, nitrates and other substances inimical for human body. Health implications of polluted water According to the World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates, a quarter of the diseases facing mankind today occur due to prolonged exposure to environmental pollution.  The organisation said the unsanitary environment can encourage the spread of malaria fever, typhoid fever, cholera, tetanus, eczema, dysentery, dengue fever and inhaling carbon dioxide can worsen such ailments as emphysema and asthma. Experts also say water-borne diseases account for the deaths of 3,575,000 people annually which are equivalent to a jumbo jet crashing every hour, and the majority of these are children. Speaking on the inherent health risks of living close to dumpsite, Dr Alao Olumiyiwa, an environmental scientist, said that aside from exposure to stench coming from the landfills, infectious diseases can be spread through contaminated water. He listed some of these water-borne diseases to include typhoid, cholera, paratyphoid fever, diarrhoea an typhoid and dysentery, jaundice, amoebiasis and malaria, adding that attraction of flies and mosquitoes from the polluted areas will also cause people to have frequent cases of malaria and other environmental induced diseases. Effects of heavy metal in water According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, heavy metals can leach into drinking water from household plumbing and service lines, mining operations, petroleum refineries, electronics manufacturers, municipal waste disposal, cement plants, and natural mineral deposits. Also giving analysis of the chemical substance in the water and the health implication on human health, Olumuyiwa, who is also a hydrologist, added that chemical substances in the water also have negative effects on the health of the people in the area. He said: “Pesticides as chemical substance in water can damage the nervous system and cause cancer because of the carbonates and organophosphates that they contain. Chlorides can cause reproductive and endocrinal damage while nitrates are dangerous especially to babies that drink formula milk. It restricts the amount of oxygen in the brain and cause the ‘blue baby’ syndrome. Nitrate is one of the most common groundwater contaminants in rural areas. It is regulated in drinking water primarily because excess levels can cause methemoglobinemia, which is also known as ‘blue baby’ disease.” Excessive lead in the water content, the scientist explained, can accumulate in the body and damage the central nervous system. He added that Arsenic contamination in drinking water can damage one’s skin, liver, and eyes and may also cause cancer. “Too much of Flourides can make your teeth yellow and cause damage to the spinal cord. Petrochemicals, even with very low exposure, can cause cancer. These are just to name a few of the dangers in untreated water people can be exposed to in such areas,” he explained. Olumuyiwa explained that while some of the chemicals can react quickly, others will take a longer time and damage body organs slowly. Corroborating Olumuyiwa on the health risks of chemical pollutants, another hydrologist in the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, who pleaded anonymity, said heavy metals such as arsenic, mercury, pesticides and nitrate fertiliser are dangerous in the water, adding that “Once they’re ingested, these toxins can cause a host of health issues, from cancer to hormone disruption to brain function. Children and pregnant women are particularly at risk.” He added that even swimming or bathing with such water can pose a risk. People can contract health issues such as skin rashes, pinkeye, respiratory infections, and hepatitis from sewage or refuse-laden waters. WHO said contaminated drinking water is estimated to cause more than 500,000 diarrhoea deaths each year. It said that health costs associated with water-borne diseases such as malaria, diarrhoea and worm infections represent more than one third of the income of poor households in sub-Saharan Africa. Hence, millions of households still don’t have access to good water or ignorantly use polluted water. On the dangers of wrongly sited dumpsite and the consequence of underground water pollution, Adedamola Oyedele, an Environmental Communication researcher, added that surface water contamination and soil contamination are common when hazardous chemicals from the refuse leach into the soil. He said plants and animals that come in contact with such pollution are also affected. He added that gastrointestinal issues and skin irritations have been traced to excess alkalinity in the water intake. Too much alkalinity, he explained, “may also agitate the body’s normal pH, which leads to metabolic alkalosis, a condition that may produce symptoms of nausea and vomiting.” Other hazards of living close to landfills Other health and environment experts including the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi, confirmed that poorly managed and wrongly sited waste dumping sites are pathogens and epidemiology centres where germs breed and disease spread among residents and passers-by. According to them, viruses, bacteria and fungi which breed regularly in waste dumps, landfills, waste tanks and waste-bins can produce infectious diseases, toxic gases and radioactive elements, adding that waste dumps and landfills may emit toxic compounds or harbour radioactive materials that are dangerous to human health and wellbeing. Corroborating their submission, Dr Ibrahim Hassan of the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, said that emerging research has shown that exposure to dumpsites also has grave consequences for pregnant women. “There is anatomical problem of deformity in the physical structure of the animals living in the vicinity of waste dumps due to availability of therratogenic substances (therratogenes). Carbon monoxide poisoning in pregnancy is the most fatal cause of birth defects and fetal death. Carbon tax and pollution tax are introduced to curtail excessive carbon emission by vehicles and industries,” he said. Hassan listed other health risks of leaving close to a dumpsite to include: Skin disorders resulting from fungal infection, allergic dermatitis, pruritis and skin cancer; respiratory abnormalities arising from bacterial upper respiratory tract infections (pharyngitis, laryngitis and rhinitis), chronic bronchitis and asthma. He added that inhabitants of the landfills area are also at the risk of abdominal and intestinal problems such as bacterial enteritis, helminthiasis, amoebiasis, liver cancer and renal failure. “They can also be suffering silently from dental disorders, ear infections – otitis media and bacterial infections, skeletal muscular systems also known as back pain, central nervous system, impairment of neurological development, peripheral nerve damage and headaches, eye infections – allergic conjunctivitis, bacterial eye infections. They can also have problem of blood disorders resulting from iron deficiency anaemia and other health risks are– malaria, chicken pox, septic wounds and congenital abnormalities, cardiovascular diseases and lung cancer.” A call for Action from Lagos Government While the Lagos State Health Commissioner, Abayomi, concurred with other health experts that a polluted environment cannot have a healthy population, expressing fear that as long as waste is dumped and burnt openly, there would be continued pollution which will further threaten the lives of the residents. Hence, he advised the residents to abstain from such water, He said: “For now, they can’t take the underground water anymore; the water is already damaged. The state government, through its environment protection agency, Ministries of Environment and Water Resources, Health and Agriculture, is developing policy on how to address this situation especially on landfills. “We are moving landfills all the way to Ogun State. At least that needs to be done properly because there is no space in Lagos. The water level is very high and Lagos being coastal city is faced with challenge of space.” Even though the waste is still being dumped in the community, the Managing Director of LAWMA, Dr. Muyiwa Gbadegesin, insisted that the agency had concluded plans to decommission the Igando landfills and the one at Olusosun near Ojota due to “urban encroachment and increased human activities around the areas.” He said that the process of winding down activities at those landfill sites has commenced, explaining that there was not much human activity close to the sites at inception but fast-paced development in the state has seen houses built around them. For a sustainable environment and dumpsite-free community, the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) General Manager, Dr Dolapo Fasawe, pointed out that the state government has begun moves to tackle the issues of environmental pollution with the recently launched Blue Box Programme aimed at encouraging the separation of recyclable materials. The state Health Commissioner, Abayomi, hinted that government through LASEPA, in conjunction with the World Bank, was currently working on the permanent solution to the air pollution in the area. “We are going to put things in place to reduce air pollution and we are going to measure impact on health and correlate with improvement in the air quality of life,” the commissioner said. Last Line It is crystal clear that with the presence of landfills and continued flocking of waste compactors around the Lanre, Oko filling and its environs for refuse dumping, Lagos is sitting on a time bomb with more possible outbreaks of deadly diseases that may affect countless number of the residents just as it recently raised the alarm of 400 cases gastroenteritis also known as vomiting and diarrhea which claimed 11 lives. Consequently, experts  said that if government is passionate about healthy living of the citizens, it’s high time Lagos ‘worked the talk’ by decommissioning the landfill sites at Igando as repeatedly promised and commence massive clean-up in the area with a view to  guaranteeing  healthy living for the residents. Olumuyiwa, on his part, said just as the residents pointed out, lips services have been paid to the planned closure of the landfills within the state metropolis, adding that that siting of the landfill sites close to a general hospital of the state most populous environment doesn’t only portend grave danger for the communities but also rubbishes efforts of the state Ministry of Health on campaign on personal and environmental hygiene. Hassan submitted that LAWMA must come up with a safer and more effective waste management strategy and campaign to effectively curtail the growing challenges of waste management occasioned by the continued influx of people into the state which results in increasing waste generation. Oyedele advised Lagos to prioritise the safety of the residents through relocation of the landfills, saying “the waste dump should be located inside buffers or green zone where they will not be eyesore to residents”. According to them, drugs, medicines and medical wastes like drug remnants, syringes, needles and bottles must be professionally managed so as not to transfer diseases. As the harmattan season approaches which may necessitate refuse burning on the dumpsite, they appealed to government to do everything possible to prevent what will lead to inhalation of poisonous gases over a long period of time which could affect the immune system and lead to cancer. Pregnant women who inhale high levels of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and other poisonous gases, they said, may give birth to abnormal children or have premature birth. 