Onion is among the most common vegetables around. It is available in every home all year round. Have you ever heard of a shortage of onions? And because our women can hardly cook without using onion, we take it for granted. It is time we overcome the sickness called ignorance. Blessed are you among other vegetables, Onion! The onion that is ever available. You that can make both men and women cry. Any wonder then that hired mourners use you to induce tears? Some house wives confided in me (please keep this to yourself o!) that whenever they needed a favour from their husbands; they would peel the onion to induce tears to win the sympathy of their husbands! Onion is a common name for many plants of the genus allium of the lily family: The true onion is Allium cepa, wild onion is allium vineate, the leek is allium ampeloprasum, Garlic is Allium sativum. Onions were originally grown in Iran and the Middle-East before they now spread to other parts of the world, especially the tropics. Onion is made up of 60 per cent aflylpropyl disulphide, a volatile oil called sulphured glycosides. Onion also contains the following enzymes: sulphur, iron, potassium, magnesium, fluorine, calcium, manganese and phosphorus. It also contains vitamins A, B, C and E, flanovoids (anti-cancer) and gly-coquinine (anti-diabetic). Onion is regarded as a versatile vegetable because it can be eaten in many ways: raw, grated, boiled or pickled. It is used as flavouring or seasoning. The characteristic pungent taste of onion is due to the presence of the volatile oil, sulphurous. Many uses of onion anti-biotics Onion is one of the potent natural anti-biotics. It strengthens the immune system, thus helping to ward off common infections. For over nine years I have been recommending onion for many sick people, and the results have been positive. Simply chew a bulb of raw onion every night. It’s as simple as that. As a starter, you may take half a bulb instead of one bulb and gradually increase it to one bulb. Science has confirmed that Onion works powerfully against the following bacteria: 1.     Escherichia Coli, which causes intestinal dysbacteriosis and urinary infections. 2.  Salmonella Typhi, which causes typhoid fever. 3. Shigella Dysenteriae, which causes bacillus dysentery. 4.  Staphylococcus & Streptococcus, which cause inflammation of the genital organs, damaged sperm cells, and skin infections and blemishes. Hypolipidemic: Onion has been proven to lower noxious cholesterol level in the blood. This is understandable when one considers the fact that Onion is rich in fibrinolytic substances that help to break up blood clots and to prevent coagulation. This makes Onion indispensable for many Nigerians who consume a lot of fat, palm oil and butter. Over-consumption of processed palm oil is partly responsible for cases of high cholesterol level in Nigerians today, thereby increasing the risk of heart problems. God has given us Onion as a remedy for this ailment. Anti-diabetic: Combined with other herbs, Onion has proved useful for lowering blood sugar. This hypoglycemic or anti-diabetic property of Onion is due to the presence of glycoquinine. Those who are afraid of developing diabetes because their parents are diabetic should make friend with Onion, as it is a very good prevention against diabetes. Anti-tumour: Onion strengthens the blood cells that protect the body against micro-organisms. If these cells are weak, the body becomes prone to viral infections, such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), pneumonia and cough. Onion also destroys cancerous cells in the body. In Nigeria, cases of cancer, especially of the breast, are increasing daily. I wish to suggest that our women should take onion as much as possible. The onion will act as good prevention against cancer as well as help in dissolving cancerous tumours. The prevalence of fibroids, breast cancer and infertility among our women today is alarming. What do we do? Are we to fold our hands and watch our sons and daughters die in pain and desperation? Or are we to once again sit lazily and wait for western thinkers and scientists to help us find the solution? Is it not true that the best remedies for our health problems are those that come from our environment? The challenge before us is big indeed. I, therefore, encourage you, readers, to help spread the Gospel of Herbal medicine to our fellow brothers and sisters. We must continue to pray and reflect together and explore deeper ways of finding solutions to the problems of the world. Other benefits of onion Onion purifies and strengthens the liver and the kidney and as well as cleanses the blood. Onion is a good remedy for hepatitis, which is becoming common in Nigeria these days. Do you suffer from resistant typhoid fever, inability to sleep well, low sperm count? Try Onion and see the difference it makes! Onion has been of help to men who experience weak erection or low libido. On many occasions, I have recommended Onion to women who experience premature menopause, and anovulation (inability to ovulate) and the results have been encouraging. Indeed, God has arranged nature to take care of all our needs. In cases of sickle cell anaemia, onion has been of invaluable help. Onion is rich in enzymes, which helps in the production of blood. Onion contains iron and trace elements, which are often lacking in sicklers. Insomnia/stress: In our so-called hyper-active world, it is not surprising that the most common complain of modern man and woman is stress. But it is not only human beings that are stressed; the plants are stressed. The animals are stressed. The cosmos itself is stressed.