P resident Muhammadu Buhari has restated the commitment of his administration towards diversifying the nation’s economy and providing jobs for teeming unemployed Nigerians.   Buhari, who spoke at the 67th Annual Jalsa Salana (Islamic Conference) of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama’at Nigeria, said the Federal Government was mindful of the challenges facing the country.   The conference, held on Saturday in Ilaro, Ogun State, was attended by representatives of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Governors Dapo Abiodun and Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State.   Buhari, who was represented by Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite, declared that his administration had geared efforts towards charting a new course for the citizens.   “The government recognizes the enormous challenges facing the country but the government has geared efforts towards charting a new course for the nation by diversifying the economy and providing jobs for the people,” he stated. The president solicited the continued cooperation and unalloyed support of Nigerians to help the government achieve its objectives.   He lauded Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama’at, Nigeria for its organizational excellence which, according to him, had resulted in great achievements recorded by the religious organization over the years.   According to him, the organization deserves commendation for “spreading Islam in peace and being steadfast and committed in developing educational and health sectors.”   At this year’s conference with the theme, “Effective way of calling people to Allah,” Osinbajo, who was represented by the Secretary to the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, congratulated the Jama’at for establishing Minaret University in Ikirun, Osun State.  The vice-president, who described the university establishment as “worthy initiative,” urged other religious bodies to emulate the Ahmadiyya. He promised to continue to associate with Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama’at, noting that the religious organization has been found to be “calling people to the way of Allah, deploying wisdom, strategic plan and knowledge.”  Osinbajo submitted that anybody that preaches Islam must be devoted, knowledgeable and demonstrate love and sacrifice for humanity.  “You cannot preach to people you don’t know their history and culture. You have got to love all people, regardless of religious groups to which they belong demonstrably, you’ve got to call people to God with wisdom, strategic plan and sound knowledge,” he added. 