A former Abia State Governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has vowed to appeal his conviction by Justice Mohammed Idris of a Federal High Court in Lagos for N7.1 billion fraud. Kalu’s lawyer, Chief Charles Ewelunta, while speaking with journalists shortly after the judge delivered his verdict, said an appeal will soon be lodged. “We are trying to get the Certified True Copy (CTC) of the judgement to afford us the opportunity of studying it. Definitely, we will appeal the judgement,” Ewelunta said. Delivering judgement in the 12-year-old case yesterday, Justice Idris held that the prosecution has proved its case against the defendants beyond reasonable doubt. Justice Idris said: “The case was conclusively investigated, as the prosecution conducted thorough investigations. No gaps were left unfilled; this is the acceptable practice. “I hold the view that the prosecution has established its case against the defendants. It did not fall short of the standard required by law in money laundering offences. “It is clear upon the facts before this court that the prosecution had this case conclusively investigated before opting to bring this charge against the defendants. In other words, the prosecution did an in-depth and conclusive investigation. “In totality, I, sincerely, cannot find my way clear in finding these defendants not guilty of the offences charged. “Having reviewed all that has been provided by the prosecution in terms of oral and documentary evidence; I am inclined to resolve the singular issue for determination in favour of the prosecution herein.” The Judge had earlier discountenanced the oral evidence given by the former governor in his quest to prove his innocence of the allegations, saying it was not enough to exonerate him. “The 1st defendant (Kalu) did not give his evidence from the box, but chose to make statement from the dock. I agreed that the defendant reserves the right to make statement from the dock. “However, the question is whether any probative value should be attached to the statement? It is the duty of the court to attach probative value to the evidence before it. “The unsworn statement of the 1st defendant cannot be given any probative value. It is certainly not enough for the 1st defendant to give an oral evidence from the dock to counter the prosecution’s claims. “The court cannot give the same probative value to oral evidence as the one made in the witness box through which the defendant was cross-examined,” Justice Idris held. Subsequently, Kalu was convicted by the judge on 28 out of the 39 counts that made up the charge. On each of counts 1-11 and 39, he was sentenced to five years in prison. On each of counts 23-33, he was sentenced to three years; and on each of counts 34-38, he was sentenced to 12 years. The sentences were, however, to run concurrently. The second defendant, Udeh Jones Udeogu, was also found guilty on 11 out of the 16 counts in which his name featured. On each of counts 23-25 and 27-32, Udeogu was sentenced to three years in prison; on each of counts 34-38, he was sentenced to 10 years; while on count 39, he was sentenced to four years. The sentences were also to run concurrently. In respect of the 3rd defendant, Slok Nigeria Limited, Justice Idris ordered its winding up. “An order is hereby made that the third convict shall, without further assurances but from this order, be wound up and all the assets and property forfeited to the Federal Government,” he said. It will be recalled that ex-Governor Jolly Nyame of Taraba was convicted by a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, to serve a jail term of 14 years for diverting N1.64 billion. Also, ex-Governor Joshua Dariye of Plateau was also convicted to serve a jail term of 14 years for misappropriating N1.16 billion ecological funds while he governed the state from 1999-2007. A former governor of Adamawa State, James Bala Ngilari, was sentenced to five years’ jail term without an option of fine for defrauding his state of N167 million. Former Governor Lucky Igbinedion of Edo was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment for laundering N25 billion, but he got a plea bargain that made him to pay fine of N3.5 million. Ex-Governor James Ibori of Delta was sentenced to 13 years’ imprisonment by a London court for laundering $250 million. The late Governor DSP Alamieyeseigha of Bayelsa got two years’ jail term based on a plea bargain after he was found guilty of money laundering.