●Telco’s record minimal alteration  T he search for better quality of service by subscribers has pushed up number porting activities across mobile networks in the country. This led to a 42 per cent rise in porting as the number of subscribers that moved from one network to the other increased from 14,375 in September to 20,476 in October.  This came as the highest monthly porting activities recorded in the last two years as the last time number porting crossed the 20,000 line was in March 2017.  Data released by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) showed that Airtel benefitted more from the porting activities as it recorded highest number of incoming porting in the month. According to the report, 11,868 subscribers ported to Airtel network in October, while 9mobile attracted 6,410, thus becoming the second largest beneficiary of the subscribers’ movements. MTN recorded 1,863 incoming porting within the period while 335 subscribers ported to Globacom.  The monthly figure of subscribers moving from one network to the other, which reached a peak of 22,539 in July 2015, had been on a steady decline as mobile users show less interest in porting. The Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) had attributed that to improvement in service quality.  According to them, the subscribers were showing less interest in porting because they were satisfied with their service providers. However, with the increase in porting activities, industry analysts said the telecoms operators may have faltered in meeting their service quality key performance indicators (KPIs), thus forcing the subscribers to port in search of better alternatives.  Corroborating this, NCC also attributed the huge number of inward porting to poor service quality recorded on most networks, as well as the reliability and speed of data service offered by most networks in the month under review. The Director, Public Affairs at NCC, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, who attributed the development to poor service quality, however, said most subscribers equally ported to other networks because they wanted to enjoy cheaper call and data rates on various promos offered by network operators.  Nkemadu, however, said the NCC had given subscribers the opportunity to port from one network to another if they were not satisfied with the quality of service offered by their network operators. “The essence of mobile number portability, which the NCC introduced some years ago, offers telecoms subscribers the flexibility to move at will from one network to another, while still retaining their original mobile numbers. They will not be subjected to a particular network if they have reasons to leave the network, and that is the beauty of Mobile Number Portability,” Nkemadu said.  Mobile number portability (MNP) was flagged off by NCC in April 2013 as a way of giving telecommunications subscribers in the country the freedom to move from one network to another for better experience without changing their number. It was designed with the aim of reducing subscribers’ complaints over poor quality of service as they would have the opportunity to change operators at will. Besides quality assurance, MNP is also believed to engender tariff reduction as competition gets stiffer.  However, telecoms consumers still face issue of poor service from the operators, which prompts them to keep trying others through porting. While the service providers are also blaming challenges in the operating environment for the service quality, the NCC had recently read the riot act to the telcos, insisting that they have to do everything possible to improve service delivery to the consumers on their various networks or face regulatory sanctions. The Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, who handed down the warning at a consumer forum in Abuja, said though the commission recognised the existence of some challenges confronting the industry, saying that operators are expected to strive to always improve service for the over 175 million subscribers in the country.  “Where a service provider continues to fail to improve services to the detriment of the consumers, the commission will apply appropriate regulatory actions and sanctions against such service provider,” Danbatta added.