The recent Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Sanofi Nigeria and May & Baker Nigeria Plc, for the manufacture of four medications from the stable of Sanofi, has been commended by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). The Director General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, who lauded the move as a development that would boost drug security in Nigeria, said it was in line with the African Union (AU) plan for Africa to manufacture and produce medicines for Africa. Going by the agreement, the four medications for infections, diabetes and ante-malaria that were hitherto imported and marketed in Nigeria by Sanofi would be manufactured locally at the May & Baker Pharmacentre in Otta, Ogun State. The Pharmacentre, which was commissioned in 2011 was certified for Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)  by the World Health Organisation (WHO)  in 2014. Adeyeye who was represented by Dr. Monica Eimunjeze, NAFDAC’s director of Registration & Regulatory Affairs Directorate, spoke at the signing ceremony in Lagos recently. The General Manager Rx & Country Chair, Sanofi Nigeria-Ghana, Folake Odediran said the formal signing of the manufacturing agreement was proof of Sanofi’s commitment to localisation.  “We will continue to contribute our quota towards availability of very efficacious, high-quality made in Nigeria medicines.” According to Odediran, most of the products Sanofi promotes and markets in Nigeira were imported, but now “we are  taking a bold step to produce some of them locally. It will bring empowerment, expand business, increase access to needed medicines, and more importantly ensure availability of quality products. It would also enhance the employment of Nigerians, she added. Odediran said the choice of May & Baker was based on its rich history of producing high quality medicines in Nigeria, which follows rigorous due-diligence exercise and successful compliance outcomes. On his part, Managing Director/CEO, May & Baker Nigeria Plc, Nnamdi Okafor said Sanofi and May & Baker had symbiotic business relationship. “The signing agreement represented a   major achievement in the national quest to increase local content and capacity in the pharmaceutical sector.” According to him, the local manufacture of Sanofi’s medicines would result in the transfer of technology and build capacity. President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa urged companies that manufacture medicines locally to raise the bar and ensure that quality products were on the table. While calling for the overhaul of the drug regulatory system, Ohuabunwa urged the Federal Government to review the Pharmacy Act, which was awaiting legislation, adding that it was not robust enough. Considering the continued use of bromide in the bakery of confectioneries especially bread, the National Agency for Food Drug and Administration Control (NAFDAC) has issued a new directive banning potassium bromate, giving bakers three weeks to comply or having their businesses being shut down.     Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof. … In "News" National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has over 11,000 registered drug products, but the manpower that would be needed to authenticate all the drugs under the Mobile Authentication Service (MAS) scheme would be enormous. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports   Some members of the House of Representatives recently… In "Health" The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is on alert to track Chinese drugs, which are said to contain human remains. Also, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has cautioned Nigerians on the importance of purchasing drugs from registered pharmacies as a strategy to ensure that only… In "News"