CHUKWU DAVID reports that the new found love between the Ahmad Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila-led Senate and House of Representatives, respectively and the Muhammadu Buhari-led executive arm of government, resulted to the early passage of the 2020 Appropriation Bill   F or the first time in the history of budget consideration and passage since the country’s return to civil rule in 1999, the National Assembly has made history by passing the 2020 budget expeditiously and within reasonable time period. The two chambers of the apex legislative assembly, in obvious relentless and harmonious resolve to change the narrative of late budget passage and its attendant poor implementation, displayed commitment and determination, which resulted in the 2020 Appropriation Bill being passed in less than two months of its presentation by President Muhammadu Buhari.   This goes to explain that, with determination, commitment and cooperation among the three arms of government, good governance is possible and can be delivered to the electorate in good time. It also exposes the fact that the age-long friction between the Executive and the Legislature has actually hampered and robbed Nigerians of meaningful development over the years.   Therefore, there is no gainsaying that the current feat recorded by the National Assembly in the early passage of the money bill, was the direct consequence of the new found love between the apex legislative institution and the Executive. Right from 1999, when this democracy came on stream, the Parliament and the Executive have always been having rancorous relationship especially when the leaders of the Parliament are not product of party consensus or the choice of incumbent President.   In the present political dispensation, however, the two presiding officers in each chamber of the National Assembly, were products of the choice of the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC).   This is why there has not been any disagreement between the National Assembly and the Executive on any issue, particularly with respect to approval of executive communications emanating from President Muhammadu Buhari. In fact, since June 11, 2019, when the present National Assembly was inaugurated, with Lawan and Gbajabiamila, emerging as the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, respectively, every communication from President Buhari has been enjoying expeditious approval.  From instance, the Senate approved the 2020-2022 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP) within one week after it was submitted to it by President Buhari.  The President submitted the document on September 25, 2019 and the Senate considered and approved the report of its Joint Committee on Finance and National Planning, Chaired by Senator Solomon Ademola (APC, Lagos West). Coming to the budget itself, President Buhari laid the document before the joint session of the National Assembly on October 8, 2019, which was exactly five days after the MTEF was passed.  The two chambers immediately swung into action, read it first and second time and committed it to the Senate Committee on Appropriations to conduct budget defence sessions with the ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of government.  In previous assemblies, budget passage had always dragged for many months after being presented to the joint session of the National Assembly by Mr. President before it would be passed for assent.  Part of the reason was that National Assembly used to face frustrating challenges in the hands of some heads of the MDAs, who would not honour invitations to budget defence, thereby delaying the process.   The delay in budget passage at the National Assembly became worse in the Eighth Assembly, when the relationship between the apex legislative institution and the Executive was most rancorous.  The reason could be traced to the frosty relationship between the Executive and the leaderships of the two chambers of the National Assembly, which led to mutual suspicion and distrust between the two arms, with each trying to frustrate the other.    This was so majorly because Senator Bukola Saraki and Hon. Yakubu Dogara had emerged the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives respectively, contrary to the wishes of the APC and the Presidency. It was also believed that this was responsible for some heads of the agencies and ministries disrespecting the National Assembly and its resolutions, particularly invitations for budget defence or any other invitations whatsoever.  For instance, in March 2018, following the rampant failures of MDAs to appear for budget defence, the Senate, in a resolution, threatened to pass the 2018 budget without submissions from recalcitrant MDAs.  Saraki who expressed serious concerns about the attitude of the MDAs, said that the Senate was prepared to conclude the process of the 2018 Appropriation Bill to ensure its passage but regretted that the MDAs were not cooperative.    He noted that the perception of the public was that the National Assembly was deliberately delaying the budget when the contrary was the case. Similar experience was also witnessed during the 2019 budget defence hearings with the MDAs. Many of the heads of the establishments failed to honour invitations by lawmakers on time, leading to serious delay in passing the money bill. Having witnessed these anomalous attitude of the MDAs towards the National Assembly, and not willing to encounter a repeat of the the experience, the Senate cautioned heads of the MDAs not to indulge in the ugly record of the past.   The President of the Senate specifically threatened at a point, that the Senate would give zero allocation to MDAs that failed to honour Senate invitations for budget defence. This has indeed yielded positive result in the ongoing 2020 budget defence process.   Meanwhile, the National Assembly had while passing its legislative agenda, resolved to return the country’s budget cycle to January to December calendar instead of the current unstable arrangement that had always impeded effective implementation.   Not desiring to miss this target, the Chamber worked assiduously to ensure that the budget was passed before the National Assembly embarks on Christmas break. Accordingly, it has gone into record that this is the earliest budget to be passed by the National Assembly since 1999, having been passed within one month and 27 days after its presentation by the President.   This is enough proof that, determination, commitment, cooperation and collaboration among the various arms and agencies of government will always result in achievement of government set goals, to the benefit of the citizenry.