 Hon Abdul Oroh is a former member of the House of Representatives and Commissioner for Information, Tourism Arts and Culture in the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led administration in Edo State. Prior to his political career, he was a leading light in the civil society movement and had a fair share of brutal treatment under the military for his agitation for the actualisation of the June 12 mandate. He speaks with ONWUKA NZESHI about recent political developments in the country and provides insight into what can be done to change the tide   What is your view about the growing level of violence in our elections?  Generally, there is a growing level of violence in our society and it is because of impunity. If you take your mind back to the military era, people were killed in several instances of violence. Remember Chief Bola Ige, Pa Alfred Rewane, Marshal Harry and the rest of them. It is because such impunities were not punished, people still have the courage to commit murder and other violent crimes. How many political thugs have you ever heard were arrested and prosecuted after every election? These people are not being prosecuted after the elections because the thugs were hired by politicians. The struggle for power is becoming so intense and violent to the extent that it is threatening our democracy. So we need to take a closer look at the electoral process.  What exactly do you think we can do?  We don’t need to set up a new panel to tell us what to do. The Justice Mohammed Uwais Report is still very relevant because it captured all these challenges. We have to deploy more technology during our elections. For instance, our Voters Register has bogus figures that make it almost like the population of Nigeria. But those figures might not be a true reflection of the reality. I vote during elections in the rural areas. As one of the founders of the Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), I have also monitored elections. As a journalist, I have covered elections and I am convinced that our present Voters Register is bogus.  Are you saying that we don’t have a credible voter’s register?  Yes. Look at those who voted in 1979 and the population of the country at that time. Then look at the number of those who have been voting in subsequent years and our current population. It is like those who are voting now are about two hundred per cent of those who voted in 1979 or 1999. You know, it’s ballooning. President Shehu Shagari was elected with about six million votes in 1979 while Chief Obafemi Awolowo had about five million votes. Now in 2019, President Buhari got re-elected with about 15million votes while his closest rival, Atiku Abubakar scored more than 12 million votes. If you add these up and the votes scored by the other presidential candidates it means that almost sixty million people voted in that election. thugs  Don’t you think that it could be due to the growing acceptance of democracy and the culture of elections?  No. It is because the voters register is bogus. People are voting twice or thrice during these elections or the managers of our election simply go to one place and award figures to different candidates. It’s happening all over the place. They will tell you that there was 40 per cent voter turnout even when by 12 noon virtually every one that wants to vote in that village had voted. We know them and we know what happens in our villages.  After 12 noon, what remains may be all those old women who could not come out early or those who probably could not find their cards and they are usually not more than five percent of the registered voters. So we need some electoral reforms and we can start from there. We need a new voter’s register that is stripped of fictitious names and other fraudulent data. When you monitor elections, at times you see children voting and that is against the Electoral Act.  INEC would say they cannot stop them because they have been registered. Who registered them? Sometimes you see figures that don’t match the reality in terms of population. We must consciously address these issues if we want free, fair and credible elections. We must be able to conduct elections which outcome would not lead to conflicts. People must be able to be convinced and accept that what INEC declares at the end of every election are genuine results.   We can no longer allow a situation where the courts now play the role of the electoral umpire. Every now and then, more votes are cancelled to the extent that almost a quarter of votes cast in an election are classified as over voting and declared invalid. Sometimes, these cancelled votes are more than the winning margins and they will say it is inconclusive and order a re-run election. All these are not manifestations of a good electoral system. Every Nigeria must work hard for us to eliminate these things because they are not good for the consolidation of our democracy.   What’s your view about the involvement of security agencies in the violence during elections?  The law enforcement agencies are also part of the problem because sometimes, they lead the thugs. What I am telling you now is not a theory. I’m not theorising. I’m not speculating. I’m talking of the reality because I’ve witnessed it. The other day, I was trying to have a meeting in my community and I was attacked by people I know.  They were shooting along the streets to disrupt our meeting. They were smashing cars and beating up people who attended the meeting. Even though we got the go ahead of the police before we held the meeting, there was not a single policeman who came to our rescue when the thugs arrived the venue. It was a meeting of my party members in the locality. Well, that happened over two months ago but up till now nobody has been prosecuted for it. It’s been happening, it’s continuing because they know nobody will be punished. Even last week or so Hon. Osahon, a former member of the State House of    Assembly from Ovia-North East was having a similar meeting in his community and he was attacked. Thugs came there, fired shots, smashed cars, broke the windows of his house and went away.  He identified them and also mentioned names but nobody has been arrested.  Were these incidents reported to the police?  Yes. In my own case, I have a petition with the Inspector General of Police, the State Commissioner of Police and even the DSS have copies of the petition. The DSS Director in my local government area was a witness and saw everything. The soldiers that were deployed to that area by the local military formation left because they were driven away by the thugs.  What I’m saying now is not speculation. I’m talking of reality. So if these things could happen in an environment where there was no election, you can imagine if we were voting that day.   Would you have expected that vote to be free and fair?  So, that was what happened in Kogi and Bayelsa States. Bayelsa was even more peaceful even though people died. But you must know that Bayelsa had never had free, fair and peaceful election since 1999. In other words they have never had credible elections like many other states in the country.   What really makes an election credible?  An election could be free, fair and credible when there is no violence and produces an expected outcome. In other words, the result must reflect the reality of the political situation on ground particularly in terms of the support base of the competing interests.  This presupposes that there must be a level playing field for all the participants. The political environment must be safe and secure. The outcome must be such that it is generally acceptable by all the participants in that election to the extent that if you win, it will be obvious to you and your competitors that you actually won. If you lost, it would also be clear to you and everyone else that you lost the race. In that situation, you will see the person who lost an election congratulating the person who won. There are also other parameters such as candidate’s access to the media and being able to campaign freely. Election is a process and the outcome is not just what happens on the election day. It happens over a period of time.  How would you react to the last Kogi elections in terms of the level of violence?   The gruesome murder of the PDP Woman Leader who was burnt alive in her family home is unacceptable. Such a heinous crime is not something anybody should tolerate. I think there should be an investigation and the culprits brought to justice. The government must not allow such a matter to be swept under the carpet and the offenders to go unpunished.  Whoever that is responsible and their sponsors should be brought to justice irrespective of who they are in the society. There should also be a thorough inquest into the death of all those who were killed during the elections.  Everywhere somebody was killed there should be an investigation and those responsible should be punished. Like I said earlier if we allow impunity and people don’t get punished for their crimes, you are promoting impunity.  The law enforcement agencies must be made to investigate all these crimes and people must be held accountable for their actions. In the most recent elections, about 60,000 policemen were deployed to provide security yet we saw violence all over the place.  Where are we going with this trend?  Well, it is a question I wish I could answer satisfactorily. I think that we are going to destroy democracy if we continue on this path. We must do everything to hold peaceful and credible polls to sustain our democracy because Nigeria can only be governed democratically. Nigeria can only survive as a nation if we are a democracy. We are not China. Democracy has never been part of Chinese history or way of conduct. It has been powerful leaders, powerful empires and they have a more homogenised population. Here in Nigeria, even though we are all blacks, we have different cultural backgrounds, languages and history.  We have been brought together by circumstances that even the British did not create. We were already gathering around these two big rivers and their tributaries and deltas before we evolved into one political entity. At the onset, we told ourselves that we were going to be governed along certain principles of federalism and democracy. We agreed that the primary purpose of government is the security of lives and property of the citizens.  These fundamental principles are in our constitution and we have to enforce them.  There are various instances of human rights abuses under the current government but the civil society appears docile.  What’s you view on the situation?  Well, I’ve also heard that people are not expressing concern about the human rights situation in the country. They are expecting street demonstrations on a daily basis to show that things are bad in the country. In our own time, the enemy was different. We were faced with a brutal, kleptocratic military junta that did not show us a pathway to democracy. In spite of everything that we had committed to the so called transition to democracy, the culture of milita- rism was being entrenched on a daily basis.  The whole system became an existential threat to Nigeria. So we had to engage the military head on taking all the risks, making all the sacrifices. We had to fight it until we achieved victory because the system was no longer sustainable.  Along the line, Ibrahim Babangida had to step aside and tried to put in place an interim administration, which a court later ruled was illegal. Of course, Sani Abacha took advantage of that and sacked the Interim National Government of Ernest Shonekan.  Abacha now wanted to create a sort of state structure not only to appropriate the resources of the state but to appropriate state powers and turn Nigeria into a totalitarian state. It got to the extent that all the five political parties at that time were going to endorse him as their presidential candidate in a transition programme supervised by him.  Those were the political parties that the late Chief Bola Ige referred to as the five fingers of a leprous hand. It was clear that they were all out to endorse him and he was going to capture the state and become the state.  That was the situation that was evolving before the regime collapsed. I was one of those who fought that regime and who were imprisoned and suffered a great deal. I was in detention for one year. Some people like Ken Saro-Wiwa and Alfred Rewane paid with their lives.  The same for Chief MKO Abiola and his wife, Kudirat Abiola. There were many other Nigerians who suffered greatly either at home or in exile.   Their businesses were destroyed and many other ugly things happened in the country at that time. Eventually, we later saw what was now called divine intervention. Abacha died. But before he died, he tried to eliminate many of his enemies by contriving a phantom coup. He said there was a coup and wanted to use that to eliminate many military officers of his regime. Although, many of them were arrested, court martialed and sent to prison, he did not quite succeed in eliminating his targets. The environment did not favour such extreme measures. Now, here is the difference.  Today, we have a democracy and we have so far achieved twenty years of constitutional rule. It is not perfect but we have been able to conduct at least five elections for the purpose of changing our leaders through the democratic process. So it is spite of the shortcomings that we see, there is hope that under this system it is possible for power to change hands through elections at the local, state and national levels.  What we need to do is to work to consolidate democracy.  So our civil society organisations should join hands together to strengthen our democratic institutions such as the Judiciary, parliament and all the institutions of accountability in the country. Even within the Executive arm of the government, we need to strengthen the Police, EFCC and the criminal justice system need to be reformed for better service delivery.  In addition we need to reform our financial system and the structures for the management of our economy.   We have to strengthen the fight against corruption which is what the present government is doing.  But of course depending on who you are talking to, you are bound to hear various opinions about the current fight against corruption. Some say the current administration is not fighting corruption properly, but at least everybody knows some fight is going on in that sector. It may not be happening at the tempo we had expected because we still see impunity here and there.  What do you have to say about the arrest and detention of journalists?  Journalists are still being arrested not just by the Federal Government but even by state governors.  Abu Jalingo was arrested by the Cross River State governor who is not even a member of the All Progressives Congress. So this is not necessarily a matter of the ruling party but any attack on journalists is an attack on the media, free speech and democracy. Even the bills on hate speech and social media regulation fall along this same line. They are unnecessary and should not be encouraged to take root in our democracy.  What must we do to restore order in our political system?  We have to respect the rule of law and imbibe democratic values.  A political party should respect its own rules that its members voluntarily put together for conducting primaries and elections. In the same vein, the parliament should respect its own rules for electing its leaders as well as respect other parliamentary principles. The judiciary should also respect its own processes and procedures . Right now you can file a case at the Court of Appeal and you will be given a 2021 date for hearing you case.  Why? We should be able to speed up the process of administration of justice.  Why don’t we create more courts to decongest the existing ones?  Why don’t we employ more judges if necessary to decongest the existing system. Why don’t we create special courts to deal with specialized issues? In that way a divorce case will not hold down a case of corruption or other criminal offences.  Are you part of those advocating for a special anti-corruption court?  I am one of those who believe that the judicial system needs to be reformed to eliminate unnecessary delays which often times results in perversion of justice.  It will eliminate corruption and make the wheel of justice to grind faster and better. I am not opposed to a special crimes court if it is going to deal solely with crimes and will not subvert the course of justice. I am all for it if it is going to make the processes faster.   Of course the processes will still be filed, there will be investigations, certain standards will still be met and there will still be presumption of innocence until a suspect is proven guilty. These are all in our laws and we cannot jettison them.   As long as we retain all that, I have no problem with special courts.  What it means is that you have now set aside courts dedicated to these special cases and you don’t need to worry about extraneous issues cropping up in that court. You cannot, for instance, file a tax claim case in that court. You cannot file road accident case or even armed robbery case in that court.  You can take such cases to the normal courts while the special crimes court will be reserved for high profile corruption cases.