…as Sports Ministry plots to recall Ogba   W ho collected $150,000 grant from the World Athleticsr  fthe 21st African Championships in Athletics held in Asaba, Delta Stat in August 2018? This is one of the questions agitating the minds of board members of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria and which they hope to find an answer to at their meeting in Abuja on Tuesday.  Our correspondent was informed that World Athletics (formerly International Association of Athletic Federation)  sent the grant to assist the host association, the AFN in this case in preparation for the championships.  Many of the board members just got wind of the payment 16 months after the championships was held and will demand for an explanation from the federation’s president during Tuesday’s board meeting.  “We have discovered that the money did not go through the proper channel as the AFN secretariat does not have evidence of such payment,” said a board member who craved not to be named as he was not authorised to speak on the matter.  “There are so many infractions committed by the leadership of the AFN and we want to get answers to this and many more including details of the contract with kits manufacturer, PUMA, which has been shrouded in secrecy, ‘he further revealed. Findings by our correspondent revealed that the money was paid into a private account and when confronted with the findings, the board member believes World Athletics could not have paid into a private bank account without an authorization by either the president or secretary general of the AFN. “This is why we will be demanding an explanation from our president and the former secretary general, Amaechi Akawo, if necessary,” he said. Meanwhile,  there are insinuations around the AFN office in Abuja that former two-time AFN president, Evangelist Solomon Ogba, may be recalled by his constituency, the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. Ogba was brought in at the last minute to replace former Olympian, Ahmed Adio, to fill the Philanthropist/Ex-Officio slot on the board. Ogba, our correspondent further learnt was not inaugurated as a board member when 12 others were inaugurated in July 2017 and Sports Ministry officials are insisting that the man originally pencilled down for the slot should be inaugurated by the minister.