A father of five, Mr Shedrack Ogbonna has been abandoned in a hospital by personnel of the Nigeria Police after they knocked him down. Ogbonna, who is presently in a hospital battling to stay alive, was knocked down by policemen driving against traffic. The accident left the victim brain damaged. He now needs N5million for surgery, which has to be done overseas, if he ever hopes to live a normal life again. Ogbonna has spent at least seven months in the hospital, and still his wife and children continue to pray for a miracle. Within those seven months, his wife and children had been kicked out of their apartment because of rent and are now living under the staircase of the hospital where Ogbonna is on admission. The rent was due in June 2019, a month after the accident. Doctors, who are taking care of him at the Federal Medical Center in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, told family members that Ogbonna, who is currently on life support machine, suffered severe brain damage. The predicament of Ogbonna, who hails from Okposi Community in Ebonyi State, began on 6th of May 2019, after he was knocked down by a policeman, in a police van, driving against traffic near Ekeki Motor Park, where Ogbonna repairs mobile phones to eke out a living. According to eyewitnesses, Ogbonna was crossing over to the other side of the road to buy items he needed to repair a mobile phone belonging to one of his clients, when the speeding police van knocked him down. Preliminary assessment by doctors revealed that the accident fractured his skull and damaged his left leg and arm. It was further learnt that the team of policemen in the van, rushed him to the emergency unit of the FMC where it was confirmed that he suffered severe brain damage. He was later transferred to the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital, where he was then abandoned. According to his wife, Asu Ogbonna, the Nigeria Police, Bayelsa State Command, initially agreed to take care of the medical bills of her husband but reneged after they learnt that the injured man needed N5million to travel oversea and for the brain surgery. Asu said: “The Police withdrew their promise to support us on the grounds that the policemen in the van that knocked down my husband were carrying an assignment for the state government and therefore, should not be expected to pay the hospital bills. When we made further attempts to make the police reconsider their decision, we were asked to go to court. Police said they were ready for legal battle.” Asu mournfully recollected the fateful day of the accident, which left their lives broken. She said: “On that fateful morning, I left him in the house to Swali Market, where I trade. Before I left, we talked about plans to raise money for our rent, which would expired in June. I was in the market when I got a call that my husband was involved in a car accident. When I got to the hospital, I met him in a bad condition. I thought he was dead. I was told that he was hit by a police van driving against traffic. The police promised to take care of his medical bills but they later said they wouldn’t give us a dime because it was the state government that sent them on an errand when the incident occurred. “Since then, they have abandoned my husband at the hospital. According to the doctors, my husband’s brain is so damaged that he needs to be flown abroad for surgery, which would cost N5million. How do I raise that kind of money? As I speak with you, I now sleep under a staircase in the hospital with my five children because our landlord drove us out when we could not pay rent. All along, it is only my brother that supported me with money to buy drugs to keep my husband alive. As we speak, my brother has also run out of money. It is not easy for me and my children. Paying for the life support machine and buying his drugs daily requires a lot of money.” Asu said that she has prayed fervently to God, asking for his intervention, but their condition seems to be worsening. She recounted: “I have prayed fervently for God’s intervention but it appears my prayer does not get to heaven because our condition gets worse by the day. I don’t even have money to feed myself and my children, let alone to pay hospital bills. I have gone to the police several times to plead with them to help us, but they continued to turn us down. They keep telling me to take them to court. Where would I get money to pay lawyers if I go to court? Our bill at the hospital right now is about a million naira, and we are expected to raise another N5million for surgery. Meanwhile the hospital management is on our neck to either pay or move my husband away. I am confused.” Asu’s brother, Joseph Ngene, said: “My sister’s husband condition is pathetic, that I am short of words to describe it. He was going about his business when a police van driving against traffic knocked him down. If it were a vehicle owned by a private individual, I am sure the police would have arrested the person. But in this case, they are the ones involved and they have refused to take responsibilities. According to the doctors, Ogbonna broke his left leg, left arm and his skull was fractured during the accident. When we contacted the police, they said the driver of the van, Mr. Ifeanyi Ikechukwu, was running errand for the state government when the accident occurred, and for that reason, we should approach the state government for financial support. “Initially, they were concerned because they came to the hospital once or twice to pay for drugs doctors prescribed, but then they stopped visiting. I then called the leader of the team that was in the van when it knocked Ogbonna down, Oscar Jaja, he yelled at me, saying I had no right to contact him. He said that if we thought they did wrong, we should go to court. He said that they were ready for us. We have written a petition to the Commissioner of Police, and copy of that petition is before him.” Ngene further narrated: “I have made efforts to meet with him one-on-one, and he said the police cannot help us. And because we could not buy drugs that would help keep him strong until we get money to fly him abroad for the surgery, my brother-in-law’s condition is worsening day by day. To feed him, doctors have to pass food through a pipe to feed him. He has not been able to move any part his body since they brought him to the hospital. As it is now, it is clear that my brother-in-law would never live a normal life again, yet the police are asking us to go to court because they know that we don’t have the power and finance to challenge them. I want to plead with well-meaning Bayelsans and Nigerians to come to our aide.” The Bayelsa State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Asinim Butswat, while reacting to the incident, said that the police were doing their best to support the victim. He added: “The Command has assisted the victim with funds for treatment and it’s not relenting to ensure that the plight of the patient is ameliorated.”