The sight of Marcus Rashford in smooth and pacy flow – the components of his thrilling technique in sync from first to last – would once have delighted José Mourinho. Not here. Mourinho had wanted to mark his return to Manchester United with a fourth win on the spin with Tottenham; to make his biggest statement yet with his new club. Instead, Rashford comprehensively upstaged him, scoring both of the goals in a United victory that ought to have been more emphatic, such was their first-half domination, to provide his current manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjær, with a sorely needed tonic. Solskjær had overseen United’s worst start to a season since 1988 but, not for the first time at this venue, his team raised their levels against a rival with pedigree. It had been a similar story in the win over Chelsea and the draw against Liverpool. Rashford scored early on and the winner, after Dele Alli’s moment of sorcery had temporarily hauled Spurs level, came from a penalty that he had won himself. It is now 12 goals at club level for him this season – with nine in his last 10 appearances – but it was his all-round game that propelled United to the result. They will approach Saturday’s derby at Manchester City with greater optimism. For Mourinho, this was a bump in the road. Mourinho had wanted to stress how this was not about him. He is so humble, remember. Yet his presence in the dugout was the principal sideshow, at the very least. He was always going to be welcomed back with respect by the United diehards, who never turned on him even towards the bitter end of his Old Trafford tenure, although there were no chants for him at any point during the game. The home crowd would instead run through their repertoire of Solskjær songs after their team started on the front foot and forged ahead. It was a goal that owed plenty to the power in Rashford’s right boot and, also, a misjudgment at his near post by Paulo Gazzaniga. And Jamie Vardy and James Maddison scored as Leicester beat bottom-club Watford to climb back to second in the Premier League. After a goalless first half, Vardy fired the hosts ahead from the penalty spot after Adam Masina had fouled Jonny Evans. Maddison then made sure of the win in stoppage time, breaking away before slipping the ball past Ben Foster in the Watford goal. And Once the tributes to John Terry were done, Chelsea got on with showing their former captain the future. There is no place for sentiment in the heat of battle and Frank Lampard’s academy products made sure Aston Villa’s assistant manager did not enjoy his big homecoming too much, earning three important points thanks to excellent goals from Tammy Abraham and Mason Mount. This was a fine victory for Chelsea after their aberration against West Ham. Mount was back to his enterprising best in midfield and Lampard’s side, sitting pretty in fourth place, did well to regain their poise after gifting Villa a soft equaliser on the stroke of half-time. Chelsea created countless chances during the second half and Terry must have known the visitors, a point above the bottom three, were fortunate not to lose by more. Chelsea could not afford to let the nostalgia spilling from the stands blur their focus. They had to ignore the fuss over Terry’s return to the club he captained for 13 glorious years and they had to be ruthless after stumbling against West Ham last weekend. There have been too many slow starts from Chelsea at home this season and they bristled with intensity from the first whistle, pinning Villa back and dominating a lopsided first half. At St. Mary’s With a handful of minutes left to play, Southampton did not know what to do with themselves, unsure whether to eke their way through stoppage time or find a third goal to kill the game. They retreated until they could no more, surviving to see off Norwich City. Such trepidation was understandable given March was the last time they recorded back-to-back league wins. Ralph Hasenhüttl’s side held on to savour victory, with first-half goals by Danny Ings and Ryan Bertrand paving the way for victory to delight supporters, who have been starved of these kind of gritty displays for too long. 