“I thought by eliminating half of life, the other half would thrive, but you have shown me… that’s impossible. As long as there are those that remember what was, there will always be those that are unable to accept what can be. They will resist.” — Thanos This quote is from the American superhero movie, Avengers: Endgame was how someone explained Blockchain to an audience of newbies at a recent event. Among other things it makes possible, the Blockchain technology provides an avenue to record data in an unalterable way. This makes it easy to recall, retrieve, and remember important details. To curb corruption in Africa, we just need to introduce transparency into the financial system to enable the public to see, scrutinise, and question every fund that leaves or enters the government purse. Beyond the hype, the technology provides solutions to problems common to various sectors of the economy. It is no longer a buzzword, simply used to sound fashionable, but a term applied in real life and is helpful in solving numerous challenges, both at corporate and public level. Blockchain stands as a pivot connecting several other disruptive technologies of the 4th Industrial Revolution. Machine Learning, Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence, Big Data analytics, among others, all depend on data that needs to be adequately collected and stored. While IoT feels and collects information, the machine keeps learning, Artificial Intelligence then does the thinking, and blockchain remembers perfectly. Only one in a million platforms today can achieve this phenomenon adequately, and Ardor blockchain, a product of Jelurida, is just the one. The first attempt to step into Africa was through Adedayo Adebajo, a former employee of Poloniex, recruited by Lior Yaffe, the Managing Director and Co-Founder of Jelurida Swiss SA. Adedayo was originally recruited as a remote staff to handle the ticket inflows, then to help manage the community, and then as an exchange relations officer. He soon started to write articles on blockchain application in diverse spaces across the country as an alternative solution to many problems especially corruption, which has eaten deep into the system due to bad record-keeping and lack of transparency. The blockchain and crypto currency space in the country soon began to grow, kudos to events organised by the likes of Blockchain Nigeria User group and Vaultbridge. Jelurida sponsored and spoke at several of such events to identify herself as a provider of blockchain solutions for businesses and public use cases. We started with the #ABAR18 Abuja Blockchain and AI round table conference and have subsequently attended and spoken at several others both in West and East Africa. As a major focus of Jelurida to educate people on Blockchain technology, we also partnered with Cryptography Development Initiative in Nigeria (CDIN) and Kaybabs Consult to sponsor and move around Nigerian universities with the Campus Blockchain Hackathon Initiative. Universities touched include the Federal University of Technology, Akure, which emerged winner at the national event organised at Nile University in Abuja. Others were Kwara State University, University of Nigeria, Covenant University, and Ahmadu Bello University. The goal was to reach out to the grassroots, and we were glad we did as this was the point where 90 percent of them found out about the technology. There are several limitations within the walls of our country’s education system as it creates a box outside which most students cannot function effectively. As the campus blockchain hackathon came to an end, two major developments sprung up from incubation and ideation. The first was the Jelurida Africa office, which started fully operating in June to drive more engagement and is based in Lekki, Lagos. The second was the Africa Blockchain Institute (ABI) co-launched with Kaybabs’ Managing Director, Kayode Babarinde, who co-organised the Campus Blockchain Hackathon Initiative. ABI carried out the pilot phase sponsored by Jelurida successfully in Ghana for West Africa and then moved to Kigali in Rwanda in November to set up her headquarters where it was welcomed both by the government and the local tech community. From the Lagos office, Jelurida Africa DLT has successfully hosted numerous meetups, clients, and several other engagements to further drive Blockchain adoption. With more focused and proactive recruited team members, several other events were attended and significantly more interest was generated around the technology—all a sign of a brighter future for the country and continent. The most recent event held at the office was the Lagos Blockchain in Health seminar themed, Exploring Technology as a Catalyst. We engaged students of health as well as the Chairman and Secretary of the Nigerian Medical Association, Lagos state chapter, Dr. Oseni Salih and Dr. Ramon Morounkola respectively for few hours exploring several ways the blockchain technology can improve Nigeria’s health sector. The whole journey has been a great one so far as would a journey for all dreamers with the capacity to make their dream a reality. We met with the Director-Generals of the Securities and Exchange Commission, National Information Technology Development Agency, among other great personalities who share the same goals. The Minister of ICT and Innovations in Rwanda doesn’t only identify with the vision but was a student of Distributed Ledger Systems. The future is so bright for Africa. Every day we create a block of success stories and chain it to previous achievements. Together, we are building a wall to ensure sustainability and a better continent. Going forward, we plan to have more of such educative engagements, training sessions, solution development for startups and big corporates, among other activities to further drive adoption. The Distributed Ledger Technology offers, among countless other advantages, the opportunity to reduce friction in deliveries, eliminate lack of trusts in doing business, minimize middlemen in the flow of activities, reduce cost and increase efficiency in business transactions which is a goal for all businesses. As we did previously, we also plan to intensify efforts in helping businesses to scale by looking at their workflows to see which can be automated and enhanced using blockchain solutions among other disruptive technologies. Every step we take is for a cause and every word we share is either for a group or for all. We take the growth of the continent and her people with high priority. We create advanced and disruptive solutions and what primarily drive us aren’t the financial benefits but the willingness and determination to reverse the fate of the sinking ships, nations of our dear continent. We love what we do and this is why we will never grow tired till we live in the world of our dreams.  Adedayo is the Managing Director of Jelurida Africa DLT. Jelurida Africa, an independent company working as an extension of Jelurida Swiss, a blockchain software solutions provider with a mission to fast track blockchain adoption in Africa.  