 W hereas democracy has become a globally accepted form of government with a leadership recruitment system built on candidates’ popularity and people-friendly political manifestoes, indications are rife that this system of government and indeed political stability on the African continent is under threat.  The threat which is currently assuming elephantine dimension is posed by one phenomenon – proliferation of small, medium and light weapons (SMLW) around Nigeria and in African. Millions of these, according to security experts are on the streets and in wrong hands posing great threat to democracy.  Those were the submission of security experts from both public and private sectors and journalists on the issue and they are united on the fact, even as they expressed serious apprehension over its dangerous influence on the political process and political stability on the continent and its 1.2 billion population  Speaking at the Annual Lecture of the Crime Reporters Association of Nigeria, (CRAN), which held in Lagos, they lamented that politicians’ desperation for power has turned elections to battle fields in Nigeria, as the political process becomes a do-or-die affair, and the political elites exacerbated the process by procuring arms for thugs and complement this with inflammatory remarks. In a lead paper titled “Proliferation of Arms: A Threat to Democracy,” delivered by Chief Dennis Amachree, a retired Deputy Director of State Service (DSS), he saw the phenomenon on the African continent as an offshoot of the Arab Spring of 2011 and thereafter.  Similarly, Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar expressed concern over “the way arms and ammunitions are being imported, smuggled, made and possessed in the country.” He said the police were not unaware of impact of this on the security, economy and the political process in the country.  Quoting the 1997 Report of the United Nations Panel of Government, Amachree defined Small Arms as weapons for personal use, and this category includes revolvers and self-loading pistols, rifles and carbines, assault rifles, sub-machine guns and light machine guns.  While light weapons on the other hand, are designed for attack or defense in combat or hunting. These include light machine guns, hand-held under-barrel and mounted grenade launchers, portable anti-tank and anti-aircraft guns, recoilless rifles, portable launchers of anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles and mortars of calibers less than 100mm.  According to him, one of the spectacular events which fuel weapon proliferation occurred on October 21, 2011, a day after the demise of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi, when intelligence sources picked up the movement of about 100 Hilux trucks of Gaddafi loyalists crossing the Sahara Desert, toward West Africa. These trucks were reportedly loaded with small arms and light weapons, stolen from the private stockpile in the presidential palace of the former Libyan leader.  “At that time, it was observed that because there was no joint international military cooperation among the West African States, no government made any attempt to intercept the long convoys approaching the region. The convoy dispersed into Cameroun, Nigeria, Chad, Niger, Burkina Faso, Mali and as far west as Senegal. This situation was not helped by the porous borders that exist along the northern periphery of all West African states.  “A sizeable quantity of the small arms and light weapons were bought by Mokhtar Belmokhtar, an Algerian who is sometimes referred to as ‘The One-Eyed Nelson’ or ‘the Uncatchable.’ He was a major weapons dealer and later assumed the leadership of Al-Qaeda in the Maghreb.  “Other recipients of these Libyan weapons were Iyad Ag Ghaly, the Tuareg militant leader from Mali and Abu Mohammed al-Shekau, a Kanuri and leader of Boko Haram. These weapons became the game changer in the war against terrorism and insurgency in West Africa. Boko Haram became more daring,” and so commenced the proliferation with its deadly consequences.  At the continental level, despite the Conventions and Protocols on small arms and light weapons in the region, the West African sub-region has been active with one kind of conflict or the other. Liberia, Cote I D’Ivoire, Mali, Nigeria and the Central African Republic have different ongoing conflicts. And as the conflicts progress, so are the new inflows of SALW into the pockets of instability.  Quoting a report, Amachree said out of the estimated eight million small arms and light weapons in circulation in Africa, about 75 per cent, totaling 600 million are in Nigeria, mostly in private hands like former militants, terrorists and opposition political parties who could use such arms to truncate democracy.  Other factors precipitating weapon proliferation especially in Nigeria’s 2,777km of ungoverned land borderlines “with four French speaking countries who depend on us, but care less of our unity and leadership; and a 853km long Atlantic coastline.”  Consequent on this, the weapons fuel the activities of  Boko Haram insurgency in the North-East, armed banditry and kidnappings in the North-West, Biafra separatists in the South-East, Delta militants and kidnappings in the South-South, ritual killings, kidnappings and urban crimes in the south-west and cultism in universities across the country. All these security threats are fueled by the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. Equally disturbing is the activities of governors who massively purchased firearms to arm non-state actors to obstruct or truncate the democratic process ostensibly in the name of fighting insecurity as noted in the past governments in Zamfara and Ogun states.  Recall that the governor of Zamfara State, Governor Bello Matawale recently said his predecessor should account for the 1,400 rifles he purchased during his tenure, while his counterpart in Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun drew public umbrage on the release of about 2,000 rifles and ammunitions to the police towards the end of his tenure.  A few hours to the end of his  tenure as Ogun State helmsman, Governor Amosun had contacted the State  Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama,  stating that he had thousands of arms and millions of ammunition in store at an armoury in Government House, and that he had decided to hand them over to the police.  A bewildered Makama had raced to Government House with some of his subordinates and found truckloads of arms and ammunition brought out of a nondescript armoury inside the Government House.  It included at least four million rounds of ammunition, 1,000 units of AK47 assault rifles, 1,000 units of bulletproof vests and an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC). The interception of over 2,000 pump action rifles by the Nigerian Customs Service in the few months before the last elections, and bizarre use used of shooting, thuggery and violence in the Kogi State governorship election, which he described as a sham, caught Amachree’s attention.  Threat to democracy  The experts at the event observed that “illegal possession of small arms could engineer the outbreak of conflicts to make the country or state ungovernable; ruling parties, in a bid to hold on to power, could use state-owned arms to threaten and sometimes kill members of the opposition. “Elements in an opposition party could use illegal arms to overthrow a government, no matter the dangers. Even in non-democratic governments, the series of military coups in Nigeria are an example. Top government officials, including the president could be assassinated to effect a change in the government. Situations like this have played out in countries like the USA and Nigeria.  “During the last elections, there was a chieftain of a political party who was caught on tape, arranging how many AK47s his “boy” will need during the elections. Another politician was threatening fire and brimstones on an opposition party, during a rally. No one of these politicians was cautioned for this act against democracy. Rather, one of them was actually supported with small arms and light weapons by state actors during the elections. Amachree in particular, noted that “the whole shenanigans of politicians and non-state actors in their quest for power have inadvertently encouraged the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. Elections have become a battlefield in Nigeria today, with all the major political parties breathing and threatening fire and brimstones.”  In the same, the Olu Iwo of Iwo, Oba Adewale Akanbi, frowned at the spread of firearms and its impact on criminality, and advocated death penalty for treasury looters, kidnappers, ritualists, cultists, corrupt public officials and politicians to serve as a deterrent to others.  The royal father, while commending the war declared on corruption by President Muhammadu Buhari, observed that punitive measures put in place to stop the corruption train were not enough. “China, a civilized and developed nation, has death penalty for corruption, theft of public funds and official corruption. Nigeria should copy same.”  Oba Akanbi found it so inexplicable that Nigeria, a blessed nation, which according to him is richer than Canada, lacks basic infrastructures, which he traced to corruption Earlier, the chairman of the occasion, Dr. Bone Efoziem, Managing Director, Strict Guards, lamented that that the massive size of Nigeria borders covering 723, 767 km square posed a great challenge to the security agencies and called for inter-agency cooperation to succeed in the ear on weapon proliferation.  Inspector-General of Police, who was represented at the event, the AIG Zone 2   Command, Iliasu said the police have adopted various strategies including Operation PUFF ADDER over time to combat crime ragging from kidnapping to banditry and weapon proliferation check and other forms of criminality.  To him, the strategies have served as veritable anti-crime machine to dismantle all forms of crimes and criminality, central to which is mopping of all arms and other instruments of criminality. Accordingly, the Zone 2 Command under Iliasu’s watch has created a re-branded PUFF ADDER, hence he enjoined members of the public to be vigilant and give information to the police on any form of perceived crime in their neighborhood. Besides commending crime 5 reporters, who he described as repository of daily crime and security activities in the country, Lagos State Police Commissioner, Mr. Akeem Odumosu called for a collaborative efforts in combating crimes and controlling proliferation of weapons. Solution The gathering of security experts stressed the need for urgent ratification of the ECOWAS Convention on Small Arms and Light Weapons, since this will commit member states to controlling the unabated flow of these arms into the region. They also advocated integration of the divergent local legislatures existing among countries that share the same borders in the sub-region. Of equal importance is their call on political parties to adhere to a code of ethics, fair play in the conduct of their primaries and adopt spirit of sportsmanship, because elections must be won and lost. Political parties must eschew the mentality of winner takes all and loser can go to hell, but adhere to the non-violence agreements signed by leading contenders of the major parties. African governments were also charged to make placing stricter controls on importation of small arms and light weapons their policy priority, while Nigeria needs to work with conventional arms manufacturers and exporters to strictly control their exports against illegal diversion. As difficult as this may be, government needs to pay more attention to border security, because though illegal routes will always exist, good border control is imperative. They also called for tougher laws against illegal possession of SALW while a nation-wide mop-up of SALW is carried out nationwide.  Nigerians should strive to achieve national security from the perspective of human security, because if the individual is safe from small arms, the country’s democracy is also secured.