Mr. Rotimi Oyekanmi is the Chief Press Secretary to Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. In this interview, he speaks on some of the challenges confronting the commission and issues arising from last month’s governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports   What are some of the major challenges that confront the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) during elections? I must say that we have a lot of things to thank God for because this country is very large. We have issues of logistics; we have issues of security; we have issues about timely delivery of materials to the polling unit level. If we can have more cooperation, for instance, with transport owners, that would be good. This is because what we discovered, for instance, in Bayelsa State was that when you sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with them and they don’t turn up on the day of the election or they come late, you have to make an alternative arrangement. On the issue of security, we saw how thugs invaded polling units in Kogi and Bayelsa. That is another challenge for us because we were there to conduct elections; we didn’t expect that people would interfere with our processes. I think if all stakeholders play their roles, to a very large extent, we will conduct an election, make a conclusion of the election and announce the result.  You seem to be implying that politi-arcians are part of the problems INEC is facing… You know that the INEC doesn’t want to join issues with politicians, but our appeal to them is that they should play by the rules. Unfortunately, some of them don’t play by the rules and this affects the way we operate. That is a minus for the process. You know that if they undertake to comply substantially with the rules and regulations, then we won’t have issues.  But you’ve been having stakeholders’ meetings with them before every election and you did that prior to the recent polls in Bayelsa and Kogi states… That is the truth. We had a stakeholders’ meeting with them and they assured us that they would comply with the rules, but sometimes, when we get to the field, they do something dif-ferent. So, we will continue to appeal to their conscience to do the right thing.  Don’t you think that their refusal to do the right thing has continued to cast slur on the country’s electoral process? Well, we have to make a distinction that not all political actors are bad; not all of them disobey the rules. But for the few, who disobey the rules, we will continue to appeal to them to change their ways because it is bad for the system. And it is part of why we do have low voter turnout. When people go out to vote and experience what happened in Kogi State, they will never come out again. It gives a bad impression about how elections are conducted in Nigeria. So, that is why politicians need to change Instead of the INEC complaining about politicians and political violence, is there nothing the commission can do to punish offenders? That is why we are asking that the National Assembly should establish the Election Malpractices Commission that will try electoral offenders. The bill has reached an advanced stage now and I am sure within a short time, the National Assembly will come up with it. I think it is Senator Abba Kyari and others, who are leading the effort that would take care of all those that engage in electoral offences. You know that it should not just be, for instance, only about the small boys you see snatching ballot papers, but also the ones that send them. The law should be able to also bring them to book. This is because the argument has always been that people have not been punished over time; that is why they have the audacity to go back. But, if you have the tribunal in place that tries offenders; I think that would stop the menace.  While Nigeria’s await the passage of the bill, will you suggest that these thugs, who are known to security personnel, should be moved off the streets whenever elections approach, so that they will not interfere with the exercise? The police know what to do; the police are to maintain law and order when they are deployed. So, if you step out of line, they will arrest you. They know exactly what to do. What do the thugs do? They go to polling units, shoot guns, bring out cutlasses and snatch ballot papers and boxes. Such conducts are against the law. But the police appear to be helpless arresting the situation? The police are doing the arrest, but probably they are not doing enough in terms of manpower Do you see connivance between the police and political thugs? I don’t ever imagine that security agents can connive to disrupt our elections; I don’t think so. Let us give it to them. We conducted about 195 different elections; we ran end of tenure elections between 2015 and 2019 and in each election, we involved the police and other security agencies. Without them, we can’t do these elections. It is just that out of 195 elections, maybe you have five or six being disrupted, so we should not use such yardstick to judge the overall good behaviour of the police. There is a tendency to generalise when things happen in isolation, but it does not remove the fact that the police have done a lot to help the electoral process. But, where they fail, we should criticise them and not condemn them, so that they can improve.