G overnment debt as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in sub-Saharan Africa has doubled in the past decade, heading back toward the level it reached at the turn of the century, a development that  International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s,  Managing Director,  Kristalina Georgieva, has  said is a cause for concern.  According to Bloomberg, IMF said that of 54 countries on the continent, 20 were near or at  distress levels, which means they face difficulties honoring their obligations. The news agency stated  that African governments have raised about $26 billion in international markets this year, from close to $30 billion in 2018, as they took advantage of investors’ thirst for returns in a world awash with negative yields.   It noted  that  volatile currencies across the continent increase the risks of borrowing in hard currency and the rising cost of servicing debt could crowd out other expenditure in a region that’s home to more than half of the world’s poor people.  It quoted head of sustainable finance at the Institute of International Finance, Sonja Gibbs, as saying that “the conditions are ripe for a much higher level of debt distress. Whatever triggers the next crisis, when it happens, you are likely to see a high degree of contagion risk because investors have been moving into higher yielding assets.”  Further fanning fears of a new crisis is the surge in direct credit from China. The China Africa Research Initiative at Johns Hopkins University estimates that the Asian country’s government, banks and contractors handed $143 billion in loans to African states and state-owned companies between 2000 and 2017.  However, African Development Bank President, Akinwumi Adesina, recently said: “Some individual countries are getting to higher levels in terms of debt-to-GDP ratios, that’s the concern,” adding that the debt-to-GDP ratio of Africa is still  “well within acceptable limits.”  More reliance on commercial bonds has raised debt servicing costs, diverting funds that could be spent on new roads or schools. Nigeria, the continent’s top oil producer, spends about the same amount every year on repaying debt as it does on infrastructure.  Countries such as South Africa, the continent’s most industrialized economy, are raising debt levels and this year had its biggest Eurobond issuance yet to help plug a widening budget deficit. External debt payments now consume an average 13 per cent of African governments’ revenue compared with 4.7 per cent in 2010, according to data compiled by the U.K.-based Jubilee Debt Campaign. Overspending and crashing commodity prices in the 1990s led to a debt crisis that prompted multilateral lenders and rich nations to write off the obligations of dozens of African countries in 2005. This time around a debt pardon may not be that easy.  The complex debt structure with opaque terms and mix of different creditors will make any potential restructuring agreement more difficult. “We’re concerned that debt relief might now become more complicated,” said Jan Friederich, a senior director at Fitch Ratings. “Nowadays there is a greater concern that governments, when they forgive any debts, might not actually help the African countries very much, but might primarily be bailing out the commercial creditors.”