M anaging Director of Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) Engr. Fidet Okhira has said that alleged ticket racketeering on the Abuja-Kaduna railways may not come to an end soon even as the Nigerian Railways Corporation (NRC) has planned to introduce e-ticketing soon to curtail it.   He said that as the chief executive officer of the Corporation he will not say “no” to a VIP who asks him to reserve a ticket for him, which means that he allows preferential treatment and favouritism in ticket sales on the route. Speaking at the three-day Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIoTA’s) National Transport Summit/ Annual General Meeting in Abuja which ended on Thursday, he said he cannot pretend not giving tickets to favour some passengers.  He said: “I am not a hypocrite, I cannot pretend, someone like Madam (referring to a participant at the event) cannot say she wants to travel and I say ticket has finished or ask her to go and queue. “I must find a way to provide ticket for her. I cannot hide behind a finger to say I don’t do it,” he said.  He admitted that the Abuja-Kaduna route is over stretched and assured that more coaches and locomotives will arrive in January 2020 to increase the number of trains on the route.   He also said that the Warri to Itakpe rail service will commence in the first quarter of 2020 while rail passengers in the South South and South East areas of the country will enjoy travel at average speeds of 120km per hour soon. Okhira described the rail transport mode as faster, safer and easier for persons with high volumes of cargoes.  He decried the rate of vandalism on railway infrastructure, saying over 5000 clips and 10,000 bolts and nuts have been replaced along the Lagos – Ibadan rail track due to vandals’ activities capable of causing fatal rail accidents. Recall that due to heavy passenger traffic on Mondays and weekends on the Abuja-Kaduna, passengers have been facing difficulties securing seats in the coaches. This has forced many of them to opt for standing through the two-hour journey. And with a surge in passenger traffic comes the deplorable act of ticket racketeering by some railway officials. Piqued by the ugly trend, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, had, during one of his unscheduled visits to Idu and Kubwa stations, Abuja, sometime in 2017, ordered the immediate removal of the station manager, ticket sellers and porters at Idu and Rigasa. They were caught red-handed by the Minister in the act of ticket racketeering. But that seems not to have deterred the perpetrators of the act.  During the minister’s visit, it was learnt that some officials were extorting money from passengers in business class. The fare is pegged at N1500 for the first and last trip for economy class, while the second and third trips in the economy class are N1300. For the business class, the first, second, third and last trip remained N2500. However, some of the officials were discovered to have doubled the fare for desperate passengers. Narrating how desperate passengers are extorted, one of the officials who didn’t want his identity disclosed said, “Those behind this act sometimes lie to passengers that there are no more tickets. Because of desperation, insecurity and probably because they have appointments to meet, they pay whatever amount to get on board.”