…preaches love at Christmas  As the nation celebrates this year’s Christmas, President Muhammadu Buhari has warned insurgents, terrorists, armed robbers, kidnappers and economic saboteurs, to retrace their steps or face the consequences. The President, who gave the warning in his Christmas message to Nigerians, said the armed forces, security and law enforcement agencies are poised now to confront and defeat them. Buhari also felicitated with Christians and all Nigerians in general, on the joyous occasion of Christmas of the year 2019. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, in a statement, said: “As Christendom commemorates the birth of Jesus Christ, Buhari enjoined all Nigerians to imbibe and demonstrate the essence of the season of love; goodwill among all the ethnic groups in the country; giving and sharing; strengthening the bonds of brotherhood and good neighbourliness; and focusing on all that bind us together as one united country.” He, therefore, urged compatriots to shun all actions which negate the spirit of the season. The President pointed out that celebrating the spirit and virtues of Christmas need not be a one-day affair, but rather, ought to continue into the New Year. He said: “It is in line with the spirit of Christmas that I call on all elements whose actions are opposed to what the season represents, especially, insurgents, terrorists, armed robbers, kidnappers and economic saboteurs, to retrace their steps and join people of goodwill and common humanity. “If they fail to heed this call, they will meet their end as the armed forces, security and law-enforcement agencies are poised now to confront and defeat them. “Our people must make extra efforts to live in peace and harmony with their neighbours, irrespective of differences. “While it is gladdening to note that incidents of violence and conflicts have reduced drastically owing to the several operations embarked on by our security agencies, we must not let our guards down. “As Christmas indicates good tidings of hope and redemption, the president noted that Nigerians can look forward to a turnaround in the administration’s priority areas of fighting corruption, providing security, economic diversification, job creation and infrastructure upgrade.” Having recently signed the 2020 Appropriation Bill into Law, the president reiterated his promise during the presentation of the budget proposals before the National Assembly on October 8, 2019 that “We remain resolutely committed to the actualization of our vision of a bright and prosperous future for all Nigerians.” Buhari assured that the 2020 Budget of Sustainable Growth and Job Creation will be rigorously implemented to further deepen its impact on the generality of our people. “Let me use this occasion to, once more, thank the leadership and members of the National Assembly for the speedy consideration and passage of the 2020 Budget proposals. “We are confident that this new era of cordiality and cooperation between the executive and the legislature will fast-track our collective commitment to giving our people better life and governance. “As we celebrate Christmas, let us remember to pray for members of our armed forces and other security agencies who are making so much sacrifice to protect us from people of evil intent. We should also extend love to the families of those whose breadwinners made the ultimate sacrifice while defending their fatherland. “I appeal to motorists to drive with care this festive season, while road safety and security officials should ensure compliance with safety measures to avoid needless accidents and attendant loss of life and property. “I wish you a Merry Christmas, and a more fulfilling New Year 2020,” he added.