T he House of Representatives yesterday killed a bill seeking to provide for a six-year single term for the president, governors and members of the national and states houses of assembly.  The bill was sponsored by Hon. John Dyegh (APC, Benue).  Leading debate on the general principles of the bill, Dyegh informed that the need for the proposed legislation was borne out of the fact that a single term, especially for federal and state lawmakers, will allow them to have more experience instead of being rejected or re-elected every four years.  The bill was seconded by Hon. Olajide Abdulraheem (APC, Lagos).  He argued that since 1999, the percentage of new members who lack institutional experience in law-making have been on the rise, which he reasoned is having a negative effect on the national and state houses of assemblies.  According to him, some lawmakers have not been retained beyond a single term, adding that lawmakers require longer period in the parliament to garner experience.  Speaking on the tenure for president and governors, the lawmaker said the monies being spent on the four years periodic governorship and other elections would reduce.  He said the six-year single term will help the president or governor to be more focused, more dedicated and the usual do or die battles for re-elections will be eliminated, while no lives will be lost and money will be saved.  “Hon. Speaker, honourable colleagues, you will agree with me that the present four years + four years tenure of eight years is not helping matters. It is taking us backward. Practically speaking, the occupier of the seat spends only two years in the 1st tenure and the remaining two fighting re-election, which in Nigeria is many times more expensive than the first election and mostly dependent on lean resources of the state allegedly.  “In the second tenure, he spends two and a half years working on the remaining one and a half years preparing his exit/soft landing and installation of a successor. So the total times spent for actual work for the state is not more than four and a half years of the eight years.   “Speaker, honourable colleagues, if we must deepen our democracy, we must reduce ‘wars’ that occur during re-election of presidents and governors by supporting a single term of six years.  “Amending the constitution to provide for a six-year consecutive term for the legislature (state and national legislature) is a progressive idea and should well be considered by this honourable house.  “The high turn-over of legislators in our nation constitutes loss of experience and institutional knowledge, not deepening democracy and failure of entrenching loyalty to the electorate. This is as opposed to the civil service practice where a fresh graduate rises through the ranks, using over 30 years to become a director or permanent secretary and sets as a custodian/bundle of knowledge of all that pertains to the service,” he submitted.  Supporting the bill, Hon. Sergius Ogun (PDP, Edo) said the proposal will help in addressing the energy and resources being channelled to retain power at all cost by elected representatives, which he said sometimes begin immediately after the elections.   According to him, “if the executive is to be honest and tell us what they spend on the second term, we will be shocked.”  But kicking against the bill, Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi (APC, Plateau) argued that initiating such a bill at this time will worsen the already existing apprehension about 2023, which, he said, will portray the 9th Assembly as planning to make laws that will extend their tenure.  According to him, the present four-year term for president and governors should be retained, saying that tampering with the present arrangement will have negative consequences.   “Our democracy doesn’t need a six-year single term. Let us reform our electoral system. You cannot give a person six years single term and expect him to perform. What we need is electoral reforms that will help Nigerians,” Gadgi submitted.  Similarly, Hon. Haruna Isa Dederi (APC, Kano), while supporting Gagdi’s position, submitted that if the National Assembly accepts such a bill, the parliament would be playing into the hands of the people who have already tagged the current parliament as a rubber stamp and a tool in the hands of the executive.  Also, the minority leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu (PDP, Delta) advocated the repealing of the “immunity clause” instead of calling for a six-year term Bill.  The acting House leader, Hon. Peter Akpatason (APC, Edo) in his contribution, dismissed the proposed legislation, explaining that he is not interested in any tenure elongation and will not condone or support any move in that regard.   The bill generated tension on the floor of the chambers and when it was put to a voice vote for second reading by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, who presided over session, it was overwhelmingly rejected by the lawmakers.