Mr. Anselm Ojezua, a factional chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State is in the eye of the storm. Before the party became factionalised, he had been the chairman of a united APC. As a former Commissioner for Sports in the state, he worked closely with the duo of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki. The embattled state chairman is now a top member of the Obaseki /Shaibu Movement (OSM), a group working very hard to reduce the powers of Oshiomhole as the APC National Chairman and ensure that the ‘comrade’ is reduced to nothing in the politics of Edo State. In this interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN, he spoke on a number of issues, giving reasons why Oshiomhole should not parade himself as the National Chairman of the APC, claiming that the former governor had been duly and constitutional suspended from the party in Edo State. Excerpts…   What is the current position of things in Edo State APC concerning the leadership? People actually want to create negatives impression that there is serious crisis in Edo State chapter of the APC. It has become necessary for us to set the facts straight and properly inform the good people of Edo State and Nigerians about the true position of affairs in our party. We know that there had been a grand plan for Adams Oshiomhole and his group to falsely create the impression of crisis of leadership within the party in the state, and the plans were hatched and executed under the directives of Oshiomhole. There appears to be a forcible regime change, in defiance of democratic norms and wishes of the people. What is the genesis of the crisis? Our problems started with the conduct of the party primaries to elect officers in 2018. We worked in accordance with the resolution passed by the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party, but Oshiomhole decided that it must be done by direct primaries, so in order not to unnecessarily heat up the polity and out of respect for him, we decided to comply. After some days, Oshiomhole arbitrarily cancelled the primaries without regards to the state executives or the governor. But after much consultations, fresh primaries were conducted, just because we wanted peace to reign. But because they wanted to discredit the governor at all cost, Oshiomhole and his team took to campaign of calumny just to truncate the good works of Governor Obaseki. What does the constitution of the APC say about the formation of a factional group? The constitution of our party expressly forbids the formation of factional and parallel structures within the party. The so- called rebel group called EPM is not part of the APC, we do not recognise them, and hence we admonished our members not to associate with them. Don’t you think this crisis may cause Obaseki his predicted victory as we approach the 2020 governorship election? In the face of this crisis, Obaseki seems to have won the hearts of Edo people. We are all leaving witnesses to the good works that the governor is doing in the state since he came on board. It was the vote of Edo people that brought Governor Obaseki to office, and the same people are still very willing to vote him again into office for the second tenure. Obaseki’s re-election is guaranteed by the masses of Edo State.  What is this news flying about your purported removal from office as the state chairman? That is the handiwork of the suspended Lawrence Okah ganging up with the suspended national chairman. Lawrence Okah organised a gangster type of operation to coerce members of the State Working Committee (SWC) to endorse my removal and replacement as the state chairman. This is in contravention of Article 21 of the constitution of our party. To make it look real, the suspended National Chairman lured the National Publicity Secretary of the party to publish the endorsement and adoption.  You were recently quoted as saying that Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is not a member of the APC, where do you place him? Ize- Iyamu was not officially received by the executive members of the party in Edo State. And we have called his ward chairman, he denied that he did not give APC membership card to him, that he is not aware of Ize- Iyamu rejoining the APC. Before you can call yourself a member of the party, there are conditions that you must meet. If your ward chairman says you never came to him, then, what moral right do you have to say that you are a member of the party? So, as far as we are concerned, he is not our party member.  You also said Oshiomhole lacks the capacity, temperament and moral authority to lead the APC, why did you say so? We, the entire members of APC in Edo State had been following his activities in the party, and we have come to the conclusion that Oshiomhole lacks the capacity, temperament and moral authority to lead this great party as our national chairman. We have suspended him as member of this party, and he remains suspended and has also lost the legitimacy to act in any capacity in the party. We can no longer tolerate his crude system of politics. Any documents signed by him and all meetings he presides over would be seen as futile as his membership is already compromised.  Who do you relate with at the national level on the affairs of Edo APC? The APC national office in Abuja has different departments and organs that superintend over state party affairs; we know where to channel our issues, that is not a problem. Edo people have decided to follow Godwin Obaseki. Only one person cannot decide our fate for 2020, the era of godfatherism is gone and it can never see the light of the day in Edo politics again.  