By Muhammad Bashir
Lokoja Following the trending documentary of a community report carried out for an online Igala Radio anchored by Mr. Gabriel Yunusa Enemali known as Okanyi, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), under the Presidency in Abuja, have commence the building of a primary school at Ukpologogene community in Ayingba, Dekina Local Government of Kogi State. The development came on the heels of the documentary depicting the dilapidated nature of the primary school at the community abandoned by successive governments un the state. Okanyi, in the documentary, highlighted the poor nature of the school environment where pupils take lessons in a hollow building covered with dried leaves. The documentary also shows pupils sitting on the floor, learning courtesy of a tartared writing board also known as black board. Okanyi, while speaking with New Telegraph, said the Ukpologogene situation was just one out of many delapidated schools of learning dotted across the entire 21 local government areas of the state. According to him, his decision to make the documentary, was not done to undermine the state government, but rather it was his way of calling the attention of the government over the plight of primary school children at the rural areas in the state and the country at large, based on the 17 goals of the SDG programmes. “When I went to the area for the first time, I met to two persons who introduced themselves as head master and teacher, they said they were only two of them who teaches from primary one to six. “They also made me realise that they were working for the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) and the last time they had received full salary was during the early days of Governor Idris Wada,” he explained. It was after his expose, that the SDG under the Presidency, mobilised contractors to the community to comence the rebuilding of the primary school. The SDG, it was learnt, will only rebuild the primary school from class one to six, but will not touch other buildings such as the headmaster’s office, library and staff room.