The Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, has declared that he had no regrets siting the Transportation University in Daura. On his part, President Muhammadu Buhari has commended the Federal Ministry of Transportation for convincing the China Civil Engineering Company (CECCC) to construct the university in Daura. The President and Amaechi spoke, yesterday, at the ground breaking of the Transportation University in Daura, Katsina. “When we sited the factory at Kajola, there was no noise, nobody debated about it, nobody abused us for it unlike the site for the university. “Daura is in Nigeria, it is not in any other part of the world. It is not in Niger Republic, Biafra or Mali, it is in Nigeria. So, what is wrong in siting the University of Transportation in Daura? “I have no regret siting this university where I have sited it. It is not because I want to get any gain,” Amaechi said. According to him, the establishment of the university was an attempt at responding to the question of how Nigerians will maintain the infrastructure we are building in the country. He said: “It is my attempt at responding to the question of how to maintain and manage all the infrastructure we are building and realised that education is key. “I engaged the companies. The first engagement was when they were constructing Lagos-Ibadan. They were not so keen at spending their funds to build a university for Nigeria until I refused to sign the contract for the Lagos to Ibadan railway. “I insisted that I will only sign if three things were done. The first thing is to take our children to China and train them by giving them first degree in railway technology. “Today, as I speak, 60 of our children are in their second year and we thank CCECC and 90 are on their way to China this week, making it 150. The second is that, if we must sign the purchase of locomotives in China, they must build a factory where we can construct coaches, locomotives and wagon. And today, at Kajola, that factory is being constructed. “Finally, I insisted on the University of Transportation and today we are here for the ground breaking of the university and for all we are grateful to CCECC and the Chinese government.” The minister commended the Governor of Katsina, Aminu Masari, for the speed in which he donated the land – 413 hectares – for the project. Meanwhile, President Buhari has said that the university would bring rapid development to the nation’s transport sector as well as generate both academic and non-academic employment opportunities to Nigerians. Buhari lauded the management of the Chinese company which pledged to construct the university as part of its corporate social responsibility. He emphasised that such efforts would enhance the existing bilateral relationship between Nigeria and China as well as encourage patronage of local content. He said his administration had placed much priority on repositioning the transport sector, especially construction of rail lines, roads and other transport related utilities. The President said that his administration would continue to create job opportunities through establishment of indigenous industries. He emphasised that the Federal Government would facilitate establishment of the university through provision of necessary support, as the university would enable Nigeria domesticate railway engineering and transportation. Buhari, at the occasion, acknowledged the cooperation and understanding of all stakeholders in implementation of Federal Government projects, especially state governments. The University of Transportation, Daura, would be constructed at the cost of N18 billion within 18 month period.