Following Federal Government’s return to January –December budget calendar with the 2020 version, economic and financial analysts have declared that the early passage will add value to the economy and also lead to some measure of buoyancy. In their separate submissions to our correspondent’s inquiry, they agreed that the early passage would also allow proper implementation of project distributions.  After years of futile attempts to return the country’s budget circle to a predictable and structured January to December budget calendar, the jinx was broken Thursday with the passage of 2020 N10.59 trillion budget by the upper chamber of the National Assembly, the Senate. President Muhammadu Buhari had on October 8, laid the N10.33 trillion 2020 ‘’Budget of Sustaining Growth and Job Creation” before a joint session of the parliament. The budget was laid at record time before members of the 9th National Assembly, who pledged to work with the executive arm to pass the budget by December. Reflecting on the enormous advantage of January to December calendar, Task Team Leading Consultant for World Bank, Prof. Ken Ife, said the economy would reap positively from the January to December budget circle.  He said: “it is a very remarkable achievement for both parties- executive and the legislature. It’s also very important for private sector to syncronise with government spending pattern. It’s also to the advantage of development assistance. Almost two per cent of our GDP comes as development assistance. Most of them function in the same horizon. “In terms of capital releases, it makes sense to release money on time for projects. They have to be released and spent within a particular calendar year. From our previous experiences, projects were delayed because the whole arrangements didn’t sync.”  He added that Nigeria’s budget now rooted in January- December calendar, going forward, would impact positively on the economy, noting that it would give private sector players sense of predictability. On his part, the Lead Director, Centre for Social Justice, Mr. Eze Onyekpere, advised the Federal Government to expand its revenue sources in order to raise adequate revenue to finance the budget  He said government should free itself from funding numerous programmes, saying that would reduce the need for borrowing and the demand for funds to pay back and service debts. “Generally, our revenue projections have severally missed the mark over the years.  The projections and forecasts suffer from lack of realism. In 2016, revenue projections fell short by 23 per cent; in 2017, it fell short by 47.73 per cent and in 2018 by 45 per cent. This indicates that overall, a good part of our revenue projections has not been based on empirical evidence. “Further, if projected revenue in 2018 was N7.1 trillion and we missed the mark by 45 per cent and have also missed the mark by 30 per cent in the half year of 2019, the further increase in projected revenue to N8.15tn in 2020 seems to be hanging in the air,” he said. The 2020 Appropriation Bill, officially laid was passed into law after a clause by clause consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on Appropriations.  The Senate specifically approved N10.59 trillion for the 2020 fiscal year. The breakdown shows that N560,470,827,235 for statutory transfers, N2,725,498,930,000 for Debt Service; N4,842,974,600,640 for Recurrent (Non- Debt) Expenditure; and N2,465,418,006,955 for Contribution to the Development Fund for Capital Expenditure for the year ending on December 31, 2020. The budget has a fiscal deficit of N2.2 trillion and Deficit/Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of 1.52 per cent. Also reacting, a former Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, who started the pursuit of January to December budget calendar, lauded the new era of budget calendar.  Udoma started the campaign for the return to the January to December budget cycle. He consistently blamed the inability to achieve more strategic fiscal cycle on the frosty relationship between the two arms of government; but he was hopeful that the present administration would still achieve it once the leadership of the National Assembly is convinced and aligned with the Executive.  In a statement by his Special Adviser, Akpandem James, he regretted that the administration was unable to achieve it in the first four years because of the friction between the two arms of government. He had predicted that “in Mr. President’s second term we might have a situation where the Executive and the leadership of the National Assembly are much more aligned. This will help not only to achieve a return to the January to December fiscal year, but to have a much smoother budget process.”  In order to achieve a return to the January 1 commencement date, Senator Udoma indicated that the budget must ideally be delivered to the National Assembly by September. “But when you are operating a budget which commenced only in June or July, by September you would have had no idea how the existing budget is likely to perform. “Indeed, given the procurement process, for a budget which starts running in June or July, there might have been little or no capital releases by September.  The only way to return to a January to December fiscal year, under those circumstances, is for there to be agreement between the Executive and the National Assembly to produce a budget on the basis of significant assumptions.” The former minister was delighted that the alignment between the 9th Assembly (in its first budget outing) with the Executive was poised to return the country to the January to December calendar