The University of Abuja has relieved two professors of their appointments and demoted two others over various acts of misconduct including falsification of academic records, aiding and abetting in examination malpractices and inappropriate relations with a female student. The affected Professors are Adeniji Abiodun of the Department of Animal Science, Agaptus Buzo – Chibuzo Orji of the Department of Science and Environmental Education, Dr. Robert Dajal, Department of Science and Environmental Education and Mr. Gana Emmanuel Sunday Defian, Department of Animal Science. According to a statement signed by the Head, Information and University Relations of the institution, Dr. Habib Yakoob, the decision for the demotion and sack of the affected Professors was reached by the university’s Council, after considering reports and recommendations from its disciplinary committee at its 85th Regular Meeting. The statement reads: “The Council after due diligence, approved the termination of appointment of two Professors for various acts of misconduct: Professor Adeniji Adedayo Abiodun of the Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Agriculture for  inappropriate relationship with a female student which is a misconduct of  scandalous and disgraceful nature as provided for in Section 16, subsection 3(c) of  the University of Abuja Conditions of Service for Senior Staff (1999),  ‘falsification of academic records’ and ‘aiding and abetting of examination  malpractice’ in line with Section 7, subsection 1b(ii) &(v) of the University of Abuja Conditions of Service for Senior Staff (1999). “Professor Agaptus Buzo – Chibuzo Orji of the Department of Science and Environmental Education, Faculty of Education, University of Abuja, for ‘falsification of academic records’, ‘aiding and abetting of examination malpractice’, in line with section 7, subsection 1b(ii)&(v) of the University of Abuja Conditions of Service for Senior Staff (1999), ‘Corruption and dishonesty’ in line with Section 7, subsection 1b (iv) of the University of Abuja Condition of Service for Senior Staff (1999). “Council also approved the demotion of Dr. Robert Dajal, Department of Science and Environmental Education, Faculty of Education by a rank, from Associate Professor to Senior Lecturer, and Mr. Gana Emmanuel Sunday Defian, Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Agriculture by two ranks, from Lecturer 1 to Assistant Lecturer, for their complicity in various acts of misconduct inimical to the good image of the university.”