The recent verification exercise of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of the headquarters of registered political parties in the country is causing apprehension in the polity. Is it a plan to deregister some of the parties? asks ONYEKACHI EZE A lthough the verification is a routine exercise periodically embarked upon by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as part of its monitoring of the activities of registered political parties in the country, but the ongoing exercise has raised a lot of questions. Is it meant to deregister some of these parties that failed to meet the requirements? Or is it simply to update the commission’s record. Apart from Benin Republic, Nigeria holds the unenvious record of an African country with the highest number of political parties. This attracted the attention recently, of the United Nations, which said such number could distract the electorate from electing quality leaders.  Dr. Mohammed Ibn Chambers, Special Representatives of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Office for West Africa, during a courtesy call on the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in Abuja earlier this year, said there is the need to look at the mode of political party registration in the country.  Dr. Chambers said: “In the last elections in Nigeria, many of you will recall that there were 73 presidential candidates. I am not talking about registered political parties but presidential candidates. With the usual Nigerian people, some people even referred to the ballot paper as a tablecloth on account of its length and breadth.  “Of course, that also has its own challenges and for countries in our sub-region, presenting them with such long list of candidates sometimes distracts them from the quality of the process and informed decisions by the electorate.” Musa Husunu, deputy director in the Election and Party Monitoring (EPM) department of INEC who led a team to the headquarters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) last Monday, listed the guidelines for the verification. The law requires every registered political party to have its headquarters in Abuja, Nigeria’s federal capital, as well as to maintain offices in at least, two-third of the 36 states of the country.  Husunu explained there should be evidence of the party’s “headquarters in the FCT because it is one of the criteria. A political party must have office in any of the Area Councils in the FCT. “Second is the five copies of the constitution of the party. Then we also have list of NWC (National Working Committee) members, then membership register, then, book of account.  “The next thing is that we have to go round and ensure that from the Chairman down the ladder, there is physical presence of offices for NWC members.”  Chairman of the Senate Committee on INEC,  Senator Kabiru Gaya, revealed plans by the National Assembly to deregister 85 nonperforming political parties before the 2023 general elections. Gaya, after a meeting with the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, described some of the political parties as figure heads with no relevance or “elected personalities.”  He was quoted to have stated: “Regarding reforms in the Electoral Act, first of all, we are looking at the issue of the number of political parties. Actually, they are too many; we have 91 political parties; and currently, the court has added another party which makes them 92. “Many are still applying; but there is a criteria constitutionally, that parties should have a kind of qualification or at least requirement before they are registered. Actually, we are going to deregister almost 85 political parties because they are unqualified.  “They don’t even have a counselor or a House of Assembly member; so all those parties should be deregistered. But there is a problem; if you deregister them, they will go through the back door and register again. “We need to now have tough conditions for registration of political parties whereby we could maintain the number of four or five by God’s grace.” Femi Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), in an article titled, “INEC’ fresh power to deregister political parties,” said not more than 10 of the registered parties would survive if INEC applies strictly the provisions of the constitution for political party de-registration.  According to him, the May 2017 amendment to Section 225 of the 1999 Constitution empowers INEC to deregister any political party on the grounds of “(a) breach of any of the requirements for registration; (b) failure to win at least 25 per cent of votes cast in: (i) One state of the federation in a presidential election; or (ii) one local government of the state in a governorship election; (c) failure to win at least – (i) one ward in the chairmanship election; (ii) one seat in the national or state House of Assembly election; or (iii) one seat in the councillorship election.  “From the foregoing, it is indubitably clear that INEC has been conferred with enormous powers to deregister political parties that fail to meet the fresh constitutional prerequisites. Going by the results of the 2019 general elections, the 91 registered political parties may have been reduced to less than 10 that may have scaled the constitutional hurdle.” Out of the 89 political parties that fielded candidates in the 2019 general elections, only three won the governorship while less than five of them won seats into the National Assembly. This means that over 85 political parties have no business in the electoral process.  In December 2012, INEC deregistered 28 political parties. The commission said its decision was based on the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended).  Section 78 (7)(ii) of the Electoral Act 2010, as amended empowers INEC to deregister political parties that fails to win a seat either in the National or state Assembly. None of deregistered parties won any seat in the 2011 general elections. Fresh Democratic Party (FDP), which was one of the political parties deregistered by INEC, challenged the action of the commission in court. It asked the court to declare section 78 (7) (ii) of the Electoral Act, 2010 is unconstitutional, invalid, null and void to the extent that it offends the provisions of section 40 and sections 221-229 of the 1999 Constitution as it violated the provisions of sections 36, 38 and 40, as well as sections 221-222 of the 1999 Constitution, and paragraph 15 of the 3rd schedule (part 10 of the Constitution) among others.  Justice Gabriel Kolawole of the Federal High Court, in his judgement, declared the deregistration null and void. Justice Kolawole said: “The criteria by which the National Assembly delimited deregistration to failure to win seat in state and National Assembly elections appears like nothing but legislative arbitrariness, since INEC has powers to conduct other elections.  “INEC would not have lost anything by issuing the Fresh Democratic Party with a query to enhance the integrity of its decision.” A Constitutional lawyer, Realwan Okpanachi, agrees with Falana that INEC does not need further amendment to the constitution to deregister political parties. Okpanachi said the position of the law had changed since President Muhammadu Buhari assented the Fourth Alteration, No. 9 Act, 2017, which was enacted in 2017. He said the president’s assent conferred on INEC the power to deregister political parties by the amendment of Section 225 of the 1999 constitution. “By the said amendment and introduction of Section 225(A), INEC can now deregister political parties on grounds of breach of any requirements for registration,’’ he said.  The requirements, he  listed to include, “Failure to win at least 25 per cent of votes cast in one state of the federation in a presidential election, or one local government of the state in governorship election.  “Failure to win at least one ward in chairmanship election, one seat in the National or State House of Assembly election or one seat in the councillorship election.  “What INEC should be talking about is how to deregister many of the commercialised political parties that have failed to satisfy any of the conditions in Section 225(A) of the constitution,’’ Okpanachi said. The number of political parties in the country is causing confusion instead of improving the electoral system. During the last presidential elections, the number of invalid votes was put at 1, 289, 607 votes, which was much higher than total number of votes recorded for 71 other parties put together.  Pundits attributed this to the size of the ballot paper. Most of the votes got spoilt during folding of the over-sized ballot paper and attempt to squeeze it inside the voting box.  Again, many illiterate electorate found it difficult differentiating the acronyms of most of the parties. This resulted in double voting. In 1999 when only two political parties fielded candidates in the presidential election, the number of invalid votes was 431, 611, out of a total of 30, 280, 052 votes cast. It is inconceivable that the nation could record as high as over a million invalid votes 20 years after.  The UN envoy simply spoke the mind of average Nigerians. A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), Mr. Charles Ambaiowe said  a reduction in the number of political parties in the country is overdue. According to him, there is no point having non-performing parties on the ballot papers all in the name  multi-party system.  “Many of them are hangers-on and appendages of the two major political parties. During elections,  some neither campaign nor field candidates. Rather, they come up to endorse candidate of the major political parties for monetary benefits. “The system is too weedy such that INEC chairman once said it was cumbersome listing all the parties on a single ballot paper. Ironically some of the political parties who had made no impact in the elections have called for cancelation of election because of the omission of their names on the ballot,” he said.  Sources said the fringe parties have become something akin to private businesses of the chairmen, their wives and children who often manipulate and utilize the funds collected and attend capacity training sponsored local and international agencies.  “The parties have become like private companies while the INEC is something akin to the CAC, who merely registers them, only for the parties to serve the interest of the chairman and his family.  “At one of our quarterly meeting with the INEC, the electoral umpire’s chairman told us that the wife of one of the parties’ chairman is the Woman Leader and his son the National Youth Leader. Hence three members of the executive council are from his family,” the source said.