The Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games is very near and it is expected that every serious country should be putting finishing touches to its preparations for the competition widely regarded as the biggest event in the world because of the assemblage of people during the period. For serious countries, preparation for his event starts immediately after each one and so the cycle of four years is used to get set for the next. We observe that this has never been the case in Nigeria even when the administrators say so after every event. We also want to emphasize that the final of the 100m is almost always the climax of every Olympic Games. Over the years, the competition has evolved in many ways. For example, football for male and female were added but it has not removed the shine for the ‘major’ attraction of the games, which is athletics. We recall that was while Micheal Johnson, Carl Lewis, Maurice Greene and just recently Usain Bolt made name as Olympic legends, not much is heard about the consistent and amazing athletes in other sports like wrestling, weightlifting, taekwondo, tennis, table tennis, etc. Australian swimming sensation, Micheal Phelps, cannot be forgotten easily because of his amazing run in the swimming event while Cuban boxer Felix Savon cannot be forgotten as well but no doubt, athletics steal the show at the games. And so it is sad that the Athletic Federation of Nigeria (AFN) is engulfed in crisis at a time the federation should be focused on potential medal prospects for the games. We frown at the fact that there are two AFN factions currently while the angle of the ministry is also there after the Ibrahim Gusau faction declared that the body would go autonomous at a Congress in Awka. There was another Congress in Abuja two days earlier which has Olamide George as its Acting President. History has shown that crisis like this draw the country back in terms of results. The example of football is still fresh and the sad effects of crisis must not repeat itself in athletics. Nigeria’s all time record at the games is not encouraging. Despite the talents in various sports, Nigeria on many occasions, attend the games and return with nothing. Nigeria has her strong and weak areas in athletics but sadly, the country is yet to maximize the advantage of the strong areas especially the sprints. Overall, Nigeria has won three gold, 10 silver and 12 gold medals. The total medal haul of 25 is not a true reflection of the talents in the country. Athletics alone won two gold, five silver and six bronze medals. In one Olympic Games, many countries perform better than Nigeria’s overall haul at the games. At the last games in Brazil, Nigeria won only a bronze medal courtesy of the U-23 football team led by Samson Siasia. Four years earlier, at the London 2012 Games in England, Nigeria failed to win a medal. We are aware that there are some potential medal-winning athletes that must not be ignored due to the current crisis. Hide original message Long Jumper, Ese Brume, won bronze medal only recently at the world championship. With a personal best of 7.05m, the three-time African championship gold medallist is good enough for medals in Tokyo if well motivated with her preparation. Hurdler, Tobi Amusan, narrowly missed the bronze medal at the Worlds but with her 12.49secs PB recorded earlier this year, the 2018 Commonwealth Games gold medallist is also good for the podium. She could be of help in the 4x100m relay anytime. Divine Oduduru, one of the most consistent sprinters this year could explode at Tokyo Games if well monitored. His PB of 9.86 secs recorded this year can earn him 100m medal if he is able to maintain or better it at the games. In wrestling, Oduayo Adekuoroye and Blessing Oborodudu are solid enough to be in the medals bracket of their respective categories while ping ponger, Aruna Quadri, can also make the podium with huge encouragement and motivation from the ministry of sports. Adekuoroye is currently number 3 in the world in her cadre and she was consistent all through this year with continental and global laurels. Quadri emerged the first African to play in the quarterfinal of an Olympics Games at Rio 2016 and we expect that with support from his federation and the ministry, he can do better in Tokyo due to his current form. As stated earlier, crisis in the past made the Super Eagles miss back-to-back AFCON tickets and we believe a house divided against itself cannot stand. The AFN is the federation expected to be at the forefront of Olympics preparation while others learn from the body. The current situation is absurd and we call for a truce as soon as possible because national interest is bigger than the personal aspirations of those involved in the current imbroglio. With reputable former athletes like Yusuf Ali, Henry Amike, Falilat Ogunkoya and Mary Onyali in the country, the AFN can easily consult these legends to solve its problems amicably and move the country forward.