Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, is the 16th Lagos State Justice Commissioner and Attorney-General. In this encounter, Onigbanjo speaks on justice delivery system in the state, challenges, equity, reforms, access to justice, menace of land grabbers and sundry issues. FOLUSO OGUNMODEDE reports   What role would you want the Justice Ministry play in a cosmopolitan state like Lagos?   Lagos is a mini Nigeria; Lagos prides itself in its large population of multi-cultural, multi- religions and a diverse ethnic society.  As the Chief Law Officer of the State, I will, through the Ministry of Justice continue to ensure that residents have access to justice even in respect of the most mundane of matters. The plan is basically to foster speedy and time effective justice delivery equally amongst all persons in the state. This will be achieved mostly through institutional and policy strategies.   For example, the Office of the Public Defender (OPD) handles 1,636 cases, 600 petitions out of which 245 have been concluded, 141 judgements obtained, over 30 children rescued and total compensation of N8, 103, 567.09 was received on behalf of clients.   Similarly, PAC –Public Advisory Centre, received monetary claims of N3, 684. 666 on behalf of claimants whilst the Directorate of Citizen’s Rights instituted cases in the National Industrial Court where 7 Claimants were awarded N21, 352,319 as terminal benefits from their various organizations.   As a cosmopolitan city, we recognise the need to ensure that law and orderliness are kept. It is this administration’s agenda to clamp down on criminals, land grabbers and other trouble makers to reduce crime and all forms of security threat to the barest minimum. This administration has zero tolerance for criminals. We would also ensure that the poor and downtrodden in the society have access to justice through our agencies.  Traffic offences would be seriously dealt with and erring drivers will forfeit their vehicles and sanctions shall be imposed. It is no longer business as usual.  As the Lagos Justice Commissioner, what are your thoughts on various challenges bedevilling justice administration in the state and how do you intend to tackle them?   One of the major challenges confronting the administration of justice is multi-faceted.   On the part of the government, the plan is to tackle the operational problems and to ensure that there is cooperation between the different bodies working to enforce the law.   The aim is also to ensure that residents have quick access to justice as justice delayed is justice denied. The State Government has put in tremendous effort to enhance justice administration. However, most of the stakeholders within the sector are not under the control of the State Government. Example of this is the police, prisons amongst others pivotal agencies. It is no longer news that the State at different intervals have had to intervene and support these agencies through our Lagos State Security Trust Fund. The challenges facing the different stakeholders can be overcome by concerted efforts and creating more synergy in achieving access to justice and ensure Law and Order.   Your immediate predecessor recorded major feats especially in the area of decongestion of prison through advisory council on prerogative of mercy. Are there plans to discontinue this programme?   We hope to sustain and surpass the achievement of the council by strengthening the advisory council on prerogative of mercy. A new council will soon be inaugurated by Mr. Governor and we are optimistic that the members of the council will hit the ground running to decongest the correctional centres /prisons.   We are going to embark on a more robust approach in decongesting prisons and plans are underway to implement the initiative. We would ensure that periodic visits are done and would also ensure that the gesture is spread across all the facilities within the state for deserving applicants.   I will ensure the council is encouraged by working independently, fairly and transparently with adequate resources for the discharge of its basic duties. Also the State through Community Service Unit is willing and ready to work with the Nigerian Correctional Service to enhance the non-custodial sentence provision as provided in the Nigerian Correctional Services Act. This will immensely reduce the amount of people who go through the prison system.   How would look at plea bargain as a prosecutorial tool in justice delivery system?   Plea bargaining is undoubtedly a veritable procedure for decongestion of the correctional centres, giving closure to victims of crimes, de-clogging the courts’ docket and reducing the state expenses/resources. It is one of the focal points of this administration to enhance the process to make it seamless and more efficient. In the last two weeks, 94 plea bargain applications have been treated.   It is definitely effective, it saves the judicial and prosecutors’ time and criminal matters are quickly concluded.  This administration intends to continue with the system and hopes that more defendants will embrace the option of plea bargain if they are indeed guilty.   What mechanism would you put in place to curb the challenge and speed up the process of obtaining DPP’s advice for pending cases at magistrate’s courts?  Let me first correct the impression that Legal Advice issuance is delayed. This is no longer the case. It takes an average of 10-15 days to issue Legal Advice. The DPP Office has been very efficient in ensuring that Legal Advice are despatched in a timely manner, the records are there. A two-week deadline had been given some months back and there has been substantial compliance with the deadline.   For instance, the DPP’s Office received 212 duplicate files for Legal Advice and 164 has been issued and despatched. The remaining 48 could not be treated because of request for further investigation by the Police.   The Officers in DPP are of high moral and professional integrity coupled with the fact that this administration has zero tolerance for any corrupt practice. I would like to allay the fears of the public in this regard and urge them to speak up/write to my office with facts should they observe anything untoward.   The DPP and its team of lawyers work assiduously to ensure that legal advice is issued within the time frame. The process is not subject to undue influence as the lawyers in DPP serve with integrity and are mindful that this administration has a zero tolerance for corrupt practices. I assure you that Legal advices are issued within the time frame and devoid of undue influence.   Are there also plans to strengthen Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) to fast track access to justice in view of your background in arbitration? ADR is the new wave and as expected, Lagos State has made tremendous progress in entrenching it in its justice system through the establishment of the Multi-door court, citizens mediation centre and the OPD, this administration would create more sensitization and awareness for members of the public.   As you already know previous administrations have begun the work to making Lagos the hub of arbitration by investing in the LCA. The Ministry of Justice has the Citizens Mediation Centre, Citizens Rights, Office of the Public Defender, AGPT, all of which deploy the use of ADR in resolving disputes. The plan of this administration is to further enlarge the capacities of these offices by opening more centres in different LCDA/locations for easy access to the Public. We hope to commission 2 new centres of CMC.   The Multi-Door Courthouse role seeks resolution of dispute without going through the long haul of litigation is pivotal in resolving our commercial and civil disputes. This ties in well with ease of doing business and reposing investors’ confidence in judicial system that afford prompt and expeditious resolution of legal disputes.   Notwithstanding Citizens Mediation Centre, Citizens Rights, Office of the Public Defender arm of the ministry of justice, access to justice is still a major challenge in the state. Are there plans to step up action against the challenge?   On the issue of access to justice, what determines its improvement is not continuous proliferation of agencies or departments to assist in this regard. As a matter of fact, these agencies/organisations including the Directorate of Citizens rights, Public Advisory Centre and the Public Interest Law partnership provide pro bono services of private law firms for indigent persons.   The most important thing is the efficiencies of these agencies. And one of the focus of this administration is to ensure the effectiveness of the existing agencies.   We are working on enhancing the capacities of the OPD and CMC and also open up new centers to cover more areas within the State.  The public most importantly would be sensitised of the existence of these agencies as possible expansion of OPD Offices in all the nook and cranies of the state especially in each local government and LCDAs has become inevitable. We plan to sensitize the indigent resident to make use of these offices (CMC, OPD, AGPT, DCR,) by our various awareness programmes.   Property Protection Law was enacted in 2016 by the immediate past administration to curb infamous activities of the dreaded Omonile. Three years after, this Omonile menace is still on the rise. What permanent solution are you thinking of?   Since the enactment of the Lagos State Property Protection Law, 2016 and the establishment of the Special Taskforce on land grabbers, I make bold to say that the nefarious and notorious activities of land grabbers have been gradually curtailed in Lagos State. Yes, there are still pockets of reports of illegal activities of land grabbers across the State. We are not unaware of the havoc and unrest caused by these land grabbers particularly in developing areas of Ibeju-Lekki, Ajah, Ikorodu, Ipaja, Badagry amongst others but this, when compared to what obtained before the enactment of the property protection law and establishment of the taskforce has shown that the implementation of the law through the taskforce is yielding the desired results.   It is worthy of note that since enactment of the law and inauguration of the taskforce, over 3600 petitions have been received by the Taskforce. About 500 of these petitions have been concluded. Over 3000 petitions are currently being handled. In the course of the taskforce operations, over 200 arrests of suspected land grabbers have been carried out. The operation of taskforce recently received a boost when 19 alleged land grabbers were arrested on the 13th November, 2019, at Plot 1 Block II within Ogudu Phase II Government Residential Scheme in Kosefe Local Government and trial still on going at the Magistrate’s Court.   We presently have 35 land grabbing cases in court, wherein land grabbers are being prosecuted and we are hopeful that justice would be served without hindrance to serve as a deterrent to other land grabbers. From these statistics, it will be noticed that there is an appreciable increase in number of citizens who patronize the Taskforce for resolution of land grabbing cases, we owe this in part to intensification of publicity and awareness campaign as well as testimonies of people who have had their cases resolved through the Taskforce.  As cheering as this is, taskforce is confronted with myriads of challenges in carrying out its legal responsibilities which we are presently addressing for optimal performance. Of note is the deliberate attempt by land grabbers to arm-twist the taskforce into doing their biddings by embarking on smear campaign in traditional and online media to pre-empt cases the taskforce is working on. These challenges have however not deterred us from carrying out our responsibilities. I have a word for them; we are daunt and unshaken in our resolve to carry out our mandate.  