…says four new divisions to be open soon  The President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, yesterday, said that a total of 805 cases that emanated from the 2019 general election have been successfully disposed of by the appellate court. Justice Bulkachuwa said the 805 appeals arose from the various petitions filed by aggrieved contestants against the results declared in the elections. Speaking at the 2019 annual conference of the Appeal Court Justices held in Abuja, Justice Bulkachuwa showered encomiums on his colleagues on the Appeal Court bench for their hard work and resilience during adjudications of the election cases. She, however, admitted that handling of the election cases was so hectic, adding that it took collective efforts of the Justices for the cases to be disposed of to make the country’s democracy stronger. Reviewing the performance of the court in the outgoing year, the Appeal Court President announced that a total of 4,007 judgements were delivered while 7,911 motions were also disposed of during the period. She attributed the performance of the court to the reforms carried out on its Rules and the Practice Direction which are now giving speedy hearing to cases before the court. As a result of hard work of Justices of the court, Justice Bulkachuwa disclosed that four justices of the court have been elevated to the Supreme Court bench. On the yearly conference, she said it was put together for the justices to brainstorm and sharpen their skills having discovered training as vital part of human development. To enable the court successfully clear the backlog of pending cases, Justice Bulkachuwa announced that four new divisions of the court will soon be opened. She appealed to participants to take maximum advantages to be provided, adding that experts from various fields have been carefully selected to present papers on different topics. The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammad, in his brief remarks at the conference, urged the appellate court justices to co-operate with each other, be truthful, hard-working and shun egoism in the discharge of their judicial functions.