Uglygalz might be an emerging porn actress in Nollywood, but she says many people would rather choose to see her as a prostitute. The Nigerian adult entertainer, who has massive tattoos inked on several parts of her body, says getting people to understand that her personality is different from her chosen career has become a herculean task. In an interview, Uglygalz, revealed: “I am a porn actress, I do adult entertainment movies or what is called porn films. I have been called a sex worker several times. People mistake me for those who have sex for money. I am an actress first and foremost and I get paid for acting aside enjoying what I do. Again, I have an opinion on who I choose to act with, there are protocols and several people are on the set but many people don’t see it this way, they still feel, it’s money for sex. “Often, I get calls from unknown men demanding sex from me. I recently got a call from a man, who said he got my number from my website and wanted to have sex with me for two rounds and I got so irritated that I just ended the call and blocked the number.” As of 2014, young and single Uglygalz, whose real name is Mareme, has slept with over 100 men and has been confirmed as one of the verified porn actresses and producers on a popular x-rated content website. She recalls: “As of 2014, I have had sex with over 100 men. Please, let’s not talk about it (laughs) but it’s not up to 1000 but getting close to 1000. “I remember when I was 17, I used to have this book, where I wrote down the names of people I have had sex with and the situation that led to the sex and my sister’s husband saw the book and he flogged me mercilessly,” she revealed. Uglygalz goes on a memory lane of how she had sex with people in the past before deciding to go into acting porn films. “I enjoy teasing and making guys have a hardon.” she began. “I almost got expelled from school for having sex with my principal. I was the one who actually lured him into it and later, people got to find out and I was almost expelled but in my university days, I willingly traded sex for grades especially for courses I found hard passing.” The actress, who also features in regular home videos says the adult movie industry is quite lucrative and profitable. She says “Adult movie business is profitable and actors or actresses can earn between $3,000 to $10,000 for a 5 minutes long video.” Uglygalz, who refers to herself as walking porn, says the Nigerian sex film industry is in its hypocrisy stage. She says: “Adult movie business is profitable and I make more because I own my production arm and website although I still subscribe to some porn sites.” She explains further, “Porn in Nigeria is still in hypocritic stages. We are now pushing for it to become an industry where the actors and actresses will be bold enough and totally professional about it. We are yet to have professional porn stars in Nigeria”