Boluwatife Sanya, a native of Oru Ijebu, Ijebu North Local Government, Ogun State is an alumnus of Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye. He was called to Bar in 2017.  He shares his foray into the law profession with JOHN CHIKEZIE   Background  My name is Boluwatife Sanya, a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. I am a native of Oru Ijebu, Ijebu North Local Government, Ogun State. I attended Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun state where I obtained a Bachelor in Law and letters (LL.B) in 2016.   I attended the Nigerian Law school, Kano Campus and was called to the Bar on the 13th of December, 2017.   In 2018, I attended a Copyright Course organised by Harvard Law School in partnership with the Nigerian Institute of Advance Legal Studies.   Law   I was in Junior Secondary School 2 when I started paying attention to the happenings in Nigeria. I would usually write my thoughts down randomly in a book I dedicated for such.   I realised nothing was really working in Nigeria. Then I decided to dedicate my life in helping transform Nigeria. For instance, the system of government we run in Nigeria is not too good. The head of the executive arm of government is too powerful to the extent that he dictates what happens in the other arms of government. For example, a Judge in the State’s High Court sees the governor as an Alpha and Omega. Even the Chief Judges of States bow to their Mr. Governor.    Recently, I’ve realised that the executive arm of government picks which court order to obey and which not to. The reason is not far-fetched because financially, the judiciary is subject to the executive arm.   Whereas, the three arms of government should be subject to each other but in Nigeria, the executive arm is the watchdog for the two other arms and any attempt by the legislature and the Judiciary to carry out their duty by checking the excesses of the executive, they get ridiculed.   Secondly, having read about the oil sector, I have understood that the country spends a large sum of money from oil proceeds to service our yearly budgets.   Nigeria is blessed with so many natural resources, like crude oil, which some independent marketers export to other countries to refine and import at an exorbitant price.  And the Federal Government would then pay a certain sum of money, as subsidy, to these marketers as an incentive for them not to sell the oil to Nigeria at the rate which they imported. When I discovered this, I often wondered why we cannot divert the money meant for oil subsidy to build good refineries.   I took my time to access all professions alongside these problems, and realized that becoming a lawyer would be very valuable in achieving my dreams more than other profession. Therefore, I studied law to use my knowledge of the law to change Nigeria positively.   Pupilage I would describe it as a period of learning. My pupilage has exposed me to different areas of practice. I have learnt and handled matters bothering on Land, Dissolution of marriage, Pre-election, Election Petitions, Chieftaincy, criminal and few others.   Although, the money might not be encouraging, I am assured that there is light at the end of the tunnel. The places I have worked are Emmanuel Abiodun & Co. and Idowu Adepeju & Co.   Specialization Election matters, Intellectual property particularly Copyright and Construction Law.   Election petition is sui generis and within a short period of time, one starts to compete with the whole proceedings from the tribunal to the final appellate court. I find this a lot more interesting because I don’t like foot dragging my matters in court. Tribunal Election Petition Tribunal in Nigeria is quite of standard.  The only aspect I will address is the issue of use of card readers to prove over voting.   There are plethora of Supreme Court judgements that say one of the elements to prove over-voting is by tendering voters’ register and not card reader report.   In fact, the Electoral Act recognises voters’ register and not card reader machine. I am of the opinion that if all the card reader machines are working well  and there are extra machines in every polling unit, card reader machines can be used to determine whether there is over-voting or not.  The Electoral Act should be amended to reflect the use of Card Reader Machines. This is, however, subject to having standard machines not the epileptic ones used during the 2019 General Elections. Meanwhile, as regards to electoral offenders, we cannot easily curb electoral violence or offenders from carrying out their activities.   I think we can mitigate their activities in two ways. First is by voting electronically and Secondly by prosecuting them immediately they are arrested.   Corruption and the justice system   Corruption is in all sectors in Nigeria. I cannot shy away from the truth that some Judges are corrupt but I am of the opinion that once any of them is caught, such an individual should be dealt with appropriately.   It might surprise some persons to know that the some Judiciary staff, like the registrars, are mostly the middlemen between the Lawyers and Judges. Sometimes, the registrars even do it on their own by dealing directly with litigants. I am of the opinion that whosoever is caught in the act should be immediately dismissed from service.   Death penalty for rapists and hate speeches   I have never been in support of death as a penalty for any offence whatsoever.   The prison sentence for a rapist is fine with me, but the issue is that the Nigeria Prison is not a correctional place. Rather it makes worse of the convicts, who come out with hardened hearts to commit more crimes.   The recent hate speech bill by law makers is only an attempt to take away the right of freedom of expression. While I do not subscribe to one publishing a false story, there at other means to go about it other than enacting such an Act. I believe that if a false story affects the character of a person, a deformation suit should be filed in lieu.  Ambition In the legal profession, to become one of the renowned Senior Advocates of Nigeria On the other hand, if God permits, to be a uniting voice, in order to lead Nigerians out of bad governance.