 L agos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday said that his administration was set to boost food and fish production in the state, saying that the aquaculture life of the state would be fully explored.   To this end, the governor said fishermen and fish traders in the state would soon begin to experience a turnaround development in the fishing sector, adding that his administration had identified sustainable development in the state’s tourism potentials in aquaculture and its value chain as a driver of economic growth that would not only create jobs and contribute to poverty reduction, but would also unleash opportunities for entrepreneurship.   Speaking at the 2019 Lagos Seafood Festival, Governor Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, said there exists within the agricultural value chain, the potential for increased production towards the attainment of the state’s food security objective, foreign exchange earnings from export and ultimately contributed to the growth of the state’s GDP.   The governor pointed out that toward this end, the State Government had initiated several projects in the agricultural space to drive these objectives.   “We have established Fish Farm Estates in lkorodu and Epe, which primary aim is to ensure a geometrical increase in fish production, with the active participation of the private sector. While the Ikorodu Estate is fully subscribed and produces 10,000 tonnes of fish per annum, the Ketu Ereyun Epe Estate will produce 11,000 metric tonnes on completion of its first phase.   “All of these initiatives are aimed at bridging the demand and supply gap, which is estimated at 374,000 tonnes and 155,262 tonnes per annum respectively. This is a huge and highly rewarding investment opportunity, which I invite the business community to tap into and harness,” he said.   The governor said the state was endowed with natural landscape traversed by sea and lagoon waters as well as beautiful beaches and waterfronts, adding that 22 per cent of the state’s total land area was covered with water and 180km coastline along the Atlantic Ocean.