●Poor profit margin now major source of worry  TASK Expert tasks the Federal Government to remove risk on national financial sector and end fuel subsidy   P rivate marketers and importers of premium motor spirit (PMS) also known as petrol, at the weekend, expressed fears over bankruptcy as their profit margin in downstream trade hit ground zero. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the sole importer of petrol into Nigeria for the major part of 2019, incurred about N1.5 trillion under-recovery in one year due to epilepsy of the local refineries and volatility in the market.  Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) confirmed to New Telegraph that most of its members had totally abandoned importation of petrol. Stating that MOMAN members now depend solely on NNPC for supply, Executive Secretary of the group, Clement Isong, maintained in a chat with this newspaper on the side-line of an event organised by OVH Energy in Lagos, that the profit margin of marketers had dipped and become a source of worry for his group.  “We have the cause to believe that there is light at the end of the tunnel on the issue of subsidy debts we are being owed. But the major issue we are being confronted with is the poor profit margin,” he said. “A business that does not guarantee margin is not a business,” he declared.  An independent marketer, Alhaji Ishaq Bakare, who corroborated Isong, told this newspaper at the weekend that the margin had crashed to zero. “All of us are now at the mercy of NNPC for the product (PMS). All margins disappear the moment we pay for haulage, pay for running of generators to power the station, pay salaries to the attendants. “Many of the marketers, as we speak, are at the mercy of banks and other lenders. Most of our business concerns are slipping into bankruptcy,” he declared. Aside the marketers, Bakare said that the inefficient management of the downstream market was also affecting the country.  Quoting a former Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Mallam Muhammad Sanusi, Bakare noted that the subsidy payment could also push the country into bankruptcy. Sanusi, the Emir of Kano, had earlier warned that Nigeria was on the verge of bankruptcy as fuel and electricity subsidies, as well as debt servicing, continue to eat into government revenue.  Sanusi said this while delivering his address at the third National Treasury Workshop, organised by the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation in Kano. He advised President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to scrap fuel and electricity tariff subsidies in order to stabilise the economy.  He said: “In 2011, when I was CBN governor, Nigeria made $16 billion from petroleum sales and we spent $8 billion importing petroleum and spent another $8.2 billion subsidising the product…and I asked, ‘Is this sustainable? “The country is bankrupt and we are heading to bankruptcy. What happens is that the Federal Government pays petroleum subsidy, pays electricity tariff subsidy and if there is a rise in interest rates, the Federal Government pays. What is more life-threatening than the subsidy that we have to sacrifice education, health sector and infrastructure for us to have cheap petroleum? “If truly President Buhari is fighting poverty, he should remove the risk on the national financial sector and stop the subsidy regime, which is fraudulent.” He said the president must tell Nigerians the facts about the economic situation and act promptly to address it.  Sanusi told participants at the workshop: “We need to ask these questions: why are there high mortality rates, malnutrition, high rate of out-of-school children, among others, while the national treasury goes to petroleum sector? “In 2016, we were told that we are con suming 28 million litres of petrol per day and just a few weeks ago, we were told that it has jerked up to 60 million litres daily; what went wrong?  “Since I have decided to come here, you have to accept what I have said here. And please, if you do not want to hear the truth, never invite me.”  The emir expressed worry about the state of public finance in the country, saying there were a number of very difficult decisions that must be made. He said: “We should face reality. His excellency, the president, said in his inaugural speech that his government would like to lift 100 million people out of poverty. It was a speech that was well received, not only in this country but worldwide.  “The number of people living in abject poverty in Nigeria is frightening. By 2050, 85 per cent of those living in extreme poverty in the world will be from the African continent, and Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo will top the list.  “Two days ago, I read that the percentage of government revenue going to debt servicing had risen to 70 per cent. These numbers are not lying. They are public numbers. I read them in the newspapers. When you are spending 70 per cent of your revenue on debt services, then you are managing 30 per cent.  “And then, you continue subsidising petroleum products and spending N1.5 trillion per annum on petroleum subsidy! And then we are subsidising electricity tariff. And maybe, you have to borrow from the capital market or the Central Bank of Nigeria to service the shortfall in the electricity tariff. Where is the money to pay salaries? Where is the money for education and other government projects?”  