 A 25-year-old man, Olamide Adeyemi, has been arrested for posing as a woman on social media to defraud an American citizen, Daniel Nix.  Adeyemi was arrested along with his alleged partner in crime, Salami Olaide. They were arrested by a team of policemen led by Inspector Lawal during a patrol duty on Opebi linked bridge, Ikeja area of Lagos State.   The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, explained that the police team, while on a ‘stop-and-search’ duty, intercepted a Toyota Corolla marked KSF 462 FT, with three occupants; two boys and a girl.  He said: “A distress call was put across to the Area F Commander, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Akinbayo Olasoji, when the suspects were proving difficult. Another two patrol teams were sent to check the situation.  “Also, when a search was conducted on them, the policemen recovered some substances suspected to be hard drugs. The suspects were eventually taken to the station and another search was conducted on their bags and some charms were found with them.”  The suspects in their statements admitted being involved in cyber fraud. They also confessed to have defrauded a lot of people.  Olamide confessed that he defrauded his victim, Daniel Nix, from California, United States by posing as a 35-year-old lady called Sharon. Nix thought he was actually chatting with a woman. The suspect further revealed that he started playing the game last year. He also admitted that Nix had sent him $300 and one iPhone, which he received and sold. The PPRO said investigation revealed that the suspects were into cybercrime.   He said: “Olamide has a Facebook account, which he opened, posing as a female. He uses the name Sharon. One of his victims is Daniel Nix from California, USA, whom he defrauded of an iPhone and US dollars. “Olaide on the other hand, has an online platform known as Grant. He operates under the name Frank. He used to pose as an agent of the company responsible for giving loans and assistance to people online. Once a prospective victim who required their services fills the application form online and pays the registration fees, he will block the victim. There are lots of innocent Nigerians who are victims of such fraud.   “There is no evidence so far, linking the female arrested together with the two male suspects, to their nefarious activities. The victims of such frauds are enjoined to report at Area F Command Headquarters, Ikeja, with evidence of transactions between them and the suspects. The suspects will soon be charged to court.”