Sports ministry gets N7.9bn in Olympics year  T he Nigeria Football Federation is at loss as to how it would run its activities for 2020 because of the huge gap between its budget and what the National Assembly approved in the 2020 National Budget signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari penultimate week.  The NFF rose from its General Assembly Meeting last week and announced that it would need N7.5billion to run its activities for next year.   Although both men and women teams did not qualify for the 2020 Olympics and the Home-based Super Eagles also failed to pick the ticket for the 2020 African Nations Championship, the federation insisted it would need that huge amount to run its operation smoothly.   However, the Super Falcons are expected to defend their  African Women Cup of Nations title at a yet-to-be-decided country and the Super Eagles will also get involved in both Nations Cup and World Cup qualifiers.   Meanwhile, the chieftains of the federation are keen to embark on intensive marketing drive to bridge the gap between what they got in the envelop from the national budget which is paltry N1.1billion and the actual funds they would need to prosecute their programme for the year.   “That is always the challenge that we have every year,” a senior staff of the federation told our correspondent in confidence. “The budget for the NFF is acutely inadequate and the National Assembly will say that is what they received from the executive and there is no way they could increase what is in the envelop.   “What the  NFF usually bank on is Special Intervention Funds from the Presidency to take care of some important competitions and that is what may play out in the case of the Falcons who are participating in the Nations Cup.   “Sponsors are reluctant now because of the crisis the NFF is facing and I think it is going to be a difficult year for the federation in terms of finance,” the source said.  Meanwhile, out of the N126.55bn the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports gets for the year, the  National Youth Service Corp Scheme will receive the largest chunk. Government will spend N111.6bn on the NYSC while sports will get N9.7billion. The Nigeria Institute for Sports, which also gets a separate envelop, will receive– N498.21million.   It remain to be seen how the sports minister Sunday Dare will secure the N10bn he said the country would need to prepare and participate at the 2020 Olympics Games in Tokyo, next summer.