The battle for the soul of Plateau State has moved to the Supreme Court after both the tribunal and appellate court validated Governor Simon Lalong’s victory in the March gubernatorial election, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in that poll, Senator Jeremiah Useni, is yet to give up, Wale Elegbede reports  W hen the septuagenarian senator and retired Army General, Jeremiah Useni, emerged as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State in 2018, not a few predicted that his military upbringing of doggedness will form part of his dexterity to rule the north-central state.   Although he lost the election after two ballots, the former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) wouldn’t renege, so he decided to exhaust all legal options at his disposal despite the ecstasy that followed the validation of the election of the incumbent governor, Simon Lalong of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at every stage of verdicts.   Nicknamed ‘Jerry Boy’ during his heydays, Useni has a record of being one of the most enduring military figures in the country. By February 2020, he is going to clock 77. He represented Plateau South Senatorial District in the Eight Senate and he was the military governor of the old Bendel State (now Edo and Delta states) between 1984 and 1985.   Whilst his emergence as PDP governorship candidate came as a rude shock to many owing to the clamour for a generational power shift which brought about the recent Not Too Young To Run law, some other people averred that he rode on the back of the contentious zoning debate in the state.   For Governor Lalong, the journey to his reelection bid was made easy by his commendable performance during his first term. For many Plateau citizens, his all-inclusive governance style that promoted unity, security and economic buoyancy was the forerunner for his second term bid, and he did have the reelection despite the close markings by the PDP.   After the March 9 election, the Independent Electoral Commission Headquarters (INEC) declared the Plateau State governorship election inconclusive as the margin of lead was less than the cancelled votes. A total of 48,828 votes across 49 polling units were disputed, a figure that was more than the 44,929 votes that Lalong led Useni with.  The supplementary election was then held two weeks after the conduct of the first ballot. In the supplementary election in nine local governmet areas of Langtang South, Barkin Ladi, Bassa, Bokkos, Jos North, Kanam, Mangu, Shendam and Pankshin, Lalong still led Useni, polling additional 12,327 votes against Useni’s 8,487 votes.   Lalong was therefore declared winner and returned elected as the governor of Plateau State for a second term. According to the Returning Officer, Prof Richard Anande Kimbir, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Agriculture, Makurdi, Benue State, Lalong polled 595,582 votes to defeat his closest opponent, Senator Useni of the PDP who polled a total of 546,813 votes.   To many, the eventual victory of Lalong was not really a surprise, considering that he was already leading Useni with 44,929 votes in the earlier election before it was declared inconclusive. But for the former General and his supporters, it was daylight electoral fraud, hence, the resolve to contest the declaration in court.   “I want to give you my word that we would pursue this matter and recover our stolen mandate. I assure you that it is not yet over; we have just entered the critical phase. We are approaching the tribunal to seek legal redress,” Useni vowed after the election.   But responding, the State Commissioner of Information, Mr. Yakubu Dati, said in a statement that Plateau people spoke loud and clear through the ballot by voting overwhelmingly for Governor Lalong.   Making good his threat, Useni headed to the Plateau State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal to challenge Lalong victory, praying it to declare him winner of the election on the basis of an alleged disparity in the names supplied by Governor Lalong in form CF001.   After the legal fireworks at the tribunal, a panel of three justices led by Justice Halima Salami, in October, held that the petitioners did not adequately prove their case, thereby validating Lalong’s election.   It also held that the information made in form CF001 by Lalong bothering on the disparity of name was not fundamental in nature. The tribunal also posited that the petitioners failed to prove their allegation of electoral irregularities bothering on falsifications of results and over voting against Lalong and APC.   The tribunal described the petition as “incompetent” and “lacking in merit” and expunged all the evidence presented out of its record.   Reacting to the ruling, the miffed Useni claimed, “Something was amiss. But these things are just a test. I will pass my test. I will not   fail this test. Within two weeks, we will file the appeal. And we will go even up to the Supreme Court. The war is not over yet. No soldier loses one battle and runs away,” he said.   Expectedly, the hugely disappointed Useni, who had been counting his chicken before it hatched by already giving out blueprint on how he will run state if the tribunal confirms him as governor, swiftly headed to the Appeal Court through his legal team led by two senior advocates, Mike Ozekhome, and Edward Pwajok. They filed a notice of appeal and formulated 21 grounds of appeal to overturn the verdict of the tribunal.   Delivering judgement last Friday on the appeal, the court in a unanimous decision read by Justice O.A. Otisi, dismissed the appeal by Useni and upheld the judgment of the Plateau State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal, which had validated Lalong’s victory in the March governorship election.   The appellate court also held that Lalong has the educational qualification to contest in the election and also awarded the sum of N200,000 as cost to be paid to the respondents.   As if already envisaging the outcome of the appellate court ruling, Useni, few hours after seeing his governorship dream dashed, headed to the Supreme Court to challenge the verdict of the appellate court.   Useni’s Media Consultant, Mr Yiljap Abraham, confirmed the move in a statement in Jos on Friday after the ruling. He said: “The governorship candidate of the Plateau PDP in the 2019 election, Lt. Gen (rtd) Senator Jeremiah Timbut Useni, has instructed his legal team to prepare and proceed to the Supreme Court immediately to challenge Friday’s judgment of the Appeal Court, which affirmed the decision of the lower tribunal. The decision was taken during a review meeting with the legal experts and General Useni.”   Describing the judgment of the appellate court as a surprise, especially having dismissed the two cross-appeals of the cross appellants as lacking in merit and an abuse of court process, Useni further said: “Our cause is the right cause. We should not make the law look as if it is not important. Let the Supreme Court declare whether lying on oath is not against the law.”   But, extending a hand of fellowship to all citizens of the state including Useni after the ruling, Lalong said his reelection as governor is based on the wish of the people of the state, adding that Useni should have allowed his daughter, who was his classmate, to challenge him in the election.  Speaking in Jos with newsmen on Friday after the ruling, Lalong said the validation of his reelection by the appellate court is “very sweet.”   “As far as I am concerned, the main election was more important for me. I did the election, I did a runoff, we went to the tribunal the first time, we went again for the second time. Well, I don’t know whether he is going for the third time,” he said.   “One thing I am very sure and with the confidence I have in Plateau people, I know that this victory they are very happy about it. They have prayed about it and the victory is very sweet.   “I will say it again here; his (Useni) daughter was my classmate. I have told him several times that his first daughter was my classmate. So, at this stage, I would have been expecting his daughter to contest for governor and not him.   “His daughter was my classmate, we went to school together and so why should we be fighting? Fighting him is like fighting a father, it’s unfortunate, but for me, I say my focus is Plateau State. We have done that in the first election, he was defeated, he said no, they will go back for a re-run, I said let’s go back for rerun.   “We went back for rerun I defeated him, he said no he was going for the tribunal. We went to the first tribunal, he said he is a general, he doesn’t fight and retire, he will go to the Supreme Court. That I think is to make me lose focus but I have not lost any focus in Plateau State. As he is moving, I am becoming more determined because just before the judgment I think he will say go to Plateau State.”   Clearly, governance, especially in a state like Plateau is not a tea-party, hence the need for absolute concentration for whoever is sitting as governor at the Rayfield Governor’s Office, but with the incessant political and judicial distraction by the opposition led by Useni, it takes something extra to maintain full awareness.   However, until when the apex court decides on the matter, the people of Plateau expect Lalong to stay focus to the mandate given to him on March 9 and already affirmed by both the lower and appellate courts.  