Police in Enugu State have finally a woman abusing a maid in video which has gone viral on social media. She is being detained at the New Haven Police Station, Enugu, where she reported herself about 10a.m., yesterday based on police invitation. Details of the woman’s identity are still sketchy as the police declined to give further information. The woman, who reported alongside some family members and the maid, identified as Peace, was subjected to marathon interviews by the police at New Haven Station before she was transferred to the state Police Command Headquarters. Also with them was a man, identified as Mr. Jonathan, said to be an uncle to Peace, and works in a private secondary school in Enugu. Jonathan and Peace hail from Plateau State, while Peace’s parents live in Niger State from where Jonathan brought her to Enugu. When our correspondent visited New Haven Police Station, the officers on duty said the matter had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) at the state Police Headquarters, Enugu and that the state command would be issuing official statement in due course. The New Haven DPO, Mr. Adamu Garba, who was not in the office, was later contacted on the phone. He confirmed that the woman gave herself up following police invitation and that the matter had been transferred to the state Police Command. In the video, which went viralat the weekend, the woman is seen beating Peace, believed to be between five and seven years old. A source at New Haven Police Station said the woman went into hiding since weekend but that following police pressure on the family she gave herself up yesterday. The seven-minute video shows a lady levying aggravated assault on the hapless maid, by first grabbing her and slamming her very hard on the ground and subsequently dealing blows on her after forcing her to enter a car. A human rights activist, Daniel Onyeonagu (a barrister) reported the incident at the New Haven Police Station. Onyeonagu, who is a lecturer at the Faculty of Law of University of Nigeria, Enugu campus, where he teaches Human Rights and Criminal Law, is also a legal officer with an Enugu-based organisation, Women Aides Collective (WACOL). Onyeonagu said he had been following the matter, and that he equally invited the National Agency for the Prohibition Trafficking in Parsons (NAPTIP), Enugu State command into the matter. He said that NAPTIP was making efforts to take over the matter since “it falls within the Act establishing it, which is Trafficking in Persons Prohibition Act, 2015”. The activist said his investigation showed that Peace “hails from Plateau State”. He said: “Peace’s uncle, Mr. Jonathan, also from Plateau State, works with Providence, a private school close to Agric Bank here in Enugu. This woman works with Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT), Enugu. It was Mr. Jonathan that brought Peace to Enugu about a year ago on the arrangement that she would stay with Mr. Ejike Okamgba and his wife. “Okamgba and his wife rejected the child when Jonathan brought her to them, on the grounds that she was too tender to serve them as a house help. It was at this point that this woman opted to take the baby as a house help, an arrangement which Mr Jonathan happily conceded to, in order not to send her back to her parents who were facing hard times.” Several calls made to the state Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdurrahman, were not answered. Also, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Ebere Amaraizu, was said to have travelled outside the country