  State governors, on Wednesday, doused the fears of the organised labour, stating that none of them will pay workers in their employ less than the N30,000 approved national minimum wage. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has threatened industrial action against any state government that failed to meet the December 31 deadline, for the implementation of the new minimum wage. But governors, who met Wednesday night in Abuja under the aegis of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), said the new minimum wage is an act of parliament, which every governor subscribed to. Chairman of the forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, who briefed journalists at the end of the meeting, expressed readiness of the NGF to share information on the status of the negotiations in the various states, with the NLC. “As far as we are concerned, there’s no opportunity or decision in the NGF to backtrack from the minimum wage. “It is a settled matter, and governors have all indicated without any equivocation, that we subscribe to the act of parliament that has been passed on the 30,000 minimum wage. “There is no debate; we have accepted that. The negotiation team you are talking about is about the consequential impact and each state has started that process,” he disclosed. Fayemi, who is also Ekiti State governor, admitted that the financial capacity of the states were not the same. “There may be states that are in a position to pay N50,000. “What we can tell you is that no state will pay less than N30,000 when we finally get to that point,” he said. The meeting was briefed by Conference of Speakers of the State Houses of Assembly, “on some constitutional matters,” which Fayemi described as “very fruitful deliberation.” In a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting, the forum said it was briefed by the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, on the Geo-Referenced Infrastructure and Demographic Data for Development (GRID3) programme in Nigeria. The programme, Fayemi explained, would ensure that state governments have the right information in identifying where people live and how critical services could be most equitably and effectively allocated. “Members pledged to work with the ministry, by providing the right institutional arrangements in all states to ensure that each state supports the generation and management of geospatial data,” he promised. He disclosed that the FY2018 Independent Verification Assessment (IVA) exercise conducted across states by the Auditor General of the Federation (AuGF) and the World Bank, would be concluded in January 2020 while the transfer of 2018 grants to states would be in March next year. According to him, as State Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) implementing partner, the NGF Secretariat will carry out regional sensitization workshops in March 2020 “and kick start the provision of technical assistance to states through customized just-in-time advisory and training, exchange visits and peer learning events.” The governor also stated that a delegation led by Deputy High Commissioner of the United Kingdom to Nigeria, Mrs. Harriet Thompson, briefed the forum on the UK-Africa Investment Summit 2020, which will be hosted by the UK Prime Minister in January. The Forum received an update on the health priorities, especially Universal Healthcare, Nutrition and on the Polio Eradication Initiative, including the Seattle Declaration. The governors reiterated their commitment to an effective implementation and tracking of the Seattle commitment. Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, yesterday, said the arrears of consequential adjustment for the new minimum wage will be paid to workers in December. Ahmed gave the assurance while answering questions from stakeholders during the highlights and breakdown of the approved 2020 budget in Abuja. She said the Federal Government had made adequate provision to pay the arrears of the consequential adjustments of the approved new minimum wage for federal civil servants. “I want to confirm to you that we have made adequate provision in the 2020 budget on the issue of minimum wage. “And we are also planning to pay the arrears of the consequential adjustments in December,” she added.