Thousands of youths loyal to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, yesterday, protested against the planned mega rally to receive a former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in the state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and other defectors into the ruling party. The visibly angry youths blocked the two sides of the busy Airport Road, in Benin City, setting bonfire that impeded vehicular movement as well as causing panic in the state capital. They also set the bonfire around Golf Course, Akenzua junction and along Akenzua Road, all in Benin metropolis, thereby disrupting human and vehicular movements. In a swift reaction, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, suspended the rally till further notice, citing “overriding internal security interests.” This is as the state government ordered the closure of all schools today (Friday) over what it described as “disturbing security report concerning the use of school premises for a political rally.” The APC rally was slated to hold at Garrick Memorial College, Ekenwan Road. The protesting APC youths, who said they were drawn from the 192 wards in the state, insisted that the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, must toe the path of peace by cancelling the rally to avoid plunging Edo into further crisis. Spokesman for the protesters, Mr. Imafidon Utete, said they were on the streets to protest against plans to disrupt public peace under the guise of receiving PDP members into the APC. His words: “We the Edo APC youths and other persons will resist any attempt to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the state. We have been enjoying peace in the state and this has brought development to different sectors of the economy. “How would somebody try to join a party by forcing himself in? The governor has said he is not aware of any rally and they want to come and cause crisis here. We will not allow them.” The police’s suspension of the rally was contained in a letter addressed to the Edo State Deputy Governor, Hon. Philip Shaibu, and signed by the Principal Staff Officer to the IGP, ACP Idowu Owohunwa. The letter read: “In cognizance of the security consequences of the proposed mega rally, I am to confirm that the Inspector General of Police has directed the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Command to emplace appropriate security framework that is directed at suspending the rally until further notice. “He has also been directed to summon a meeting of all parties involved in the political development with a view to engaging them towards giving effect to his directives in overriding internal security interests.” Announcing the closure of schools, the state government, in a statement signed by the Commissioner for Education, Barr. Jimoh Ijegbai, said it is disturbed about the tensed security situation in the city. Ijegbai stated: “I am to add that on no account should the premises of the schools be used for any political rally, gathering, event or other purposes by whatever nomenclature or in whatever guise. “May I state, for the avoidance of any doubt, that any attempt to disobey this directive will result in such schools being closed down indefinitely.” In another development, Governor Obaseki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said he is not aware of the proposed rally by the party in the state. Obaseki said: “We want to reiterate that we are not aware of any rally being organised in the state by the APC. As the leader of the party, it is only proper that the governor is made aware of any such rally. But as at today, we are not aware of any rally, as there has not been communication between the governor’s office and the party chairman to that effect. “We want to consequently warn troublemakers to steer clear of the state and not attempt actions that would lead to a breach of peace. During the last security meeting, we reviewed the situation in the state and zeroed in on the rising cult clashes in the state. Relevant security agencies have been put on notice to check the incident and ensure that people celebrate the Yuletide season in peace.” Meanwhile, the apex socio-cultural youth group in Edo State, Edo Youth Vanguard (EYV) has warned the national leadership of the APC to steer clear of the state over the planned rally scheduled for today. In a statement issued in Benin by its president, Nosakhare Oseghale and Secretary General, Edward Ikhide, the EYV questioned the rationale behind the proposed rally, stating that the timing and approach are not only wide off the mark, but has sinister motives of eventually fomenting pandemonium to create an impression of anarchy in the state. According to the group, issues of public safety are hanging in the balance if the purported rally is allowed to take place, adding that available security reports clearly give credence to the apprehension that the event has sinister motives. EYM statement read in part: “We are amused that some politicians are planning an ill-conceived political rally for Friday and it is being done without the knowledge of the state’s Chief Security Officer, Governor Godwin Obaseki, who is on a national assignment with President Muhammadu Buhari. “More curious on the ill-timed proposed rally was the complete and deliberate neglect of the party’s state executive led by its chairman, Mr. Anslem Ojezua. So, the question begging for answer is, who is the Abuja team organizing the rally for? “This is the Yuletide season and there are already movements within and outside the state. Why the desperation to pull down the fragile peace in our state just to prove that a deteriorating influence is still potent? “For all intents and purposes, this planned rally is provocative and highly susceptible to violence. How can you guarantee the safety of Edo people in a rally where neither the state governor, who is the leader of the APC in Edo State, nor other leaders of the party is aware of the purported declaration rally?”