Minister of State, Federal Capital Territory, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has said that the FCT Administration would remain  committed to the establishment of a Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zone. Aliyu  disclosed this  when a delegation of the  Africa Development Bank (AfDB), led by the Senior Special Advisor to the president of AfDB on industrialization, Prof. Banji Oyeyinka, visited her in Abuja. She noted that the agro-industrial processing zone was part of the efforts geared  towards achieving Mr. President’s  agenda of lifting 100 million youth out of poverty  through  the agricultural value chains. The Minister noted that Abuja, the nation’s capital was becoming an important business hub in Africa and therefore needed an agro-processing zone that would help government’s diversification policy in agriculture. The minister assured the people that provision will be made for the programme  in the proposed year 2020 budget, adding that the FCT Administration will earmark up to 500 hectares of land for  the facility. She explained that the Administration will leverage on the strides of the Federal Government’s Ease of Doing Business, the new network of roads and rails and the  expanded world class Abuja Airport. According to her, the FCT is traditionally strong in livestock, rice (cereals), horticulture, tubers, vegetables and varieties of economic trees. “The FCTA is committed to the Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zone and we will demonstrate our readiness in ensuring that the first zone is set up here in our corridor.  As the seat of power to the largest economy in Africa, the FCT-SAPZ will be a thing of pride to Mr. President. “I look forward to briefing Mr. President soon that the FCTA is taking up the challenge to being the first to implement the SAPZ as a step towards achieving his agenda of lifting 100 million youth out of poverty”, she said. Earlier, the leader of delegation, Prof. Banji Oyeyinka, lamented that Africa has huge production lag when compared to Asian countries, warning that if Africa fails to improve, the continent would remain at the level of subsistence farming. Oyeyinka  noted that postharvest losses is extremely high in Africa and called on FCT Administration for the establishment of the Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zone that will create jobs for over 20, 000 youths. He revealed that AfDB had identified six zones in Nigeria for the establishment of SAPZ, but not on geopolitical basis, just as he identified lack of political will by the previous administration as major setback for the takeoff of the project in Nigeria.