Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, and three senior lawyers have commended the Federal Government for releasing from detention, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, leader of the ‘Revolution Now Movement”, and Col. Sambo Dasuki, former National Security Adviser. Governor Fayemi hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for the release of Dasuki and Sowore from detention. Fayemi said President Buhari’s intervention has once again confirmed that he is a stickler for due process and an apostle of the rule of law. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, Governor Fayemi described the President’s gesture, which came on the Christmas eve, as a good Christmas gift for the duo, their families and associates as well as a soothing balm for the country. “Again, the President has demonstrated that he is the father of the nation through his intervention that led to the release from detention of the two prominent citizens,” he said. Dr. Fayemi, who is the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, said he was particularly happy that the two prominent citizens regained their freedom, while hearing in their cases continued. This, he said, should be the norm. “The President, by this intervention, has reinforced the fact that nobody is deemed guilty of an offence until pronounced guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction. “This is good for the country. We congratulate Col. Dasuki and Sowore and salute the President for the fatherly gesture,” Fayemi added.Reacting to the release order on Tuesday, Dasuki’s lawyer, Mr. Ahmed Raji, (SAN) gave thanks to God, President Mohammadu Buhari and Nigerians. “We thank God Almighty; we thank God Almighty, and we thank God Almighty. We thank the President of our country, the Attorney-General of the Federation. “We also thank the entire judiciary and all Nigerians. It is well with us. May God continue to be with all of us,” Raji said. On his part, Mr. Sebastian Hon (SAN) called it a welcome development. “Although belated, it is a welcome development. The continued detention of these fellows was detestable. “The axiom is that the judiciary is the last hope of the common man. “This is a welcome sign that the world is a global village because the whole world was involved in seeking their release.” Hon called for the release of others in similar situations, especially El Zakzaky. Also reacting, Mr. Mike Ozekhome (SAN) described the order for the release as salutary for democracy, respect for fundamental rights of the citizens and observance of rule of law. “I am happy the government has finally seen what I saw in 2015, when I kicked against the incarceration of Dasuki. “It is never too late to take corrective measures and make amends. There is nothing like something good happening at a bad time, just something bad happening at a good time.” He urged the government to extend the gesture to El Zakzaky, leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria.