Lagos State chapter of the Independent Petroleum marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) Ejigbo Depot, yesterday sponsored over 200 petroleum tanker drivers on a one-day safety awareness seminar. The seminar was held at IPMAN head office at Ejigbo, Lagos. The lecture at the seminar was delivered by the Lagos Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Hyginus Omeje, represented by the Route Commander, Olasehinde Egbontan, and assisted by officials of the NNPC, Ejigbo Depot. In his welcome address, the IPMAN Chairman, Mr. Akin Akinrinade (a barrister), appreciated the contributions of the drivers in the downstream sector. Akinrinade said the training was organised for the drivers, not because IPMAN doubted their competence, but because learning “is a lifelong thing”. According to him, the training is a continuous process. He said: “Road traffic safety refers to the methods and measures used to prevent road users from being killed or seriously injured. In our peculiar case, it refers to methods and measures used to prevent both human and material loss. “We deal in highly volatile products; somebody called them liquid fire. There is no product that our drivers transport on our behalf that is not highly inflammable. “This programme is, therefore, to improve their capacity to be sane in the course of ‘haulaging’ our highly inflammable products and, at the same time, deliver our products without endangering lives of the populace for which the products are meant.” Delivering the lecture on behalf of the sector commander, Egbontan said the Federal Government, from January 2020, would roll out some regulations for all the petroleum tanker drivers nationwide because of the carnage caused by reckless, impatient, dangerous and carefree drivers on the major roads; apart from the safety inspection tanker vehicles would undergo every year. Egbontan charged the drivers not to manage tanker vehicle breaks. He also advised them to, among some other things, desist from using phones while driving, learn defensive management of trucks on the road, avoid naked  wire on trucks, stop and park when vehicle is leaking fuel.