T he ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday described the Governor of Bayelsa State, Serieka Dickson as a failure and prodigal son.   The party’s position came in reaction to the governor’s claim that he avoided matching force with force in the last governorship election in Bayelsa State, which his party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) lost to APC.   Governor Dickson had on Monday said over 12 persons were killed, while several others were injured during that election.   But in swift reacting to the election, APC in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issah-Onilu in Abuja, said: “Following the resounding victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, David Lyon, in the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State, the outgoing Governor, Seriake Dickson has blamed everyone, including public institutions, but himself for the loss of the PDP and his governorship candidate, who he tried unsuccessfully to foist on the state.   “If Governor Dickson should stand before the mirror, he would see himself as a failure and should allow himself to carry out self-evaluation.   “He should sit down to ask himself critical questions: How did he waste the opportunity he had to become a hero in a state that badly needs one? A state with the fourth highest federal allocation among the 36 states; benefitting from huge oil derivation funds; ranked 27th among 36 states in terms of landmass; least populated of the 36 states, yet has nothing to show for it.   “Governor Dickson should be accounting for his stewardship. He should account for how his oversized ego cost him and PDP the governorship election in Bayelsa State. Governor Dickson, for eight years, did what a typical PDP governor would do; he ran a directionless government, he squandered the state resources, and had no traceable positive impact on Bayelsa State.   “Rather than sounding ridiculous in an attempt to look for a scapegoat by blaming everyone else apart from himself, the governor should explain how he single-handedly chased away other PDP leaders.   “APC did not need to intimidate the voters or arm-twist the agencies involved in the electoral process in Bayelsa State. Apart from the fact that it is not our way, we actually had an easy victory in Bayelsa. Thanks to Governor Dickson himself for making victory easy for us. Dickson failed woefully on all fronts. He failed the people of Bayelsa, who are daily faced with the reality of underdevelopment. There are no good roads, no schools, hospitals and no visible improvement on their social life.   “On Monday, it was disclosed by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) that the inoperative and non-functional N60 billion Bayelsa International Airport, which Governor Dickson “launched” in February was constructed without perimeter fencing, the number one safety requirement for any airport.   “Surprisingly, Governor Dickson still wonders why the PDP lost the Bayelsa governorship election.”