Y oung Entrepreneurs in the country have decried the effects of multiple taxes on micro businesses in the country.  They said that the recent approval by the Federal Executive Council to increase  Value Added Tax ( VAT)  rate from five  per cent to 7.2 per cent,  would  adversely impact  on the growth of micro businesses in the country.   One of the entrepreneurs, Ms. Nneka Osueke,  while addressing young entrepreneurs during the End of the Year Dinner of Entheos Entrepreneurs Corner, in Abuja,  noted that many young businesses do not survive in Nigeria due to  the heavy burden of multiple taxes.  Osueke noted that the uncoordinated ways through which several government’s agencies imposed  and collected multiple taxes do not speak well of Nigeria’s  business environment.  She stated that government does not have any justifiable reasons to subject business owners to multiple taxes, when there are inadequate infrastructure for business growth. Osueke said that government should have created an enabling platform for a seamless entrepreneurship development and micro business growth for starters, before increasing VAT that would indirectly hamper the survival of the new ventures.   She called on Nigerian government to emulate the Chinese government that buys off up to 70 per cent of products of micro business owners. According to her, such policy does not only boost entrepreneurial spirit but inspires economic development and growth. “In my own office, sometimes, you see up to four  government agencies coming to ask for different taxes. As a small business,  government is supposed to support me , not to burden the business. In a country like China, if you have a product as an entrepreneur, what the government there does is to buy off like 70 per cent of your products, so that if you are selling, you would have made your profit.  “But a situation where government puts a lot of pressure on small business,  of course, the business will die because already in the system you don’t have the base where entrepreneurs will thrive. So, every entrepreneurs keep saying,  ‘I am a small business,  there is no plan, no infrastructure for businesses to grow.’  So, when you keep having heavy tax rates on small business,  how will the business grow? In our organizations,  we help small businesses to grow from the scratch”, she said.   Osueke called  on  the government to provide quality infrastructure that will engender entrepreneurial development in the country,  stressing  that it would be important for relevant agencies to ensure that implementation of the new VAT regime does not further endanger micro businesses. She   noted that her organization had  taken the responsibility of helping intending entrepreneurs start and grow young businesses into a reliable economic hub.