 A rights activist and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Femi Falana, has said the Department of State Services (DSS) cannot absolve itself of responsibility for the desecration of a Federal High Court in Abuja occasioned by its invasion by some armed operatives of the agency in their quest to re-arrest the Convener of#RevolutionNowgroup, Omoyele Sowore.   The silk said it is self-contradictory for the DSS to claim on one hand that Sowore’s arrest was stage-managed by his supporters while at the same time admitting that its operatives arrested Sowore outside the court’s premises.  The DSS had, in a statement after last Friday’s incident, disclosed that Sowore was mobbed by his “supporters” who were trying to shield him from ‘an imaginary arrest’ and that its operatives never invaded the court.  However, in his response, Falana, who represented Sowore in court on the day of the incident, insisted that the DSS was solely responsible for the desecration of the hallowed chambers of the court as well as the ‘illegal’ arrest of his client.   He said DSS’ claims that the arrest was stage-managed could not hold water as it is difficult to believe that Sowore’s supporters will subject him to brutalisation in the presence of DSS operatives.  “Why were they not arrested for contravening the provisions of the Anti-Torture Act, 2017? Or were the DSS operatives expecting the supporters of a defendant to kill him in their presence?” Falana asked.  According to Falana, “The abominable desecration of the Federal High Court was covered live by domestic and international media outfits and journalists, some of whom were also direct victims of the gangsterism, barbarism and brutalisation displayed by officers of the Service on the 6th day of December 2019.”  Recounting the chain of events on the day of the incident, Falana said: “As soon as the case was adjourned, the DSS pounced on Sowore and caused a disruption of the proceedings of the court. Having taken over the courtroom, Justice Ojukwu hurriedly rose and asked the registrar to adjourn all other cases. After the learned trial judge had risen for the day, she summoned the heads of the prosecution and defence teams to her chambers.  “When the lead prosecutor, Dr. Liman Hassan (SAN) denied knowledge of the invasion of her court, she directed him to invite the head of the DSS team in the court. When challenged to justify the invasion of the court, the officer could not. He apologised to Justice Ojukwu on behalf of the DSS. The judge then directed the officer to withdraw the DSS operatives from the courtroom. The directive was complied with as the operatives withdrew from the courtroom, but rushed out to join their colleagues who had taken over the entire court house.   “Notwithstanding that the DSS could not produce any warrant of arrest for Sowore, the defence team decided that I should accompany him to the DSS headquarters in view of his physical brutalisation inside the court room and the open threat to his life.   “I did and ensured that he was driven in my car to the DSS headquarters where I handed him over to the officers on duty. Thereafter, I requested for a meeting with the head of the DSS, but I was informed that he was not in the office.” The silk also faulted claims by the DSS that it is law abiding, saying its activities pointed to the contrary.   “The DSS says it is a law abiding institution. But why did it refuse to comply with the order of Justice Taiwo to release Sowore? Why did the DSS threaten to report the judge to the NJC for granting bail to Sowore?   “Why did the DSS subject the order of Justice Ojukwu for the release of Sowore to its own approval by asking the sureties already verified by the judge to report themselves to it? Why did the DSS wait for the 24-hour ultimatum issued by the trial judge before releasing Sowore and Bakare?” he asked.   Falana, while demanding for the immediate release of Sowore, all political detainees and criminal suspects who have been admitted to bail pending trial by competent courts, added that bizarre harassment of courts cannot be tolerated under a democratically-elected government that claims to operate under the rule of law.