The story of Otunba Wanle Akinboboye who is the founder of La Campagne Tropicana Beach Resort in Ikegun Village, Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos is like that of a mustard seed cast in 1984 in that dreaded forest, alone in a small tent. But almost 40 years on, La Campagne has assumed a larger-than-life status and on the global tourism map as the best African themed resort ever. In a conversation with ANDREW IRO OKUNGBOWA, Akinboboye reminisce on his life’s trajectory and keeping the flame of the resort aglow  What in your view has kept the flame of the resort aglow almost 40 years after you first set foot on this jungle now turned into an enchanting destination by you? I think what we fail to realise as a people is that there are some persons that are called for a particular cause and for a particular reason. When you are called for a particular cause there will be passion associated with that calling. It is that passion that sustains the business. Without that passion you will have issues. If you weave it around automatic success then you will fail. Because associated with any journey there will be several failures but what makes you get up and proceed is the passion that you have for it.  Talking about being called, how did the call for this lifetime project happen for you? You know a calling is usually not by the person that is called. A calling is divine. But when you are called, you usually don’t know why. Through inspiration things are happening. The first place that I camped in 1984 is Akodo Ise. Till today the road has not reached the place. This road (Pointing to the direction of the main raid leading to the resort) that you are looking at has not reached it. I left Akodo Ise to Lepia, it is next to Ikegun. We had actually started and till today our foundation is still there but they had issues, family problems and what not. Then I told the baale, ‘sorry, tourism can’t thrive in a hostile environment’ and I left for this present location in Ikegun. Every time the baale crosses over here from zero development in Lepia, and he is going to Ikegun, he will stop and be looking at what would have happen. Today, Ikegun is on the world map as it is known all over the world. So many of the women scouring the beach front and floors have built their houses here. Some of them their entire ancestry has never built a house but they have their own houses, concrete houses built in the village. When I first came here I think they had a maximum of seven concrete houses and the rest where thatched roofs and bamboo houses but today they have over 2,000 concrete houses. A Leonard Da Vinci can never know what inspired him to draw a Monalisa. Some people are called for those purposes. So, in short, you usually don’t know why or how you are called.  But how did it all begin for you? I started in a tent; I camped in a tent all alone. It might sound unbelievable but I am an African and I came in with a passion of company building. Then I said this is what I need to do to have a practical company building movement. Put something on the ground. N o t theory b ecause there are so many theories and conferences. The best of the best have spoken the best of English. But for me, it is practical application in Tourism, Security, and Entertainment. We need to create our own stories, do things of this nature. I find it a bit funny when people are surprised that I camped in the forest all alone. But when I camped here people lived in Akodo Ise, Lepia, Ikegun and the other villages for years before I came.   How will you describe the journey from that little tent in 1984 to the massive development that the resort has become today? I have a saying that ‘if it was easy everybody would have done it.’ Here you fight the elements of the environment, the weather, the salty air that destroys things. And when you are dealing with a community and you are sandwiched between two villages, I think about 75 percent of them will have a reason for this not happen. Even in the village that’s benefiting from it there is the issue of human jealousy. Then there’s the other village that might not even want such development for their next door neighbour because that will make their next door neighbour more powerful. The resort has hosted and it is still hosting ambassadors. It is hosting governors, hosting top level business people and they see Europeans go in and out. It is understandable and then you fight the aspect of even your staff. The most difficult aspect that you find difficult to believe is even the fact that the local people are more interested in being westernised rather than embracing their own culture. They have this inferiority complex that if they don’t speak English they are not intelligent, classy and are not accepted.   But why is this complex coming to play even in a local environment such as this? I tell all my friends that is where African development is buried because among these 774 local government areas that house over 92 percent of Nigeria, that is where the Leonardo Da Vinci, and Ralph Lauren are, the inventors are, the Bill Gates are. But the only shortcoming that they have is because they can’t speak the language that is not theirs and so they die with their creativity. 1.4 billion Chinese people living on 9.6 million kilometres square area, you can come from the remotest part of China and have an idea and nobody will look at you in a condescending manner because you don’t speak English. And it is not about speaking English or not speaking English, it is really more of the condemnation or the condescending manner that we approach the concept that this man does not speak English and speak it well with a bit of American or British twist. So, the 923, 766 square kilometres area of Nigeria is basically being developed by less than 5 percent of the population and the less than 5 percent of the population may probably not be the brightest. The fact that you went to the United States of America does not make you brilliant but what it does is that it expands your horizon, gives you exposure. It doesn’t give you creativity or was I the only one that went to America? How many people that have been to the US have come back to do what we have done here?  How then did you get beyond this challenge to unearth the latent potential of the people and communities as you seem to have done with this project?] What is not in you cannot come out of you. This is just a small portion of the 804 kilometres of beach front that we have in Nigeria. Just take the ocean economy, the ocean knowledge, and the ocean experience that is buried in these communities; from Lagos to Bayelsa, to Delta, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross River and Ondo. How are we going to deal with this as a people? When are we going to take advantage of our advantage in order for us to have an advantage? The truth is the only time that you have an advantage is when you take advantage of your advantage. The whole of England is 136 square kilometres areas, but Nigeria has 923, 766 square kilometres and they have two months to fully operate under good weather and we are rushing there every day, struggling to go in there. Japan can only access over 60,000 square kilometres areas out of it 337, 000 squares kilometres areas but they took advantage of their advantage, using their brains. They had 5 trillion Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2017/2018 while the whole continent of Africa had 3.3 trillion GDP, with 30 million square kilometres areas, and 1.2billion population and another 1.3billion outside of the continent. The total population of Japan is 182 million and out of all known natural resources in the world they have zero. We have it all. You see the resort, when I started planting grass people said I was mad. Grass on sand! I’m sure you didn’t notice it (looking around) but now you are looking around! Oh, that is true. Most people don’t think about it. You see the water will come and cover the grass and it will go and the grass is still alive. So, you have sand, you have a bit of concrete and you have grass.  What has been the most challenging thing that you have had to conquer to get this far? That is a very deep question because you know when you have done something for so long, two, three and four decades, with triple taxation and so many strange things and lack of acknowledgement by the right people who should have showed support. I think it is extremely difficult. I have to think about it. If it is just three, four, five years you can remember but when you are talking about four decades, it is a bit difficult to point to one thing because it has always been one challenge after the other till today.  What are some of the lessons for you? The biggest lesson is that before you give up on anything you must think about the years that you will lose when you give up. Because if I have given up even five years ago and I say I’m tired, I would not have got from the government of Ethiopia 150 hectares of land to develop a hot spring, the first African natural hot spring resort in the world, to develop a river and mountain resort, all adjacent to the hot spring and connecting both attractions and transforming those two major attractions within a 150 hectare of land into a destination. I have seen all kinds of strange things but in the last two weeks (prior to the interview day) I saw the strangest of them all. I need you to imagine that our president, Muhammadu Buhari, wakes up today and just said to himself, ‘this Aso Rock is meant for the people, therefore, I am going to transform it into a tourist attraction. I’m going to build a legacy in Aso Rock; I’m going to build a museum, a zoo and the history of Nigeria from colonial times till date. And I’m going to take just 10 percent of Aso Rock and I will live there. I will dismantle the security barriers on the road, open it to the public.’ That is what the prime minister of Ethiopia has done. (I see you are surprised). When I entered the place, the history of Haile Selassie, the first car that Haile Selassie used, the dungeon where they used to jail and kill people and you have a video where you watch the people that have gone through torture and they are talking about their experiences. And I understand that once in a while the prime minister will come in to meet and greet people although I didn’t see him during my visit. This happened just two months ago at the presidential palace and he invited world leaders to the opening ceremony.  A lesson for Africa continent It is a lesson that the entire continent of Africa should learn from and he said to the leaders that ‘my focus is tourism and it must begin with me. I don’t need all of these (the presidential palace), it belongs to the people. Let the people come in and learn their history. Let them come and see what was done yesterday, let them come and experience what we went through so that we can learn from our history and so that we can have a better future.’ Soldiers are still there but they will screen you and check your bag, top level security. I spent two and half hours there and walked through everything and they will tell you areas that you can’t go. And in one week, they gave me, a Nigerian, an African, the number one natural resource that they have, hot spring that is only in about three or four locations in the world. Signed, sealed and delivered. I had a member of the parliament follow me to the land to confirm, with ministers. That for me is the strangest that I have seen.  On the state of Nigerian tourism What you don’t understand is that oil is a bye product of tourism. If one million or two million people come to Nigeria today and we are moving them around, you know how much fuel we will need? We might not even need to export our petrol if we take advantage of our advantage with the over 1.3billion people; we are the only region in the world, the Africa continent, that has 1.3 billion of its people scattered across the world. If we take that lemon and with the lemon of slavery, we squeeze it and we add sugar and water and transform it to lemonade, turn it to an advantage and take advantage of that. If Dubai can get 20million or 25million tourists a year we should be getting 100million. If we do 100 million or even 50 million and they are moving from here to Ife to see the Ooni of Ife, to Benin to see the Oba of Benin, to the east to see the bunker of Ojukwu and we weave the right story behind it and they go to Mount Patti in Kogi State where Nigeria name was pronounced Niger -Area, we will be moving in right direction. We have so much history and even if you replicate the life of Mary Slessor, you know how many Irish people that will come and see that? So, if you take advantage of all of these and you bring just 10 million people we won’t need to export our oil. And that is what Ghana is doing with the year of return project. They have just started; I hope you are following the trend. Just last month or so they gave 200 people from the Diaspora citizenship. A lot more are coming and they have taken advantage of their advantage. No one can take advantage of slavery but Africans. No one can have the advantage of slavery like Africans, not the Europeans. We have gone across the world, we have learnt their ways and we have produced the best footballers, the best singers, the best boxers and the best dancers, the best astronauts and the best technologists. But it will take a concerted effort like it took a concerted effort for them to take us on our part to bring them back.  Do you ever entertain fears over the future of the resort? Well, I don’t know the meaning of that word, the only thing I fear is the day I start entertaining fear. That is the only thing that I fear, the day I start entertaining fear that is the day that I will panic. The growth of the resort is basically from the passion associated with it and based on that you have to remember the idea behind it in the first place. In retrospect, what that 29 year-old boy was thinking then was that he wanted to create an authentic African theme resort that he could sell all over the world the way Marriott Hotels is, with over 3,000 hotels, the biggest chain in the world. Think about La Campagne in just 1,000 locations, what will happen to the talking drum man that we buy talking drums from to hang on every door? Maybe there will be over a million doors then and so you sell maybe five million talking drums. And then you have the mat weavers, the African food market etc. It is massive.