The Chairman of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar (III), has condemned the Nigeria Christian Association (CAN) claims that Christians in the country were facing persecution. The Sultan described as false, insinuations by the United States as well as CAN that Christians were being persecuted in Nigeria. The monarch dismissed CAN’s allegations at Bayero University, at the opening ceremony of the 77th annual Islamic Vacation Course (IVC), organised by Zone A of the Muslim Students Society of Nigeria (MSSN). He argued that, if the alleged persecution exists, it is unethical for it to be tabled at an interfaith forum, where both Christian and Muslim leadership meet periodically, to brainstorm on harmonious co-existence between the two dominant religions. Abubakar expressed shock, with the CAN’s allegation that Christian were being persecuted. The Sultan noted that the numerous atrocities allegedly committed by Fulani herdsmen, were by no means ignited by religion, pointing out that not all Fulanis were Muslims. Furthermore, the monarch clarified that many Fulanis are atheists, whose main interest is to protect their cattle, adding that the Islamic Supreme leader have already appealed to Muslim faithful not to be provoked by such statement, describing it, as false and partial. In his address, the Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammad Sanusi (II), said the issues of Almajiris phenomenon was rather a societal one not religious. The Emir attributed the increasing rate of out-of-school children to uncontrolled polygamy, as well as the escalating rate of divorce, which he described as purely societal. He blamed the worrisome high poverty level in Northwest and Northeastern part of Nigeria to the misinterpretation of Islamic religion. In his remarks, the Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, who was represented by the Commander General of Hisbah Board, Harun Ibn-Sina, said the state government is committed to upholding Islamic values. He said the state government had banned mixing opposite sex in tricycle across the state from January, 2020. Ganduje, however, charged participants to concentrate on their studies and shun drug abuse, which he said has destroyed youths. The Islamic Vacation Course (IVC) was attended by students of secondary schools and tertiary institutions from the 19 Northern states and Abuja According to him, the US, based it on the compilation from an assembly of persons, to include Nigeria under the watch list of countries that engage in the violation of religious freedom, stressing that it is not true. “I have travelled to so many countries, including the US. None of these countries have such an erroneous impression that Nigeria engages in violation of religious freedom,” he added. While describing the statement, credited to the US, as unfortunate, the Sultan charged the Federal Government to come alive to its responsibilities by disowning the sad and erroneous impression about Nigeria. Also, the Sultan disclosed that the council, is working tirelessly to change the narrative.