 The violence that occurred during the recent governorship election in Kogi and Bayelsa states, sparked outrage across Nigeria and beyond.  In this interview, a former Director General, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Alhaji Idi Farouk tells ONWUKA NZESHI that the electoral umpire and referee of the political contest should be held liable for these bad elections  How would you describe the state of the nation today?  There is poverty. There is a lot of hunger and it seems as if the government is a little bit slow in rectifying all these problems that people have.  There is also insecurity. Although to be fair to the government, I think it is beginning to reduce, but we as Nigerians expect that the reduction is heavier and faster.  But generally speaking, I that I will advise the government to be up and doing in all that it does. We need more security and we need improvements in our welfare as citizens.  Basically, I rate the government a bit too slow on the path of development of our country.  Indeed, most Nigerians are feeling this pain of hunger in the land. I know this because I have dependants and I am also a dependant in some ways.  I think that the government should look at ways and means of taking us out of this quagmire of poverty and hunger.  Today there are only three classes of people in Nigeria – the very rich, the poor and the very poor.  What used to be known as the middle class who comprised of citizens who are doing averagely well and relatively comfortable, has vanished from the scene.  What exactly do you want the administration to do that it has not done?  Normally, when an administration is in this kind of situation, people expect it to embark on massive infrastructure development but it appears that the budget is a little bit on the low side in terms of capital expenditure. We need to have an increase in the 2020 budget because when you have a lot of infrastructural development and construction works going on, it has a multiplier effect on the economy. I think that the N250 billion which they said was budgeted for the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing is on the low side and cannot produce the kind of impact that is required to move the economy out of the woods and many Nigerians out of poverty.  The 2019 budget came with a lot of deficit which would require the government borrowing money to fill the gaps.  Are you comfortable with this situation?  I have no problem with the issue of borrowing as long as what is borrowed is channeled appropriately to specific capital projects. I have no problems with borrowing because even in our everyday life, people borrow when they don’t have enough money to fulfill certain family and business obligations.  When you don’t have enough, you can borrow as long as you don’t squander the money on frivolities. So, I don’t join those who think Nigeria should not borrow money to fund our budget. I think we can borrow as long as we ensure the fund is properly utilised.  Indeed, some experts think that Nigeria is not borrowing enough given our population and the size of our economy. I am not an economist but I know that borrowing is not a bad thing. A typical Nigerian man would proudly announce to you that he built his house without borrowing a dime from anybody but he probably should have borrowed and used other people’s money to build the house and use that personal money for another business. What’s your view about the recent elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states?  I must say that it was a huge embarrassment because, according to the Police authorities,   the number of policemen assigned to those two elections was over 60,000. I am not talking about the other security operatives from the DSS, Civil Defence and even the military that were deployed to these elections.  Are you telling me that with such number of security personnel deployed to those two states we still witnessed that unprecedented level of violence? As far as I am concerned there was no election in Kogi State. Clearly there was no election in Kogi. It was so violent to the extent that even after the so called election, the Woman Leader of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) was burnt alive inside her own home. To make matters worse, after many days of the incident, the Police did nothing to investigate the incident and arrest the perpetrators.  It took the intervention of the President a few days ago before the police could act.  This is unacceptable. Was there really an election in Kogi?  I don’t think there was and I think that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has failed in its responsibility to conduct free, fair and credible elections. But INEC has absolved itself and blamed the violence during the election on politicians and security agencies.  How do you react to this position?  Excuse me.  What do they mean by that?  About a month ago, I heard the INEC Chairman, Prof.  Mahmoud Yakubu say that they got a conviction on an individual who committed an electoral offence in Gombe State.  Every election in Nigeria is fraught with a lot of violence and going by what we saw in that last election, some INEC officials are also complicit in the electoral fraud. We saw some of them involved in mass thumb printing of ballot papers and till today, not even one person has been arrested.  The only people that we heard have been arrested are the suspected killers of the PDP Woman Leader in Kogi. But there was shooting all over the place during the so called election. How can the electoral umpire close its eyes to all these things?   You heard the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Abubakar Adamu admitting that there was violence in Kogi but that it was perpetrated by fake policemen or hoodlums in police uniform.  That testimony coming from the top hierarchy of the police is enough reason to cancel the election in the entire state.  For INEC to absolve itself, it should have cancelled the election.  How can they blame it on the politicians? If you are watching a football match, don’t you see what referees do?  Even when a coach or team manager misbehaves, the referee sends him out of the pitch.  Why INEC is called an electoral umpire if it cannot regulate the activities of the politicians and punish those who run foul of the law?  INEC is the referee of this game yet it didn’t perform well at all.  You cannot tell me that after all the violence in that election in places  like Okene, Okehi and Adavi local government areas, INEC did not only accept results obtained from, it gave it  to one party and to  the exclusion of the other political parties.  It is not right.  It doesn’t seem right.  Until INEC wakes up to its responsibility, its independence will remain doubtful. As it stands now, INEC’s independence has been taken away from it by political thugs, hooligans, security agencies and the courts.  INEC claims it has been conducting the elections within the limits of the powers conferred on it by the Electoral Act and the Constitution.  Don’t you think they are constrained by the laws?   I am happy that you used the word “claims” because it is only an excuse they are giving to dodge their responsibilities. INEC is in charge of our elections and that is why they are called the Election Management Body. It is the electoral umpire and if it feels that the election was fraught with violence, it has the powers to cancel the election.  They have done so in very minute cases.  For God’s sake, look at what happened in Kano during the last election, the Deputy Governor of the state and the Chairman of a local government council went into an INEC Collation Centre and tore the result sheets in the full glare of the world. Then INEC said that election was inconclusive     and ordered a rerun.  So they pick and choose what they want to do and that is not good. What would you have expected INEC to do in Kano?  I expected them to declare the real results of that election and declare the rightful winner. I also expected them to have ordered the arrest and prosecution of those who tampered with the electoral process. Do you mean that it is not Abdulahi Ganduje that won that election?  The courts say he has won.  Two courts have ruled that he won, so who am I to say he didn’t win the election? I am not challenging the courts, I’m challenging INEC for not being alive to its responsibilities ab initio.  Nigerians have lamented enough about bad elections,  what can we do to get out of this quagmire? Until INEC lives up to the expectations of the citizenry and stops the buck passing we can’t get out of this mess.  They blame police, they blame politicians and they refuse to take responsibility.  The police is not the one conducting the elections, they are only there to provide security.  When the police and other security agencies fail to provide security during an election, what do you expect INEC to do?  Excuse me, INEC’s  responsibility is  to conduct free, fair and credible elections at all times.  Therefore, if the elections are not free and fair but fraught with violence, if INEC officials are kidnapped and released later and they come with results, INEC has a responsibility to cancel such elections and call for another one.  If they have to repeat the elections five times for it to be good, so be it.  I think that is the only message that they can send to the political class to make them sit up.   INEC should not be blaming the police who are there on its invitation to help in the conduct of the election.  The police are there to arrest ballot box snatchers and other miscreants who may want to disrupt the electoral process.  If the police fails to  do its job there should be appropriate penalties and not mere blame games. Are you telling me that INEC did not see the evidences of a manipulated electoral process?  Are they blind to the facts of what we are seeing during these elections?   Ideally, anywhere there is a gunshot; INEC ought to cancel the election in that place and the election should be repeated. Let us try this measure and see how far we can go but really we cannot continue like this. It is my hope and prayer that the 9th National Assembly passes the Electoral Act Amendment Bill and Mr. President signs it into law.  Beyond cancelling elections in places where violence has taken place, don’t you think that disqualifying candidates who perpetrate violence could be a stronger deterrent?  I don’t think INEC has the powers to disqualify the candidates who have been duly nominated by their political parties.  But they have the power to cancel elections and they have shown it in several places. They usually declare some election inconclusive and do a rerun.  Is that not how the current Governor of Kogi State emerged?  After the death of Abubakar Audu, INEC declared the election inconclusive and ordered a rerun in some locations before they declared a winner. If INEC could do that, I expect it to take more decisive decisions in order to  assert its independence.  It has to prove that it has capacity to be independent. As I speak with you now, it’s like the courts are doing more than INEC is  in our electoral process. What about this feeling in INEC that its hands are tied by the laws?  Excuse me.  We have enough laws for INEC to conduct free, fair and credible elections.  I believe they know what to do and have enough powers under the laws to give us credible elections.  Are they not the ones that came up with the phenomenon of inconclusive?  There was inconclusive in Osun, there was inconclusive in Kano and there was also inconclusive in Kogi even before this last election.  What laws were they using?  Yes, they require getting the smart card reader as part of the law, but I insist that they have enough laws to conduct free and fair elections because they have the power to stop an election and they have the power to determine when the election would take place.  Even when they have fixed a date, they have the power to postpone an election. So what other powers do they require before they give us credible elections.  There are clamours for the amendment of the Electoral Act, do you think this would help INEC? That the Electoral Act has not been amended again does not remove any powers from INEC. Under the existing laws, INEC has the powers to conduct a proper election and they have been exercising those powers. Why then are we not having credible elections?  Is it a case of compromise?  I don’t want to call it compromise, but it seems to me that a lot of water has gone under the bridge.  What do you think about the role of the Police, Army and other security agencies are playing in our elections?  Look, I really don’t understand.  Honestly, I really can’t understand why for one election, you will have 35,000 policemen in one state and yet you find political thugs running riot all over the same state.  First, I don’t know how you will convey 35,000 policemen to a state and citizens would not seen the convoys as they move into the state.  Then to say that in spite of their presence, people are being killed, people are being maimed and ballot boxes are being snatched. It’s an indictment on the police authorities.  Their performance itself has indicted them, nobody else has indicted them.  As for the Nigeria Army, I really don’t know their role in these elections.  They shouldn’t even be part of our elections.  I want to believe that soldiers are citizens and if they are registered, they should also be voting in their respective polling units during elections. The less we see of them in our elections, the better. They have bigger things to do. What do you think about the Social Media bill?  Can it be regulated? Why do we need to waste time and energy to what we know we cannot do?  Even the various problems we have with other aspects of our lives we have not been able to resolve them.  How can we regulate something that is not really in our hands? Are we the ones managing the internet?  Really, let us apply our energy and resources to things that will be more meaningful to citizens instead of dissipating energy on hate speech and social media. As long as we don’t own the technology running the internet and we don’t manage what goes on there, I think we are wasting our time. Moreover, we also have the Cybercrime Act which seeks to do some regulation of what we do on the cyberspace. Some critics are of the view that these controversial bills are programmed to silence Nigerians and pave way for a third term agenda for President Buhari. Do you share this view? First of all, Mr. President, himself has said he has no intention to seek a third term because our Constitution does not allow it.  I saw him. I heard him. So where is this third term coming from?  He said that he will go by the Constitution and I don’t disbelieve him.  Don’t you think that given the character of the current National Assembly, there is a possibility that some of these laws and plots could succeed?  I agree that the National Assembly to advance large extent is working closely with the Executive but even the budget that is before them, you can see that it is not the way that Mr. President  submitted it to them that they will pass it. There has to be some changes.  So, it is healthy for the nation that the Presidency and the Legislature are working together.  As a matter of fact, they should work together. They are not supposed to be at loggerheads but that does not mean that everything Mr. President brings will be passed and every law they pass would be signed into law by Mr. President.  The Executive and the Legislature should work in harmony because they are supposed to complement each other.  As part of the budget process, the MDAs have been going to the National Assembly to defend their budgets before the lawmakers. What does that mean?   It means that there would be situations where some MDAs  might say the money allocated to them is not enough to carry out their functions and if the lawmakers buy that argument they will increase such a budget. So it is not the way the budget was when Mr President submitted it that the National Assembly will pass it.  So I think the relationship between both arms is healthy.  The shouldn’t be at daggers drawn before we know they are working.  Where do you think our President should come from on 2023?  The President must be a Nigerian. I am not interested in that argument of where he comes from.  He could be a Nigerian of Igbo extraction, a Nigerian of Yoruba extraction, a Nigerian of Hausa extraction or a Nigerian of Kanuri extraction.  But let us talk about politics properly. I heard that about 60 political parties came together to condemn the violence that marred the last governorship polls. Let us hope and pray that they become one political party so that we have fewer number of political parties to make the political space more manageable.  But let us look at the scenario very well.  Every party has its area of strength and I want to assure you that no party will go outside its area of strength to present its candidate for the Presidency. Is there really clear cut  areas of strength for our major political parties today?  Surely. They have areas of strength. Look at how the votings were done during the last election.  Check out the voting pattern and you will understand what I am talking about. No party worth its salt will go out of its area of strength to present a candidate because it is a competition and there is no party, particularly the two big parties.  There is a representation of every Nigerian in each of these parties.  This means that in the APC you have the Kanuri, Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba, Nupe and all other tribes inside the party.  So in choosing a candidate, the party will go to the area where it is popular.  The reason is that APC will be fighting it out against the PDP and this is why they usually wait for the other party to present its candidate  during the primaries.  Each of them would wait for the other to present its candidate first so that they know from which area he was picked.  So my take on this is that in 2023, 2027, 2031 and so on, we need a Nigerian that has foresight,  intellect and can take us out of the woods.  