Lawyers divided over planned  split of AGF, Justice Minister’s office   Will the separation of the office of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and the Minister of Justice halt the perceived undue executive influence of the occupier of the office? Lawyers say no, yes. AKEEM NAFIU reports   L awyers, at the weekend, could not speak with one voice regarding the desirability of the splitting of the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and that of the Minister of Justice.  Their reactions are coming on the heels of a renewed effort by the House of Representatives to split the office of the Minister of Justice from that of the Attorney-General of the Federation.  Already, a Bill seeking the amendment of Section 150 (1) of the Constitution which allows the merger of the AGF and the Justice Minister’s office has passed through the second reading at the Green Chambers. Section 150 (1) of the Constitution states that: “There shall be an Attorney-General of the Federation who shall be the Chief Law Officer of the Federation and a Minister of the Government of the Federation.”  However, the lawmakers believed that there was a need for a separation in order to ensure that the Attorney-General of the Federation effectively exercise his constitutional powers.  In his arguments, the sponsor of the Bill, Hon. Mohammed Monguno, noted that the powers vested in the Attorney-General by the Constitution were judicial in nature and as such it should not be subjected to political interference. Monguno, who is the Chief Whip of the House, said he took it upon himself to sponsor the Bill owing to his experience as a former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Borno State.  He disclosed that too much power was vested on the Minister or Commissioner for Justice in combining the two offices. According to him, the powers vested on the Attorney-General by the Constitution were judicial in nature and when exercised to the fullest would affect the rights of the people and therefore should not be subjected to political interference. The lawmaker further suggested that appointment of the Attorney-General should be based only on career progression.  However, the Bill had been referred to the Committee on Legislative Matters for further legislative action.  Meanwhile, the move by the House of Representatives to separate the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and that of the Minister of Justice has sparked row among lawyers. The lawyers, while baring their minds on the issue, expressed divergent views on the need for the separation. To some of them, the separation was long overdue, yet others, however, could not see the need for it.  For instance, a former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Augustine Alegeh (SAN), said nothing meaningful would be achieved by the separation until a system where offices were run independently of politicians was developed.  He said: “Well, that argument has been canvassed a number of times. For some, it makes very good sense, but apart from President Goodluck Jonathan, I have not seen any other president that has had an electoral commission that did not return him.  “Look at all the states of the Federation, whenever they have elections, the Independent Electoral Commission of the States returns all the candidates of the governor. What point am I making? Who is going to appoint the saint that is going to be able to challenge the president? How is this person going to be appointed? The Attorney-General is a constitutional office. Now you appoint a Minister of Justice and an Attorney General of the Federation, who will appoint them? Whoever appoints them, where will he appoint them from? He can’t appoint them from the opposition party he must appoint them from his own party.  “So, it is not just the separation. We have to go deep down and look at the law. Assuming we created an office of the Director of Civil Litigation and we make that office statutory. Anybody who holds that office will serve for five years and for him to be removed, you have to go to the Senate. This is because something that creates a certainty and guarantees of tenure is already in place.  “It is only when you can isolate and insulate them and make them statutory offices and not that I can become president and remove you. That is the only time the man can discharge his functions freely, fairly and without bias.   “For as long as there’s an appointing authority and the man wants to get appointed, he has to go to Senate to talk to some party members to clear him. He owes them a favour. So, we need to either develop a system where we have these offices and they run independently of the politicians. Otherwise heads of these offices will just fall in line.  “This is because if you do not fall in line, to start with, you can get zero budget allocation for your office. If you get zero budget allocation, how then do you pay for your overheads? How do you pay for water, for electricity to run your office? So, it is not a simplistic as in separating the office.”  Alegeh was echoed by another member of the Inner Bar, Chief Mike Ahamba, who also did not see the need for the separation.  Ahamba said: “If the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation is separated from that of the Minister of Justice, it will create crisis.  “The question to ask is: what will be the duty of the Minister of Justice after the separation? The Constitution said the Attorney-General shall be the Minister of Justice. So, there should be a constitutional amendment for any separation. “I don’t know for what purpose is this separation. What does the House of Representatives seeking to achieve? The lawmakers should first of all define the benefit of the separation before embarking on same.  “Constitutionally, one of the functions of the Attorney-General is to be Minister of Justice. I don’t see the benefit the separation will impact on the nation and that is why I urge the lawmakers to consider the reason behind the merging of the office of the Attorney General and Minister of Justice.  “After the separation, what will then be the functions of the Minister of Justice? Can he prosecute? It is the Attorney-General that can prosecute as the Chief Law Officer. So, the functions of the Minister of Justice after the separation must be defined very well by the lawmakers.  “The Ministry of Justice is where the Attorney-General of the Federation performs his functions as the Chief Legal Officer. So, as far as I am concerned, separating the office of the Attorney General from that of the Minister of Justice will amount to duplication. I am not in support of it.”  Another silk, Chief Ifedayo Adedipe, also expressed his opposition to the separation saying nothing may come out of it because politics and law have become siamese twins in Nigeria.  He said: “I don’t think so. Let’s start from the beginning because this is what we inherited from our colonial masters. If you look at our Constitution, the office of the Attorney-General is the only ministerial office that is constitutionally created.  “When someone is to be put in the office, it has to be an individual of intellectual depth with strong moral fibre who could also resist political pressure. But, you will recall that this is Africa and our people have a penchant for doing things the African way.  “Otherwise, an Attorney-General worth his salt should have written to advise the government. But, give it to this Attorney-General, on one or two occasions, he had written opinions that were turned down by the president. The question must, however, be that, if the boss you are serving does not respect or accept your opinion, what are you still doing in his team? But then, that is for the Attorney-General to personally answer and not for me to decide.  “If the essence is to ensure that things are done properly, government should be supported and applauded but far too long in this country, we do things anyhow.  “Politics and law have mixed so badly under this government to the extent that even when the right thing is to be done, it is very difficult not to read political motive to it. The whole thing is not in our interest as a country. I am sure with time we will get it right. I don’t think the problem is that of having the two offices under one individual.”  Mr. Seyi Sowemimo (SAN) said the lawmakers should be more concerned about the occupier of the office rather than the separation. He believed that with the right individual in charge, proper things that would be of immense benefit to the nation would be done.  Sowemimo said: “First, let me say that I have not heard the opportunity of looking at that Bill. The lawmakers are saying that the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation has been politicised and because of that it is necessary to separate the office from that of the Minister of Justice.  “However, given the context in which we operate in this country, I don’t think even the separation will mean that the individuals who occupied the office will not be influenced. The problem in this country is that many people occupying public offices are usually open to pressure.  “I also want to say that the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice has been occupied very well by people in the past. Some individuals have in the past performed the two roles excellently. So, I am not particularly for the separation of the two offices. “I think there was an attempt at separating the two offices during Obasanjo’s administration. There was a Minister of State under the then Attorney-General of the Federation, the late Chief Bola Ige. But, I didn’t see any major benefit of that action to the nation.  “We have peculiar ways of doing things in Nigeria and I want to tell you that by the time the two offices are separated, we would have ended up creating monsters because we don’t have the discipline to ensure that these offices are run transparently with integrity.  “Therefore, I want to suggest that we should leave the situation as it is. We should rather focus on the kind of person that occupies the office. “The thing there is for us to ensure that right person occupies the position. We should not be bothered about the merger. It has been like that since 1960, except during Obasanjo’s regime when an attempt was made at separating the two offices.  “I think the problem of late has been with those who occupy the office. Somebody can occupy the office and still perform creditably. Teslim Elias was there at one time and he did well. Akinjide too was Attorney-General and Minister of Justice and he also performed well. So, the problem is about the personality of the occupier of the office and not in the merger.”  However, in his own submissions, Chief Emeka Okpoko (SAN) expressed his support for the lawmakers’ action saying having the two offices together is a big problem to the nation. He said: “Yes, I share the view that having the two offices together is a big problem. I share the views that the Attorney-General and Minister or Commissioner for Justice, plays more of politics in the performance of their functions. They are usually pre-occupied with party issues. Even the person who appoints them will not let them be.  “So, I think it will be better to separate the two offices. This will allow whoever is the Attorney General to be strictly occupied with issues of law while the Minister or Commissioner for Justice can engage in party activities.”  