As this year’s edition of Calabar Festival opened to the public, the showcase of Nigerian culture will take centre stage as the Cross River State government, host of the yearly event, looks to attract inbound tourists to Destination Cross River and Nigeria in general through the festival.  The festival, which is a 30 day celebration commenced early this week and is expected to climax on December 28 with the celebration of Carnival Calabar. Not less than 20 states from across the country are expected to showcase their cultural wealth at the festival while about 35 countries from across the world would participant as well at the event. This was disclosed recently by the Chairman of the Calabar Carnival Commission, Gabe Onah while speaking on this year’s festival.  He further revealed that in line with the focus this year that the display of Nigeria’s cultural tourism offerings will take centre stage with the intent of using the platform to promote inbound tourists. “We will have over 20 states within the country showcasing their culture in various ways in a street procession by December 26,’’ he said, adding that: “More of Nigeria’s cultural and tourism content will be showcased to these international delegates at the carnival, because we want to encourage in-bound tourism.  To this, he said more culture based activities will be unfolded at designated centres across the city for the benefits of the visitors. “In order to create more excitement during the carnival, the governor has established 10-performance centres to engage a good number of the audience, this has always been his wish,” he said. The theme for the carnival this year, according to him is, Humanity as he explained that the theme was meant to reflect on, and address the problem of man’s inhumanity to his man.  “Man has become so mean that the animals are doing better than us. There is the need for us to be one another’s brothers’ keeper, and positively change our society for the benefit of all. “Man has become insecure; man has become unfair to fellow man that for a pot of porridge, we can sell our own brothers. This cruel behaviour must not be encouraged. This is the most challenging theme we will experience since the inception of the carnival as it touches everyone,” he said.  He urged Nigerians and foreign visitors to take advantage of the unique offerings that will be on offer at the Cultural Village, particularly during the Christmas period to celebrate the Yuletide. He said that the Christmas Village was set up to enable the youths set up stands stocked with Cross River products that would be of interest to tourists.  On the Carnival Calabar, Onah said that: “The carnival is actually drama on the move, all the elements of theatre are found in it. On December 26th, we will hold the cultural carnival while December 27 is the bikers’ parade. December 28 is the main carnival.’’  Besides, he also disclosed that the Diaspora will this year have a special place in the festival, with a day dedicated to it. “On December 30, the Black African music festival will hold to introduce the Blacks who have become successful in the Diaspora in arts and music.  “The carnival is also being used to woo Nigerians in the Diaspora back to their roots,” he said. Onah also assured tourists to the state of the safety of lives and property during the festival, adding that adequate security system was already on ground.  He said that crime rate in the state in the month of December is at its lowest as a result of the festival, which engages the interest of everyone. “It is a platform for the youths to engage themselves. So, they are often too busy to engage in frivolous ventures. “In providing security, we work closely with the Navy, Army, Police and other para-military bodies, even the state security services,” he said.