National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a 51-year-old man, Ayodele, for alleged drug trafficking and killing of its operatives. The NDLEA Principal Staff Officer, Public Affairs, Jonah Achema, said Ayodele, a title holder in Uzebba, Edo State, was a notable cannabis merchant, “suspected to be the mastermind of the killing of NDLEA personnel earlier in the year. He was arrested during the operation. In an attempt to resist arrest, his gang opened fire, injuring some of the operatives”. Achema, who said that the NDLEA recorded another major cannabis haul in its ‘Operation Thunder Strike IV,’ said that the operation was launched to rid forests in Ondo and Edo states of cannabis. It was also in the ‘Operation Thunder Strike IV’ that Ayodele and Mr. Ojeagbese Asabiya (66), were arrested. Achema also disclosed yesterday the NDLEA intercepted and burnt 181.2 tons of the illicit drug crop concealed in warehouses in Ala Forest in Akure north of Ondo State. He said: “Yesterday’s haul was made from three different warehouses spread across the forest. A total of 12,078 bags of the illicit drug crop were discovered in the three warehouses, out of which 16 bags, weighing 240 kilogrammes, were brought to the office for prosecution. “In addition, 730 sacks of cannabis seeds weighing 21.9 tons were recovered and destroyed by burning. The agency also recovered two single-barrelled guns and expended cartridges.” The image maker explained that in an end-of-the-year clean-up of drug malfeasance in the areas bordering Ondo and Edo states, the Agency embarked on “Operation Thunder-strike IV,” a week-long combing of the forests in the areas notorious for cannabis crop cultivation. According to him, the intelligence-driven counter-narcotic campaign has led to the seizure of several tons of cannabis already harvested and heaped for onward movement to the illicit drug markets. Achema added that about 14.3 tons of the illicit drug crops were recovered from six camps raided by the operatives.