Dr. Yemi Farounbi, a former Nigerian Ambassador to Philippines, in this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, speaks on state of the nation, the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration and calls for restructuring of the country, among other issues   What is your take on the state of the nation?  Nobody is certainly happy with the present situation of Nigeria. Nobody is happy with the level of hunger, poverty and anger pervading the society. A lot of the criminal activities you see may be a reflection of deep seated anger; sometimes against the system or against the society or it may be a reflection of the high level of hunger that is also within the society. Nobody is happy with the criminality that is still going on in the North-East. Nobody is happy at the criminality that goes on in the mining-related area in the North-West. Nobody is excited at the level of kidnapping that pervades the South or the associated security risk that comes from the rampage of the Fulani herdsmen. So, when you put all of these together, nobody is happy because Nigeria is not where it ought to be and we sometime don’t appear to be making adequate efforts to be where Nigeria should be.  Why is Nigeria not where it ought to be?  It is a combination of factors; some of them are historical, while some are contemporary. They are historical because successive leaderships lost the opportunity to realise the potential of this country. They were unable to harness the energy of the various people of Nigeria. They were unable to translate the dreams of the founding fathers into reality. So, countries that we were ahead of in 1960 are now very much ahead of us. We had a succession of bad economic policies and bad leadership. We must not forget also that the intervention of military for some 28 years did this country no particular good. On the contrary, it destroyed democracy. It destroyed the essence of the nation itself.  For example, in 1960, we had three regions and there was clamour that the Northern Region was too big; it should be broken but conspiracy and politics led to breaking of the West into Western and Mid-Western regions and not the breaking of the North that was at that time monolithic. When General Yakubu Gowon eventually took over from Maj. General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi, he created 12 states, an equity – six in the North and six in the South. By the time Murtala Muhammed came, he created 19 states; nine in the South and 10 in the North and since then that distortion introduced by military aberration has been sustained.  So, today, we have 17 states in the South and 19 in the North. And because it was military dictatorship that created these federating units, it went further to distort the structural basis of Nigeria by creating local governments that were entrenched in the constitution. Let me illustrate; the old Kano State that has the present Kano and Jigawa had 20 local governments and Lagos had 20 local governments. They both have about the same population. Somebody, a military man created Jigawa out of Kano and gave Jigawa 27 local governments and gave the remnant of Kano 44 local governments. If you add the two together, that mean both Kano and Jigawa now have 71 local governments, but in the constitution, Lagos State has 20 local governments. So, this structural distortion had created a basis for some of the problems we have today.  The other thing, of course, as a result of military aberration is that 52.75 per cent of our total national revenue goes to the centre as against about 20 to 27 per cent, when we started. So, the centre now has so much money compared to the responsibility it has to carry and that makes the competition for the centre so bitter and deadly. The 36 states have to share about 25 per cent among themselves and 774 local governments have to share about 24 per cent. That doesn’t make sense. It means that funds are being pushed to the centre, whereas the duties are in the local governments and states.  So, all of these added together and built over a period had cumulated into the disaster that we have and that is why there will be continued agitations in this country either for Sovereign National Conference, so as to be also to redress glaring imbalance or call for restructuring to have a situation in which the federation units will become a counter-balance to the centre.  You talked about continuous agitation for Sovereign National Conference or restructuring to resolve some issues in the country, but there have been convocation of conferences in the past without any positive result…  It is because there is already a structural imbalance. Those who benefit from the structural imbalance will never allow an agitation to succeed. Nineteen states in the North multiply by three means they have more senators, members of House of Representatives and local governments. It is the South that is shortchanged that is agitating. Will those who have been benefiting from this structural imbalance be patriotic or nationalist enough to allow for equity to take-over?  Are you invariably saying the North will not concede to restructuring of Nigeria?  They will not. It will be political suicide to submit and surrender power you didn’t ask for, but which military leaders conferred on you. So, that is why there would be changes in the constitution; there would be amendment in the constitution, but you will find out that all the amendments that have taken place did not touch the heart of the problem; they will talk about the peripheral.  You attributed Nigeria’s problem to the military, but in the last 20 years, we had uninterrupted civilian administration. Don’t you think that the civilians ought to have addressed all the problems you lighted?  There have been attempts to address them, but the attempts will not succeed because you have to be guided by a constitution that was not prepared by Nigerians. It was a constitution that was donated to us by the outgoing military regime of General Abdulsalami Abubakar. It was a constitution that was produced by a small committee led by Justice Niki Tobi. It was a constitution that didn’t have a constitutional conference or constituent assembly. Now, this constitution is there and it has provision for amendment. The provision for amendment means that it will pass the Senate and House of Representatives, where the North has majority and it has to be endorsed by two-third of the state Houses of Assembly where the North also has majority. So, how will it happen no matter how much noise you make?  We need to have a leadership that loves Nigeria properly. Mikhail Gorbachev was president of Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and USSR was a formidable world power, almost at per with the United States (U.S.), but because Gorbachev was a nationalist and patriot, he realised that the cumbersome arrangement and structure of USSR will not allow for growth and competitiveness, so he broke USSR even though it meant that he himself lost power as president. He created Russia, Ukraine and so one and so forth. And Russian alone, which is just an entity of that USSR, is today almost competing with U.S. That happened because, Gorbachev was a leader, who was not thinking of his own ethnic base, but considered the overall interest of the country and wanted to put in place, a structure that will allow for economic, social, political and cultural growth and overall development of his country.  Are you saying Nigeria has not witnessed a patriotic leader?  Chief olusegun Obasanjo is the best person that probably could have done it, but he has a fanatic believe in Nigeria, which is good. But, being a military man, he subscribed to a hierarchical order of things. The General dictates to the Brigadier; the Brigadier dictates to the Colonel; the Colonel dictates to Lieutenant Colonel and so on. That is not an ingredient of democracy. In a democratic situation, the president and the governor are not superior and subordinate; they are equal because they were both elected to represent certain people. So, he didn’t have the proper perspective, but of course, when it comes to other   issues that were not structural, you will see evidences of what he did. Umaru Yar’Adua didn’t have enough time and I think Goodluck Jonathan just didn’t understand the issues. But even if he understood the issues, he would be unable to get it through the National Assembly.  Let me give you an illustration. The last National Assembly thought there was something wrong with the electoral system and came up with an amendment to the Electoral Act, which they thought would take care of deficit in integrity that our electoral process had.  They passed it and you know how many times President Muhammadu Buhari returned it and because of the structural imbalance already inherent in the National Assembly, they could not muster the majority to override the veto.  And so, we were left with what we complained about and we saw what happened subsequently in the general election. It is not only that you need a patriotic leader, but a patriotic leader that has character and commitment, and who can market the concept. When Nelson Mandela took over in South Africa, there were other Africans living and working in South Africa and there was nobody who dared to lift his hand against fellow Africans.  But when he left, there was degradation in the quality and today we talk about xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in spite of contributions of Nigeria towards dismantling apartheid in South Africa. It was because we have now leadership that is no longer in charge, but is playing to the gallery to be able to attract the interest of the North that explains why I insist that we need a leader that is committed to Nigeria; a leader that is committed to fair play, justice, equity, structural equalization of this country; a leader that has the capacity and the moral authority to market this concept to all parts, so that all Nigerians will know that it is in the best interest of all of us to live in a house that allows equal accommodation and comfort than to leave in one that only allows a higher and dual levels of citizenry.   It doesn’t matter how long it takes, a house that is not built on equity will suffer cracks.  How would you access President Buhari’s administration so far based on the promises he made to Nigerians before becoming president?  I will look at this from two points of view. First, Nigerians for whatever reason, seemed so anxious to get rid of Jonathan and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that they didn’t really care enough to inquire into what the incoming government is going to do for them.  He said he will fight corruption, nobody asked him, how he would fight corruption and what would be the time limit?  I don’t think he has fought corruption even the same way Obasanjo did it. Obasanjo removed a permanent secretary; he jailed an Inspector-General of Police, who was a Yoruba man like himself; he removed a Senate President and also a minister, who were PDP members like him. We saw that he had a commitment to the fight against corruption.  Of course, without him there would be no Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC). So, if Buhari has such a deep commitment to the fight against corruption, we are not saying he should enact new laws to set up new agencies, but should have looked at loopholes of existing agencies. And the first thing I expected him to do was to go to the National Assembly to make an amendment that will block the loopholes.  They are now talking of special courts after five years in office. They are now looking at the slowness of justice. I thought those are some of the things he ought to have seen. He ought to have seen plea bargaining and blocked the loopholes from that.  He ought to have seen that there are cases filed by the EFCC that have been there for over 10 years over arguments on technicalities. He said he would take care of security. Apart from the fact that they told us that we have technically defeated Boko Haram, whatever happened, we know that Boko Haram is still operating.   And as a matter of fact, the security of the nation has never been as threatened as this. Today, people feel so inconvenient that they want the country dismantled. A lot of people are talking of secession today. It is not only Nnamdi Kanu of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) alone; there are others groups in the South that have began to think that secession might be the answer because of the spate of security. South-West was relatively safe in those days, but recently experienced security challenges because of the spate of kidnapping.  The danger in the South-South is still there. So, when you look at all of these, can you say that security is still intact? I doubt it. He said he would handle the economy. There was a time that the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Nigeria was between eight to nine per cent; we are barely crawling at two per cent now.  So, can he say that he has tackled the problems of the economy?  Have we tackled the employment situation?  Have we created jobs? Yes, we criticised that too much was spent on power, but for six years now, we have been spending money on power, but the situation has not changed. They criticised the former government, yet the rail sector has not taken off. The only one that is functioning, which is Abuja-Kaduna, was almost 99 per cent completed before Buhari came on board.  Are you invariably saying that the PDP administration was better than the incumbent APC government?   Not necessarily! That is not what I am saying. What I am saying is that the problem the PDP administration faced is different from Buhari’s own.  When Obasanjo got there, for example, the problem he faced was that we were a pariah nation; nobody wanted to touch us because of the excesses of General Sani Abacha. But, he rehabilitated Nigeria and became acceptable in the comity of nations. Buhari doesn’t have that one.  When Obasanjo got there, we were still afraid of the military coming back, but he made sure that such happened by massive retirement of military people, who held political positions. Yes, we knew there was corruption; he set up ICPC within months in office and within another three months, he put EFCC in place.  So, those were different issues. We owed $35 billion; he liquidated it. But we have accrued more debts in the last five years than we did in the last 14 to 15 years. So, there is no basis for comparing government; you compare the performance against the challenges it is facing. I am not saying that the PDP government is better; they lost opportunity. I thought that PDP ought to have restructured this country because it was one of the top points that they put in their agenda and manifesto, but in 16 years they didn’t. They missed the opportunity of restructuring this nation and putting it on a solid path.   The easiest way to put the nation on the solid path is to look at the foundation; they didn’t do that. This government also promised restructuring; go and read the APC manifesto. They have not and they have even refused to do it. They have even refused to consider the over 600 resolutions of the 2014 National Conference that were unanimously agreed on. Even if it is taken that not that the resolutions touched the fundamentals, but they would have move Nigeria forward.  Do you see PDP bouncing back to power in 2023?  I don’t; not because they cannot, but because this government will not allow that.  How will it do that?  This government understands power; they are not careless about handling of power. You see demonstrations in recent elections. They are not like a pastor or sheik that Jonathan was. So, it is not likely and unfortunately too, because of massive indiscipline within the PDP and perhaps corruption within the party in the selection of candidates. You saw it in Bayelsa.   The PDP has not learnt any lesson because if they have, they would have apologised genuinely to this country for errors they committed; errors of omission and errors of commission. If there has not been no disconnect between Jonathan and Obasanjo, they would still have been in power. If there has not been a deliberate attempt by Jonathan’s administration to sideline the South-West, he probably would still have been in power.  There wouldn’t have been a coalition of the South-West and North-West that enthroned Buhari. And because Buhari knows what power is, he makes sure he keeps on consolidating that relationship as some Christians would say, by fire by force. So, for PDP to take over, they need structural change of the party; they need rethinking and realignment. The incumbent government is unwilling to surrender power. So, when you have a party that is unwilling to change or to restructure to be able to assess power again and you have a party in power that is unwilling to concede power; it means that the present status quo might be with us for some time.  What is your view on the agitation for the 2023 presidency between the North and the South?  There should be no controversy except by people who really believe in a monolithic control of Nigeria.  The concept of rotation between the North and South was not built into the constitution, but it is what you call an unwritten item of our constitution.  Why did power come to the South in 1999? Why was it that the contest was between Obasanjo and Olu Falae?  It was because the North realised that they denied Nigeria the opportunity of having the best president Nigeria never had and having a president who won the freest and fairest election. So, it occurred to them that they should give it to the South. And Obasanjo and PDP in obedience to this unwritten item of our constitution made sure that it was Yar’Adua in 2007 and that was one of the reasons why Buhari won in 2015.  The South was intruding into the time of the North, when Jonathan took over to complete the term of Yar’Adua. So, Nigerians must favourably dispose to returning power to the North. But giving the structural imbalance already identified by me, if the North decides to monopolise power, the structural imbalance may allow them to do so. But, in a decent society, it is not an issue for debate; after eight years of the North, it should be the South. Don’t you think that the South may lose the 2023 presidency to the North based on this structural imbalance you mentioned? Look at the arithmetic of the last result; a Northern candidate will win overall without the South.  Are you saying that North can win the presidency without the South? They only need tokenistic contributions from the South. Didn’t Obasanjo win without the South in 1999?  So, if you look at the arithmetic, the election results in the North-West, North-East and North-Central; they already have the majority and you know to be president, you need first, majority votes, then you need 25 per cent in two-third of the states in the country.  That is what they will be looking for. And knowing the composition of the South, their inclination and love for money, they will get the 25 per cent and that would be it.  Will it be fair on the South for the North to have another shot at the presidency after President Buhari?  It will not be fair but this people don’t love the nation; that is what I am saying. If they love the nation, we will have a structure and realign this country for competitive growth.  We would have created a situation in which nobody will want to die to be president in Abuja. People would rather be more concerned about being leaders of the federating units. But because this is not a fair country and these are not fairminded people, we are where we are.