Nigerian documentary filmmaker, screenwriter, cinematographer, director, producer and photographer, Femi Odugbemi, is one of the brains behind the yearly iREP International Documentary Film Festival, which has pursued with vigour its theme of “Africa in self-conversation” by championing films and stories from Africa, about Africa and by Africans. In this interview with TONY OKUYEME, the award-winning filmmaker talks about developments in the film industry, distribution and other issues    It will be 10 years in 2020 when iREP, conceptualized to create a platform of awareness and expression for aspiring and practising filmmakers who are creating socially relevant documentary films to positively impact our world, came into the scene. It also celebrates the ever-expanding world of documentary films by inviting talents from across the globe to share ideas on trends and technological advancements in the format. Looking back now, how has the festival helped in repositioning documentary film in Nigeria?   We set out 10 years ago to reinvent documentary in a digital space. Our aim was to take documentary filmmaking out of the hands of institutions and into the hands of individuals. In the age of social media and access to technology documentary’s power as a tool for fostering change would be critical to our journey as a nation and a continent in search of our history, in need of growth, development, justice and equity, and yawning for a vision of an inclusive future in global affairs. The IREP journey has been challenging, but more importantly, it has been very rewarding both in the art and studies of documentary filmmaking in Nigeria.   Beyond that, what is next on the line?   There is room for more. We feel that now that we have many people who are kin to be in the realm of documentary, it is now time to also look at the distribution of documentary, how we are able to use technological platforms to provide distribution opportunities for our young filmmakers. We are making documentaries that speak to issues. It’s time for us as well to work with those in authorities about providing funding for documentary cinema so that some of the issues that are being confused by fake news can be combated through the power of documentary film. Documentary film is about research; documentary film is about facts; documentary film is about looking deeper into the many levels of every issue, into every side of an issue. What is better to combat fake news than documentary cinema?   Government and those in authority should look at that because everybody throws up their hands as if there is nothing we can do about fake news. Well, there is a lot that fake news is doing to us, and it is important that we look at what are the tools that we have to combat fake news. Documentary film is about understanding the 360 degrees of any issue and every issue. And for me, this is what the future looks like.  The 2020 edition of the iREP Film Festival scheduled to hold from 19th to 22nd of March, in Lagos, will be a celebration of the achievements of the last 10 years and an appraisal of what the journey must be going into the future.   When the iREP film Festival started in 2011, the festival was clear about its vision to provoke change by engaging Africans in conversations that can help to shape the future of the continent and its people. Since then, we have consistently curated conversations around identity, culture, governance and democracy, new media, and the power of documentary films to bring about change.   The year 2020 edition of the festival will look back at the last 10 years and appraise the impacts of the festival in terms of the key value areas that are important to the conversation of change in Africa. The festival will bring back films and conversations from 2011 that touch on Democracy and Governance, Development, and the Politics of Identity. Keynote speeches from the like of Prof. Manthia Diawara, Jane Mote, Jihan El-Tahri, Sandra Obiago, Prof. Awam Amkpa, Prof. Jean Paul Colleyn and other important speeches of the last 10 years would also be revisited.   One of the major highlights of the 10th year anniversary is the publication of a 200-page photobook documenting each year of the festival since 2011. The photobook would be a collector delight and would be on sale at the festival. Other highlights of the festival include an impressive list of international award-winning filmmakers from different parts of the world. The festival has over the last 10 years attracted some of the most brilliant minds in the global space of documentary filmmaking, and the plan for the year 2020 festival is to take this a nudge higher.   Are there plans to expand its activities more venues?   Yes. The festival would be expanding its activities to more venues in Lagos State. We are in talks with cinema houses and other art spaces in Lagos with a bid to spread the iREP experience across different locations of the state. The traditional venue of the iREP Film Festival, Freedom Park, will host some of the events of the festival, particularly the cocktail party and the open-air night screenings.   The iREP Festival filmmaking Training for beginners and intermediate filmmakers will also get a boost. We are in talks with a major camera company in the United states on terms of facilitating the iREP training for the 10th year anniversary. This would be a major certification course for participants. Entries for submission are already open on the festival website.   With the plans that are ongoing, the 10th year anniversary of iREPRESENT International Documentary Film Festival promises to be a landmark experience for documentary film lovers, but more importantly, it would expand the popularity of the documentary genre and push the frontier of the power of documentary films to cause a change.   Recently, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, assured that the federal government will conclude and launch the National Policy on Culture as well as establish the Endowment Fund for The Arts to create a legal framework for the financing of the sector…   I am totally in support of every kind of assistance that the culture industries can get. The culture industries are so important because that is our only soft power. We are in a disadvantage position in the emerging world. We will never have enough resources to build a nuclear arsenal, it will be tough. So, militarily we cannot claim to be a superpower; we cannot economically claim to be a superpower because we have too much debts; our population is too large, our infrastructure is decayed. We have so many things we need to put money on – from education to healthcare. But our culture is something no one can take away from us. In our global world, culture is the only place where we can, at least, put forward some kind of power. So, for me, when the when Minister of Information and Culture is able to announce support for the film industry, it’s a good beginning. As I have said already, the film industry encompasses more than just fiction films; the film industry encompasses documentaries; the film industry encompasses animation; the film industry encompasses those who are doing children’s programming. The film industry is a very large space, and it is a space that is powerful because it connects directly to people. We can use entertainment and education as edutainment.   We need to fund documentary films because we’ve got fake news destroying our communities. We need to fund children programming, because our children need to know our culture, our history, our rules and our country. We need funding for cultural programmes because more and more, we are so separated from our culture we are beginning to create a generation that is adopting cultures that are foreign to ours.   So, while I celebrate the support, I am asking that its implementation leaves no one behind in the industry; its implementation must focus on what each sector of the film industry can do for the country. It cannot just be about what it can do for the filmmaker; it must be what the work of this filmmaker is able to do for the country.   So, documentary film is important; children’s programming is very important; historical and cultural programming is very important. And we cannot leave these only for the public broadcasters, it must also be something that we engage the film industry in.