The annual 16 Days of Activism Against Gender Based Violence (GBV) declared by the United Nations came to an end on December 10. The activities started on November 25 across the world with Nigeria, being a part of the UN, a willing participant. All across the country, various governments, spouses of governors, Non Governmental Organisations(NGOs), among others, took up active roles in the activities that marked the period, with several agencies and governments, making pronouncements on the unacceptability of GBV. It was indeed a period of deep reflection for women groups, child advocates and other stakeholders on the need to not only stop violence against women but also ills that affect the children. In Kwara State for instance, Mrs Olufolake Abdulrazaq, Wife of Kwara Governor, pledged to evolve ways to positively engage girls and young women on how to be responsible citizens. She made the pledge on Tuesday in Ilorin during her decoration as the Matron of the Girls Brigade of Nigeria and also of the Girls’ Guide Association in the state. Mrs Abdulrazaq noted the growing trend in drug abuse and susceptibility of women and girl-child to gender based violence. She promised to intensify the advocacies of her office on sensitization against vices by or against the womenfolk. “Growing up, the Girls’ Brigade and Girls’ Guide associations stood as grooming grounds for girls and young women to be responsible citizens. Interestingly, the passing of time has not eroded this virtue of the association. “Kwara State believes strongly in the training and empowerment of youths and the girl child. As  such, the state government is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that the youth maximize their potentials. “With the recent trend in the abuse of drugs and how susceptible the girl child has become to gender based violence, it became imperative that we evolve ways to engage them positively,” she said. The Kwara First Lady said that her membership of these voluntary organizations would further engage the young ones positively and keep them off all forms of social vices. “We look forward to your support and collaboration in propagating these advocacies as with our other programs because the Girls’ Brigade and Girls’ Guide are reputed for motivating and raising the girl child to be responsible adult citizens,” she added. In her remark, Mrs Abosede Aremu, the state Commissioner for Women Affairs, said that Abdulrazaq’s passion for the less privileged in the society coincided with the objectives. According to Aremu, the investiture would further spur the First Lady’s desire to do more for the less privileged. Also in Brono State, the Governor,  Babagana Zulum  said that the state government had adopted proactive measures to demystify the operations of the Ministry of Justice to check sexual abuse and Gender Based Violence (GVB). Zulum stated this at the inauguration of the 42-member Anti-Trafficking in Persons Task Force (ATIPTF) committee in Maiduguri. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that ATIPTF committee was constituted by the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), to enhance its operation at the grassroots. Zulum said that the measure was imperative to strengthen the capacity of the ministry to handle cases of abuse as well as enhance protection and support services to women and children. He attributed the spate of sexual abuse, abduction and violence against women and children to insurgency and porous borders in the state. The governor noted that the state government adopted practical measures to check the menace and social vices as well as ensure promotion and protection of human dignity. Zulum said: “However, the challenge posed by the borders notwithstanding, we must deploy means to check sexual abuse, exploitation, slavery, domestic servitude, child labour and other acts that degrade humanity. “We are apprehensive of the dangers of abuses; illicit drugs, proliferation of brothels, prostitution and unauthorized beer parlours in the state. We have not relented in our efforts to check such adversities within the ambit of the law. “Government made deliberate effort to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Justice to be more productive and decisive in handling such cases.” According to him, 208 sexual abuse, rape, sales of babies and GBV cases were prosecuted in the state between 2017 to date. Zulum explained that 152 of the cases were convicted and 25 terminated through legal advices for want of evidence while 31 others were pending before the courts. The governor added that the state government had equally closed down illegal brothels to check prostitution and drug abuse in Maiduguri metropolis. Mr Peter Okaye, representative of the Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator in the state, disclosed that over 600 GBV cases were recorded in 2018 by the UN High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe. Okaye stressed the need for concerted efforts to enhance protection of persons displaced by the conflict and check abduction of persons by armed groups. He pledged the UN support to the committee to enhance its operations in the state. Ms Julie Okah-Donli, the NAPTIP’s Director General, said the committee was part of measures to enhance multi-sectorial approach in the campaign against human trafficking at state levels. Okah-Donli disclosed that committee would develop strategies to streamline anti trafficking activities, sensitization and enhance empowerment support to victims of trafficking and other forms of abuse. She said the committee would work with the Ministry of Justice to enhance access to justice and other protection services to the victims and displaced persons at the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps in the state. The director noted that membership of the committee comprised representatives of International Non-Governmental Organisations (INGOs), UN agencies, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), community and religious leaders as well as youths and women groups. According to her, the agency had so far set up similar committees in six states and planned to replicate it in the 36 states. It is in the same vein that the UN Trust Fund to End Violence against Women and an NGO, Empowering Women for Excellence Initiative (EWEI) is to empower 450 gender-based violence survivors in Kaduna State. The UN Trust Fund Representative for the project, Lorna Mesina, said on Monday that the initiative was designed for women and girls that survived physical and economic violence. “Our Safe Spaces’’ will promote beneficiaries’ access to psycho-social support systems and economic empowerment opportunities to facilitate normalisation of their lives. “The project includes a needs assessment to inform the design of appropriate capacity building activities on counselling and economic empowerment and advocacy. There will also be engagement with influencers and decision makers to take specific actions. “We are very excited to partner with EWEI in this project that will contribute to making women and girls safer in Kaduna,’’ she said. Mesina said in a statement that the empowerment project was also meant for survivors of sexual exploitation as well as focus on prevention and response to gender-based abuses. She said that the project, which would be implemented between December to November 2022, would provide assistance to women and girls affected by the violence. The UN representative said that the project would be implemented in Ungwan Dosa and Ungwan Romi Local Government Areas oF Kaduna State. According to her, the UN Trust Fund is a global grant-making mechanism dedicated to addressing all forms of violence against women and girls at local and national levels. Grace Attah, the NGO’s Programme Officer for Organisational Development and Partnerships, said that the NGO was founded to provide multi-sectoral interventions in areas of girls and women empowerment. Attah said the NGO’s partnership with UNTF would put smiles on the faces of the beneficiaries. “We are very happy to partner with UN Trust Fund in responding to the needs of girls and women in Kaduna state. “We will be working tirelessly with our partner to provide sustainable support to the 450 beneficiaries across the two communities in the state,” she said. Now that the activities for this year are over, the million dollar question would be: Can governments and stakeholders walk the talk? Can they limit the sufferings of women and children in violence, humiliations and dehumanization? For long, so many fuses have been made about the fate of women and children in issues of violence. Time has come to put a stop to it.