Mr Ephraim Inyang-Eyen is the Commissioner for Works in Akwa Ibom State. In this interview with TONY ANICHEBE, he insisted that Governor Udom Emmanuel remains committed to quality and time tested projects in the state. Excerpts…   There are reports that 97 percent of the roads rehabilitated and constructed by the Governor Emmanuel’s administration through your ministry have failed. What is your take on this?   The information is absolute false, mere fallacy, far from being correct. I am ready to take the media round our road projects to prove what I am saying. The lawmaker that said it was sponsored to say those things, I will prove him wrong. The Awa-Ikot Etim-Ikot Emem-Ukam road does not stop there but spread to Assong, my village. I will be an irresponsible person to be part of a road contract that criss-cross into my village, which will collapse after just one year, when the maximum I can be as a commissioner for works will be till 2023. What would I tell my conscience and my people?  I discovered in the course of constructing that particular road that the rain water was slipping into the Asphalt intermittently which will create gaps and cause problems. I saw this problem with my team before the commissioning of that project.  The governor had told me during commissioning of the road that, I should call on the contractor that executed the job to clean up the road and I called Kamal on the matter and he accepted responsibility at no cost to government.  The same firm is handling the 13.9 kilometres Awa- Nkana Road and the job has reached the stone base level but anytime the road is prime for asphalting, it rains torrentially and when it rains, it takes two to three days for the water to drain out. The last time we went on that road, I discovered they have finished but I advised them to wait till December before laying Asphalt to avoid the road being washed away by rain. If you go round the state, you will see that there are several roads nearing completion. I accept responsibility as the supervisor of Awa-Ukam Road. The lawmaker is just being funny, he did not discover the error, if you come to my office, I will show our correspondence with the contractor who accepted to take responsibility.  So the issue of one failed road out of many, which the contractor has taken full responsibility of the failure doesn’t account for 97 percent of all the roads done in the state. If out of 57 roads that we are working on, only one has problem, does that account for the 97 per cent?   That was a selfish report that was alerted by him for whatever reason. So, it is wrong for somebody to come out and accuse the ministry of negligence because we know what is good for our society and we have been championing quality jobs. People should raise issues on substances or facts. It is sad that he personally wrote such a report and made it public, even the appropriation committee that he was a member never had the privilege to see that report.  As far as I am concerned, that report from him should be thrown into the dustbin. No politician in Akwa Ibom State can just wake and say that everything Udom did has failed. I had expected the House member to pass through the appropriate committees, to invite us to know the position of the road. If you reviewed what he said carefully, you will know that it was a sponsored speech, done arbitrarily.  That report cannot stand test of time.  Is it true that Ring Road 2 has been having challenges since the contractor left the site?  The contractor has not left the site. What happened is that, at the onset when we were looking for people who can come under Alternative Project Funding Approach (APFA), the contractor came with assurances that he would do the job and asked government to give him an Irrevocable Standing Payment Order (ISPO), which means he will use his resources while government pays intermittently.  He was then given Ring Roads 2 and 3, however when we discovered that they didn’t have the resources, we wrote to the governor who terminated the contract for Ring Road 3 and handed it over to Henserk Construction services. He was left with Ring Road 2, and we still discover that he doesn’t have the resources. So, the government asked him to fund it at 50 percent while government will also bring 50 per cent.  After the government exhausted its 50 per cent, he still doesn’t have the resources to put and the government took full responsibility of the road.  The road is not abandoned and what is left is not much. It is just that we don’t want to give out money before the dry season so that it will be well utilised. In the next three months, between December and February, if when the rain would have stopped, that road will be fully completed. I intentionally ask the governor not to release the fund till dry season so that when it is released, we will ensure completion.  The end part of the road after Atan Offot has a deep depression, and the out fall drainage we ought to have there was not in the original design, we ordered the contractor to start doing it, and again how do you achieve an outfall drain when we are at the peak of rainy season. What is left to complete that job up to Atan Offot is just a little regulation of the stone base and the asphalting.  The road is not an abandoned project as government has expended over 60 per cent of the sum and what is left will complete the project. We are unfortunate that the rainfall this year in the state has been excessive and under the condition, it will be too difficult to use heavy duty road construction machines effectively on the earth. Once the sun comes, they will return to the field to correct some of these problems.  There were allegations that some lawmakers demanded gratifications, which the state government rejected. Could that be the reason for the criticism?  I don’t know because I never had dealings with him, since he is not the chairman of Finance and Appropriation Committee.  In truth, I have good working relationship with the Committee and the House in general, nobody harasses me. If you review the speech of the Appropriation/Finance Committee Chairman, you will see that there is nothing offensive there. I went through the Committee on Works before going for budget defence and had no issues. If we have issues they would have stopped us at Works Committee, which is our primary committee.  If there was a problem, we would have had confrontation from the chairman, vice chairman and other members but I think the problem was not a committee one but an individual who is being sponsored to embarrass the government. Even before the day of that drama, we never had any issues with any committee.  He decided to act drama and it backfired. I can tell you authoritatively that no contractor will ever say that he is having challenges with his job because the Ministry of Works or the commissioner has tempered with funds given to him. That is why whenever there is any problem on their job, they take full responsibility for the error.  Since the job is done by humans, errors are possible but not necessarily intended.  But roads were fixed in the rainy season during Governor Emmanuel’s first term, and they were up to standard.   There is a difference between last year’s rain and that of this year’s.  This year’s rains were so torrential; whenever it falls, the depth of the water holding back was so massive. But last year, we have scarcely rains that once it stops the land becomes normal after two to four hours.   The rain of few days ago has the moisture content of the soil at 81 per cent because of the volume of the rain. Previously we were able to do it because the rain will come, give a space of one week before falling again.  In that one week break, you can do some reasonable jobs, but now once we have high sun in a day, that means there will be torrential rain tomorrow and will take another 3 days to dry up and before that could be achieved to roll out equipment to the field, the rain comes again. There is a big difference between the seasons but still the same government.  The governor has funded the projects well but the rain has come in a very terrible manner against all calculations and seriously hindered us.   The Calabar-Itu Highway has become a deathtrap, despite assurances from Senator Ita Enang, that the road would be completed in record time.  Refer to our interview (myself and Ita Enang) months back, I told Akwa Ibom people clearly that the little the Federal Government was doing on that road before the election is just for the purpose of that election and that they will disappear after elections. It is sad that rather than addressing the failure of the Federal Government on that road, the same Ita Enang has come to tell Akwa Ibom people that Governor Udom Emmanuel received N78billion for federal roads, which is cheap blackmail. Ita Enang lied to Akwa Ibom people and it is very obvious, Julius Berger was not mobilised for Calabar-Itu Road.  If you doubt what I am saying, why is the road not in the 2020 budget? Last year, notwithstanding the little they put in the budget there were no releases. Now, my own budget is N120billion and people will judge my performances based on those figures without bothering about my releases.  Even a paltry sum for the contractors to start with, is not even in the 2020 budget of the country for Calabar-Itu Highway, so how is the road going to be constructed? Surprisingly, nobody here has summed up courage to confront Ita-Enang on his lies to avoid been traced but when it has to do with Akwa Ibom State Government or Ephraim Inyang, they will take us to the cleaners.  They have failed. People should rather give us clap for our efforts at creating good roads network for easy movement of our people.  What contingency plan do you have for the flood especially in Uyo?  From 2015, the roads that were done here in the state were good roads with drainages. I want to say that you cannot manage flooding without good drainages. If you go to some parts of Oron Road, Udoudoma and IBB, these are major roads without drains. And when you don’t have the rain water collection, channelisation before outfall discharge, you have failed.  The Esuene Street was done without proper drainages so if you don’t get the IBB water channelled to Ibesikpo Asutan outfall all other roads in that areas will continue to have flood challenges. In the past, I spoke during an interview about the Airport Road and stated that it was wrong to have done such road in the city without drainages especially in this our tropical rain forest. If it rains and you drive on the road, you will be covered with water. So, that road has not failed today because there is no development there yet.  My position is that when we have development on both sides with casted grounds and building on both sides elevated above the road, the water will return to the road and Airport Road will become flooded.  I believe that informed the governor’s decision to do an expansion work on the road so that in the process create drainages along the road.   So for IBB, we hope and our prayer is that World Bank should assist and the outfall drainage will be done so that government will have funds to invest on Udoudoma, Oron Road and other ancillary roads around the area to take water after every rainfall to IBB, so that IBB outfall drainage can discharge the rest. The IBB flood control project done with the support of the World Bank will solve the problem. You cannot manage flood unless there are absolute inter connectivity of drainages, you don’t break water flow.  The World Bank project is at the verge of being consummated.