Surprise 2016 Premier League champions, Leicester City go into this afternoon’s match full of confidence following their impressive hard fought 2-0 win over Watford during the midweek fixtures. Although the visiting team may be at the foot of the table, but they made life very difficult for the Foxes for very long periods of the game until leading scorer Jamie Vardy and James Maddison in the second half swung the three points their way. The final outcome was also an indication of how far the Foxes have progressed under former Liverpool manger, Brendan Rogers. Incidentally, Rodgers’ reign at Leicester got off to a losing start with a 2-1 defeat at Watford back in March, but the two sides have gone in opposite directions since that day. The Foxes have gone on to collect 52 points from 24 games compared to just 15 for the Hornets over the same period, while this win was Leicester’s 11th from their opening 15 games of the season – the first time they have won so many games at this stage of a league campaign.  This was not Leicester at their fluid, attacking best but even so they could still have won by an even bigger margin. Leicester is putting together form they did not even manage in their title-winning campaign and show no signs of slowing down. Talk of a second Premier League title may still be premature but they certainly appear ready to pounce should Liverpool slip up during a busy December. Speaking to Match of the Day afterwards, the former Celtic manager said: “It was a tough game for us. Hayden Mullins had Watford very well organised. We had to be patient this evening and worked very hard for that but I thought we deserved it. “Jamie Vardy is absolutely fantastic.  I thought he should have a penalty in the first half. I don’t know why that was overturned. In the current rules that is normally given but it wasn’t and we gathered our composure and continued to work away to get the goal. “It was a real team effort tonight and to get seven wins on the spin in the Premier League is a great achievement. The team is developing and are proving they have a winning mentality and mind-set. We will do our best (to stay in top two), we fight and work and see where it takes us.”  This afternoon the Foxes will hope to stay on course for his prediction when they travel to Villa Park to face 15th placed Aston Villa, which stretched Chelsea to the limit before succumbing to a 2-1 defeat at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday. For Dean Smith the performance of his wards in London would have given him confidence that they can mix it with the ‘big boys’.  Villa has performed admirably against the Premier League’s leading lights since returning to the top flight, without earning the rewards their performances have merited. Smith’s side opened the scoring in four of their five matches against established top-six opponents this season, pushing Tottenham, Arsenal, Liverpool and Manchester United close, with only defending champions Manchester City beating them with relative comfort.  Although these displays provided plenty of encouragement, Villa earned a solitary point. At Stamford Bridge, they again showed the basic prerequisites of hard work and organisation, but were unable to stretch Chelsea as their forays into the opposition half were limited. Smith knows that if he is to avoid slipping straight back down, he needs to start turning performances into points and the game against the Foxes will be a good time to do so. Also in action today, fifth-placed Wolves are on the road at Brighton & Hove Albion hoping to keep their winning run going, while in the final game of the day struggling Norwich City (19th) is at home to ninth-placed Sheffield United.