 G overnor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State yesterday continued his verbal assault on his Bayelsa State counterpart, Seriake Dickson, accusing him of deliberately making the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to lose the November 16, 2019 governorship election in Bayelsa to the All Progressives Congress (APC).   This was done, according to Wike, in order for Dickson to escape arrest and prosecution by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).   The Rivers State governor also described Dickson as a man who lost touch with the reality of governance by embracing impunity. He dismissed the Bayelsa State governor’s claim that he spent the sum of N70 billion to construct the Yenagoa Airport.   Wike, who spoke yesterday during a media parley in Government House, Port Harcourt, also said that he has no regret whatsoever going to court to challenge Bayelsa’s claim to Soku oil wells, stressing that he would continue to fight for the rights of Rivers because it is his primary responsibility to do such.   “Dickson does not deserve respect. I don’t play two ways. I don’t go to the Federal Government at night. If I say I will come, I will come. I deserve more respect than he does,” he said.  Dickson had accused Wike of colluding with APC to win the Bayelsa governorship poll. “If we are quiet, it’s because it is strategic… but this nonsense from Wike must stop. Wike should stop interfering with the politics of Bayelsa State.  You all know what he did in the PDP primaries and the roles he played supporting APC in their federal take-over of our state, there are so many things he has been doing that I keep quiet about.”   But, the Rivers governor said it is not true that he worked against PDP during Bayelsa State’s governorship election, noting that he supported the party with logistics after Timi Alaibe, whom he initially supported as a friend, did not get the party’s ticket.   According to Wike, Dickson planned for PDP to fail in the last governorship election in Bayelsa by asking two serving senators to withdraw their seats in the Senate to contest “because of greed.” Wike said that the out-going Bayelsa State governor was never committed to PDP all through the elections.   He said: “We are the only state in the South-South that President Muhammadu Buhari never got 25 per cent. Buhari got 45 per cent in Bayelsa State. So who colluded with who? It is now that Dickson has realised that they played him? All those nocturnal promises were not kept. I challenge Dickson to ask his candidate, Senator Douye Diri, the contributions I made. Is it because I didn’t pass it through him?   “Dickson planned for PDP to fail elections and he is now crying ‘Federal Might’. He assumed the role of God. Nobody could tell him anything. During his second term election, people resisted the Army. But this time, they left him alone. “But man proposes and God disposes. You have become god. The people have left you and God have left you. Even the former president from your state, Goodluck Jonathan, you cannot accord respect. Simply because Rivers honoured former President Jonathan and his wife, Dickson became angry. Why? Because he wants to become king.  “It was Prince Uche Secondus and King Turner that brought Dickson to my house to help him as a minister.”   The Rivers governor alleged that Dickson was on the verge of joining APC because of the fear of EFCC, but was prevented from defecting by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva and Heineken Lokpobiri blocked him.   “Dickson had concluded plans to join APC, but Timipre Sylva and Heineken Lokpobiri blocked him. He went to collude with the people he criticises so that EFCC will not arrest him when he leaves government. Nobody can blackmail me to do what I am not supposed to do,” Wike said.   Continuing, he said: “When you have character, it lives in the blood. Dickson knows we are not in the same level. I don’t fight federal might in the day and visit at night. I am not afraid of EFCC after office.   “They made him the chairman of Peace Forum; the forum is dead. They made him the chairman of South-South Governors Forum, it’s dead. He is somebody that lacks capacity and lack human relations with people. All of you know who is who.   “He talks of invading Rivers. Your background tells everything. If you are well schooled, educated, you don’t talk of invading Rivers. He doesn’t know protocol demands that he calls a fellow governor when coming to visit fellow Ijaws. You can’t walk into a state to visit a first class traditional ruler. Do you invade Rivers when you cannot protect Bayelsa?   “The then SSS director told him that ‘you don’t do that, because it is against protocol.’ What of if anything happens when he comes to my state? You think you are a leader? Who made you a leader in the first place?” Wike who also dismissed Dickson’s claim that he has issues with Governors Emeka Ihedioha (Imo) and Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom), said he cannot trade friendship.   He said that Ihedioha comes to Rivers, likewise Udom and that he visits them, but noted that when it comes to the interest of the state, he won’t trade it for friendship. “N5.6 billion was deducted from Rivers and given to Akwa Ibom, but I headed to court,” he said.   He said: “Other governors come here, but nobody goes to his own state, because you cannot find him.”   Wike, who throughout responded to questions raised by journalists based on the issues Dickson raised barely 24 hours in Yenogoa, also faulted the claim by Dickson that he spent the sum of N70 billion to construct the Yenogoa Airport, stressing that it is unjustifiable to spend such an amount, only for the airport not to be functional.   The governor said: “I will not use N70 billion to build an airport that will not work. My shoulders are high. I can go anywhere. I want to tell Governor Dickson that Rivers people cannot deny the fact that I have brought them dividends of democracy.   “It is not a project of N70 billion that you cannot account for. Nobody can bring ethnic war into our state. If you want to be a leader, be in your state and show leadership. Don’t do what your state has no capacity to carry.”