Hon. Uwuilekhue Saturday Idehen, a former commissioner on the board of the NDDC, is now an APC governorship aspirant in Edo State. The erstwhile local government boss spoke with our correspondent on sundry issues. Excerpts…   As the immediate past commissioner representing Edo State on the board of the NDDC, what were your challenges?  Part of my challenges was the act establishing the NDDC. The President in one of his visits, agreed that a forensic audit had to be carried out, I don’t think that is the problem, the main problem of the NDDC is the act establishing the commission. If the Act is amended to actually fit the reason why the NDDC was established, Niger Delta people will experience a huge development. But if the Act is not amended, you can do any audit you want to do, but the first thing is the government must take a critical look at the audit. I’m not saying the effort is not gear towards probity accountability to be able to know what has been happening over the years, but the major problem is the Act. The Act establishing it is faulty and was hastily and wrongly put together in 1999/2000.  How would you react to Governor Obaseki’s claim that the NDDC did not do any meaningful project in Edo State?  I think Mr. Governor is uninformed when it comes to the issue of the NDDC. You know jack of all trade, they say is master of none. You cannot presume to have suffered fire burnt more than the man who was actually involved in the incident. I think Governor Obaseki has to seat back to look at the workings of NDDC. The truth is that nobody is being mobilised in NDDC, the governor has to go back to his records and see if money has been corruptibly taken from the NDDC. Yes, there are some contractors who are actually fraudulent, they execute shady projects in connivance with some fraudulent civil servants and they will certify these jobs. Because the certification of these jobs does not lie with the commissioner, it lies with the management. So, there are fraudulent staff who are engineers sent to the sites to certified these jobs reporting that the jobs had been done. This thing is not peculiar with Edo. It is across the nine states of the Niger Delta, that is why you see jobs done two weeks ago eroded today.  And you will be sure that engineers of this commission certify these jobs and until now, no sanction has been carried out against such engineers. It doesn’t also mean that there are no transparent engineers and staff in the NDDC management. If you see one project that is being certified by one fraudulent engineer in NDDC, it does not mean that there are no good people there, you still have good supervisors, and site engineers that can still do some good jobs.  I know that there are people who are actually Godly who we can still trust, like a man who was the project supervisor in Benin. By the time he stood his ground and ensure that the project should actually be done, the contractor ran to me. When he came to me as the commissioner I said, ‘okay, because he is close to one of the executive directors, he feels he can use that one to intimidate the Head of Project Monitoring in Edo office’. I was shocked when the man spoke, from there I knew yes there are actually some people who cannot be cajoled into doing bad things. I knew that there are still people that are transparent that actually want the best for Niger/Delta. There is also the problem of design, whereby a project head will design a project and post to a state without consulting the commissioner. So that is why I said that the Act must be looked into.  What should the people do to get more Federal Government attention for the development of the nine NDDC states?  The attention of government is sufficient to develop the region, because the budget of the NDDC is about a billion naira per-annum. If the application of such fund is justified, you will discover that the level of development in the Niger Delta will be unprecedented. So, to still talk about Federal Government support is not called for, I think we have to be accountable to what we are given first.  Federal Government has a lot of intervention funds for the Niger Delta. What we have to do is to be very prudent in the management of the funds made available. We do not need to bother government, I was in the saddle for two years as commissioner representing Edo State. So when I talk, I know what I’m talking about. There are other NGOs assisting the UN, World Bank, European Union, among others. So, we need to manage what these organisations are helping with before asking more from the government. To my own understanding, I know that a lot of things are going on in that sector, I just pray that one day, we will get a messiah that will be bold enough to step on toes and bring these fraudulent people to book. So that the main aim of establishing the NDDC will be achieved and Niger Delta people will received the needed development.  You want to run for the governorship of Edo in 2020 under the APC. How prepared are you?  In terms of preparation, I do not think there is any battle that is too big for God to fight, I think the first thing that will win in any contest if we have to face the reality, is the conscience and the mind of the people, especially when the people’s interest is paramount in your mind.  And having God in anything that we do goes a long way into helping us.  In my consultation with my people, I have received a lot of calls and write ups which I never masterminded, calls for me to run and they are coming from the good people of Edo base on my antecedents and the role I have played in the lives of people. When I was hosted to a ground reception by my people in my community, they told me to go and contest for the governorship post that I have their full backing. Let me tell all that my ambition is basically bank rolled by friends who know my worth and what I’m capable of doing. Just few days ago, a group called me to say that they have printed 10,000 T. shirts for my campaign. They also said that they would raise money for my nomination form. So these are the handiwork of God.   If I get the governorship ticket and eventually becomes the governor in 2020, all I’m going to do is going to be about the people not about me. I’m not that kind of person that will take Edo people’s money to Lagos, Abuja and Europe. I never dwell in all those places, all my life I have dwelt in Benin City and my village. I don’t have that ambition to acquire wealth that will not give peace. I have an integrity and a family name to maintain. Apart from being NDDC commissioner,  what other experience qualifies you for the governorship?   I have held several positions, starting from party secretary, Secretary of the DPN in my local government, Secretary of PDP in my local government, secretary of council, chairman of the council, former Senior Special Assistant to the comrade governor, Adams Oshiomhole.   I was two times commissioner, in the NDDC, I was member of the equity committee. All these positions I have held is not by magic, it is God that is seeing the hearts of men. So, if I’m also aspiring to the be governor today, it is not out of place, it is a challenge that is not bigger than God.  What do you have to offer?  I have to accept the call and take the bull by the horns to rewrite the history of this state. The state has suffered enough, there are issues that need to be addressed; first is a system that can create jobs.  Edo people need a government that can provide jobs that the youth will be actually hungry to do. You need a system that is open, accountable and passionate about the feelings of the people, so, I think that is what Edo people need now. We don’t need a system where you use security votes for personal business.  I want to come and set a precedent like the late Professor Ambrose Ali, Dr. Samuel Ogemudia, and our national chairman Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole. These people worked their hearts out for Edo people, and today their works still speak for them. Look, despite the fact that Oshiomhole has been highly criticised, I worked with him, he still has his good side. Oshiomhole is very passionate about his people, he has a human face. These are things I also learnt from him, and by God’s grace if I’m there, we will do the right thing.  What is your take on the APC crisis?  The crisis is not to discredit the APC, rather, the crisis is to get the best. It is borne out of the fact that the best needs to be in the saddle, it cannot create any issue. Anybody saying that is a system, is not saying the truth, when a system is no longer acceptable to the people that system should be rejected. There is internal revolution and resentment; it is the resentment that will bring out the best. You cannot continue to hit at the people and expect them not to react. You cannot take the people for granted.  How would you assess Oshiomhole’s leadership of the APC?  One cannot call a day good or bad until the evening, he has just started. He was a labour leader, he became a governor, did his very best and left. He just started as a national party leader, he still has two more years to go. So what you are seeing now is part of the things we will look at the end of his tenure to let us know whether he is a hero or not.  All the great men that made remarkable marks in this country are being remembered and called heroes after they must have gone. But I want people to call Oshiomhole a hero while he is alive.  Edo people rejected Ambrose Ali who was imprisoned for N800, which was paid by Chief Gabriel Igbinedion. Today he is being remembered by the people and called a hero. For Oshiomhole, I know that he will be among the living heroes of our time because of what he is doing now in Nigeria, provided he doesn’t lose track or allow sycophants to mislead
him.  