Manchester United substitute Mason Greenwood scored a 77th-minute equaliser to deny Duncan Ferguson a second successive win as Everton’s interim manager. Everton looked set for back-to-back league victories for the first time since April when Victor Lindelof turned Leighton Baines’ first-half corner into his own goal after VAR ruled David de Gea had not been impeded by Dominic Calvert-Lewin as they jumped at the near post. It took 18-year-old Greenwood to come off the bench and rescue a point for United with a fine shot from the edge of the area to follow up his two goals in the Europa League against AZ Alkmaar on Thursday. Everton’s fans were delighted at the end though, singing Ferguson’s name in tribute to the Scot’s impact since replacing sacked Marco Silva, reports the BBC. Despite the cold and rain, Ferguson spent most of the game in nothing more than a shirt and tie, and long after the final whistle went over to acknowledge the visiting fans. And Jan Vertonghen scored a dramatic late winner as Tottenham ended Wolves’ 11-match unbeaten Premier League run to narrow the gap on the top four with victory at Molineux. Vertonghen headed in from a corner in injury time, after Wolves’ relentless approach had been rewarded as Adama Traore thumped in a deserved equaliser from the edge of the box midway through the second half. Following a breathless opening period, Lucas Moura’s mazy run and exquisite finish into the roof of the net had put Tottenham ahead after eight minutes. Spurs had to withstand intense pressure as Wolves chased an equaliser, but it was they who went closest before half-time as Eric Dier struck the post from Dele Alli’s delightful, dinked pass. Tottenham goalkeeper Paulo Gazzaniga produced an excellent save from Romain Saiss’ header in the closing stages as Jose Mourinho’s visitors hung on, before Vertonghen’s decisive goal. Victory sees Tottenham climb to fifth, three points behind fourth-placed Chelsea who they face next Sunday (16:30 GMT). RESULTS Man United 1 – 1 Everton Wolves 1 – 2 Spurs 