 *VP, Abiodun, Osoba, others inaugurate Daniel’s multimillion hotel    Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Friday, reassured Nigerians that the Federal Government was pushing necessary reforms and focusing on key infrastructural projects to make the country an easier place to do business.   Osinbajo spoke at the inauguration of Conference Hotel, Abeokuta, which is owned by a former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel.   At the event which attracted eminent personalities, the VP also said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration was fully committed to promoting and developing culture and tourism sector to drive the nation’s economy.  In attendance were Governor Dapo Abiodun; his deputy, Engr. Noimot Salako-Oyedele; former governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba; former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who was represented by Hon. Wale Edun; Odole Oodua, Sir Kensington Adebutu; Senator Babafemi Ojudu; Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, Senator Adegbenga Kaka, Prince Segun Adesegun, Otunba Kassim Imam, Prince Gboyega Isiaka, Hon. Abiodun Akinlade, Alhaja Salmot Badru, Hon. Titi Oseni-Gomez and Hon. Segun Sowunmi.   Traditional rulers that attended the grand event included the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, Akarigbo of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi, Olu of Ilaro, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle while the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona, was represented by the Dagburewe of Idowa.   New Telegraph reports that the multimillion naira hotel, which was closed down for eight years by the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, was reopened by the current administration. 􀁺FG 'll strengthen security for polls - VP   It was a carnival-like atmosphere yesterday as Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, ex-Governor Olusegun Osoba and notable All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains shut down Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, to campaign for the party's governorship candidate, Prince Dapo Abiodun.   The mega rally,… In "News" The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday said the Federal Government will soon increase the number of its N-Power beneficiaries from the current 500,000 to one million.   Osinbajo, who disclosed this at a townhall meeting held at the multipurpose hall of the Akarigbo Palace in Sagamu, Ogun State, restated… In "News" History is replete with politicians who failed elections several times before eventually winning. Abraham Lincoln and Muhammadu Buhari, who became president in United States and Nigeria respectively, readily come to mind. In this analysis, KUNLE OLAYENI examines the chances of billionaire businessman, Dapo Abiodun, to win the governorship of Ogun… In "Politics"