…insists he never stole NFF money  Former President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Alhaji Sani Lulu, has recounted his ordeal during the time he was facing trial for misappropriation of funds, saying he was pained when former President Goodluck Jonathan couldn’t act on his letters, requesting for justice. Lulu and three other members of the NFF board including late Taiwo Ogunjobi were charged to court for embezzlement and misappropriation of funds but after several years of litigation they were discharged and acquitted. Lulu said he was unjustly removed as NFF president and his subsequent prosecution broke him and he tried to reach out to President Jonathan to seek redress but it never worked out until the court eventually gave him clean bill of health. “I was removed illegally and that wouldn’t have happened if FIFA and CAF were  observant enough, it wouldn’t have happened if government was well briefed. But this thing had been pre-determined by those who were hell-bent on removing me. “I wrote several letters to President Goodluck Jonathan to say I was unfairly treated, I did open letters too. I thank God, about two years ago, under president Muhammadu Buhari, the case was thrown out because there was no merit in all they accused me of,” he said. He said it was dehumanizing to see that someone who went through so much to develop Nigerian football could be subjected to such treatment. He insisted that those forces who never wanted  the game to grow in the country were afraid of the progress he was making and ensured that the train of progress was truncated. “I’m the most accused president of the NFF by virtue of what I have passed through; I am the only former president that has been arraigned by the instrument of court and taken to prison, I was detained at Kuje Prison but at the end of the day I was discharged and acquitted. Nothing was found on me. “I didn’t steal any money as NFF president, instead Nigeria benefitted from the resources God gave me. When I came in there was a Decree 101 which was not acceptable to FIFA. The election that brought me in 2006 was based on FIFA pre-conditions and the world governing body insisted that six months after the election we must be operating strictly under NFF statutes. “I came in with a vision to use the power of football for a better future for Nigeria. Some of my colleagues were saying how can we use football to brighten the future of Nigerian when Nigerian football was in darkness. We didn’t even qualify for the World Cup and players had lost hope in the game because we did not even comply with what we usually promise to give them. “The secretariat was nothing anyone could call an edifice befitting of our football. We had just a 15KVA power generator for a big building. I had a vision and the mandate and I was so determined to use my experience to help Nigerian football and I am happy I was able to achieve all of them despite the financial constraints. “My first budget was about N3billion which was approved by the Congress and when we went to the National Assembly for our budget they said the envelop they could give NFF was N600m. I was shocked and I said how can we do this when we have about nine national teams. I had a vision to develop football from U-13 level but they said we should concentrate only on Super Eagles who are known to everybody. “I don’t have a skeleton in my cupboard and I am a man who likes companionship. Growing up, my mum told me if I am left alone in a room that is when I would start crying, I like people around me and I share the little resources I have with them. He said his passion for the game predated his time at NFF, saying he had displayed more passion for football than his quantity surveying job. He said: “I joined FCDA in 1991 after my NYSC as a quantity surveyor; I got three juicy appointments in Port Harcourt where I served but my parents said I shouldn’t take any of them because they feared staying back in that city, I would not get married on time. “I established a club  that year in Abuja; I was the first person to do so in the FCT. Governor El-Rufai who was my classmate at Ahmadu Bello University has said it several times that Lulu only studied QS not because he loves the job but to raise money so as to help the less privileged through football. I am committed to the administration of football more than all of my colleagues that I have been around.”