Joseph Edgar, also known as The Duke of Somolu’, is a celebrated writer, author and theatre producer. In this interview with Tony Okuyeme, he shares experience on his foray into the entertainment industry through his live theatre productions such as 3SOME and Emitan. He also talks about childhood experience, Nollywood and other issues   You celebrated your 50th birthday in July this year. How does it feel turning 50? I dint feel anyhow. I didn’t even notice it. My daughter shares the same birthday and she was turning 16. So she brought in all these 16 year olds and they had a party in the house and all I could think of was my father using police to harass me for going to party at that age. Things have really change. But you marked it with a special Afang Summit, where celebrated satirist and cartoonist, Mike Asuquo, led discussions on “The Role of Satire in Building National Cohesion.” Why Afang Summit? Yea, so some days after I convened the ‘Afang Summit’ with Mike. You see Mike’s messages are pungent and more biting than some of us because of the power of the images. So I wanted to get into his head to understand where all the power was coming from and I threw in Afang to further confuse him. You have an all English name… What is your middle name? Sampson. But my mother has a pet name she calls me – Ini oblong. My madam calls me that when she needs chop money. Tell us your experiences growing up… It’s all in my new Book- Aaarrrgghh.  It was a wonderful experience that I would not mind reliving if that is possible. From an investment banker to a rapidly influential writer, author and theatre producer, who maintains a weekly column, ‘Loud Whispers’, despite the fact that you studied Political Science and International Relations. At what stage did theatre come in? Theatre has always been my love since I pursued a beautiful damsel into the theatre hall at the University of Ibadan. I caught the bug but since I could not act or dance to save my life I decided to be a producer. Theatre is a strong vehicle for social cohesion and it must be supported. How did you get the pseudonym ‘Duke of Somolu’? Funny it was my ‘maiguard’ who first in a fit of anger queried me, ‘na wetin, na you get Shomolu?’ And I responded, ‘I be the Duke’. But it didn’t resonate until my very good friend, an investment banker and one of the most cerebral people I know, Jimmy Ogbegbine, said it again that you are the Duke of Shomolu that it resonated. So I started calling myself that and found out that people started liking it. And then the former Governor of Cross River State, Mr Donald Duke, called in to ask which Duke is your own and I said the Shomolu Duke. He laughed and almost fainted. You are the executive producer of Emotan, a play written and directed by William Benson, which was staged in Benin during this year’s NAFEST. What are your thoughts and projections on the play? ‘Emotan’ is indeed my most emotional play simply because I love those Bini dirges. Those songs just do it for me. So after Oba Esugbayi, I called William who I must say is so gifted to give me a Bini play. Do not forget in our other plays – Isale Eko – we had infused some elements of the Bini culture. Those songs make me cry even up until today I swear. So we decided to do a full-fledged Bini story this time around. It’s been quite exciting, especially the reception it received in Benin where the First Lady and the Maestro Sir Victor Uwaifo, with the Princess where in attendance. What should theatre audience expect from its showing in Lagos? A lot of suspense, intrigue and drama and ohhh the songs. Kai. I refuse to watch and listen to them at rehearsals waiting for their full rendition during a live performance. In Benin, as I was working with the First Lady’s protocol people, I just heard the voice at the beginning of Emotan’s cry when she was being mocked and I stood transfixed like an Egyptian mummy, and could not move till the song ended. Please come prepared. Where do you see live theatre in Nigeria in the next five years? I’m not interested in five years but for us to build an enduring theatrical legacy that would gain strength in perpetuity. I do not have such short term goals for theatre, hence the kind of projects that we choose – historical stories that have endured for centuries. So we leverage on these stories to build a viable and lasting theatre culture that should take us for centuries What is your candid opinion about the Nigerian movie industry, Nollywood? I think it’s growing significantly especially with the depth on budgeting and technical capabilities. I watched ‘Bling Lagosian’, for example, and I marvel at just how far we have come. It’s wonderful and I really believe it is going places. At some point you were sent to a motor mechanic as an apprentice. What happened? I failed and my dad felt that I needed that shock therapy. So here was I this handsome young lad with a mulatto girlfriend all of a sudden finding himself at a mechanic workshop doing rewire  I never came over that shock such that anytime I was preparing for an exam I would call up the image and just start reading like fire.  I have my dad to thank for that Tell us about Loud Whispers, the play… That was my first play and it had Alibaba as the main cast. It was derived from my first book which in itself was a compilation of my articles already published in Thisday Newspapers. It was massively received and had some big banks like Zenith, FCMB and BOI support. It was a powerful debut for me as a theatre producer. me crazy o. I really don’t know why. But then again, I really have no description of myself. I’m just like breeze.  You can’t see me; I can’t see me; and that is just ok. Have you been embarrassed? Plenty times you don’t want to here. What happened? Mbok the most telling was when my mum caught one of my love letters at 15 to a beautiful igbo damsel down the street. Who are your favourite Nigerian musicians and why? Don’t have favourite, but Tuface is way up there, and Dare Art Alade, whatever happened to him. How do you unwind? I gist on what’s app to unwind.  It is a very powerful endeavour. Try it. Any plans to go into film production? No my brother. The intimacy of the stage will not let me.