  FELIX NWANERI reports on gains from the introduction of technology into Nigeria’s voting process, which seems to be waning, given arguments over alleged circumvention of card readers deployed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in recent elections   T hrough several innovations, including introduction of Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) and card readers for accreditation of voters, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) restored hope and opened a vista of faith in Nigeria’s electoral system during the 2015 general election.   Although public outcry, particularly greeted the introduction of the card reader machines then as many Nigerians, especially politicians, opposed it on the ground that the country has not developed to a level for such technology to be deployed for elections, INEC, then under Prof. Attahiru Jega, was never deterred by the misgivings.   To justify its belief on the efficacy of the card reader, the electoral commission did a test-run of the card reader technology in what it termed “mock voters’ accreditation” in 12 out of the 36 states of the federation ahead of the polls to determine its strength and weakness.   The test reported over 90 per cent success rate, although there were some hitches in some states. That, perhaps, fired Jega and members of his team up in their determination to deploy the card reader for the general election.   INEC’s insistence paid off as the 2015 general elections, which saw the defeat of an incumbent president for the time in Nigeria’s political history, was a sharp departure from what obtained in the past, when elections were characterised by snatching of ballot boxes and stuffing.   This was justified by commendations the commission received after the elections from both local and foreign observers. For instance, observer teams from the African Union (AU), European Union (EU) and the Commonwealth gave the election management body pass mark for its impartial handling of the polls. They equally described the elections as peaceful and transparent.   The appreciable success over deployment of the card reader for the 2015 polls further heightened calls for Nigeria to embrace electronic voting.   The card reader   A portable electronic voter authentication device, the INEC’s card reader is configured to only read the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) issued by the electoral commission. It was designed specifically for the accreditation process and authentication of eligible voters before voting.   The machine was configured to only read the PVCs of a particular polling unit and can only work on election day. The device uses a cryptographic technology with ultra-low power consumption and one core frequency of 1.2 GHz and an Android 4.2.2.  The device is positioned by its operator (usually a trained INEC official) to read the embedded chip on the PVC. This procedure displays the information of the voter, followed by fingerprinting. It usually takes about 10 to 20 seconds to validate a voter.   On completion of accreditation process, a close V key is used to close the accreditation process and the total number of voters accredited can be previewed using a query key beside the close V key and thereafter, the result may be forwarded to INEC using the Communication key.   The ability of the card reader to perform the above described functions as well as keeping a tally of the total numbers of voters accredited at the polling unit and forwarding the information to a central database server over a GSM network makes the card reader, informed its welcome by many as elections in the country have before then usually been bedeviled by allegations of irregularities with the resultant violence and the legal battles that follow as a result of resolving electoral conflicts.  Device not foolproof   No doubt, Nigeria made significant gains in enhancing her electoral process as a result of the card reader’s deployment for the 2015 elections, but the device equally came with its own challenges.   For instance, it would be recalled that while the card readers worked in some polling units during the March 28, 2015 presidential and National Assembly elections, they malfunctioned in several others, a situation that caused undue delay in the accreditation process.   Noticeable among the challenges were rejection of PVCs, inability to capture the biometrics from finger tips, irregular capturing and fast battery drainage. Prominent among those, whose biometrics from finger tips could not be captured during accreditation exercise were then President Goodluck Jonathan and his wife Patience.   However, interventions by INEC, especially, retraining of some of the ad hoc staff engaged for the elections helped to address the challenges during the governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections that came up two weeks later. The challenges, notwithstanding, many were optimistic that in the long run, the deployment of technology through the use of the card reader in the electoral process would be the tonic to accelerate the country’s march towards having an electoral process that is fully electronic.   The legal snag  The euphoria over the deployment of the card readers for the 2015 polls began to wane by the time the various divisions of the Court of Appeal started giving different interpretations on election disputes that were brought before them by appellants.  The matter got to a head, when the Supreme Court failed to take the reports from card reader machines into consideration in its judgements on the governorship elections in Akwa Ibom, Abia, Ebonyi and Rivers states. Heavy criticism had emanated then from various quarters as to why the apex court, which simply gave judgements without giving reasons behind the decisions reached, did not factor in reports from the card readers.   But, later offering explanation to Nigerians as it promised, the Supreme Court said although the use of the Electronic Card Reader Machine for accreditation of voters was provided for in the Approved Guidelines and Regulations for the conduct of the 2015 general elections, the device was however, never ‘intended to supplant, displace or supersede’ the Voters’ Register.  The explanation was given by seven-man panel of Justices of the Supreme Court, led by the then Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Mahmud Mohammed. The panel declared: “True, indeed, the card reader machine traces its paternity to the above Guidelines and Regulations. Regrettably, its probative pedestal in the vocabulary of electoral jurisprudence has generated conflicting interpretations from Their Lordships of the different Divisions of the Court of Appeal.   “With the intervention of this court, in its recent decision in Shinkafi v Yari (supra), it is hoped that practitioners and all other courts will begin to appreciate the position of the said card reader machine, and the reports generated therefrom, in election litigation.   “Prior to the authorisation of its use by the Guidelines and Manual (supra), the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), in sections 49 (1) and (2),   had ordained an analogue procedure for the accreditation process. As a corollary to the procedure outline above, section 53(2) of the said Act (that is, the Electoral Act) enshrined the consequences for the breach, negation or violation of the sanctity of the actual poll sequel to the consummation of the accreditation procedure in section 49 (supra).”   “With the advantage of hindsight, INEC, pursuant to its powers under the said Electoral Act, authorised the deployment of the said card readers. Even with the introduction of the said device, that is the card reader machine, the National Assembly, in its wisdom, did not deem it necessary to bowdlerize the said analogue procedure in section 49 from the Act, so that the card reader procedure would be the sole determinant of a valid accreditation process.   “Contrariwise, from the Corrigendum No 2, made on March 28, 2015, amending paragraph 13(b) of the Approved Guidelines, it stands to reason that the Card Reader was meant to supplement the Voter’ Register and was never designed or intended to supplant, displace or supersede it.”   “Indeed, since the Guidelines and Manual, which authorised the use and deployment of the electronic Card Reader Machine, were made in exercise of the powers conferred by the Electoral Act, the said Card Reader cannot, logically, depose or dethrone the Voters’ Register whose judicial roots are, firmly, embedded or entrenched in the selfsame Electoral Act from which it) the Voters’ Register). Directly, derives its sustenance and currency.   “Thus, any attempt to invest it (the Card Reader Machine procedure) with such overreaching pre-eminence or superiority over the Voters’ Register is like converting an auxiliary procedure into the dominant procedure of proof, that is, proof of accreditation. This is a logical impossibility. Indeed, only recently, this court in Shinkafi vs Yari, confirmed the position that the Card Reader Machine has not supplanted the statement of results in appropriate forms; hence, the appellant still had the obligation to prove petition relating to accreditation of voters and over-voting as enunciated in several decisions of this court.”   Unsparing criticism over ruling   Expectedly, it was knocks then for the apex court. For instance, a leading election observer group, Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), in a statement, accused the Supreme Court of “legalising electoral robberies.”   The group declared: “As the foremost election observation coalition in the country, we see the Supreme Court judgements as clear cut attempts at legalising electoral robberies. These judgments, particularly on Rivers and Akwa Ibom states, have merely given judicial imprimatur to the damaging mind set of rapacious politicians, who would stop at nothing in their bid to subvert the will of the people.   “For us, it is absolutely shocking that the Supreme Court has decided to act as if it exists in another planet. The TMG is perturbed by the strange legal reasoning that has informed the blank cheque that the court has given to election riggers.   “We make bold to say that while the legal premise behind these judgements is best known to the apex court, the open reward for electoral impunity does not resonate with the Nigerian people.”   The Supreme Court, however, responded by saying that its critics were ignorant of the law. The then CJN (Justice Mahmud Mohammed) described those who called judicial officers corrupt as being inconsiderate and ignorant of how the judiciary operates.   “Such criticisms are made without due considerations of the law and the system of government in the country,” he said and added that the judiciary is duty-bound to act and would continue to act in accordance with the dictates of the law as it stands and not as its critics would want it to be.   The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) also faulted those who disparaged the image of the judiciary then over the Supreme Court’s judgement, saying their action was a deliberate attempt to tarnish the image of judges and the system.  Then president of the association, Augustine Alegeh, said: “It is sad to note that some persons, who commend the Supreme Court, when the decisions favour them, will deride the same court, when the decisions go against them.   “The NBA will continue to defend the Supreme Court which remains the highest court of our land as the court has always dispensed justice in accordance with the law,” he said.   Card reader: To be or not   The legal jigsaw prompted calls for a revisit of the card reader in order to give it legal backing. The belief in some quarters was that INEC got it wrong ab initio by refusing to sort out the legal issues before deploying the technology. Most stakeholders maintained that there was no need for the rush to force a piece of technology on a process governed by an existing legislation without amending the relevant laws to reflect it.  Despite the missing legal backing, INEC still deployed the card reader during the 2019 general elections as well as the recent governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states.   Though not much fuss was made over the commission’s action apparently as a result of the Supreme Court judgement of 2016, the outcome of the November 16 off-season governorship polls in the two states seems to have forced many to query the rationale behind such technology given glaring irregularities that characterized the exercise.   Politicians and their loyalists, thugs inclusive, had a field day in both states, snatching and stuffing ballot boxes, which explained bashings for the electoral commission as well as calls for outright cancellation of the polls.   But, INEC, in its response, heaped the blame of what transpired in Kogi and Bayelsa on the doorsteps of the judiciary and politicians. The commission did not stop at as it declared to the consternation of most Nigerians that the smart card reader, which its introduction into the electoral system in 2015, was seen as a game changer, has outlived its usefulness.   INEC stated these positions through its National Commissioners Festus Okoye and Haruna Mohammed, at the Nigeria Civil Societies Situation Room (NCSSR)’s review of the Kogi and Bayelsa states governorship elections on Wednesday last week.   Okoye, who said that the card reader has lost relevance because even the courts do not recognise it as a means to prove over-voting, noted that the courts still rely on the voters’ register and election results as means to prove over-voting.  His words: “We must also find solution to the issue of smart card reader. The smart card reader has lost its efficacy. The smart card reader has lost its vibrancy in relation to the electoral process because the political elite have found a way around it.   “So, rather than use the smart card reader, they just ignore it, because ultimately, they know that when they get to the court, what the court will be saying is that: ‘you want to prove over voting? We want to see the voters’ register and we want the INEC forms and not the smart card reader.’ So, as far as I am concerned, the smart card reader has become a redundant instrument and inconsequential.”   Convener of NCSSR, Clement Nwankwo, had insisted that the brigandage, violence and malpractices recorded in the Bayelsa and Kogi elections would have been averted if INEC was firm. He reiterated the group’s position that the polls should have been cancelled.   But, Okoye argued that there is no provision of the law that gives the commission the power to cancel elections. According to him, “the law gives the commission the power to postpone an election and go back if the condition has improved. Section 26 of the Electoral Act gives the commission the power to postpone an election before the election starts, not cancel.”   Mohammed, who corroborated the view, said: “They are saying we should have cancelled the Kogi election. This is something we have done before. But, the problem is that if you cancel, you do not have any guarantee that it will not be worse the next time. So, how many times are you going to cancel elections?”   PDP insists umpire has failed   Reacting to INEC’s position on the circumvention the card reader as regards the Kogi and Bayelsa elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said such admittances raises a huge moral burden on the Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who it called for his resignation for serving group, rather than national interest.   The main opposition party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the revelation by INEC’s national commissioners, confirmed its position that the November 16 Kogi and Bayelsa governorship polls, as well as the Kogi West senatorial election, were manipulated.   The party said: “The confession by the commission vindicates the position of the PDP and majority of Nigerians that there were manipulations, alterations and circumventing of genuine data captured by the card readers and that actual results transmitted from polling units were tampered with.   “The admission also brings to light why INEC had no convincing defence at the tribunal in the face of overwhelming discrepancies in the figures it declared in the presidential poll. The PDP had always held that no matter how much falsehood appears to thrive, the truth will always catch up with it.”   INEC recoils   Despite INEC’s position that the card reader has outlived its usefulness, the commission in a twist, said it has no plans to stop the deployment of the device in all elections.   In a statement by the same Okoye, who made public, the commission’s position on the card reader, INEC noted that the clarification became necessary in view of remarks attributed to him (Okoye) at a programme organised by the Situation Room, which gave the impression that smart cards were no longer useful in the electoral process.   The statement read in part: “To the contrary, the National Commissioner spoke in the context of attempts by some political interests to willfully by-pass the smart card reader during elections to inflate their votes. They do this against the backdrop of the Supreme Court decision that the card reader is not to be used exclusively to determine over-voting.   “However, the commission introduced the smart card reader in the electoral process principally as additional confirmatory and authentication tool to determine the authenticity of cards presented by voters and eliminate impersonation, which are serious challenges to the electoral process in Nigeria.   “The card reader is therefore designed to strengthen the integrity of the electoral process and eliminate multiple voting. In accordance with Section 49(1&2) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and Clause paragraph 10(a) of INEC Regulations and Guidelines for the Conduct of Elections, a person intending to vote with his voter’s card shall be verified to be the same person on the Register of Voters by use of the smart card reader.”   No doubt, the card reader gained currency as elections game changer, when it was introduced by INEC in 2015, however, the Supreme Court judgement that pulled the rug off the feet of the device, could still be addressed through constitutional amendment to give it absolute and exclusive legitimacy.  