The All Progressives Congress crisis is one too many and has the possibility to ruffle feathers in the party if not properly managed. JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM in this write up looks at the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as the centerpiece of the crisis    A isha Buhari, the First Lady of Nigeria could be said to be the first to fire the first salvo against the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The First Lady expressed her displeasures over the conduct of the Adamawa State APC governorship primaries and others by the Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). In her opinion, there was no need for Oshiomhole to continue as the APC National Chairman because he had betrayed the trust of the people.   In her tweet to condemn the APC primaries she said: “It is disheartening to note that some aspirants used their hard earned money to purchase nomination forms, got screened, cleared and campaigned vigorously, yet found their names omitted on election day. These forms were bought at exorbitant prices.   “Many others contested and yet had their result delayed, fully knowing that automatic tickets have been given to other people. APC being a party whose cardinal principle is change and headed by a comrade/activist whose main concern is for the common man, yet, such impunity could take place under its watch.”   Since then, it has been one problem or another for the APC National Chairman from all strata of the party- the NWC, party chieftains/stalwarts, Secretariat staff, etc   The first NWC member to challenge the APC National Chairman was the National Vice Chairman North-East, Comrade Salihu Mustapha. It was at the first National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, few months after the Oshiomhole-led NWC was sworn in and Oshiomhole never wanted other NWC members to speak in that meeting.   The thrust of the meeting was for the party to determine the mode of primaries to be adopted for its primaries. Mustapha stormed out of the meeting because he never wanted to disrespect the President, Muhammadu Buhari who was seated in the meeting by confronting the National Chairman.   Speaking outside the hall, he said, Oshiomhole should know that they were all elected by their zones, therefore should have equal rights in the party. Mustapha made it clear that he was not going to allow anybody usurp his position or silence his voice in the party. But after sometime, he backed down from expressing opposing opinions against the chairman. This was when he started nursing the idea to replace the then National Secretary, Mai Mala Buni and he wanted the support of the National Chairman.   Another NWC member that has taken on Oshiomhole was the National Legal Adviser, Mr. Babatunde Ogala. He accused Oshiomhole of usurping his functions as the party’s National Legal Adviser. In the letter written to Oshiomhole, the APC National Legal Adviser said: “I am constrained to put this memo and complaint in writing in the light of the repeated acts of usurpation and deliberate encroachment on my office and attempt to undermine my person and the office.   “You will recall that you have previously done this in two previous matters wherein you had purportedly without recourse to me briefed the Law Firm of D. D Dodo & Co. in Suit No: FCT/HC/CV/9265/2018. Ugwumba Uche Nwosu vs. APC & 1or.” Ogala accused Oshiomhole of other wrongdoings against his office. It was alleged that Oshiomhole fired back at him, reminding him that he was not only a National Chairman but also the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the party. This altercation took the intervention of the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to be watered down and save the party from further embarrassment.   The last NWC member that picked on Oshiomhole was the Deputy National Chairman, North, Senator Lawal Shuiabu.  Shuiabu, after the general election had written a stinker to Oshiomhole reminding him how he had demarketed the party. Shuiabu, in that letter chronicled the wrongdoings of the APC National Chairman and said in a sane society that Oshiomhole should have resigned.   Since Shuiabu’s letter to Oshiomhole, it has been one allegation too many against the NWC leadership of Oshiomhole. The former National Chairman of APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun accused Oshiomhole of superintending over the worst primaries in the history of Nigeria democracy.   Oyegun is not alone on this allegation of “corruption primaries”, for DSS to have invited a sitting National Chairman of APC and quizzed him over the conduct of the primaries speaks volumes, says a party chieftain. The chieftain went further to posit that most members would not want to state their experiences with the chairman and NWC members during the primaries as it would affect the image of the party.   The violation of the party’s constitution is another thing some persons are holding against the APC National Chairman. According to them, the National Chairman has violated the constitution of the party in many ways. In a letter written by the Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Salihu Moh’ Lukuman asking Oshiomhole to address the crisis in the party, he said, “In the current circumstance, nothing short of a NEC or National Caucus meeting of the party can resolve all our increasing organisational challenges as a party.   “It is either Oshiomhole respects the provision of the party constitution and convene superior organ meeting to deliberate on all our challenges, or he should just accept his inability to manage the party and simply resign.”   He called on the national leaders of the party to rise to the challenge facing the party and take all necessary measures to convene superior organ meetings to begin to resolve all challenges as a party, saying “the current public disgrace must end!”  According to him, the power play between Oshiomhole and Godwin Obaseki, governor of Edo State, is a sign that the ruling party is about to reenact what happened in states like Zamfara, Rivers, and others. “In so many respects, it could be argued, it is a natural outcome of unfolding power play between Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki since June 2019 with the contentious inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly,” he said.   The position of the DG PGF triggered another crisis, as the Forum of the APC State chairmen were divided over the letter.   In a statement signed by the Chairman of the Forum and Chairman of APC Borno State, Hon. Abbah Bukar Dalori and Secretary of the Forum and Chairman of APC Enugu State, Dr. Ben Nwoye, the Forum condemned the act of the DG and called for his sack.  According to the statement, Lukuman over-stepped his boundary as he is not a NEC member to ask for the convocation of NEC or that the chairman should resign. But not too long the statement was made public; some party state chairmen dissociated themselves from it. According to them, there was no place they met to agree on that response and that they were not in the position to defend the National Chairman on the allegations of violation of party’s constitution.   Vocal on this were the state chairmen of Zamfara, Hon. Lawal Liman and Sokoto, Isa Sadiq Acida.   This was happening when the Caucus and NEC meetings held last two weeks. The atmosphere was charged before the meetings as some persons had taken different position on the leadership of the party.   From the Caucus it was alleged that the resentment against the National Chairman was shown. The Caucus is the third decision making organ of the party. The first is the Convention, the second is NEC and the Caucus. In reality the Caucus is the second because NEC only ratified its decisions.   In that Caucus a former governor stated that the President was not pleased with Oshiomhole’s presentations and he did not hid his feelings about it. The APC National Chairman, whose aims were to present the Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, former governors of Ogun and Imo States, Senators Ibukunke Amosun and Rochas Okorocha and the Director General of Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu for expulsion met a brick wall when the President asked him of what benefit has their suspension brought to the party.   An inside source said that a governor from the North told the President that should Oshiomhole move for their expulsion that he would personally move the motion for his removal in NEC.   The situation was saved by the President preventing the National Chairman from presenting expulsion recommendation. In fact, many party members have argued that it was not in the place of the NWC to suspend the hierarchy of members that the suspended.   Okorocha, Amosun and Okechukwu were suspended by the Oshiomhole-led NEC after the Presidential election on the allegations of anti-party and lack of party discipline. Also, the NWC set up a committee chaired by the former Deputy National Chairman South and now Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Chief Niyi Adebayo, which recommended for the suspension of the Deputy National Chairman North, Lawal Shuiabu and National Vice Chairman North-West, Inuwa Abdulkadir. Their suspensions were kicked against by some party members who consider Oshiomhole’s NEC leadership as autocratic.   Characteristic of the human nature, those opposed to the Oshiomhole style of leadership waited for him at the NEC meeting where those opposed his attempt to shut a NEC member down.   The Zamfara State Chairman, Lawal Liman had wanted to raise a motion at the meeting but Oshiomhole would not allow this as Liman would not accept to be shut down. The situation naturally became chaotic and the President walked away in the midst of this and the meeting ended abruptly.   Briefing journalists after the meeting in a hotel in Abuja, the Zamfara State APC Chairman, Lawal Liman, who spoke on their behalf of over 50 NEC members, said most of the goodwill acquired by the party at inception had taken a downturn under the former Edo State governor.  He said:  “The APC was founded as a platform for the progressives in Nigeria in 2014, with ‘Change’ as the slogan of the party.   “The party was positively embraced by the citizens of Nigeria, culminating in record-breaking victory of President Muhammadu Buhari, as the first opposition leader to defeat an incumbent President.   “Most of the goodwill acquired by the party, by reasons of its religious adherence to the provisions of its constitution and the tenets of internal democratic practices has taken a downturn, principally due to dictatorial and despotic tendencies of the national chairman, who has usurped the powers of the national Executive Committee of the party.   “This may have been responsible for the admonition of Mr President who insisted that the party organs, at the state, LGA and ward levels, must be strengthened and accorded due respect with regards to the powers and responsibilities conferred on them by the constitution of the party.   “Most unfortunately the facade presented by the national chairman, today, at a National Executive Committee meeting, leaves much to be desired. He completely ignored Mr. President’s advice and rather defied all known rules for meetings by precluding contributions from members and ending the meeting abruptly, without achieving anything. This is most unfortunate and undesirable.   “Arising from the foregoing and having regards to the huge responsibilities bestowed on us as officers of the party and in the overriding interest of our members, we are left with no option but to demand that Adams Oshiomhole resign his position as national chairman, in order to stem the slide and provide an enabling environment for genuine healing, reconciliation and the practice of true democracy, within the party across the country.”   And since that day, Oshiomhole seems to be left in the cold as he is running round trying to calm nerves.   Many, however, believe that the wound that the APC National Chairman has inflected in the party is so deep that the only thing that can heal it is his removal.   The governors on the platform of the party have been polarised with many on the side that Oshiomhole must resign. Sad about this is that the governor of Oshiomhole’s home state, Edo State, Godwin Obaseki seems to be in the forefront of Oshiomhole must go. Obaseki since June has been having a running battle with his predecessor, the APC National Chairman over the inauguration of the Edo State Assembly and the choice of the Speaker.   Oshiomhole had wanted to determine who emerged the Speaker of the Edo State Assembly, this the governor disallowed by inaugurating the Assembly at his chosen time and with his preferred Speaker.   The APC crisis in Edo State emanated from how the primaries were conducted with the APC National Chairman determining who gets what. According to party source in Edo State, he never allowed the governor or any other chieftain in the state to make input on those that became the candidates of the party in the last general election.   The crisis in Edo APC has led to the suspension in the National Chairman in the state party chapter, which also resulted to the suspension of the state party chairman, Hon. Anslem Ojezua.   However, a National Working Committee member confided in our reporter that those who want the National Chairman ouster are coup plotters but would have to wait till March next year when the party would likely hold another NEC. The last NEC meeting held after nine months of the emergency NEC, while the constitution of the party provides that NEC should be held quarterly.