Nigeria won the Nations Cup for the first time in 1980 and our correspondent AJIBADE OLUSESAN explores the lives of the heroes who earned the country that success 39 years ago and discovered that many of them are suffering debilitating health issues. Their plights have deepened discourse for the establishment of retirement benefits for retired professional athletes  The big party started immediately referee Gebreyesus Tesfaye from Ethiopia blew the final whistle; 85,000 fans that thronged the National Stadium, Lagos, erupted in wild jubilation, Nigeria has won the African Cup of Nations for the first time. The day was March 22, 1980. The joy was boundless, the then President, Shehu Shagari, was the cheerleader; he clapped, jumped, danced, the broad smile on his face mirrored the mood of the nation. Forward Segun Odegbami had scored two goals to land the country her first major silverware after the Green Eagles walloped Algeria 3-0 in the final. Muda Lawal was the scorer of the third goal. “It was a day I can never forget and it will always remain a great day in the history of football in Nigeria. I was a young player, I couldn’t believe we had become the champions of Africa,” said Henry Nwosu, who just finished his secondary school education to join the winning team. He was the youngest member of the squad. Nigeria has recorded many more achievements in football since that triumph in 1980 but arguably they all paled in comparison with the success of winning the first AFCON. It was symbolic not only because it was the first major victory for the country in the sport, but the way it deepened the unity of Nigeria 10 years after the civil war and one year after the return to democratic rule after 13 years of military interregnum. The players became instant heroes; some musicians even waxed records in their praise while they received gifts from all quarters. The Shagari-led government rewarded the team with a national honour, a house in FESTAC Town, and a car each; nothing was too much for these heroes, they thoroughly deserved anything, everything, they were at the centre of this glory. However, the thinking of the average citizen is to serve his or her country and be appreciated for life but 39 years after that historic triumph in Lagos, the tales of these heroes are not only gory but horrifying. As at today seven members of the winning team are dead and those who are still alive are passing through excruciating pains with no help from the country they served with all their hearts. Goalkeeper, Best Ogedegbe; defenders, Okey Isima, Annas Ahmed and Tunde Bamidele; midfielders, Alloysius Atuegbu, Lawal; and forward, Martins Eyo, are the departed souls and some of them left with regrets for spending the active days of their lives serving their Fatherland. The gory story of the illness of the captain of the side, Christian Chukwu, typified the excruciating and painful experience of these heroes. The picture of Chairman, as Chukwu, is known, clutching onto his crutches trended on the social media and reports emerged that he would need about $50,000 for surgery or he gets confined to the wheelchair or even ultimately lose his life. However, his situation became embar-rassing as government whom Chukwu served meritoriously for several years turned blind eyes to his plight. The Chairman was the one that lifted the trophy, he was so assured in the defence that it was believed no striker could easily dribble past him and seeing him in a terrible shape with illness about to score a regrettable goal against him left many Nigerians worried that someone of his stature and history could be so abandoned. Despite a sustained media campaign to force the intervention of government in Chukwu’s situation, the people in power were adamantly unmoved and the former Eagles coach resigned to fate counting the days he might join his departed colleagues until help came through a Billionaire philanthropist, Femi Otedola. The businessman did not only splash the cash for surgery he personally supervised the process that ensured Chukwu got adequate medical treatment in the London hospital. Chukwu is now recovering after a successful surgery but his ailment was typical of the challenges professional athletes pass through after retirement. A study published in the April 2007 edition of the medical journal, Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise, lends credence to this fact that the glamour of playing professional football can fade fast and hard once an athlete’s career is over. The study conducted by some University of Michigan, U.S researchers report that: ‘Chronic pain from injuries sustained during a career, plus levels of depression comparable to the general population that can be aggravated by that injury-related pain, can make the transition to retirement difficult for many players.” According to the lead researcher, Dr. Thomas L. Schwenk, “Many retired players have a rate of moderate to severe depressive symptoms similar to the general population. Nevertheless, they also have a huge burden of chronic pain, from injuries and the stress of a professional sports career. The two interact to cause significant sleep disturbance and other miseries.” The study emphasized that this state of depression and chronic pain can lead to financial difficulties, lack of social support or friendships, and abuse of prescribed medication, alcohol or other drugs. For the study, the Schwenk’s group surveyed 3,377 retired members of the NFL Players Association. Of the 1,594 who responded, almost 15 percent reported moderate to severe depression, a figure comparable to the public, Schwenk said. However, half of those respondents also said they suffered from chronic pain. And “this puts them at significant additional risk for depression,” Schwenk said. Kadiri Ikhana joined the Eagles from the Nigerian Army; he came on in the second half of that historic final at the National Stadium, Lagos; he was enterprising, trying to ensure that the country protect her lead over Algeria. He played his part in that success but he is today suffering from several ailments. He recently underwent two different surgeries to fix both of his badly distorted hip bones following pains that he could no longer bear and were killing him slowly. Although he had a successful coaching career, leading Enyimba FC to Nigeria’s first CAF Champions League triumph in 2003, Ikhana barely has enough to fix his deteriorating health. Having exhausted his savings, which he spent on the ailment with no major signs of improvement, the former Super Falcons coach was told he needed three different corrective surgeries if he would ever walk again. He needed several millions of Naira to get the surgeries done and his efforts to get help from the government through the Nigeria Football Federation proved painfully abortive until a private medical centre, Alliance Hospitals, offered to do the operation free of charge. Some former internationals including Obafemi Martins also rallied round the coach with some money but up till the time of filing this report, nothing concrete in terms of money or concerns had come from either the government or NFF. Adokie Amiesiamaka was still a law undergraduate of the University of Lagos when he etched his name in history book alongside his teammates. He was a dazzling winger who tormented opponents in that tournament but he lived with excruciating pains for several years until he replaced one of his hips with a surgery in India recently. Amiesiamaka, who is also known as the Chief Justice, could possibly afford to spend his money on the surgery without help from the government or anyone because he is one of few privileged former players who had higher institutions education and has been a successful lawyer but Charles Bassey, a defender in that squad is not that lucky as he has been relying on handouts from friends to take care of his health. Bassey has been suffering from Lumbar Radiculopathy – Nerve Root Compression – for 33 years. The ailment has left him unable to walk and without a source of livelihood. “I can now hardly walk, but I have been nursing this illness since 1986. I have also been experiencing numbness on my palms and my feet now. “The costs of medication and living itself are becoming high and high. I need much more support. “The cost of medication and living itself are becoming high and high, and I cannot continue to expect more from this group of friends. “I do know that the situation around the country is not as we all expect and want it to be, but my situation is more of that of discomfort and survival.“I have been reliant on friends and the little my family can raise, but I can’t continue to rely on my family and friends because they have really tried, and I now need other Nigerians to support me. “Many of us, heroes of our various generations in the chronology of football, are still alive but barely living through a journey that has turned from good to bad and now to the ugly,” Odegbami, the scorer of two of the goals in the 3-1 win over Algeria in the final, said. “Let me tell you about the physical damages you cannot see under these fine clothes. My thigh muscles, once taunt and toned like that of a racing horse, is now thin and drooping with wrinkles like the withered breast of an old woman”. “The muscle cannot even now support my body weight properly anymore. So I walk wracking with pains. For over 10 years, I have been having palpitations, my cholesterol level was high, I have been on a daily dose of pills I must take for the rest of my life in order not to go blind. There is pain in my waistline.”Gangling Emmanuel Okala is suffering from several ailment including acute arthritis for years and recently underwent a surgery to correct defects in his eyes. Sources close to the former Eagles goalkeeper told our correspondent that he was also managing debilitating diabetes that has badly affected his health. Defensive midfielder Shefiu Muhammed is not finding life after football easy at all; despite his great success, he is wallowing in abject poverty and poor health. Ex-international Sam Sodje said it was so terrible great valours are left to rot in neglect and poverty largely because of a shambolic system. He said in other climes, the future of professional players were secured because of a functional system, which allowed them to save for life after football “It is such a terrible thing to see great men, who have served this country live like squalors. These are men who gave us joy and excitements, straining and stressing their bodies for the sake of the country but are today writhing in pains as a result of poverty and ill-health. “I played in England for several years; although I am retired, I get paid some money every month and I will get that till I die because I was remitting some money into a scheme created for professional footballers in that country when I was still playing.“Honestly, nobody is asking the NFF for free money but why not create an office which will handle the welfare of the footballers. It is important that a scheme is created where we encourage players to keep money into for the purpose of their future,” he said. “I think the problem regarding how we treat our former footballers is reflective of how we handle the plight of retirees in this country,” Etim Esin, a former international said. “You go everywhere and I see how pensioners die to access their own money. If we are serious, why can’t we set up a welfare fund that will take care of the retired footballers? The fund can be contributory between government and even the society who will put in their donations towards helping any former athletes, not only footballers who run into trouble later in their lives.” Former Wimbledon FC player John Fashanu said he was always pained when he met former players who were suffering. He said: “It is a shame that we allow these legends suffer the way they do; I am always close to tears when I see how they are struggling to live. Many of them are extremely poor while others have seen some of the things that they work for during their days taken away from them. Nwankwo Kanu is a legend but how much of help is he getting in the regard of his hotel which is being taken from him. Austin Okocha too is having tax issues in Ireland and Nigeria, nobody is helping him. “There are scores of these legends who have nothing to live on; my comments regarding how I get about N5million monthly after retirement was misconstrued. Yes, I get that amount not from the British government but insurance company. “They have a system that works in the UK and that was how I was able to insure myself while playing and today I get my premium. Ryan Giggs of Manchester United got me injured during a Premier league match between my club Aston Villa and United. I couldn’t play football again after then but I probably would have been at home getting nothing had I not insured myself. “So, what I am saying is that we have great insurance companies on the continent that can come in and package the scheme for our players.” He added that for those former players who were wallowing in poverty, government could set up a fund and encourage Nigerians to make voluntary donations. Edema Fuludu, the Treasurer of the National Association of Nigerian Footballers, said that they had launched an enlightenment campaign to encourage players not only to invest their money correctly but embrace insurance scheme. He said: “Many players suffered serious injuries when they least expect and cut short their playing career; so what will they fall back on. As a union, we are not talking about the welfare of those who have retired but to also sensitise those who are here. “In Europe, they are not talking about insurance, players themselves know they have to do this but we have not even started anything yet because we don’t have a good system. However, as a players union body, we are ready to partner with any corporate bodies, government to ensure that we create this insurance scheme for our players.” “Players, who play abroad can easily key in to such programme. But it is going to be difficult for those who are playing in the local league because they don’t get paid regularly. I tried to introduce that sometime ago because I know we have to replicate what they do abroad here, but we are yet to make quite a success from that because these players can go several months without getting paid, how can you then ask them to make contribution to an insurance scheme”