With Christmas spirit in the air, multinational companies and banks are facing hard times to offer the famous gift, bag of rice, to their thousands of workers, friends and customers, BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports   Giving bags of rice as gift to workers and customers during Christmas by corporate institutions such as banks and multinational companies has been a long time tradition in Nigeria. It is an occasion to show appreciation to loyal customers and employees but this year, with Christmas and New Year in the air, many companies in the country are thinking about the alternative gifts for their employees because of the scarcity of high quality of the grain and outrageous price. Government and rice producers have failed to keep their promise of making the grain available at affordable price to Nigerians. For instance, early in the month, the Rice Processors Association of Nigeria (RPAN), assured that it had the capacity to meet the country’s demand during and after the yuletide. According to the association, the members had been able boost local production by 1.8million tonnes apart from the millions of metric tonnes produced annually by small scale millers and local millers. Specifically, the Chairman of the association, Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar, said in Abuja that there would be no scarcity of rice during the Christmas period, saying that there would be enough supply of rice in the country. Issues However, few days to Christmas, the reverse was the case as scarcity of quality local rice in the market and the price of the existing ones have beyond the reach of the common man. In some banks, investigation by New Telegraph revealed  that it was not ‘Happy Christmas’ as majority of their workers would not go home for the first time with the grain as end of the year gift. One of the first generation bank has already held three meetings in the last two weeks to discuss how to tackle the daunting challenge when the management discovered that the amount it would cost them to purchase a 50-kilogramme bag of the grain at the wholesale price was three times the price of what it was spending in the past years. Already, the Federal Government has warned that any corporate organisation sharing foreign rice would be sanctioned severely. Currently, some big organisations have starting giving out small electronics and appliances to their workers and customers instead of rice. A staff in one the banks that does not want his name mentioned explained that virtually all the banks were at crossroads because of the high price and scarcity of the grain. According the staff, “In our bank, our management is still considering how to bring succour to the workers.” He noted that apart from the high price, the banks had been unable to get direct supply from the sellers, while contractors were avoiding extra spending outside their quotation. Also, it was not rosy yuletide for workers of some multinational companies as some of them will close for the year without going home with grain. Crossroads It was learnt that some the companies found it difficult to provide the grain through the staff cooperative and thrifts societies. For instance, efforts to get Lake Rice promised by the Lagos State Government was futile as the commodity was not available. It was learnt that the current price of the grain had deterred them as the price of 25kilogrammes bag of rice was the equivalent of the price of a full 50kilogrammes purchased in 2018 for their workers. According to Mrs Esther Ilemobayo, a staff of a foam manufacturing company in Ikeja, the staff cooperative has opted for bags of semovita and cartons of noodles for workers. She explained that price of local rice has gone up from N13, 000 to N25, 500. She explained that the Daleko and Ojuwoye markets in Lagos had low patronage because of the price. Ilemobayo explained that some employees had no choice than to accept their fate this year. She blamed the border closure and insufficient local rice on the current predicament faced by companies to part the traditional gift. Already, rice consumption in the country has climbed to N1.2billion daily despite the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s N55bn anchor borrowers to encourage massive production. Dilemma Investigation by the New Telegraph revealed that after the border closure, the country suddenly experience rise in milled rice production from 4.9million tonnes to 6.7million tonnes. Currently, a bag of the local grain has gone up between N13,000 and  N25,500 per 50-kilogramme bag in the market. Border closure Trouble started in August this year when the price of the grain rose up suddenly following the closure of the border. In the first three week of the exercise, price of parboil rice went up by 36.4 per cent from N7,000 to N11,000 at the Idiroko, Seme and Jibya borders in Sokoto, following a new method adopted by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to confiscate the  illegal imports warehoused in some border communities. Also, the price of the grain went up by 16.8 per cent from N15, 000 to N18,000 in some markets in Lagos. At Abesan, Ipaja rice dealers increased the price from N14,500 to N17,500, N18,000 and N19,300, depending on brand and quality in the period instead of the projected 6,000  envisaged by the former Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh in 2018. With the border closure since August, 2019, smugglers have been finding it difficult to move large grains out of the two Benin ports. The Customs Comptroller General, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), said that since the commencement of the border closure 21,071 bags of 50 kilogrammes of parboiled foreign rice were seized, while 317 suspected smugglers were arrested. Findings by New Telegraph from a global trade portal, Index Mundi, revealed that a total of 2.2million tonnes of the grains are expected to be shipped to Nigeria through the neighbouring borders before the end of 2019. It was learnt that this was the major reason government halt the illegal movement of the grain into the country. Nigerian rice importers pay 110 per cent tariff on $443 Thailand parboiled rice per metric ton, Cameroon importers pay zero tariff. Also, Benin Republic reduced its rice import duty from 35 per cent 7 per cent in order to attract Nigerian rice merchants to patronise Cotonou Port. Shortfall Findings by New Telegraph revealed that the country needs additional 34.38 per cent or 2.51million tonnes of the grain valued at N37.65billion to meet domestic consumption of 7.30million metric tonnes. It was further revealed that the country depends on 21 large integrated rice mills with a total processing capacity of 1.22m metric tonnes yearly. The mills are located in Kano, Enugu, Ebonyi, Kebbi, Anambra, Edo, Nasarawa, Benue, Kwara, Jigawa, Niger and Kogi states. However, it was learnt that inadequate mills needed to  produce the grain has fueled massive smuggling of the grain to the country through the land borders of  Seme, Idiroko, Calabar, Jibya (Sokoto) and some creeks in Lagos and Calabar. Smuggling Commenting on the self sufficiecy, the Managing Director of AgroNigeria, Richard Mbaram, said that the Federal Government’s determination to end importation  of the  grain would be a mirage if it fails to address the issues of massive smuggling of the grain into the country. According to him, achieving self-sufficiency in the next couple of years was merely a pipe dream. Also, Managing Director of Sceptre Consult, Jayeola Ayodele, while commending government’s decision to ban the grains said that the Federal Government should have subsidised the price of the grain and support local farmers so that consumers would not feel the impact of the ban. He said that insufficiency was responsible for the high price of rice in the market, saying that it could be averted if government had subsidised consumers just like the fuel subsidy. Ayodele said: “The Federal Government should have asked famers to sell the products at N5,000 for 50 kiliogrammes bag and pay the farmers the balance of their cost of production before the ban was slammed. They can still do it if they have the interest of the masses in the mind.” He explained that Kebbi, Ebonyi states, multinational companies who were into rice production and other individuals should be supported in order to lower the price of the grain. Ayodele added that if the grain was affordable in the market, price of other food items would fall naturally. Local production Despite these, some of the traders at the Abakaliki rice mills in Ebonyi State have continued to celebrate the prohibition on importation of foreign rice. They said that the ban had led to high sales of Abakaliki rice. A rice miller, Mr Timothy Ude, said:  “We are happy that the Federal Government closed Nigeria’s border.” He said before the closure, his sales for a day used to be very poor, noting that at the end of the month it was difficult to pay his landlord and meet up with other needs. He explained that people who used to neglect local rice had fall back to it. He explained that the decision of the Federal Government would help to promote homemade products in the country. Because of the government efforts, it was learnt that Ebonyi State, had gained prominence as the city with the highest concentration of rice mills in West Africa. The industry is a business enterprise owned by private individuals, where farmers, both peasant and consistent process and market rice to buyers who come from all over the country and beyond. The demand for Abakaliki rice has continued to increase because of its over 400mills. This has led to the increase in the price of the commodity. People from neighbouring Benue, Kogi, Enugu, Cross River, Abia and other states come to the state place order to  buy the commodity in different quantities for sales and consumption. Also, Lagos, Abuja and others from far away often place order for the commodity because of its special taste which distinguishes it from other rice species. Sabotage Findings by New Telegraph revealed that some rice merchants were forced to relocate to Benin where they enjoy low import tariff to ship the grains from Thailand and other major importers of the grains. It was learnt that the Republic of Benin does not consume parboiled rice; 90 per cent of the imports are for Nigerian markets. Large volumes of the imports are shipped from Thailand, Pakistan, India, United States and Vietnam to Benin for transshipment to Nigeria. For instance, parboiled rice from Thailand is sold at $421 (N151,568) per tonne or $21.05 (N7,578) per  50 kilogrammes at  a landing price as at October, 2019, as revealed by the Thai Rice Exporters Association (TREA). It was learnt that the Government of Benin had already licensed some Nigerian companies and several other rice merchants who are importing parboiled rice through Cotonou and Bollore port’s terminals. It was also learnt that some Nigerian firms were given a mandate by the Benin authorities to import between 290 and 300,000 tonnes of parboiled and white rice each at 7 per cent tariff per annum. Other small scale traders where licensed to imports 10,000 tonnes each. In January, 2015, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) record revealed that some rice valued at N938.2 billion was seized from smugglers despite the grains restriction from the borders. For instance, between January and August, 2015, N330.5 billion worth of the grains was intercepted by the service.  Also, NCS added that some rice valued at N597.7 billion was impounded from the various land borders in 2016. Last line There should be intervention and subsidy by the Federal Government to make the grain available and affordable to Nigerians.