Defiantly, a faction of the Edo State chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday held what it called a ‘mega rally’ in Benin, the state capital, through which it received into its fold, the former governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2016 election, Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu and his supporters. However, the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, and members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party were conspicuously absent at the rally. In a move which political observers described as an apparent response, the Edo State Government yesterday placed a total ban on political rallies, demonstrations and processions in the state, citing rising security concerns occasioned by the spike in protests around Benin metropolis. But the ‘mega rally’ welcoming Ize-Iyamu to the party, which was attended by some APC leaders, elders, members, support groups, was held in Ize-Iyamu’s residence at Ugbor Government Reservation Area (GRA), amid tight security by armed mobile and regular policemen. Initially billed to hold at the Garrick Memorial Secondary School, the venue had to be changed due to the last minute suspension order by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, following violent clashes by youths loyal to the Oshiomhole on one hand and those of the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on the other. Former deputy governor of the state, Dr. Pius Odubu; factional state chairman of the party, Col. David Imuse; Chief Lucky Imasuen, Rep member, Johnson Oghuma, members of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) and several other chieftains of the party, were among those present at the venue. Meanwhile, in a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie, the state government expressed concerns over actions capable of breaching public peace in the wake of plans by those it called mischief-makers to organise an unauthorised rally in defiance of the directives of the IGP. The government warned all property owners that any venue used for activities in breach of its orders shall have its right of occupancy immediately revoked and forfeited to the Edo State Government, noting that it will not allow any person to turn the state into a battlefield. “The Government of Edo State has, over the past few days, made clear its position that the plans by some identified mischief-makers to organise an unauthorised political rally in Benin City, was capable of leading to a breakdown of public peace and also a danger to the persons and property of Edo citizens. “The events of yesterday, December 12, 2019, were a scary prelude to the absolute mayhem which these irresponsible activities would generate if left unchecked. “In defiance of the clear and publicised instruction of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), calling off the proposed rally owing to the security implications, these desperate persons are presently shopping around for alternative venues to carry out their incendiary activities,” the statement reads in part.Noting that the primary purpose of government is the protection of life and property, he said “the government of Edo State announced a total ban on all political rallies, demonstrations and/ or processions in any part of Edo State. It is no longer news that Obaseki and Oshiomhole, his estranged political godfather and predecessor, have been locked in a supremacy battle over the control of the party structure and the Edo State House of Assembly. The governor and APC factional state chairman, Anselm Ojezua Esq., insisted they were not aware of the rally, despite Ize-Iyamu reportedly stating that he adequately informed Governor Obaseki through an SMS and a letter. The Oshiomhole faction of the party led by Col. David Imuse (rtd) said the rally was being organised to receive Pastor Ize-Iyamu. Youths in the state had staged protests across major roads in Benin metropolis on Thursday, warning that desperate politicians were importing thugs from outside the state to cause mayhem during the rally. Adamu had on Thursday night, ordered that the event be cancelled over “overriding internal security interests”, directing the state’s Commissioner of Police to meet with the opposing political interests. It was learnt the police manned strategic points across the state to give effect to the state government’s directive, which led to the dispersion of crowds that gathered at the Ugbor-Amagba axis of the state. While the rally was going on, bonfires set by suspected hoodlums at the popular Abuja junction on First Ugbor Road rented the air as sporadic gun shots also rang out around Junction and Limit Road areas ostensibly to discourage people from attending the rally. Residents of the areas were forced to scamper for safety while vehicle owners sought alternative routes for fear of possible attacks. Saturday Telegraph gath-ered that about 15 persons sustained serious injuries during the Thursday mayhem and were rushed to the Specialist Hospital on Sapele Road. However, shootings and bonfires continued yesterday along Airport Road and other link roads which caused a traffic gridlock that lasted eight hours as youths blocked a section of the Benin Airport Road. Soldiers were later deployed in the troubled areas to dislodge rampaging youths. Ize-Iyamu and others were received into the party by Imuse, who handed him the symbolic broom of the party showing all of them are co-partners of the party as there are no owners. Responding, Ize-Iyamu said: “Those who think we are enemies, we want to tell them that we are not enemies; we have not come to fight.” Speaking to journalists shortly after his reception into the party, Ize-Iyamu said he was pleading to those who felt threatened by his home coming to have a rethink and that he is only coming to add value to the party and not to wage war against anybody. He said: “Well, I am very happy. In my life, I have learnt never to be deterred by obstacles and so, I have made up my mind with those who also believed in me to join the party that we founded in this state and even in this country, the APC. “So, today, we are surrounded by old friends and comrades in politics who have come to receive us. The crowd, as you can see, is mammoth and we thank God that there was no obstacle.”