The Senate, yesterday, said that it would investigate the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) over alleged non-remittance of N800 billion to the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA). The fund, which the apex legislative chamber resolved to investigate, was for the maintenance of federal roads across the country. The President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, stated this in his remarks on a bill for an Act to Repeal the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency Act, 2002 and to Establish the Federal Roads Authority Bill, 2019. Lawan pointed out that previous efforts by Nigeria to concession government enterprises failed as a result of systemic corruption. Consequently, he called for Public Private Partnership in the construction of roads across the country if government must meet up to its responsibility of providing good roads. He said: “Corruption is also responsible for some of the challenges we face in our road sector. We recall that the privatization of various enterprises was made right from 1986 till date, and in most cases the privatization or concessioning processes were flawed and of course, we suffer as a country. “I believe that we need to demand what happened to over N800 billion that PPPRA was alleged to have collected.” Leading debate on the bill, the sponsor, Senator Gershom Bassey, said that the 36,000km federal road network was by far the largest and most valuable single public infrastructure asset owned by the Federal Government of Nigeria. He said: “There is nowhere in the world that this expanse of road network is managed solely by government. “But unfortunately, over 80 per cent of goods and services are transported by road, leading to tremendous pressure on our roads since other modes of transportation like rail and shipping are underdeveloped and air transport is too expensive for most Nigerians.” Contributing to the debate, Senator Olubunmi Adetumbi (APC, Ekiti North) blamed the poor state of roads across the country on the high level of impunity by relevant agencies of government. At the end of the debate on the bill, the President of the Senate referred it to the Senate Committee on Works for further legislative input.