Benue and Taraba States governors in collaboration with the National Boundary Commission (NBC) have begun moves to demarcate the boundary between the two states to douse the perennial crisis rocking the states. This follows a resolution reached at a bilateral meeting of officials of the two states and those of the NBC.  The meeting also resolved to make available to the governors the comprehensive map of the 1996 fieldwork based on the 1923/24 description so that they can expeditiously study and with input from stakeholders interface bilaterally on areas of concern.  The bilateral meeting further resolved that after the interface, the two state governments shall report to the NBC not later than end of January 2020 after which the NBC shall convene another meeting to discuss the needs of the states as well as plan the way forward. Benue State Deputy Governor, Engr. Benson Abounu, led Benue State team to the meeting while Taraba State delegation was led by Engr. Haruna Manu.  The Acting Director General of the NBC, Surveyor Adamu Adaji, led the NBC team. Chief Press Secretary to Abounu Ogaba Ede, in a statement after the meeting, quoted the deputy governor as stressing the need for peace in the border corridor and highlighted the various efforts put in place by the two state governments in finding lasting peace in the area.  Abounu called on the communities to support the peaceful demarcation of the boundary and to see boundaries not as lines of division but as tools for administrative convenience.  He further charged the leaders of the communities to embark on massive sensitisation of the people in their areas tin order for them to embrace and fully support the forthcoming demarcation exercise.  While on his part, Taraba State Deputy Governor, Engr. Manu, who also stressed the need for peace in the troubled areas, called on the people to change their concept of boundaries and see boundaries as bridges of opportunities, and cooperation between communities and not as barriers to development.  In a remark, Surveyor Adaji thanked governors Samuel Ortom of Benue and Arc. Darius Ishaku of Taraba for their untiring support for the peace process. He outlined activities planned towards the demarcation work and solicited the support of the states and the affected communities.