Arights activist and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Femi Falana, has petitioned the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), seeking unconditional release of Omoyele Sowore from ‘illegal custody’ of the Department of State Services (DSS). The silk, in a letter dated 13th December, 2019, drew the AGF’s attention to the continued detention of Sowore by the DSS despite the fact that he has been granted bail by court. He said an earlier request for Sowore’s release after the decision of the AGF to take over his prosecution in a charge marked FHC/ABJ/235/2019 was turned down by the DSS. “Following the announcement of your decision to take over the case of Federal Republic of Nigeria v Omoyele Sowore & Another, two members of the legal defence team visited the headquarters of the State Security Service on December 13, 2019 to demand for the immediate release of Sowore from illegal custody. “Our colleagues were, however, advised to direct the request to your office in view of the fact that you have taken over the case from the State Security Service,” the letter reads. Falana consequently urged the AGF to direct the immediate release of Sowore in line with the order of an Abuja Federal High Court granting him bail. Meanwhile, Malami yesterday said that the Federal Government is guided by extant laws and tradition of the law in handling legal matters and related litigations. Malami’s position was in response to Falana’s letter to the AGF requesting for the release of Sowore. The minister’s position was contained in a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu in Abuja. According to the minister, “When parties submit their issues for determination to a court of law, they lack exclusivity of decision over such issues without recourse to court. “We remain guided by the established tradition and will not take unilateral decision without recourse to the rule of law.” New Telegraph recalls that the AGF had, last week, requested that the case file of Sowore be released to his office to take up the prosecution. The DSS is prosecuting Sowore before the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. However, as part of deliberate efforts to probe emerging issues related to the recent imbroglio related to Sowore’s case and for speedy dispensation of Justice, the AGF requested that the case file in respect of charge pending before the Federal High Court, Abuja be forwarded to his office. The request for the transfer of the case to the office of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice was contained in a letter dated 11th December, 2019 and addressed to the Director General of the DSS. The Solicitor General of the Federation and the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, Dayo Apata (SAN), who signed the letter, refereed to a letter from the DSS office on 9th September, 2019. According to the letter, “The AGF and Minister of Justice, upon a further review of the case, has directed the immediate takeover of the prosecution of all charges in respect of Omoyele Sowore by the Federal Ministry of Justice in line with the provisions of Sections 150(1) and 174 (1) (a-c) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).” The letter requested the Director General to “promptly forward all the case files” in respect of Omoyele Sowore to the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice.