CHUKWU DAVID reports that the Senate has embarked on a legislative process to free female police officers from 51 years of discriminatory practices, by proposing an amendment to the Police Act containing the offensive regulations   The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), prohibits discrimination of Nigerians on the basis of gender, ethnicity, religion and any other variables for social stratification of citizens. Section 42 of the Constitution, specifically provides for the right to freedom from discrimination.  The section provides that a citizen of Nigeria shall not be subjected to any disabilities or restriction, expressly or in application of any law or any executive or administrative action of the government just because he is such a person or be subjected to disabilities or restriction due to their place of origin, sex, religion or political opinions. In the same vein, section 42(1)(b) states that a citizen of Nigeria shall not be accorded any privilege or advantage that is not accorded to citizens of Nigeria that are of other communities, ethnic groups or due to their place of origin, sex, religion or political opinion. These provisions in the nation’s grand norm, notwithstanding, it is surprising to note that there are obvious violations of this critical constitutional provision by agencies of government, primarily established to enforce the laws of the land. For instance, the Police Act (Cap P19), Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, has some regulations that discriminate against female police officers, which made the Act obsolete and begging for urgent amendment, to bring it in tune with realities of the contemporary world. Worried by some of the provisions of the Act, which obviously discriminate against female police officers, Senator Ezenwa Onyewuchi (PDP, Imo East) decided to tackle the matter via legislation. Consequently, he is currently sponsoring a bill, entitled: “The Police Act Amendment Bill, 2019.” with a view to bringing the Act into agreement with the provisions of the Constitution as well as in harmony with what obtains in other democratic settings. The Senate has actually shown willingness to treat the legislative proposal with dispatch. The bill was introduced and read for the first time on the floor of the Chamber on October 10, 2019. Presenting the lead debate on the bill on Thursday last week, when it was considered for second reading, Onyewuchi explained that the major objective of the bill was to eliminate gender-discriminatory provisions in the extant Act 2004. To achieve this objective therefore, he pointed out that the bill sought to expunge the provisions of regulations 122, 123, 124 and 127 from the principal Act, which are the clauses considered obnoxious, discriminatory and outdated. The lawmaker observed that Regulation 122 restricts female police officers assigned to the General Duties Branch of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to telephone, clerical and office orderly duties. He also faulted regulation 123, which prohibits female police officers from drilling under arms and regulation 124, which requires female police officer to apply for permission to marry as well as seek to investigate the man she intends to marry for criminal records. “Regulation 123 prohibits women police from drilling under arms; Regulation 124 mandates female police officers to apply for permission to marry while the intending fiancé is also investigated for criminal records. “It also stipulates that a police woman who is single at the time of enlistment must spend three years in service before applying for permission to marry. “However, an analysis of the Police Act and other regulatory/policy documents governing the internal and external workings of the Nigeria Police Force reveals a preponderance of discriminatory regulations and workplace practices that reinforce gender discrimination. “Many of the police regulations particularly regulations 122, 123, 124 and 127 are overtly discriminatory to female police officers. A woman police officer, who is desirous of marrying must apply in writing to the commissioner of police for the State Police Command in which she is serving, requesting permission to marry. She is to also give the name, address and occupation of the person she intends to marry,” he stated. He explained that there was need to expunge the regulations as it was not reasonably justifiable in a democratic state like Nigeria, which had domesticated the African Charter on Human and People Rights. On Regulation 127 of the Police Act, which deals with pregnancy of unmarried female police officers, Onyewuchi said the Police Act provides that “an unmarried woman police officer, who becomes pregnant, shall be discharged from the Force, and shall not be re-enlisted except with the approval of the Inspector-General.” He pointed out that the above regulations of the Police Act were enacted in 1968, at a time when the societal attitude to women in the workplace was very different from what it is today. Contributing, Senator Istifanus Gyang (PDP, Plateau North), supported the bill, saying that it was most welcome as it widened the scope of mainstreaming women rights in the country’s statutes. He also noted that exposure to discrimination was one of the factors that was used in rating and ranking the country on the index of best and worst countries for a woman to live in. “It is a fact that women’s rights such as protection from sexual harassment, right to vote and be voted for, right to hold public office are today a reality. The quest for gender equality and equity in our clime will be further strengthened by the passage of this bill,” he said. The Senate Minority Leader, Eyinnaya Abaribe, while supporting the proposed amendment, said that amending the law will give dignity to the female folk. “It is very strange to find such provisions in the Police Act which is discriminatory in the sense that the male counterparts don’t have the same restrictions”, he said. Similarly, Senators Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra North) and Smart Adeyemi (APC, Kogi West), noted that Nigeria is a democratic society, so there should not be any provision that makes women to be seen as second class citizens. In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, referred the bill to the Senate Committee on Police Affairs and charged it to submit its report to the  chamber in four weeks. While Nigerians wait for the committee’s report, it is hoped that when this bill finally passes all legislative hurdles and gets assent from President Muhammadu Buhari, joining the Police Force will definitely be more attractive to women, who will now enjoy equal rights and liberties with their male counterparts.