…accuses Sports Ministry of taking sides  The embattled president of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria, Ibrahim Gusau, has said the ongoing crisis in the AFN is sad for the sport in the country especially with Olympic Games just few months away.  Speaking at a press conference organised in Lagos on Sunday, the president said everything they were doing as a board has been with the best interests of athletes in mind and an innate desire to develop athletics in Nigeria.   He said they are open to discussion while also calling on all Nigerians to ask questions as there are so many left unanswered.   Meanwhile, Gusau has accused the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development of taking sides in the ongoing crisis rocking the federation.  He said the ministry did so by endorsing the board meeting that took place in Abuja recently leading to the suspension of the president by seven other board members.  “It is common knowledge that the AFN is having misunderstandings, especially within the board of the federation. “It is also obvious that the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports has taken sides by issuing a press statement endorsing the purported board meeting held on Tuesday, December 3, in Abuja.  If this is not interference, one wonders what is,” he said  Reacting to some of the issues raised by the ministry of sports which claimed that Gusau actually convened the Abuja meeting, the president said he couldn’t have call for a meeting and likewise be absent from such.   Citing several documents and instances, he said his problem with the ministry started after he submitted himself to the several security agencies in the country to be investigated over the overpaid World Athletic’s  $135,000.   He added: “On the inauguration of our board in July, 2017, I was confronted with an allegation in respect of USD150,000 paid to the AFN.  I was accused of mismanaging the funds and in keeping with the President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to accountability and transparency, I submitted myself to the relevant agencies for investigation.  “The individual reports exonerated me from any culpability but raised questions which the agencies are diligently pursuing.  “My action in submitting myself to be investigated laid the foundation for the misunderstandings being experienced in the AFN today.  “This is part of the reasons we seek autonomy to enable us increase the funding base of the Federation.  The sponsorship deal signed with Puma attests to the capacity of this Board to attract private funding for sports from within and outside the country.   “The autonomy we are talking about is in so far as administering the Federation is concerned and had always been in existence in the statutes of the AFN, the CAA and the WA.”