The management of The Sun Publishing Limited, publishers of The Sun Newspapers, yesterday expressed displeasure at the move by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to seal its corporate headquarters over a legal suit that had no bearing on the media company.  Three officials of the EFCC and four heavily armed policemen had on Saturday, December 14, 2019, stormed the corporate headquarters of The Sun Publishing Limited at 2, Coscharis Street, Kirikiri Industrial Layout, Apapa, Lagos and put up a notice for staff and the general public to keep off the premises.  The EFCC officials, who arrived the property at about 10am, came in a white Toyota bus with registration number, ABUJA BWR-644GA. Subsequently, they wrote on fence of the property, “EFCC, keep off.” They also advised the staff of the company to collect their personal belongings from the office as they would come back to seal the premises completely.   However, in a statement released a few hours later, the management of the media house faulted the action of the anti-graft agency, describing it as one that lacked any legal basis. It therefore appealed to the Attorney General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami to urgently intervene and advise the EFCC appropriately on the legal consequences of its actions.   “We do not understand the legal basis for this EFCC action. It is on record that there is a pending appeal at the Supreme Court with Suit No: SC/546/2018 wherein The Sun Publishing Limited appealed against the judgement delivered by the Court of Appeal on the interim forfeiture order made against it by a Federal High Court in 2007 based on ex parte proceeding. The Notice of Appeal and Motion for Stay of Execution were duly served on EFCC by the bailiffs of the Court.   “It is also pertinent to state that EFCC vide a letter written by Counsel to The Sun Publishing Limited, dated 22nd May, 2018 and duly received by one Caleb Peter on behalf of Rotimi Jacobs & Co. was further put on notice of the pending appeal at the Supreme Court and advised to stay action in the matter pending the hearing of the Motion for Stay of execution and the appeal.   “Again, it is instructive to state that The Sun Publishing Limited was not a party to the case of EFCC vs. Orji Uzor Kalu & 2 Others, so we do not see why the judgment in that case should lead to attempt to seal The Sun Publishing Limited premises.   “Furthermore, we are aware that both Senator Orji Uzor Kalu and Slok Nig Limited have since appealed the judgment delivered by Justice Mohammed Idris and a hearing date given. We wish to reiterate that The Sun Publishing Limited is an ongoing corporate limited liability company and its shares are owned by various individuals distinct from Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. Therefore, the recent judgment against Senator Orji Uzor Kalu should not be used to disturb the operations of the company and the proprietary rights of its innocent shareholders until the matters are dispensed with at the Supreme Court,” the statement read.  Meanwhile, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday, confirmed that it had marked some properties linked to former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu.  The Commission, in a statement by its spokesperson, Mr. Wilson Uwujarem, said that the marking followed a December 5 order of a Federal High Court in Lagos.