Tokunbo Idowu, Nigerian reality TV star better known as Tboss, says she regrets the “frosty” relationship she had with Vincent Idowu, her father, while he was alive. There seemed to be “no love lost” between Tboss and her father until he passed away on September 20, 2019. In an emotional post on her social media, the former Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) housemate said it never dawned on her she would never see her father again. “I honestly don’t think people really understand the concept of Death,” she wrote on her Instagram page. “It is Final. Forever. And forever is a really long Loong Looooo nnng time. I wish things were different, I wish I could turn back the hands of time to be there with you, be there for you like I’ve always been, to hold your hand through it all, to tell you how much I loved you, to forgive you, to forgive myself. I’m so sorry. “I know you’re in a better place and have finally found the purest form of peace, peace that you never knew here on earth but Toksy misses you so much Tata. “I miss you so much. I know that eventually, gradually the pain would fade away. But for now, the tears keep me company, I remember all the good and all the not so good, I smile remembering the many pleasant times.  But most especially I have Learnt- I Learnt that life is fleeting and the idea is to make and leave as many positive memories as possible. RIP Tata…” On a lighter note, the reality TV star recently welcomed a child and it was one of the most talked-about celebrity baby arrivals for the year 2019. The former reality TV star took to her Instagram page a few months ago to announce the good news. According to her, she was excited about the reception she has been receiving fans and friends since the arrival of her baby. “I wanna use this opportunity to express my immense appreciation to Each & Everyone who took out time to send me Congratulatory messages, prayers & well-wishes on the birth of my child. May God Bless you all & answer your prayers as well,” she wrote. She went on to debunk the photo of a baby that was been shared around on social media as her child. Recall TBoss’ pregnancy has been a talking point for months now as she neither confirmed or denied being pregnant. Fans only got to find out about the pregnancy after photos from her visit to an Abuja based hospital got to social media.