P olice Special Forces have intercepted 4,000 packs of tramadol worth N54 million, at a location in Bauchi State.  The controlled pain killer drugs were being ferried to Potiskum in Yobe State by suspects, who were arrested by the operatives during mop-up operations.  The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, made the disclosure yesterday in Abuja, at the presentation of 71 suspects at the headquarters of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS).  Mba said the nationwide operations that led to the arrests of the suspects were aimed at ensuring crime-free Christmas and New Year celebrations. The FPRO, however, explained that the estimated amount was given to him by somebody,.  “Somebody gave us an estimate of N54 million, but I don’t deal on drugs,” Mba said.  Apart from the arrest in Bauchi, operatives also rounded-up “one chance syndicate, two-man gang of burglars, as well as suspected Automated Teller Machine (ATM) cards’ thieves in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).  He said: “In order to ensure that citizens are able to travel on highways freely, and to have a violence-free yuletide, our operatives have been working round the clock.  “Today, we have 71 suspects being paraded. Nine AK 47 rifles, three other assorted weapons, vehicles, over 18 handsets of assorted make, were recovered.  “Over 4,000 packs of tramadol tablets and other incriminating items were also recovered during mop-up operations.  “A once-chance syndicate that specialises in attacking women is one of the syndicates taken out. Another two-man gang that has been carrying out burglary activities in Abuja, especially Gwarimpa, have been taken out.  “Another two-man gang that specialises on troubling people at ATM points is also among the criminals taken out. We believe with the clearance of these criminal gangs, Abuja residents will have a crime-free Yuletide.  “A total of 184 ATM cards of different banks, and of course, bearing different names, were recovered.  “We are also going after dealers on illicit drugs. This is based on our understanding of the nexus between violent crimes and illicit drugs.  “Operatives also followed a lead and intercepted a gang supplying illicit drugs to both North-East and North-West.”  Also paraded yesterday was a suspect, who deployed anti-tracking equipment, to steal cars.  The police disclosed that the devices were procured from an online shop.  Meanwhile, a suspect, Johnson Alpha, confessed to buying two  stolen Toyota (Venza) cars at N800,000 each.  He further confessed that he sold the cars at the rate of N2 million each.