The Department of State Services (DSS) has released a former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) and the Convener of the #Revolution Now Protest, Mr. Omoyele Sowore. The release was premised on an earlier directive given by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN). Counsel to Dasuki, Ahmed Raji (SAN) said the former NSA was released at 8:11p.m. Sowore was earlier released at 6:04p.m. by the Secret Service. The Federal Government had earlier yesterday ordered the release of Dasuki and Sowore, from the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS). Malami disclosed this in a statement issued by him in Abuja. According to Malami, the decision to release the detainees was in compliance with the bail granted the duo by the courts. Three different courts namely, Federal High Court, Abuja, Federal Capital Territory High Court and ECOWAS Court had, on different occasions, admitted Dasuki to bail which was subsequently perfected. Similarly, the Federal High Court had equally admitted Sowore to bail. The Federal Government had, all the while, refused to obey the court orders. However, Malami said that the decision to release Dasuki and Sowore was in compliance with the bail granted the two by the court. “The office of the honourable Attorney General of the Federation has reviewed the pending criminal charges against the duo of Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd.) and Omoyele Sowore. “Whilst the Federal High Court has exercised its discretion in granting bail to the defendants in respect of the charges against them, I am also not unmindful of the right of the Complainant/Prosecution to appeal or further challenge the grant of bail by the court having regards to extant legal provisions, particularly Section 169 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. “However, my office has chosen to comply with the court orders while considering the pursuit of its rights of appeal and/or review of the order relating to the bail as granted or varied by the courts. “In line with the provisions of Sections 150(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), and in compliance with the bail granted to Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) (as recently varied by the Court of Appeal) and the bail granted to Omoyele Sowore, I have directed the State Security Services to comply with the order granting bail to the defendants and effect their release. “The two defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land. “I wish to reiterate again the utmost regard of my office for the entire judicial structure of Nigeria. “This administration remains unrelenting in deepening the rule of law and the administration of justice in general. “The two defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land,” Malami said. Dasuki was arrested on December 1, 2015 over alleged diversion of $2.1 billion meant for the purchase of ammunition to fight the Boko Haram insurgency. He had since then been in the custody of the DSS, despite about three different orders of court admitting him to bail. Sowore, on his own, was first arrested on August 3 in a Lagos hotel over his call for a revolution to protest against the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. He was subsequently granted bail by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. He was released, but consequently re-arrested the following day and had since been in the DSS custody. Justice A. R Mohammed had, just on Monday, refused to preside over an enforcement of fundamental rights suit filed by Sowore to challenge his continued detention. However, reacting to the release, Dasuki’s lawyer, Ahmed Raji (SAN) commended President Buhari and the AGF for the decision. “We thank God Almighty. We thank God Almighty. And we thank God Almighty. “We thank the President of our country, the Attorney General of the federation, the entire judiciary and all Nigerians. It is well with us. May God continue to be with all of us.” The Presidency has explained the decision to release the convener of #RevolutionNow Omowale Sowore. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, in a statement yesterday said the international community has misconstrued the bail as that of a journalist. He said: “The presidency wises to clarify the release on bail, of the Presidential candidate of the African Action Congress in the February 2019 elections. “Some international news outlets have mistakenly been describing his release as that of a journalist. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Buhari administration has never, since coming into office in 2015, detained a journalist, seized copies of newspapers or shut down a medium of information. “Sowore called for a revolution to overthrow the democratically elected government of Nigeria. “He did so on television, and from a privileged position as the owner of a widely read digital newspaper run from the United States of America. “He founded an organisation, Revolution Now, to launch, in their own words, “Days of Rage”, with the publicised purpose of fomenting mass civil unrest and the elected administration’s overthrow. No government will allow anybody to openly call for destabilisation in the country and do nothing. “The government believes strictly in observing the rule of law but must safeguard public security and will not allow troublemakers to incite the public and cause a breakdown of law and order.”