…shoot four policemen  S uspected kidnappers stormed Ganye town in Ganye Local Government Area of Adamawa State and abducted two nursing mothers and three children, from the house of a man identified as Alhaji Hussain Ahmadu.  A relation, who disclosed this to journalists in Yola, the state capital, said the gunmen stormed the village in the early hours of yesterday and abducted the two nursing mothers and three children.  The source said the gunmen stormed Ahmadu’s house near the Federal Government College about 2a.m., overpowered the security men and entered the house where they abducted two nursing mothers and three children. “Residents were woken up by pandemonium amidst gunshots as the kidnappers who came in large numbers, with sophisticated weapons, carried out their operation.  “We later alerted security personnel in the town who swiftly accosted the kidnappers leading to serious exchange of gunfire at Buwangal village,” the source said. According to the source, during the exchange of fire, four policemen were injured.  The injured policemen were taken to Ganye General Hospital while the kidnappers succeeded in taking away their victims and some food items.  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Sulaiman Nguroje, said the crime took place in the early hours of yesterday when the armed men invaded Ahmadu’s house situated at a remote side of Wukari Ward in Ganye town and kidnapped his two wives and two kids.  He said: “Immediately police were alerted, the DPO and his team rushed to the scene to prevent the crime but were ambushed. After a shootout, four of our men sustained bullet wounds. “The command mobilised a team that is now going after the hoodlums to rescue the victims and arrest the kidnappers.”  Despite efforts by security operatives, kidnapping has become a major security challenge in the state. To combat insecurity plaguing the state, government purchased and distributed 60 Hilux vans as well as dozens of motorcycles to security formations.  About two weeks ago, the state police command paraded 319 suspected criminals, including kidnappers and armed robbers, across the state.