The Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), yesterday, unveiled its new enhanced e-passport at its Alausa office, Ikeja, Lagos as parts of its plans to ease availability of the passports to Nigerians. The NIS explained that the passport came in three standard variants: the 32 page with five years validity; the 64 page with five years validity and the 64 page with 10 years validity. The NIS Comptroller- General, Muhammed Babandede, said the technology behind the new version of the passport was the most recent in terms of security features and biometrics, which is according to the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. According to him, a significant difference between the new version and the existing one is the Supplemented Access Control (SAC), which is the latest set of security features on e-passports.  This, he noted, further strengthens the security of electronic travel documents globally. Another remarkable difference is the Polycarbonate Data Page with laser printing as against the existing passport which is printed with ink on hard paper.  As a result of this improvement, the enhanced e-passport is water resistant. Babandede, who was represented by the CIS, Helen Onwuzulike, noted that the e-passport has another security feature called the Multiple Laser Image (MIL), which is an added security that guards against forgery. He said: “The polycarbonate technology eliminates damage. The passport is not easily damage. The passport also has enhanced security feature which makes it difficult for anyone to steal your identity. We now have the enhanced tracking of application; we have data code which is helpful for people, especially those who live abroad, who do not have time to go to passport office all the time. With this new one, you can track it to know when it is ready and also when to go for collection.” He added that with the production of the new passport at the Ikeja office, it would reduce the pressure that is always experienced at the Ikoyi’s passport office. The Comptroller NIS, Lagos State Command, King Ekpedeme, said the upgraded passport was in response to the Federal Government directive and the resolve of the Comptroller-General to reposition and improve passport issuance regime of the service. He disclosed that since 15th January, when President Muhammadu Buhari was issued the e-passport, there has been a continuous effort by NIS to carry out a systematic roll-out of the passport in different parts of the country while allowing the present booklet to run concurrently until faced-out While commending the state government for its assistance in running the passport office, he explained that the office needed a quick intervention of energy supply which has remained a bane to the successful running of the office. The Secretary to the State Government, Mrs  Folashade Jaji, commended NIS, stating that the government would continue to show its support for the benefit of Lagosians.