The celebration of this year’s edition of the International Arts and Craft (INAC 2019) Exhibition held in Abuja last month may have come and gone, but the echoes of it will continue to linger in the memory of many of the participants at the five days long event. The yearly art and craft festival hosted by the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) yearly to celebrate the beauty of the arts and craft industry, this year assumed a different dimensions in many respects.  And as promised by the Director General of NCAC, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, it lived up to its billing as it was indeed an exciting, colourful and magnificent event. One of the major highlights of this 12th edition of the International Arts and Craft Expo, was the platform it created for foreign countries, over 20 of them, to showcase their cultural wealth, both tangible and intangible as well as performance art; thus elevating cultural diplomacy to a greater level as never witnessed before.  Special occasion was created in the course of the event for each country to be celebrated and this climaxed with the Cultural Diplomacy Peace Day, which was held during the closing night of the expo, with all the ambassadors in attendance and presented with certificates. The envoys admitted they were highly impressed with the expo this year, even as they affirmed the role of cultural diplomacy in the promotion of global peace and unity.  Runsewe was highly commended by many of them, who lauded his visionary and creative acumen, in putting together the expo, which has become a box office event in Abuja.  The envoys also agreed that November 24th as chosen by the Runsewe to celebrate global cultural diplomacy day for peace was a masterstroke as far as culture and global unity is concerned. Many of the envoys captured the essence of the celebration in their speeches on the night.  One of the speakers was the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Culture and Tourism, Senator Rochas Okorocha, who is the immediate past governor of Imo State. According to the senator, no nation can grow beyond it culture and traditions.  He lauded Runsewe for a hugely successful outing, disclosing that: “When people say Nigeria is the giant of Africa, they are referring to our culture, very soon the world shall hear from us because the Senate is giving serious thoughts to culture.”  Turning his gaze on the NCAC DG, he said: “Otunba; you are doing well and the Senate will support you.” Runsewe used the occasion to expressed gratitude to all the envoys and countries that attended the event as well as the delegates from across the country and other participants and also the residents and visitors who daily turned the venue of the event to a Mecca of some sorts. The theme for the expo was: Networking Nigerian Arts To The World.  In the awards for the expo, Ogun State was named as the best exhibitor overall while other states and countries were also celebrated in different award categories.