Echoes of the tension in the political leadership in Nigeria revibrated Tuesday at the presentation of a book by former Managing Director of the Sun Newspaper, Mr. Eric Osagie. The occasion, which had in attendance, the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike as well as the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) counterpart, Prince Uche Secondus, became an opportunity by the leaders of the two leading political parties to throw jibes at each order. Oshiomhole was first to throw the first salvo when he made a reference to an interview of an unnamed former Nigerian president whom he said, appeared on the popular BBC interview programme, HardTalk. “I watched an interview with a former Nigerian president. I have enough trouble right now, so I won’t add to it, I won’t mention names. But Wike knows the person, he is associated with the person, he schooled under the person and still being overseen by the person,” Oshiomhole said.  According to him, when the former president was asked the problem of Africa he said attributed it to lack of population control to match the economic growth.  “But when he was asked that as president of Africa’s most populous nation, how much did he contributed to this population growth? How many children do you have? How many wives do you have whether now or before? That to me is courageous, that leaders should not preach what they are not doing. “We have it on record that he has so many wives, both registered and unregistered; several children, some in dispute, and yet, you go to the Queen’s land and lecture about population.
“You are part of the people who helped to  create problem instead of being role model to young ones,” the APC National Chairman added. But Wike who responded almost immediately, drew the former Edo State governor’s attention to his statement when he won second term in office “I remember during the Chairman’s second term as governor of Edo, he came to the villa and thanked the then president for one man, one vote. Today, do we have one man one vote? He should have carried it along to make sure that we have one man one vote. “Two, I remember in their own time, they had what they called ‘Occupy Nigeria.’ Nobody was arrested, nobody was sent to jail. Are they practicing what they’re preaching?  “We cannot be deceived by rhetoric, we cannot be deceived by propaganda. All of know, we are not progressing, rather we are retrogressing. Nigeria is witnessing what we preach but not practising. So as a leader, call our leaders to order,” Wike demanded.