Taribo West recorded a glorious footballing career at top clubs like Inter, AC Milan and a good run with the Super Eagles. His climax was the Atlanta Olympics gold won in 1996. After hanging his boots, he took to the pulpit and last week, our reporter CHARLES OGUNDIYA was part of his congregation.   S aturday Telegraph on Sunday, December 1, was at the Shelter In The Storm Miracle Church of All Nations, headed by former Super Eagles defender turned pastor, Taribo West, to worship with the faithful. Although our correspondent got to the church during the sermon which was delivered by the ex-international, it was time well worth it.  Preaching about foundational curses, Pastor West said there were so many things happening to people that had to do with where they came from.  The congregation was at least 30 people, mostly footballers. There were just five ladies among the people that came for the service on that day.  The church, situated inside Taribo’s compound around Opebi, in the Ikeja area of Lagos, was in between the main building and the boys’ quarters.  While quoting from the bible on several occasions, the former Inter Milan star said some of the problems facing people,  especially the younger generation who formed bulk of the congregation, had to do with stubbornness.  “When you are asked to do something and you are proving stubborn, then how do you go forward?” he said.  “There are foundational curses of family and we must pray to end them.   “Some of you come to church late and you think God doesn’t see you? You are in church and you are not doing anything for God in terms of service, then you are deceiving yourself.”   West, who preached in both proper English and pidgin,  said his life should be a lesson to all of the young aspiring footballers who throng to his church each Sunday.   He said: “When I moved to Lagos initially, there was nobody to help me with coaches rejecting me here and there.   “Despite that I kept on focusing on the goal and was using my God-given talent; the rest, as they say, is history.” He continued to say words of prayers which the members responded to with resounding ‘amen’ on a regular basis.   It was obvious the pastor was familiar with most of the worshippers as he called each one of them by name during the long service that lasted till around 2.30pm.   Despite preaching for long, the pastor called for Prayer Line, which was alien to our correspondent, but very normal to the faithful.  All the chairs at the back of the church, which was an open space with tents used as shelter, were removed and put by the side as all the congregation lined up with about five or six in a row. With the ushers arranging all the churchgoers, Pastor West continued to admonish the members on how to draw closer to God. He revealed that all things needed for the new year must be prayed for so as to be at the top in 2020.  Immediately after the ‘Prayer Line’ was set, West came and rearranged some of the rows with some people taken from the back to the front as he began his ministration/deliverance. While addressing a young boy, Pastor Taribo West said the separation of the boy’s parents contributed to where he was at the moment.  He added that the boy was isolated and there was need for him to come out as he tried to ‘deliver’ the boy from ‘bondage’.  What struck our correspondent again was West’s bizarre way of deliverance as he slapped the wrists, knees and chests of the members during the prayers before pushing them on the floor. While he tried to minister to all the people present, West left out a boy who he claimed to be irresponsible.  He said: “Do you know what’s in my heart? If I lay my hand on you, then I can curse you. You don’t toy with a man of God if you really want to make it in life.  “My heart is everywhere from Europe to America to Asia and every part of the world where all my children are at the moment.  “I was a disciplined person during my active days as a player and if you want to become somebody, then you have to be disciplined.  “Don’t let me curse you because if I lay my hand on your head, it might be another thing, so you better change.”  Immediately after the ministration to all church members, West ordered everyone to return to their lines as he started another round of deliverance. He also called out some people with different ailments whom he asked to rub his sweat on the places paining them.  With the ministration over, the seats were returned to their original positions as the pastor called for testimonies from the congregation.   He then  called two worshippers, who according to him must come out for testimony as he was a witness to what happened to them.  Our correspondent also noticed several banners and posters of previous crusades organised by the pastor with some of the testimonies related to his power.  Reacting to the testimonies, West said the posters and banners are very powerful as he usually prayed a lot on them before bringing them out for distribution and pasting on streets.   He related a story of a sister who the boyfriend was planning to use for money rituals. But after taking her picture that she posed for with the poster as background to the herbalist, the rituals backfired and the man got paralysed.  He also said another member entered a ‘one chance’ vehicle but was asked to come down after they saw the Taribo West sticker in her bag. He admonished the members not to joke with the banners, posters or the stickers even handbills as they are very powerful.   “I always release a lot of anointing on the posters and they are no longer ordinary paper,” he added.   Immediately after the testimonies, it was time for tithes and offering with Pastor West himself leading the chorus as there was no choir member in place.   Apart from the sound system, there were no musical instruments like drums, keyboards or guitars as the worshippers used tambourine while dancing to the songs. Pastor West encouraged the members to always pay their tithes so that things would not be tight for them.  There was an  announcement about the end of the year fasting of the church and also the coming crusade scheduled for December 31, 2019.  West said the fasting would be in two forms as the first few days would be normal fasting before turning into dry and marathon fasting.  The worshippers were also admonished to make it a date on Fridays for their prayer hour.  He added that they might be moving the crusade to Abuja next year as they are already calling him to come to the capital city.  With the service coming to a close, the pastor asked all the first timers to signify as they welcomed them to the church.  Apart from the form given to the first timers to fill in their details, they were also given raw food items like garri and rice while they were entertained with chips.  The footballers amidst the worshippers, who were over 50 percent of the congregation, were asked to wait behind. Pastor Taribo promised to be bringing some top footballers to come around and talk to them especially with the winter break just around the corner.   T he instruction from my editor was clear as I was to worship at the Shelter In The Storm Miracle Church of All Nations, pastored by former Super Eagles defender, turned pastor, Taribo West.  Setting out from my house with no clear address apart from the fact that the church is located off Salvation Bus Stop, I decided to take a bike to Salvation where I asked for directions. With the church situated inside an estate and bikes not allowed on the estate, so I had to make do with tricycle.  Getting to the front of the building that house the church, there was no sign of any service going on until I entered the compound. Surprisingly there was no security at any direction to lead people to the church. I however followed the voices that led me into the church.  First thing that came to my notice was the lack of crowd or a proper structure of a church despite watching their programme on YouTube. Apart from tambourine and ‘Sekere’ there was not a single musical instrument in the church.  Also it was the pastor himself that was leading songs as there was no choir in place. Another aspect of the programme that interested me was the Prayer Line and the deliverance section.  With just about 30 members, five of which were women (two young ladies and three women), bulk of the remaining members are young aspiring footballers.  The message was more of breaking curses while the pastor, West, continued to encourage the members to be discipline and pray more.  Personally, it was the first church I would attend without a drum not to talk of other musical instruments like keyboard, guitar and others.