 T he Lagos State Government, yesterday, said that selling and usage of firecrackers in the state remain prohibited. The government also insisted that anyone, caught selling, using or importing the items into the state, would be dealt with according to the law. The government said that tragedy-free Yuletide was possible if all residents in the state were safety conscious and cooperate with the government.  Speaking at the security sensitisation of residents on Safety of Lagosians, held at the Ifako Ijaiye Local Government Area, the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folashade Jaji, said that tragedy resulting from explosion, inferno or other related disasters could be averted, if parents warn their children to desist from the use of firecrackers and focus on other means of celebrating the Yuletide.  The SSG, who also appealed to residents to embrace community policing by watching over happenings in their environments, said that the police alone could not ensure the security of lives and property unless residents join hands with them. Jaji, who represented the state Governor Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the event, said community policing remains key to ensuring peace in the communities.  She added: “Community policing is everyone’s responsibility. Let’s all feel concern about the safety of our neighbours. That’s the whole essence of community policing, which is to ensure safety of everyone. The Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is passionate about the issue of safety of the residents, and the security of lives and property is one of the cardinal points in the T.H.E.M.E.S.”  The secretary to the local government, Hon. Ayo Jeje, appealed to residents to always relay useful information on strange happenings in their domains to the police or the authority in order to ensure safety of the residents. Lamenting on the danger of firecrackers, the All Progressive Congress Deputy Chairman, Prince Sunmonu Kamoru, said that residents had greater roles to play in the enforcement of the ban of firecrackers. According to him, ‘’The best we can do is to discourage our neighbours from selling firecrackers. If they sell, certainly our children will buy from them, and they will use it in the community. So, let’s everyone discourage the sale of the items.”