Bayelsa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the weekend warned Governor Seriake Dickson to stop threatening the peace of the state by raising tension following the electoral defeat of his candidate, Senator Douye Diri, of People Democratic Party (PDP) in the November 16 governorship election. APC therefore advised the governor to toe the path of democracy and rule of law by taking his grievances to the court.  The party’s Publicity Secretary, Doifie Buokoribo, who expressed APC’s position in a statement in Yenagoa said: “In the last few weeks, since the overwhelming victory of our candidate at the November 16 governorship election, David Lyon, Governor Seriake Dickson has inundated the state and indeed, the country with wild allegations and inciting comments.  “He has screamed blue murder at all relevant institutions of state, from the electoral body to the security agencies, and the winning All Progressives Congress (APC). And he has absolved himself and his section of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of blame.  “From his mind, Dickson has issued threats to the electorate in Bayelsa State and APC members, particularly, and has boasted about his capacity to unleash violence and turn the state upside down. “Dickson has displayed everything, but commitment to democratic ideals and legal processes of electoral conflict resolution.  “We, however, unequivocally state and also remind Dickson that the election has been concluded and the Governor-Elect, David Lyon, is only waiting to be sworn in as the next Governor of Bayelsa State. And for those who feel aggrieved, like Dickson, there are constitutionally prescribed processes open to them to follow in trying to redress their grievances. Disparaging the institutions of state and inciting the public to violence are, certainly, not among the processes.  “Dickson is not a court of law; he should stop holding court on the governorship election. He cannot be the plaintiff and judge in a case in which he is an interested party. If he has grievances, the place to go is the election tribunal. “Dickson is also not Bayelsa State, and he cannot claim to be voicing the opinion of the people, who have overwhelmingly spoken with their votes against his nearly eight years of misrule and mistreatment.