The Ibrahim Gusau led AFN board, built on electoral fraud by strange bedfellows, finally collapsed on Tuesday. The Federal Ministry of Sports and Social Development, which provided the sub-standard materials for its erection, also provided the bulldozer for its demolition OLUKAYODE THOMAS reports  INTRODUCTION IF you have witnessed an incidence of the National Union of Road and Transport Workers (NURTW) members taking over a park from a rival group, you surely have a mental picture of the violence that characterized the election, or better put, the imposition, of Ibrahim Gusau as the President of AFN on June 13, 2017 by hired thugs and policemen, while officials of Sports Ministry looked the other way. Save for firing gun shots and the use of cutlasses, all the elements of the violent takeover of parks by Agberos were present at the National Stadium, Abuja, venue of the “election”. From the use of horse whips, batons and other handy weapons to beat opponents, many light weapons were used to subdue opposition. Injuries sustained by Olympics medallist, Charity Opara, and others may have healed but the humiliation will be etched in their hearts forever. The perpetuators of the dastardly act did not just use the Agbero style, they also copied Nigerian politicians. The voters’ list was changed a few hours before elections. Rosa Collins, winner of the NIWAS slot on the board was removed and replaced by Gloria Obajimi.  Brown Ebewele suddenly became Gad Onamugbu while Solomon Ogba suddenly became Hammed Adio. Also disenfranchised were Haruna Bako from North East and Charles Yayock from North West. While Charity Opara was disqualified because she had tested positive to performance enhancing drugs, Mary Onyali who has equally tested positive to drugs was allowed to contest. The 2017 election guideline allows for independent candidates. While Onyali was allowed to contest for the position of Vice Presidency against Olamide George as independent candidate, this reporter and several others were barred from contesting. The outrage that greeted the electoral fraud was unprecedented. Though, minor adjustments were made here and there, still, Gusau’s tainted election endured. Spoils of Office Scattered Gusau’s House of Sand Like a house built on sand instead of rock, Gusau’s house of deceit built by strange bedfellows collapsed after two weeks. Once elected, Gusau dumped jobbers who were scheming for the position and made his right-hand man; Sunday Adeleye, Technical Director. A Virginia USA based former jumper, who claim to be a coach in USA but has no relevance in the USA unless in Team Nigeria, Gusau’s Vice-President George, and others including Ebewele, Gabriel Okon, and Tafida Gadzama were sidelined by Gusau. With the backing of the Sports Ministry, efforts were made to silence Gusau’s main opponent George. An athlete, Folasade Abugan had alleged some time ago that George gave her performance enhancing drugs. The case was exhumed, George was suspended from the board and a panel was set up to probe him. However, the panel refused to be used to indict him. IAAF’s Missing Money and Gusau’s Refusal to be the Fall Guy For all that the Sports Ministry had done for him, Sports Ministry officials expected Gusau to be the fall guy for the IAAF missing $150,000.00. At the time the IAAF sent the money to AFN, there was no board in place. Amaechi Akawo, the scribe of AFN informed his senior colleagues, who authorized the spending of the money. When heat from the IAAF for a refund became too much for Gusau, he was said to have leaked letters from IAAF to the press, demanding a refund. When the Sports Ministry refused to refund the money after several promises, Gusau went to ICPC and was calling for a probe. This no doubt infuriated Sports Ministry officials. Akawo a smart civil (Obasanjo would say evil) servant was arrested. Akawo kept all the documents of approval he got to spend the money. The ICPC had no choice but to release him since he was following the directives of his Ogas at the top. Gusau’s decision to go to ICPC was a false start which earned a straight red card from the Sports Ministry. George, Ebewele and others who were not in the good books of the Ministry suddenly became ministry darlings and nocturnal meetings were held to plot how Gusau would be impeached. His Wrong Directive and World Athletics Ban The new Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, carried on where his predecessor had stopped. Probably wrongly briefed by the staff of the Sports Ministry and his SA Mary Onyali, who has done nothing but athletics all her life and therefore should have known better. Using our unimpressive performance at the Doha 2019 and several technical gaffes committed by Adeleye as excuse, the Minister began interfering in the running of AFN, when an elected board is in place. True, Team Nigeria did poorly in Doha but the Minister does not have the power to probe an elected board. A country blessed with technical geniuses worth their weight in gold like Innocent Egbunike and Yussuf Alli deserves better than Adeleye as Technical Director, but if Adeleye is the choice of the board, so be it. The Minister does not have the power to sack him nor ask the board to do so, that is direct interference. A decision taken by the Sports Ministry’s Legal Department to remove Adeleye as Athlete Representative was hurriedly implemented, though the Ministry does not have such power. They even sent a letter on Ministry letterhead to AFN asking for Adeleye’s removal. The audio recording of the planned impeachment of Gusau, which leaked hours before the planned action and appointment of the Ministers’ kinsman Niyi Beyioku as AFN Secretary General, clearly indicates that the Minister and his advisers are wearing canvass for a 100m race while Gusau is wearing spikes. Insinuations that the Sports Ministry was fully behind the Tuesday meeting where Gusau was suspended and that the Minister was looking for Seb Coe’s telephone number to brief him after Gusau’s suspension are not good for his image of Nigeria. If Gusau should send the above and other evidence, including ministerial directives to World Athletics, Team Nigeria athletics could be suspended from participation in international athletics competition, including Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Padmozi, Nilayo and Questions Dare Needs to Ask Instead of being seen to be partisan in the ongoing crisis in AFN, Dare should instead ask the gladiators what they have done for athletics in their states and zones. Charity, they say, begins at home. If the six zonal representatives; Gusau-North West, Amanze North Central, Gadzama North East, George South West, Patrick South East, and Gabriel Okon South-South so love athletics, let them show the love by developing the sport in their states and zones first. Their zones are bigger, richer and have more talents than Jamaica. What have they done to develop athletics in their zones? Being a zonal representative gives you access to a minimum of five governors and countless corporate bodies. What success have they achieved at home? Mike Itumeaghor of Padmozi Sports, the owner of Okpekpe 10km Road Race, an IAAF Silver Label Race and Bukola Olopade of Nilayo Sports, owner and consultant to races like Access Bank Lagos City Marathon (IAAF Silver Label Race), Abeokuta 10km Road Race, Remo IAU Ultra Run and proposed Abuja, Uyo and Ijebu-Ode Road Race are citizens whose service to athletics surpasses that of any of these guys fighting for the soul of AFN. Dare should advise those fighting to destroy our sports to wait till after the Olympics next year and contest instead of killing athletics through incessant crisis. I was barred from contesting during the last election; I have moved on, I still contribute to athletics. If I desire to serve on the board of AFN again, I will wait till the next election. I won’t burn the house of athletics that has given me a name, recognition, 36 media awards, locally and internationally, including two as CNN African Journalist of the Year just because Solomon Dalung and some officials of Sports Ministry stopped me from contesting election. Dare needs to distance himself from both the Gusau Group and George Group and concentrate on rescuing our sports. Federation politics is muddier than APC and PDP politics. Ebewele, Ogba and Asaba ‘missing’ $150k Brown Ebewele and Solomon Ogba have been cat and mouse friends for several decades. Each time Ebewele makes new friends, he enjoys bashing Ogba with the tongue of vituperation in his loquacious mouth, which is okay. They are friends, as long as Ogba is okay with his friend. But Ebewele needs to start engaging his brain more before talking, especially when such statements are not just about Ogba. Ebewele’s attack on the Asaba 2018 LOC shows shallow thinking. Beyond his friend Ogba, men and women who served on the board of Asaba 2018 LOC include a former private secretary to President Umoru Yar’Dua and other distinguished Nigerians. For Ebewele to insinuate that $150,000 is missing is sheer recklessness. Unlike the IAAF money that his new friends in the Sports Ministry wacked and IAAF demanded a refund of the balance, which Dare recently paid, the CAA has not said their money is missing nor are they demanding a refund. For the information of Ebewele and other mischief makers, the CAA grant was not a grant to Team Nigeria or AFN. It was their contribution to the organisation of Asaba 2018. The money, just like other donations, grants and sponsorship money was paid into the LOC account. Ebewele revealed that when he was Technical Director of AFN, they got about $90,000 to prepare for a junior championship in Ibadan. What he did not tell the media was that he organized the worst championships in the history of CAA. He did not tell the media that the President of CAA then, Lamine Diack, who later became IAAF President and other dignitaries, including athletes were locked out of their hotel room because they did not pay hoteliers. He did not also tell the media that he was sacked for incompetence and other reasons he would not want revealed. Instead of making false claims about the LOC of Asaba 2018, Ebewele, the technical representative on the board of AFN should go for a refresher course so that next time they call on him to organize a race, he won’t be sacked again like it happened with the Okpekpe 10km Road Race when he was sacked after just one edition because of shoddy organization. I wish him good luck with his new ephemeral friends. If being an illegal Technical Director, a position he occupied legally two decades ago, is what is giving him erection to misyarn, he should limit it to his friend Ogba and not the LOC of Asaba 2018. Thomas, a reporter, was the Head of Communications and Media Asaba 2018.