Delay in cargo clearance, arbitrary surcharges, gridlock and other challenges hindered businesses and envisaged growth, BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports  Despite emerging opportunities and measures put in place to transform the maritime industry this year, piracy, decadent infrastructure, operational inefficiencies, unnecessary delay of cargo delivery, extortion, smuggling and sharp practices which characterised the industry last year resurfaced this year, thereby hindering businesses,  transformation and competitiveness in the industry. During the year, ship owners were called upon by the Federal Government to invest in ocean blue economy, ship building and ship repair yards and also look into establishing a Protection and Indemnity Club (P&I). Harsh environment However, the harsh operating environment and bad government policies and corrupt practices in the sector did not encourage investors. At the seaports, import fraud became the order of the day to the extent that the management of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said that it would apply the  Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA) to punish those who engaged in wrong classification of cargoes, transfer of value, concealment and false declaration at the ports and borders. For instance, the service’s Comptroller-General, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd),  said  that non-compliance to smooth trade facilitation had become the biggest problem facing NCS at seaports and borders. He directed area commands to suspend the release of such cargoes till further notice, leading to congestion at ports. In the later part of the year, the Federal Government was forced to close land borders in  the country to tackle terrorism, armed banditry, smuggling and illegalities under the joint border security exercise codenamed “Ex-Swift Response led by the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA). Piracy Despite efforts by the Federal Government to tackle piracy and banditry in the country’s territorial waters, Nigeria has continued to be a haven for piracy. According to International Maritime Bureau (IMB), violent attacks targeting crew rather than the ship or its cargoes were rampant in the Gulf of Guinea throughout the year. Between January and December, more than 100 ships around the world were assaulted by pirates. Import and Exports Agricultural exports experienced strong growth between January and September 2019. According to National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), top 10 agricultural exports attracted N401.68billion by the end of September 2019. However, wheat, frozen foods, fish and crude palm oil among others imported into the country were valued at N949.8 billion, leading to a negative trade balance of N548.17 billion. At Lagos port alone, customs said it recorded a total of 262,095.09 metric tonnes of exported goods with Free on Board value of 40.6billion ($132.76million) between January and December 2019. Shippers’ council As part of efforts to encourage trade facilitation at the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), it held a summit with the Union of African Shippers’ Council (UASC) and Global Shippers’ Forum in Abuja to seek an end to unfair trade practice, surcharges and high local shipping charges at the ports. Also, the council held a joint summit with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Truck Transit Park (TTP) in order to address traffic gridlock challenges at the port roads. During the year,  Executive Secretary of Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Hassan Bello, said that the country needed to change a lot of unfavourable government laws and policies hindering indigenous ship owners from participating in shipping business. NPA The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) canvassed a downward review of government agencies’ charges by 30 per cent to improve traffic to eastern ports. In June, the management of the authority approved a 10 per cent discount on harbour dues in all concession terminals at Eastern ports in order to encourage patronage by the liners. In the last quarter of the year, NPA and the Port of Antwerp, Belgium, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) towards operational efficiency in line with the desire to deepen mutual relationship existing between the two ports. The managing director of the authority said that the MoU would strengthen the bilateral relations between the two organisations. Towards the end of the year, the authority suspended Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMSL) operations at the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA) of the Lagos ports for allegedly constituting a security threat, however, the Senate overruled NPA. NIWA Also, the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) in January this year issued a 14-day ultimatum to owners of abandoned vessels, equipment and wrecks. It said that the wrecks and abandoned equipment were constituting impediments to safety, security and smooth maritime operations in Port Harcourt area. In October, President Muhammadu Buhari also appointed a new Managing Director, Mr George Muoghalu, to midwife the affairs of the agency. The appointment came following the elevation of the former managing director, Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora, as Minister of State for Health. NIMASA In the first month of the year, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) projected a 10 per cent growth for the Nigerian maritime industry for 2019. Also, the agency approved a detention order for a liquefied petroleum gas motor tanker, MT Navigator Capricorn, for contravening sections of the Cabotage Act. The country took delivery of the first special mission vessel under the Deep Blue Project in the year. In the last quarter of the year, the agency held a high-level maritime security conference in Abuja with the aim to facilitate a clearer understanding of the challenges of maritime security in the Gulf of Guinea region. Also in the year, the country lost its bid of returning to Category C of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) seat in London when it lost the IMO Council election by just one vote to Kenya. Customs The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) started the year with seizure of 11 trucks load of rice smuggled into the country from Benin Republic in January. The comptroller-general appealed for a separate budget for Nigeria Customs Command and Staff College, Abuja to realise its set goal. The service generated about N1.002trillion revenue between January and September, 2019 from its 32 commands. Statistics revealed that the service recorded the highest revenue of N123.6 billion in the month of July followed by N118.6 billion released in May, 2019. Maritime Academy In May this year the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, ordered the management of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN) to embark on training and award of scholarship to students and lecturers of the academy. The minister said that the award of scholarship and training of personnel staff should be made a priority by the school management, saying that it would be of immense benefit to the school and Nigerians generally. Last line Government should take some drastic measures and formulate good policies to address the challenges facing the industry in 2020.