The outgoing governor of the Bank of England is to lead the push by the United Nations for action in the global financial sector to tackle climate change. It was announced that Mark Carney will become the UN special envoy for climate action and finance once his seven-year term in Threadneedle Street ends on January 31. The appointment could end speculation over whether he was due to continue in the role further beyond that date, following several earlier extensions to his tenure due to Brexit. There was talk last month he may be asked to remain in post for even longer because the naming of his replacement at the Bank was delayed by the general election, reports Sky News. Carney succeeds Michael Bloomberg, the billionaire former New York City mayor, who stepped down from the UN role last month when he confirmed he was to run for the White House in next year’s US presidential election. The Bank said Carney would seek to make the impact of climate change central to financial reporting, risk management and the calculation of returns ahead of a global summit in Glasgow in November 2020. He said: “I am honoured to have been asked by the secretary-general to take on this important role to help transform climate finance ahead of the COP26 meetings in Glasgow next November. “This provides a platform to bring the risks from climate change and the opportunities from the transition to a net zero economy into the heart of financial decision-making. “To do so, the disclosures of climate risk must become comprehensive, climate risk management must be transformed, and investing for a net-zero world must go mainstream. “The Bank of England, the UK government and the UK financial sector can play leading roles in making these imperatives happen.” Speaking ahead of the UN Climate Summit in Madrid, UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres described Carney as “a remarkable pioneer in pushing the financial sector to work on climate”. He first spoke of the risks that climate change poses to finance in 2015, and since then has urged better risk management, supervision and disclosure. The Bank said the governor would earn a token $1 per year in his new role, nearly 900,000 pounds less than his current package. 