N ostradamus, a 16th century French astrologer, was the one who wrote cabalistic predictions whose interpretations have over the years remained a subject of heated debate among historians, social critics, political analysts and the likes.   What  the legendary clairvoyant would have written about the State of Osun under the able watch of its 5th executive governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, one can easily conjecture.  Perhaps, with the enthralling tale of his giant leaps in the last one year as Governor and the accompanying success story of an unprecedented kind, particularly the rapid economic development awaiting the Land of Virtue in not distant years to come, Oyetola would have been likened, in Nostradamus’ prediction, to the biblical David who would later conquer the seeming intractable Goliath of poverty and underdevelopment bedeviling the State of Osun as in other states of the federation.  In the last one year, as against the perceived scenario which pervaded the eve of his election in 2018, it is doubtful if there is any one across the length and breadth of the state who is not convinced that Oyetola is indeed the right man for the tough job. Little wonder, the young and the old are not only hailing him for doing a good job but also telling him to keep up the good work. There is no point verbalizing such achievements, the tang of which is there for everyone to see.   Take a critical look at a recent state broadcast, where Oyetola rendered a blow by blow account of his stewardship to the good people of Osun in the last one year and what you can see is revelation of an eloquent testimony of nothing but the truth. In the broadcast, the governor described the last one year as one gifted with a remarkable record of many great strides.   He said: “We have begun a remarkable journey of deepening our economy and opening up opportunities to empower our people and create wealth. I am happy to note that our policies are already yielding fruits. As an administration, we have dedicated ourselves to serving you sacrificially and with distinction.   “With steady hands, we have built bridges and rallied our people to arise and labour for a more prosperous state. We have comported ourselves decently as responsible leaders and have also inspired same among our people, constantly emphasising our proud heritage as privileged citizens of the Land of Virtue and inheritors of the cherished Yoruba legacy.”    Gradually and with great compulsion to realise the goal of a broad vision of a prosperous State focused on consolidating the phenomenal gains made by his predecessors, Oyetola has continued to deliver his campaign promises to the people as he hit the ground running from the first day in office, when he embarked on a journey towards a sustainable economic diversification, improved infrastructure, road rehabilitation and reconstruction, among others.   The state under the leadership of Oyetola is now looking inwards and moving gradually from excessive dependence on the Federal Allocation, as evident in the recently convened Economic and Investment Summit which attracted top-rated investors and policy makers across the globe. Leveraging on the gains and commitments of the three-day event would unarguably go a long way to assist the government achieve its goal of full economic diversification.  Apart from efforts at diversifying the economy of the state, checks have also revealed that the current administration has so far prioritised the welfare of the teeming workers in the State by ensuring that their salaries are paid as promptly as possible. This of course is a good gesture that is capable of increasing the popularity and acceptance of this administration by the people, for as long as it remains committed to improving on this as the state income improves.   It is no longer news that the current administration is giving maximum attention to the mining sector by regulating it, enhancing security in the mining areas and curtailing the activities of marauders and making it sufficiently attractive to critical investors. What is significant about this is that the current administration has not only raised the hope of a great future for the state but also succeeded in changing the world perception of Osun as a mere civil servant state with no potential of advancing its commercial frontiers.   Agriculture is another sector to beat with the government’s strategic investment to boost productivity and commercialization and thereby setting the priority of making agriculture profitable as a pedestal to create employment for the teeming youths in the State. By committing resources heavily towards this end through the various programmes such as Osun Broiler Outgrowers Production Scheme (O-BOPS), Empowerment of Poultry farmers across the state through O-BOPS and so on, the commitment of this administration to making the State of Osun the food basket of Nigeria is also commendable. In the health sector, the current administration is setting an unprecedented record of a monumental proportion, including the renovation, reconstruction and revitalization of 332 primary health care centres (PHCs), one per ward, across the state, rehabilitation and full modern equipment of ten general hospitals across the state, implementation of the Osun Health Insurance Schemen (OHIS) with more than 75 per cent of the entire public servants already enrolled with their spouses and four biological or legally-adopted children amounting to about 200,000 persons entitled to receive treatment from both government and private hospitals of their choice with only 10 per cent payment of the cost of drugs whenever they access care.   The commitment of this administration to the promotion of functional education has also been found impressive, with construction of 32 blocks of 167 classrooms to accommodate 8, 350 students/pupils/teachers in 32 government elementary/middle schools, 43 units of six holes squatting toilets for 43 elementary and middle schools across the state, 14 units six holes squatting toilets with deep well at 14 government elementary/middle schools, repair/renovation works at 31 government elementary and middle schools, procurement/supply of 3,040 units of pupils’ furniture for 6,080 pupils in elementary schools, 3,180 units of students’ furniture for 6,360 students in middle schools and furniture for 967 teachers to mention but a few.   This governor’s conscious efforts at strengthening the state’s Treasury Single Account policy with every relevant MDAs properly brought into the pool, in addition to the commencement of the usage of the Bank Accounts Monitoring System for the monitoring of day-to-day transactions of government would easily earn his administration a distinction.   The administration’s continuous preservation of culture and tourism as a way of boosting the state IGR and its reinvigoration of the industrial Free Trade Zone (FTZ) situated along Ede-Abere road and its planned revitalization of hitherto abandoned Omoluabi FTZ as a way of facilitating rapid industrial development of the state with the multiplier effect of creating massive employment opportunities, is also a welcome development.   The current administration has also continued from where its predecessor stopped in the area of road rehabilitation and construction, in its frantic bid to further make the state attractive to investors. This is in addition to the opening of 224km rural roads across the state under the Osun RAMP. This effort is significant as it would allow farmers to have access to their farms and markets in the urban centers. Not only that, the administration of Oyetola has also begun lighting up the entire state by installing street lights on major roads across the state beginning from Osogbo, the state capital.   Highly commendable yet is Governor Oyetola’s decisive move to deploy resources in securing the lives and properties of the people, and helping the state to retain its acclaimed status as one of Nigeria’s safest states. The administration began with procurement of 20 new Armoured Personnel carriers in addition to the ones the state already has and 20 security vehicles with security gadgets for the men of the Nigeria Police and the military personnel as a way of supporting the South West security network called “Operation Amotekun” to better secure the lives and properties of the citizens.   In addition to this, the current administration in Osun has also built eleven fire service stations across the nine Federal Constituencies in the State and equipped them with modern fire fighting vehicles.   For one thing, considering all the laudable plans of this administration as embedded in its development agenda, parts of which have already been executed successfully as constituting its achievements in the last one year, it is clear even to a layman that Osun has finally been put on the part of greatness. For another, it also portends a bright future for the good people of Osun State.  •Oyekunle, a public affairs analyst, writes from Oshogbo, Osun State