…vows to deal with smugglers of commodity    T he Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has invested N69 billion into the Edo State Oil Palm Programme (ESOPP).  The apex bank’s Governor, Godwin Emefiele, who disclosed this at the launch of the programme in Benin City, yesterday, said Edo, with Nigeria’s largest oil palm plantation, is the best place to invest if the country must revive its oil palm industry.  ESOPP is an initiative of the Godwin Obaseki-led administration to rejuvenate the sector for global competitiveness.  While commending Obaseki’s commitment to developing the country’s oil palm sector, Emefiele said the CBN   would soon make the N69 billion available to boost the programme.   According to the CBN Governor, Edo State had earlier benefited over 80 per cent from the apex bank’s N30 billion agriculture intervention for states as it received N25 billion out of the total sum.   “I want to thank Governor Obaseki for showing the required commitment and leadership in developing the oil palm sector in Nigeria. When we contemplated on reviving the oil palm sector in Nigeria, he was the only one that came out aggressively from the South-South and South-East and made available 120,000 hectares of land for this project.  “The first Ethanol plant developed in Nigeria is in Edo State and the CBN disbursed about N8 billion to support the project about a week ago. When I met with the governors, I told them that it is better to work together and rediscover our states and make them viable again.  “I will say equivocally that with the effort of Edo State Government in cassava, oil palm, rice value chain, and the support entrepreneurs in the state are receiving through CBN intervention, I have no doubt in my mind that Edo State will be economically viable in another three years,” Emefiele said.  The CBN governor also warned that the bank would deal ruthlessly with smugglers of palm oil in the country if they fail to stop their illegal operations.   He said: “I use this opportunity to advise those economic saboteurs who still think they will hide under the ECOWAS trade liberalization scheme to sabotage the effort of the Federal Government of Nigeria.  “We will do our best to revamp this sector, including directing all banks in Nigeria to close the account of any company, person, staff, owners, top management and supply chain enablers involved in smuggling.”  Meanwhile, Governor Obaseki said the project was in line with his administration’s agenda to harness the state’s rich human and natural endowments to achieve economic growth and wellbeing of Edo people.  He maintained that his government is committed to diversifying the state’s economy, achieving economic prosperity, creating jobs and improving the lives of the people.  “The focus on the oil palm sector alone can stimulate and drive the economy of any state as it has done to Malaysia and Indonesia. This programme will enable us to move from complaining and talking about what we have lost to concrete action towards regaining what has been lost,” he said.  Obaseki said the ESOPP would leverage on what the CBN has initiated.  According to him, “Ours is to remove the critical risk in the oil palm sector by solving the biggest hindrances to plantation farm in Nigeria and making land available to farmers.  “Successful implementation of the programme will create over 600,000 more jobs as well as 25,000 hectares of forest cover. This programme will cost about $600 million, which is approximately N200 billion. The money is there globally as money is not out of reach with investors on the ground.”  The governor said he is setting up the Edo State Oil Palm Programme implementation office, noting that consultants, surveyors and community relations experts will be trained to review and ensure guidelines are strictly followed.  “I thank the CBN governor for stimulating the agricultural sector, creating the platform for our dream to come true. As a state, our goal is to be that trigger state for oil palm in Nigeria as the nation needs millions of lands for oil palm. We will stand as a stimulant for other states,” Obaseki added.    