Widely known as Sisi Nurse in the soap opera titled ‘Face2Face’, Ijeoma Emeka-Ogbuehi is a popular actress who has also taken part in one of the very popular Super Story editions. In this interview with PRECIOUS CHIBUEZE, she spoke about her acting experience and some of what she is working on.   Who or what would you point to as having attracted you to acting?  Hmmm, this is a very beautiful question you’ve asked. The one person that inspired me to being an actor was late Mee Mofe- Damijo, the late wife of Nollywood icon, Richard Mofe Damijo (RMD). In 1996 or thereabout when Mee died, I was so emotionally touched by her death. She had a TV program titled Me &You Show , the programme was a very popular programme and it inspired a lot of people. I admired her from a distance and wanted to be popular like her. When she died, I told myself if a woman like mee could be this great and influential, why can’t I? And I aspired to be like her. Years after, I went for my first audition in PEFTI and that was how I got my first role in Super Story. After that I got another call from late Benson Akindeju to play the role of Sisi Nurse In the soap opera titled Face2Face.  Are you married?   Yes, I am married.   What challenges have you faced in trying to balance being an actor with being a wife and mother?   My challenges were huge, it wasn’t easy initially because my kids were still young. I went from home to location and return home every day no matter the time and I must confess that it was very stressful. And also, considering the little money being paid as a beginner, it was somehow discouraging but understanding that Rome was not built in a day gave me the courage I needed to forge ahead. I will say that acting is better for singles and those who are done with child bearing except you have a supportive husband because it wasn’t easy balancing my attention to my husband, my children and my career. Each one needs adequate attention all from one person – me. But it was quite an interesting experience. I am glad that I fulfilled my obligations as a mother. The area that was very demanding was taking care of my husband’s needs because no man wants to joke with his stomach. I thank God that I have passed that stage.   Is that to say there has been any form of conflict between you and your husband due to your acting career at any point in time?   There really hasn’t’ been any conflict between me and my husband due to my acting career because I always try to balance it and give him the attention he needs. My acting career is just there and I try to focus on my family because asides from my family, nothing else matters to me again. This means I can’t lose my family because I’m an actor and I cannot jeopardise my relationship/marriage with my husband because I’m an actor. Yes I know stardom gets to the head but that’s if you allow it to take over you, but if you know where you are coming from, you won’t allow conflict to come in. My husband is my Lord. And I cannot disobey him in any form or manner because he means well for me.    How did your husband take your acting career?  My husband took my acting career as my profession. He supported me at the choice of my career from day one. As a matter of fact, he was the one that urged me to go into acting and my husband quite understood me. He has been very very supportive, I have a very good relationship with my husband and as a matter of fact, he is my best friend. He understands me very well and knows everything about me so it wasn’t that difficult for me to convince him about my acting career. He has been very supportive from day one and guides me in everything I do to ensure that I don’t make mistakes. He’s fully involved in whatever I do.   How many children do you have?  I have a beautiful daughter and three boys.   So how does one explain why you are not on screen anymore regarding Face2Face?   I did not quit acting but I stopped acting in Face2Face . My reason was basically because I had serious family challenges that needed my total attention. It wasn’t easy for me to stop acting Face2Face because this a programme I had acted in for 12 years. I also started producing my own programme titled: Wind Of Destiny and the news got to the Executive Producer before I told him and that got him so upset because he wasn’t expecting to the hear the news from someone else. But anyways, the issue has been resolved, aside from the misunderstanding I had with him, the politics and beef among the actors and crew became unbearable for me and I told myself that the best option was to quit and focus on my production.  When are we expecting you back on screen?  Very soon because I have a programme I’m working on and it’s going to relaunch me into the scene full time.  Which among the most wonderful memories from your career you can share with fans?  The humorous experience I had was few years ago when I went to Lagos Island, precisely Mandilas, for shopping. While at it, I called out for pure wate r (sachet water) and one man in his shop shouted: “So Sisi Nurse , you dey drink pure wate . E mean say na fake life una dey live for film.”   I replied: “Shey Sisi Nurse no be human being like you” and it remains one of the humorous experiences I’ve had that I’ll never forget.  What is your your advice to upcoming actors who want to be like you?  My advice to them is to always believe in God and also make sure you ask yourself that honest question if acting is your calling. If truly your calling, then just exercise patience, your time will come. Do not try to be like anybody; be yourself because a patient dog eats the fastest bone. 