Last Sunday morning around 10am prompt, residents of Benin City were thrown into confusion following the mysterious fire incident that broke out in the popular Ekiosa Market in the heart of Benin – City making it four in the series in 2019. Some of the affected traders who spoke to Saturday Telegraph in tears blame the officers of the state fire service for not coming to their aid on time when they were called for help. Mrs. Irabor: Last Sunday, I was in the church to serve my God when they called me that Ekiosa Market is on fire, but before I and my husband got to the market to see if we can salvage some of our goods, the fire had razed everything we had in the shop. I and my husband lost two big shops and goods worth two million naira to this evil fire incident that occurred on Sunday morning in Ekiosa Market. I have two children in the university; now tell me how is my family going to cope with this kind of situation? You can see the way I’m feeling; it is a very bad situation. Yes, I commend the state governor for coming to see thing by himself, but that is not what we want now. We also understand that he has approved a hundred million naira for us, we do not want that money to go into one person’s hand, We have all written down our names with number of our shops, they should use that to trace us and give us whatever help they can. On the issue of bringing the Benin deadly juju called Ayelala, she added, for me I do not believe in juju, the reason why they brought it is to put fear in those criminals that capitalised on the fire incident to steal other people’s goods. Right now we heard that some of those thieves have started returning the things they looted from our shops. Tina Igbinovia, a university graduate: On Sunday they just called us that Ekiosa Market is burning, before we could get there, the entire market was already down. The only thing we could see was flames and smokes covering every part of the market. They called the fire service they said there was no water, that they cannot use the water at Ikpoba Hill river, we even went to Mobil filling station to look for water they drove us back and said they don’t have water that we should call fire service men. They now called fire service men from Delta State, before those ones came to the scene the rest was history. The only thing they did was to try and put out that of EDPA which is a government-owned company As a graduate, I have no job, so I decided to join my mother in the business because I have to help my younger ones that are in school. We sell condiment, you can see me under a big umbrella, the fire consumed more that 10 bags of ogbonnor, 10 bags of melons, pepper, cray fish among others. Again, we have registered our names and shop numbers with the state government, we do not want the help to go to any person, if government wants to help, it should follow the right step and not give the money to one illiterate market leader that feeds on the sweats of others in the name of I’m a leader. My family alone lost almost three million in this fire inferno. About the of Ayelala juju she added: I do not believe in that juju, I was not around when they came to the market, those who brought it knows the reason why they did. I’m a child of God, and that same God that I serve will help us out. You see many people that came to the market under the disguise of helping those whose shops were burnt came to loot, some people stole goats, chickens, and different items. So, they believed that bringing juju to the scene will put fears in the minds of those criminals, and today is it yielding good results, as most of them have started to return what they took away. We are wholesalers; we distribute to people; we lost so much to the fire incident. We are seriously in need of help, Governor Obaseki should do something; we are currently confused. Another man whose shop was burnt has this to say. It is a sad event. I feel very bad seeing my two shops burnt. I could not pick anything out of my shops. I sell foreign products, I just brought some goods preparatory for Christmas sales when this ugly incident happen. I cannot talk too much, but I thank God that we are alive. Yes, I was told that the governor has approved certain amount of money, but what can that one do for a man like me that loss everything in my shops. I lost close to five million. If government wants to compensate us; it knows what to do; it should not allow the money to go into one person’s account otherwise we will not get nothing. Mrs. Eghosa Steve: I feel very bad, I’m very angry with myself and the government, particularly those that have committed this heinous crime against God and humanity. They will never go unpunished in their lives. If the authority had come earlier to salvage the situation we won’t have seen this kind of thing. It took about four hours and some minutes for the fire to burn the whole market. People that know can tell you about my business. I sell Brazilian hairs, I loaded my shops before this incident happen, today look at me, they looted my shop, we need government to come and rescue us from this situation. And another thing is, if they are compensating us they should come directly to us, they shouldn’t give the money to any woman or man, we are the victims, it is our shops that got burnt by fire, we are not politicians, we will stand in front of our shops so that government’s officials can see us. The reason why they brought juju is that some people came to loot, so to put fear in their minds some people decided to go for juju, as we speak now, those that looted have started returning what they stole. The Ayelala group: I’m Chief Nobore Nitete Okahimizewin of Nomayo the Vice chairman of Ayelala shrine in this zone. The Ayelala people talk about is just ordinary native chalk that carries potency and powers. It has other names, it is the juju that kills witches and wizards and evildoers, when it is in operation, nobody can stop it from doing what it is sent to do. It does not just kill unjustly, it is when you do something bad and you refuse to own up and when the person that is offended come to the shrine to seek revenge, and you are invited to give your own version of the story, if you are found guilty and you kept denying, they will give you some day to go think and ruminate on the consequences of your action. If you didn’t say the truth after the expiration of the time you were given to own up, then you will be asked to take an oath before the shrine. After that bear the consequences of your denial. For the Ekiosa Market incident, it was necessary to take the juju there so that those who looted shops during the incident can return the stolen items. A curse was placed on them and they started returning the stolen goods because they knew the implication of not doing so. My wife is Mrs. Atiwe Eguavoen, she sells traditional things she lost over three million, so why won’t Ayelala fight for us. Ayelala is a way and a means of curbing crime in the society. We want the government to empower us, we can help reduce crime completely in the Edo State and in Nigeria. All we need is support from the government. Nobody in Edo State goes into crime without thinking twice once the name of the deity is mentioned. Any Ayelala man or woman does not get involve in evil, we have very strong rules that guard us, and your hands must be pure before you can be a server of Ayelala. You do not take another man’s wife, you do not tell lies, you do not bear false witnesses against your fellow being, you must always stand on the side of truth. Ayelala is a very dangerous shrine. It fights for justice so it is a good thing that the affected market women got Ayelala involved, it will fight for them and bring all the criminals involve to book. Again anyone involved in the looting will have himself to blame if they do not come and confess.