…accuse western countries of disrupting natural human life The Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) has criticised the outcome of the recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD +25) in Nairobi, which advocated access to “safe modern” contraceptives and provision of post-abortion care in national healthcare policies and programmes. Episcopal Chairman, CBCN, Family and Human Life Committee and Bishop of Bomadi Diocese, Most Rev. Hyacinth Egbebo, who conveyed the position of the clerics at a news conference in Abuja, said the term Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights was a coded language, euphemism for contraception, abortion, and sterilisation. Egbebo stressed that the church stood for life in the context of the natural family of man and a woman, and the natural way of regulating births. According to him, the Holy See remains opposed to the summit where contraception, abortion, transgenderism and contraception were projected as a global rights of women. He said that everything projected at the conference was against the sanctity and dignity of human life from conception to natural death. His words: “They are against our faith as Catholics. The killing of an unborn child and wilful disruption of women’s natural rhythm of fertility cannot be accepted as normal. “We continue to affirm that human life is sacred and belongs to God; it begins at conception, a fact which is universally-known by the scientific community. Therefore, any action taken after fertilisation has occurred summarily destroys a living human life a person with his or her own rights to life. “Lesbianism, tayism, bisexuality, transgenderism, gueer and gender indeterminism are disordered sexual orientations, and are not accepted by the Catholic Church as a normal way of life. The philosophy and practices are against our concept of being made in the image and likeness of God.” Archbishop of Kaduna Catholic Diocese, the Most Rev. Matthew Ndagosa, said human sexuality was not a disease to be controlled and explained, that was why the church did not attend what he described as “this infamous convention”, on account of its dangerous agenda. “It is, therefore, curious that instead of helping to address the genuine health needs of Africa and other developing countries, women’s bodies are medicalised, mechanised with different gadgets, and accused of being the cause of the world’s population problems. “Everyone knows that overpopulation is a myth, the world is not overpopulated. Concerned citizens can clearly see the political and economic drivers of the persistent focus on Africa and other developing nations by the Western vested interests. “Attacks against all that the church holds dear such as: natural family and its values, respect for the dignity of human life from conception to natural death, respect for the dignity of every human being, love for children, two genders of male and female. “Another curious feature of the conference was that all those who were perceived to be in opposition to their set unholy agenda, especially, pro-family and pro-life groups, were effectively and systematically excluded from participating,” he said. The ICPD +25 was attended by 160 countries and stressed the need for intensified efforts for the full, effective and accelerated implementation of Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. The agenda includes universal access to sexual and reproductive health and rights for zero unmet need for family planning information and services and universal availability of quality, accessible, affordable and safe modern contraceptives.