 M r Ocholi Edicha, one of the alleged killers of the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) Women Leader, Mrs Salome Abuh, has denied the allegation.  Beside, police also presented five other men, allegedly linked to the killing and burning to ashes of the late woman  leads in her house at Aji-Obala, Ofu Local Government Area. The five suspects, however, insisted they were armed robbers, not killers.  Late Abuh was on 18th of November, burnt to death at her Ochadamu resident in Ofu Local Government Area of the state. The Kogi State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Busari, said police operatives attached to Ofu Police Division in collaboration with local vigilante members, arrested Edicha, Adamu Haruna, Onu Egbunu, Musa Alidu, Attai Haruna Egwu and Attah Eheh.  According to Busari, Edicha during interrogation confessed that he led the gang that burnt the house of elder Simon Abuh, husband to late Abuh at Achejuigu in Ochadamu. The police boss noted that there was a misunderstanding between Awolu Zekeri and Gowon Simeon, both of Achadamu. In the process, Simeon stabbed Zekeri with a knife on his lap and he died on the way to hospital.  Busari further noted: “Angry youths in the area mobilised to the house of elder Simon Abuh, who is an uncle to the suspect, Simeon, and set the house ablaze, thereby burning the victim to death.” The CP, while condemning the killing of Abuh and Zekeri, calls for calm and assures members of the public, that all the perpetrators will not go unpunished. Efforts are still on to arrest those that participated in the burning the woman. Meanwhile, Edicha, while responding to questions from journalists, denied being part of those that set the deceased’s house on fire, thereby burning her alive.  Edicha told journalists that the attack was carried out by youths from Ejule in the same Ofu Local Government Area. Edicha explained that he had an issue with Abuh during the gubernatorial election in Kogi State, but distanced himself from her murder. He also exonerated the five suspects alleged with him in the crime, insisting that they were not part of those that burnt the house. The five suspects, however, confessed that police arrested them for armed robbery and not for the murder of Abuh.