ADVANTAGE Apex bank issuing treasuries at high yields to attract foreign portfolio investors   E ven as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) insists that it has the capacity to defend the naira, recent downtrend in the nation’s external reserves is fuelling speculation that a devaluation of the local currency is on the horizon, thus fuelling business for operators of dollar investment funds in the country, New Telegraph’s findings show.   Latest data obtained from CBN indicates that the external reserves stood at $39.62 billion as at December 5, 2019, having dropped from $45 billion on July 25, 2019. Indeed, in a recent report, Coronation Research predicted that unless there was a significant improvement in capital inflows, especially Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI), Nigeria’s foreign exchange reserves may fall to $38 billion by the end of the year.  The steady decline in the reserves, coupled with measures introduced by the apex bank in the last few months, which are deliberately aimed at attracting capital inflows, have heightened speculation that a devaluation of the naira is imminent.   New Telegraph learnt that the development is good news for local firms with well-known dollar investment fund products.   According to industry sources, such firms have recently been offering attractive returns to clients that want to invest in dollars in the hope that naira would soon weaken against the greenback.   “With treasury bill yields now in single digits and the stock market yet to rebound, a lot of investors are moving into forex trading,” a financial analyst, Austin Okonkwo, told this newspaper at the weekend.   He argued that despite CBN’s efforts to support naira, the regulator would have no choice, but to allow the local currency to weaken against dollar, if the external reserves continue to drop.   He said: “We have seen it happen several times in the past; the CBN would be insisting that it would not devalue, but if the reserves continue to head south, it would allow the naira to weaken. Investment firms know this and many of them are now offering their clients good returns for subscribing to their dollar fund products.”   It would be recalled that Cordros Asset Management Limited (CAML) last month opened the “Cordros Dollar Mutual Fund” for public subscription.  According to the offer document, the mutual fund allows investors to conveniently invest and earn returns in United States dollars.   “The fund invests in United States dollar-denominated securities like Sovereign Eurobonds, Corporate Eurobonds, Money Market instruments and other quoted Corporate Eurobonds. The objective is to offer you competitive returns than is obtainable from an average domiciliary bank account,” the firm said.   CAML explained that the fund was targeted at retail, mass affluent, high net worth individuals, Africans in Diaspora, and institutional Investors who desire to meet future medium to long term liabilities.   Speaking at the signing ceremony, Group Managing Director, Cordros Capital Limited, Mr. Wale Agbeyangi, had said: “The Cordros Dollar Mutual Fund will help investors diversify their   portfolio while also helping those with United States dollar obligations hedge against currency risk. The fund’s objective is to achieve capital appreciation in short to medium term for investors with USD and convertible currencies.”   Also speaking, the Managing Director of CAML, Mrs. Morenike Da-Silva, said: “With the Cordros Dollar Fund, investors who have been discouraged by the high entry levels for US Dollar based investments will now have easier, convenient access.”   Analysts at the event noted that the fund was coming at a time when speculations are surrounding the strength of the naira and investors were looking to diversify with investments denominated in foreign currency.   Although sources at the CBN last week, again, dismissed speculation that a devaluation of the naira was imminent, pointing out that the reserves are still above $30 billion, recent measures introduced by the apex bank, especially issuing treasuries at high yields to attract foreign portfolio investors, continue to feed the speculation that a deprecation of the naira is afoot.   Commenting on the issue in a recent note, analysts at CardinalStone Research stated: “In view of Nigeria’s weak current account position, and the sustainability implications of the currency defense, we believe CBN will have to weigh the monetary and opportunity costs of defending the currency at some point.   “We see the main costs of defending the currency as the following; the cost of issuing CBN treasuries at attractive yields, the direct cost of interventions in secondary markets, and the opportunity cost of defending the currency. To defend the currency following the devaluation in mid-2016, the CBN increased its issuances of OMO bills from N4.2 trillion in 2016 to N7.7 trillion in 2017 and N17.0 trillion in 2018.   “Between 2017-2019, the CBN issued N35.8 trillion at an average stop rate of 15.1per cent, which translates to an associated interest expense of c. N5.4 trillion in the period. Our interest expense estimate is corroborated by total interest expense of N4.2 trillion reported in CBN’s financial statements of 2017 and 2018 combined (2017: N1.3 trillion; 2018: N2.9 trillion).”  