The President of Concerned Young Business Men and Women (CYBMW), James Idowu, has tasked Nigerian parents to do all that is within their powers to protect their female children from genital mutilation. He made the call during the organisation’s quarterly roundtable meeting, with the subject titled: “Female Genital Mutilation, The Child and The Future of Our Nation.”  He said Nigeria was ranked as the country with the highest rate of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in the world. The reason for ranking highest was pegged on the nation’s large population. Nigeria has an estimated population of over 200 million and the national prevalence of rate of FGM is put at 41per cent among adult women.  However, this scourge is not only prevalent among the adults but much more among the children. Idowu also stated that it was very important for parents to protect the health and future of their children by protecting them from genital mutilation which could portend serious health hazards for the children, particularly, the female children. He noted that if children of today were lost to avoidable infections and diseases through genital mutilation, then tomorrow becomes jeopardised.  The high point of the event was when the welfare officer of CYBMW, Oluwatosin Ipaye, shared his personal experience on the subject of the event. Ipaye stated how he had been having a running battle with his wife’s family, who insisted that his daughter must be circumcised. According to Ipaye, principal members of his wife’s family, who predominantly live in Ondo State, where his wife hails from have been threatening fire and brimstone on the circumcision of his daughter and vowing that nothing could stop them from ensuring the circumcision of the girl.  In his emotion-laden voice, Ipaye recounted: “These people who are supposed to be protective of my family and my children in particular, are hell-bent on carrying out the barbaric act on my daughter. They vowed that not even any law could stop them in achieving this aim and that they would go to any length in carrying out the circumcision because it is a traditional belief which is sacred to the family.  “As they have resolved to stop at nothing to put the life of my daughter and indeed by implication, that of my family at danger, I also will leave no stone unturned to protect my family. I have already started taking actions by bringing the matter to the attention of the appropriate authorities.