Doctors under the auspices of Medical Guild have raised the alarm over the acute shortage of doctors in Lagos State health system and called on the government to address severe shortages of personnel through the replacement of staff that have exited the system. The Chairman of Medical Guild, Dr. Babajide Saheed who raised the alarm disclosed that about 200 to 250 medical doctors left exited health service in the state in 2018, saying the situation had resulted in the delivery of poor health service to Lagosians while doctors succumb to excessive stress, stroke and hypertension. According to him, generally a doctor in Lagos State at the  general out-patients (GOP) see between 100 to 120 patients daily while one under specialised clinics which is supposed to see around 10 patients, sees between 50 to 70 patients. “Now we can understand why Lagosians are not getting the best of healthcare,” Saheed added. He said these at a press conference where he announced activities for this year’s annual general meeting of the Medical Guild, which is an association of doctors under the employment of the Lagos State Government. He said, “We need about 1,000 doctors to be employed for exit replacement. If the government cannot do this in a lump sum, it should do it in phases. The first 25 per cent should be done by the end of this year, 2019. “The second 25 per cent should be done by January next year, 2020, while the remaining 50 per cent should be done in the first quarter of next year.” “If nothing is done about this acute shortage of doctors, the Medical Guild will convey a meeting  next year and members will decide on what to do.” Similarly, he called for improvement in welfare of doctors, saying it would go a long way in stemming the current brain drain in the health system. “Incentives such as housing loans and car loans would help boost morale. In addition, he called for exemption of call duty from taxation to lighten tax burden and the increase of doctors’ retirement age to 65 years as has been done for teachers.” While rejecting the new minimum wage by the Lagos State Government, Saheed  lamented that the Medical Guild was not part of the negotiation that produced the new wage regiment. Harping on the need for exit replacement, Dr. Saliu Osen, an ex-officio of the Medical Guild lamented that as more doctors exited the health system in the state, “there is need to replace those that have left; we are having more facilities built and we have increasing number of population. Medical doctors under the employ of Lagos State government Wednesday raised the alarm over what they described as the imminent collapse of health services due to an acute shortage of doctors in hospitals across the state. While raising the alert at a press conference in Lagos Wednesday, the doctors under… In "Health" Medical doctors under the auspices of Medical Guild have raised the alarm over the shortage of doctors under the public hospital system and called on the Federal and state governments to replace doctors who leave the health system as well as regularly recruit doctors into public hospitals. The Chairman… In "Health" Medical doctors under the employ of Lagos State government yesterday raised the alarm over what they described as imminent collapse of health services due to an acute shortage of doctors in hospitals across the State.     While raising the alert at a press conference in Lagos yesterday, the doctors… In "News"