Hon (Engr) Makwe Livinus is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), representing Ohaozara/ Onicha/ Ivo Federal Constituency of Ebonyi State. He addresses a number of critical issues of national interest in this interview with CHUKWU DAVID, including relationship between the Ninth National Assembly and the Executive, Hate Speech Bill, border closure, 2023 Presidency, and the last governorship elections  Where are you coming from, were you in politics before or is this your first outing?  Right from 19999, I would say I have been a participant but I had not actually run for any office but I became a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). By that time, I was already in my private business, owning my own private company after having worked elsewhere in so many other expatriate companies.  Since 1999, I have been supporting candidates that have been running in my state and in my local government, and even up to the national level including the Presidency. I have always worked and supported my party from that time till date. I was in 2011 that I started nursing the ambition of coming to the National Assembly. I never wanted to run for any other office except an office of the National Assembly, either in the House of Representatives or in the Senate. But by the time I started my consultation in 2011, it was too close to the election. So, I did not continue with my ambition, rather I worked for the people the party selected.   Then in 2015, I came in fully, started on time and participated fully until by consensus our party in Abuja, by consensus decided the person who will represent us in the House of Representatives, and I had to support that person. I had to respect the decision of the party at the national level even though I had bought form. I believe I had a good opportunity if I had gone to the field but the party is supreme.  Then, in 2018, I participated and by God’s grace I won and I am here. Before then, I had not really held any political office but Governor David Umahi appointed me member of the Elders Council in Ebonyi State, and that was when he won in 2015, and we obeyed the will of the party and supported every candidate across board. I was also a national delegate in the primaries of the PDP all along till it came to our own turn for national convention; that was the only one I did not follow.   In a democratic setting, the three arms of government are supposed to be independent.  However, there is a general opinion out there that the present National Assembly is a rubber stamp and a puppet of the Executive. What’s your view on this critical public perception?   From what I have seen, observed and participated in, in this Ninth National Assembly, I think that impression is far from the truth because I am part and parcel of the institution now and I am aware of every decision that was taken. I made my own contribution, I had my own views and I know that the only thing that is different is that the Ninth House of Representatives decided not to be so confrontational.  Yes, there is a lot engagement which everybody has been proposing outside the chambers, maybe in the committee meetings and interaction of leadership with different arms of government. For instance, when the insecurity was rising, it was all over the place; when the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, invited the service chiefs, and all of them came and discussions were held. Those discussions could have been held in the chamber and maybe it could have been very turbulent but they were able to address those concerns quickly and more effectively by engaging the Executive constructively. On the issue of the budget, it was also similar engagement and similar in determination.  That you are doing things the Executive sent, for instance, the budget came and we passed it does not mean that you are a rubber stamp. I don’t see what is rubber stamp there because at the end of the day, those budgets had always been passed with a lot of acrimony. But this time, it was passed with a lot of agreement and consensus, and we are looking forward to the President signing it for its implementation. I’m not an advocate of when you want something from the opposition, it’s always fighting. First, present your facts; you should be heard, then you give and they will give, so that it becomes give and take, and you reach a compromise. And when that compromise is reached, I don’t see anything that is rubber stamp there. That is how we have been working so far in all issues that have come to the House, and I don’t see it as being out of the norm.   What is your appraisal of the relationship of previous assemblies with the Executive vis-a-vis the present National Assembly and the executive arm? Is there anything Nigerians stand to gain from the perceived harmony between the two arms in this dispensation?  Yes, definitely. For instance, the budget has been returned to January to December cycle as a very good start. Is that not good for everybody? So, the Executive won’t have any reason now to say that they can’t implement the budget or that there is no funding because they are the people that also estimated the funds that we are now appropriating. So, they have an idea of a good expectation they are going to have, and based on that they allocated funds and the variance we introduced into the budget was not heavy and it was not much and we were all directed towards how the capital projects will impact positively.  In the past, the debate was longer and sometimes it took six months but there had also been times in the past that budgets were passed within two months. It has happened before; I don’t think that we are not the first people to do it. But those periods, assents were withheld until they reached a compromise and then the President signed. But this time around, that determination is there.  Maybe, next year, the Executive may bring it earlier, say in September so that we have more time to discuss but what matters is that, at the end of the day, it boils down to one fact, and that is that the budget is passed. Most of the time, you discover that the National Assembly cannot completely throw away what the Executive has put in the budget, so what is the fighting all about?   Why not engage them in a discussion and reach a compromise, which is exactly what we did this time around?   I am in Appropriation and other committees. You know that what they gave us was not what we gave them back hundred percent. There were areas we made input but we had to engage those agencies and told them reasons for swapping some allocations and projects.  Also, in other issues, we treat them as they come, and the ones that are not good for Nigerians, we tell them that we are not going to pass it or at least most members will speak against it like this hate speech bill; most House members are already gearing for the day it will come to our own place because most of them are against it including myself. When we engage them constructively, I think they will see our reasons when we give good reasons why we accept some bills and throw out some. But what they have brought so far is not that bad and that is why we are flowing with it.  You just mentioned the Hate Speech Bill which is already introduced in the Senate. What is your take on the bill?  Well, my take is that we will wait until it comes to our own chamber. But my personal opinion is that I don’t see it making so much difference because even in Nigeria, we have death sentence for armed robbery but has it stopped robbery; has it stopped kidnapping even in the states that imposed death sentence as punishment for kidnapping?  And if you prohibit the hate speech in Nigeria, are you going to prohibit it abroad because Nigerians live abroad; they will also be expressing their opinions on the social media.  Moreover, there are enough provisions in our laws already, to contain libelous allegations and frivolous statements that cannot be proven. What we need to do first is to go to these aspects of the law and enforce it, instead of categorically bringing out hate speech bill because it will appear as if you want to muzzle the people, and that is the impression that is out there, and we should not be seen to be giving that kind of impression.   The one-time ruling party in this country, the PDP, appears to be gradually sinking into extinction judging from its performances in the February and March, 2019, general elections and the recent elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states.  Any hope of improvement?  You know that before this year’s general elections, PDP actually lost a lot of ground, and after the elections of February and March this year, we gained more states in terms of the governors. As for the last two elections in Bayelsa and Kogi, we all know what happened in Bayelsa. The big people in the party wanted certain candidate at the state level they didn’t want that candidate, and so that crack in the unity of the party between the federal choice and the state preference is one of the things that cost us Bayelsa; even though there were violence and all kinds of manipulations and rigging there.  But in Kogi, I am not satisfied with the way the election was conducted because my people used to say that if you remove a flea from somebody, you have to show it to the person so that he will see it; otherwise, he will think that you are just pinching him.  So, if you are defeating me it should be seen that you are defeating me clearly and convincingly. There were issues of people wearing police and army uniform and both agencies said that they did not know those people; there were also issues of a lot of killings and shooting including the PDP woman leader, who was burnt alive after the elections. This will show you the kind of carnage.  With that kind of brigandage, I am not sure that if proper election was done in a free and fair manner, in a violence free atmosphere, I believe the PDP would have had a better performance, and they had a better chance of winning the election from the beginning because people were dissatisfied with the current governor. They wanted a change.   Having lost those two states, that doesn’t mean that we are not going to win again in future. We still have governors and National Assembly members; we still have strongholds in the states and across all strata. I believe we have learnt from what has happened and we prepare better, and in 2023, we will improve.  God-fatherism appears to be a serious menace in Nigerian politics, do you want it eliminated?  Well, I don’t really know in what context you are talking of god-fatherism because I also know that there are states that even when their governor brings out a candidate, the candidate will fail the election; and he is a god-father. So, I think that popularity is beginning to play a key role in politics of these days. You have seen the Bayelsa example: the governor brought out a candidate as the god-father in the state, where did it take him to; so you look at popularity. How popular is the candidate you are bringing in, and you can always determine this when you allow the thing to evolve from the grassroots, from the masses, from the voters themselves. If you do god-fatherism and you bring wrong candidates, I think they will fail. In almost all the states in Nigeria now, people are wiser now. So, if you bring a candidate and the opposition brings a better candidate, there will be a war, if there is no manipulation or rigging, there won’t win the election.   How do you see the use of soldiers in the conduct of elections in Nigeria?   That is still a very big challenge. You saw what happened in Rivers State in the February and March elections. Everybody was watching it on the screen. So, all those kinds of things should be eliminated. What I think is that only the police should be allowed to carry out election security duties, and the military can be on the road, manning the security, not having anything to come near where they are voting or collating results. They can stay far be observing things in case there is a breach, and let the police be close to the voting centres because we still really need their presence because a lot is happening in terms of violence, thuggery, ballot snatching and all that. The police should be available to contain that because that is their primary responsibility.   What is your rating for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the conduct of the 2019 general elections and other elections that followed thereafter?   I will not score them hundred per cent. They are not the security forces anyway, and they are not the people that made the electoral laws. So, what they can do is limited because if the candidates and the voters are left with only INEC in the field, it will be free and fair election. I don’t think there is any magic they will do for instance to re-write the result at that stage unless the security agencies are involved in carting away the election materials to a dedicated point and preventing people from coming in and then toying with the numbers. I don’t think INEC alone will have that capacity to do that. So, what we need to do is to still look at our electoral laws and see what changes we can make in it in the National Assembly maybe from next year going forward, to address some of these lapses  . Some have said that introducing electronic transmission of election results would help reduce or eliminate rigging. Do you agree to this view and how?  Yes, I think in that direction but they also need to really also to work on the cyber security aspect of it so that there is no external influence or encroachment into the results or data that they have to avoid manipulation.  Once the next work is very secure, that is the best way to run the election because you cannot snatch ballot box, you cannot do multiple double-printing because everything will show; if you vote twice, it will show. So, we should try and adopt it; it will be better for us.  What is the impact of the closure of land borders on your constituents, and what is your take on this seeming stringent decision by the federal government?  The border closure is definitely hurting hard on my constituents in terms of the economy, and I believe that the same thing is applicable to all other sections of the country because it is affecting prices of things in the market. They say that the cost of everything has doubled since that time. The last time I went home, I wanted them to buy me even battery and other common things like that, and I discovered that the prices of those things have gone up and they say that it is because of the border closure. It is not only the price of rice that is affected because we are even cultivating rice to a point that we are almost becoming selfreliant on rice in Ebonyi, and everybody buys rice from the local producers, which is sweeter, cleaner and better in all aspects because you can’t talk about expired rice as far as the local rice is concerned.   So, in terms of food, we in Ebonyi are still reasonably sufficient but in terms of other things the border closure is affecting their prices. But my opinion in the case of border closure is that you don’t cut off your head because you have headache because that does not stop the headache. It is human beings that we put in those borders.  We have the Custom, Immigration, NDLEA and others. We also have military and police checkpoints near the borders. So, I think that we should work more on our people because even if they get it right with the neighboring countries to do the needful, and our people are still corrupt, yes we will get some income but we will still be losing a lot through this corruption.  So, for me, if the law enforcement agents at the border are doing what they supposed to do, this thing wouldn’t have gotten to this stage. Even now, smuggling is still going on but not at that stage it was going on before. We see all these things on social media and other media platforms, how they put rice in the boot of cars and load in every available space in the car; some put petrol in nylon and put wherever they can. So, what am saying is that this border closure should not continue forever; they should engage the neighboring countries and our security agents at the border.  They should work together and be able to apprehend the smugglers. They have more to do because the people that are moving these things are not ghosts, and they have the intelligence to track them down. So, if they are not compromising, they should be able to do more in arresting these people, and when you arrest, you take the person and make example. That is the only way to stop this thing. Closing the border will not stop it entirely. So, I don’t want the border to remain closed in perpetuity; they should try and reach an agreement with our neighboring countries. When compromise cannot be reached, then they should put people who can ensure compliance on our own side.   They already know what the law is. If our neighboring countries are not ready to cooperate, that doesn’t mean that we should keep the border closed forever because tension is rising. Look at the attack on Nigerian traders in Ghana the other day. We don’t want to see this spread to other countries.  America did not close her border completely; if you are going to America and you carry drug, they will track you and arrest you. We should do the same thing in our borders and prosecute the offenders. So, my take is that they can close the border for one or two more months and if our neighbours are not cooperating, we train our security agents on effective border control, so that they can be more serious and man that place properly. We have the intelligence to track these people but are we honest enough not to compromise ourselves, that’s the main issue.  Many Nigerians are worried that the country’s debt profile is rising uncontrollably in the last four years.  What is your reaction to this?  If you look at it from government’s own point of view, the oil price has dropped; the income is no longer the same and for that reason they need to borrow money to sustain the economy. But then, I don’t quite agree that borrowing is all the solution. We can look inwards and try to develop more agriculture, try to develop more solid minerals mining; we have a lot of these solid minerals here and those can do a lot to improve our economy.  They should also do a lot more in terms of tax compliance; expanding the tax net so that more people come into it and they can collect more taxes. A lot of Nigerians are not paying tax; so they have to do something to make sure these taxes come in. We have to do something to encourage mining and agriculture and more so that we don’t need to spend our foreign currency procuring these same products that are easily available here.  If there is a very critical need to borrow to finance one significant thing or another, it could be done but this general blanket borrowing to finance 30 or 40 projects, I don’t know where it will lead us to because even that amount of money you are borrowing now, before you finish processing that facility, it comes in, it goes to tender, you start execution of the project, inflation has already made that money not to be able to complete the project and it will be abandoned along the line, and what you have spent will be wasted. If it is one or two critical projects, you can borrow and finance it, and you make sure that the projects are completed so that they will begin to impact the economy.  A situation where we are spending 30 to 40 per cent of the budget to pay debt, is not a good economics even though I am not an economist.  The issue of zoning the Presidency has become dicey because it’s like a gentleman agreement which is easily violated. Do you believe in zoning, and do you want it to be a constitutional matter?  What I know is that once something is made to be a constitutional matter, to amend it in future will be a problem.  So, am one of those who want zoning to remain a gentleman agreement but it should also be something that should be encouraged for the sake of national unity. By the state of development Nigeria is now, we have not yet graduated to the level where everybody understands that we are one and where you come from does not really matter because it may be that if there is no zoning, one part of the country will consistently produce the President, and everything he does will be looked at from the point of view that he is favouring his people only. So, that is zoning is important.  And since we have been making it to work in the past to some reasonable extent, we should leave it that way, and not entrench it in the Constitution because it might become difficult to change when we mature politically and democratically to allow free will to prevail no matter where you come from, to allow the best to go. Since I say that I believe in zoning, and since after the civil war, the South-East has not taken a shot at the Presidency, it’s only fair that they should be given a turn this time around in 2023, so that they will have that sense of belonging. After the Civil War, they said no victor no vanquished; that we are all back as one. If it is truly so, then show it in your actions; not when you have commissioners of police up to four, five and six from other places but the South-East has one or none at the federal level; it’s not fair.  There is federal character principle in this country, and I think that should be respected completely, and not to continue to marginalise one zone. So, for the Presidency in 2023, I am one of those appealing to them to give to the South-East in 2023 for the sake equity and for the sake of the unity of the country. They have the power because they have the majority, and they are in control to say we are giving it to South-East or we are giving it to South-East. So, it’s a matter of decision at the centre. If the two principal parties choose their presidential candidates from the South-East, definitely the President will come from the South- East. It is really the turn of the South-East, and if they truly believe that we are one, they should give it to us.  There is an impression that the Igbos are not usually together when it comes to taking critical political decisions. Don’t you think that this will affect them in the matter of taking a shot at the Presidency?  There is no section that is completely together, even in the North, how many people did they produce as candidates in the past for various positions? So, it’s a matter of contest, and one person will definitely emerge at the end of the day.  There is nowhere it will not be by that contest and it cuts across everywhere you are going to zone it, unless there is a consensus.