A 42-year-old man, Taofeek Oyeyemi, has reportedly impregnated his 16-year-old daughter at Ewekoro area of Ogun State. Taofeek, who was also accused of procuring abortion for the victim after taking her to a quack medical practitioner, was apprehended by the police. Incidentally, the suspect has 17 children from different women. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the arrest, said the suspect was nabbed following a complaint from the mother of the victim. The PPRO added that the suspect decided to take the teenage girl for abortion so that his secret would not be exposed. According to the police spokesman, the victim has been bleeding since the abortion was procured for her. He said: “The suspect was arrested following a complaint from the mother of the victim who reported at Ewekoro Police Station that her daughter, who has been living with her former husband, informed her that she was impregnated by her father who also took her to a quack medical practitioner for abortion. “She explained further that since the abortion was carried out, the victim has being bleeding. “On the strength of the report, the DPO, Ewekoro Division, SP Rotimi Jeje, detailed his Juvenile Welfare Centre (JWC) section to go after the suspect and he was eventually arrested. “The suspect, who was said to have 17 children from different women, on interrogation, confessed to have slept with the victim several times which resulted to her pregnancy. In order for his secret not to be exposed, he decided to take the girl for abortion. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the victim’s mother has separated from the suspect years back and the victim has been living with her until about six months ago when the suspect forcibly took the girl away from her mother. “All efforts made by the mother to take custody of her daughter proved abortive. It was when the mother came to visit her daughter that she discovered the great atrocity committed by the suspect against her daughter.” The PPRO, however, said the state Police Commissioner, Kenneth Ebrimson, has directed that the suspect be transferred to Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation and prosecution.