The Ebonyi State Police Command, yesterday, confirmed the murder of an official of the Department of State Security (DSS) in the state. The DSS official was said to have been murdered by gunmen at Onwe road, Abakaliki. Also, yesterday, a 30-year-old man, Boniface Nwogha, was murdered by suspected cultists in Abakaliki. Nwogha was a plumber, living with his family at Michael Nwogha Onuba Street Amike- Aba in Ebonyi Local Government Area. He was killed at about 8:pm. A source from the Neighborhood Watch, who did not want his name mentioned, said there was a misunderstanding in the compound, which left someone with injury, leading to a reprisal in the night. The cultists were alleged to have stormed the plumber’s shooting sporadically, forcing everyone to scamper for safety. The source further said: “We got the information that there was gunshot in the area and we immediately rushed to the place. When we got there, everybody has ran for safety. We did not see anyone, but we saw a body in a pool of blood. It was then we started knocking on doors of the residents of the compound. On introducing ourselves, people came out of their houses, including the wife of the deceased. We then called the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), who also came with his men to the scene. The incident was suspected to be a cult attack according to the eldest brother of the deceased.” There has been massive arrest around the area by the police following the killing of Nwogha. The Ebonyi State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Loveth Odah, confirmed the murder of Nwhogha and that of the DSS official Odah said: “The DPO said some people came to report in his office that the deceased was found in a pool of blood in Amike-Aba. He rushed him to the hospital where he was confirmed dead by doctors. Because the case is a murder case, it was transferred to the state headquarters for onward investigation.” She confirmed that there has been massive arrest of people in the area as a result of the incident. Odah added: “We actually wanted to ensure that the perpetrators were arrested and the people of the area are not doing us any good. They are not coming up with any useful information that will help the police to arrest the perpetrators. You will recall that sometime before the end of last month, there was someone in Onwe road Abakaliki who was later identified as DSS officer because an ID card was found in him. He was found in a pool of his blood. At the end of the day, the DPO took him to hospital where he was confirmed dead and till today, the killers have remained unknown.”