T he Customs Area Controller (CAC) Area II Command, Onne Port, Rivers State, Comptroller Aliyu Galadima Saidu has charged newly promoted officers in the command to justify their elevations with honesty and hardwork. Saidu, who gave this charge while decorating the newly promoted officers in his command with their new ranks, said promotion is clarion call to higher responsibilities. He stated that expectations are high from promoted officers and all operatives of the command.   “From this moment you should also see yourselves as role models to your subordinates, leading by example and keeping to directives as contained in the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA) including other books of instruction. “The Controller General and Nigeria demands more dedication to duty from us and the motivation of promotion should spur us to do more while also encouraging our stakeholders to be compliant at all times. “For those that are yet to be promoted, the controller urged them to be unrelenting in steadfastness as other opportunities for promotion will come their way,” he said.   A statement by Customs PRO, Port-Harcourt Area ll Command, Onne, Ifeoma Ojekwu quoted the CAC as further saying that with the caliber of officers at the command, “the revenue target and goals of 2019 will be achieved in few weeks time.” In his goodwill message, the Commandant Nigeria Navy School Onne, Commodore A. Olodudu enjoined the newly promoted officers to see their promotion as divine, saying “promotion comes from God through the headquarters”. On her part, the Comptroller Immigration Onne, E. I. B. Inok, charged the officers to be more humane and show more understanding to the people they left behind. Insisting that all the officers promoted should be more productive and hardworking and always show gratitude to the Customs Management for what it has done. Responding on behalf of the newly promoted officers, Deputy Comptroller Timinadi Bomodi, expressed happiness for the honour done them while promising the Nigerian Customs Service especially the Controller  General of Customs, Col. Hammed Ali (rtd )of their unalloyed commitment and “to  match expectations with hard work”.