Armed men have abducted the District Head of Birnin Gwari, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, and four others in two separate incidents in Birnin Gwari and Sabon Tasha on the outskirts of Kaduna metropolis. It was learnt that Abubakar and a former Education Secretary of Birnin Gwari Local Government Area, Alhaji Ibrahim Musa, were travelling on the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road when gunmen stopped their vehicle and marched them into the bush. The incident took place about 3p.m., on Wednesday. In the second incident, gunmen stormed Sabon Tasha, a suburb of Kaduna metropolis in Chikun Local Government Area and kidnapped three siblings from the house of the father, Christian Obi. The incident occurred in the early hours of yesterday. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Yakubu Sabo, confirmed the two incidents. Sabo said in a statement that a manhunt was on for the suspects. Obi, a businessman, gave the names of his abducted children as Jonathan (31), Joachim (28) and Benjamin (21). Meanwhile, a witness, who disclosed that he sighted the kidnappers, said they were heavily armed and wore military uniform. He said: “We saw three men, two were wearing military uniform. They spoke Hausa. “They jumped into the compound through the fence. One of our friends was the one who saw when one jumped in. Then my friend got up and saw one through the back window. “They were going round looking for a way to get into the house but couldn’t. It was from the laundry room they jumped in through a small opening in the doorway. All of us ran into the girls’ room to hide. “When they came in, Jonathan told them whatever they wanted he would give them. He gave them money and they collected all their phones.” The PPRO, Sabo, spoke on the abduction. He said: “On 19/12/2019 (yesterday), the Kaduna State Police Command received information of two separate unfortunate incidents of kidnapping through DPO Buruku and Sabon Tasha respectively to the effect that, on 18/12/2019, about 2.30p.m., gunmen in military uniform intercepted a commuting vehicle on Birnin Gwari Road by Unguwan Yako and consequently kidnapped two occupants to unknown destination. “The victims were identified as Alhaji Yahaya Yusuf Abubakar Sarkin Kudu, the District Head of Birnin Gwari, and Alhaji Ibrahim Musa, former Education Secretary of Birnin Gwari Local Government Area. “A similar unfortunate incident of kidnapping was recorded at Sabon Tasha in Chikun Local Government Area where three persons – Jonathan Obi, Joachim Obi and Benjamin Obi – all of the same address, were kidnapped about 2a.m., today (yesterday) by suspected hoodlums to unknown destination.” Sabo added that on receipt of the information, police operatives from the Anti-Kidnapping Squad, the