Gymnastics TD resigns over wrangling in GFN   B arely a week after the board of the Athletic Federation Nigeria AFN was factionalised, another federation, the Gymnastics Federation of Nigeria GFN may tow the same line.  This is because of the Pillar of GFN, Coach Anthony Asuquo, has resigned his position as Technical Director on the board.  Asuquo in a letter addressed to the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, said his resignation was due to constant wrangling between him and the current leadership of GFN.  The Coach revealed in the letter that the bone of contention was the money $760 about N273, 600 he borrowed the federation to get a ban lifted following GFN’s failure to pay an international affiliation fee. He said when he requested for a refund of the money from the current board of the GFN, it refused to pay him.  The letter reads, “It is with great pleasure and having done a soul searching exercise that entails a lot retrospective review that confirmed that I am only a nominal member on the board of GFN, I hereby inform you that I have resigned from the board with immediate effect.  My decision to borrow out the money is borne out of the love I have for sport. I am grateful for the few periods I served as the technical representative on the board.  “My action became necessary being a passionate gymnast; I have previously voiced out some actions/inactions of the board especially the President that contradicts the values and norms of a true stakeholder. My action was wrongly viewed and I was tagged “a prodigal son.”   “I lend the federation money to pay Gymnastics Federation of Nigeria international affiliation fee to lift the ban placed on GFN, the sum of 600 Swiss Franc which amounts to 760 USD and in naira 273,600 only.  “The money was paid through my Keystone bank domiciliary account in the presence of the former Secretary General, Ngozi Amayo and the federation account officer named Soliu Alfa. Please, I am requesting for my refund from the GFN.”