Senator Anthony Adefuye is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Secretary-General of Yoruba Unity Forum (YUF). In this interview with Temitope Ogunbanke, he speaks on the state of the nation and South-West’s quest for the 2023 presidency, among other issues  There is a concern in the South-West about removal public office holders from the zone and their replacement with northerners. Yoruba people are beginning to insinuate that the President’s decision is an attempt to reduce the influence of the South-West in his government as well part of the agenda to perpetuate the North in governance after 2023. How would you react to that?   If people are showing concern, I think they have every right to show concern. First, it was the embarrassment of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; second, the removal of Babatunde Fowler and third was the issue of Muiz Banire. Fowler completed his first term, but if a man has tripled the nation’s income, shouldn’t he be given a second term? I have no idea why Fowler was not given a second term. There must be a reason for doing so. I am one of the leaders who don’t just like to talk just for talking sake. There must be a very good reason why the man who is doing so well in the eyes of members of the public was removed.   For Banire, I learnt that a new law was passed that says whoever wants to head Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) must have at least been of an equivalent of a deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. That was the speculated reason he was removed. These are coincidences that were too coincident, and that is why one has to be very careful. I don’t comment on issues for which I have no facts. Until I have better facts before I can complain.    But as you said, Yoruba have every reason to show concern over what is happening. If you would remember, in his first term, even some of the Yoruba ministers had three portfolios and we were all clapping for him. So, if things are changing, we should ask; what has changed the policy? Where is the problem coming from? What has change the equilibrum? If we need to do adjustment, we will do it. If we need to do a repair job, we should do it.    Don’t you think that these developments are worrying signals ahead of the 2023 general election?   I don’t know; 2023 is still far. Who knows who will make 2023? Does anybody know? Only God knows who will see 2023? As I said, I don’t jump into conclusion because what we say, people tend to believe it. So, I always make sure that what I say is backed with facts and figures.   We didn’t hear anything from the All Progressives Congress (APC) or leadership of the party in the South-West over what happened to the vice-president. Is it that the party is comfortable or there is an underground work going on?   That issue was thrashed and the accusation had been dropped. There was no issue of mismanagement of funds. We all know the vice-president is an impeccable anti-corruption crusader, so no matter what anybody insinuate and no matter what anybody says, we know who is who. I know the relationship between the vice-president and the president is still very cordial.   Ahead of 2023, what do you think leaders of the South-West should do to reposition the zone?   What we should be doing now is working towards 2023 to ensure that the presidency comes to the South-West. The South-West has never been president before and this is the first time we are going to have a shot at the presidency. Since 1999, it has been an Igbo affair, but unknown to people, they have been saying that the Igbo have never had it. No, it is the Yoruba who have never been president.     Is that not contestable sir?   Whether you want to contest it or not, I have given you the facts. It is the Yoruba who have never been President.   Former President Olusegun Obasanjo said sometimes ago that there was an agenda to Islamise and Fulanise Nigeria. Don’t you think that what is happening now has proved him right?   Let him prove it. There is nothing like that. Don’t let us put religion into this. I don’t know what he meant by Islamising Nigeria. Go to the North, you will see Christian churches all over the place, and journalists should stop flogging issues that can divide. Have you seen anybody coming to your house to invite you to become a Muslim, it is Christians going to Muslims and telling them to become Christians, and they never said they want to Christianise Nigeria.   Why are people now saying President Buhari wants to Islamise Nigeria? Why didn’t they say so during Umaru Yar’Adua administration when the Boko Haram started? Why didn’t they say so during Goodluck Jonathan who refused to battle Boko Haram? Why are people saying so now because Buhari is president who defeated Boko Haram? He was the brave one who destroyed them. So, where is Islamisation coming from, it is a jargon of the opposition.   Ahead of the 2023 elections, there is assumption that a former governor of Lagos State and APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is preparing to run for presidency?   He has never told me that, but is he not qualified? Has he not tried? Is he not a qualified Yoruba man to run for the presidency if he wants to?   If he declares for presidency, will he get the South-West support? Is he not controlling the South-West now? Is it not his party that is controlling the South-West? Of course he will get the support of the South-West.   Is he really in control of the South-West, considering the outcome of the last general election and the fact that some APC leaders in the zone are not on the same page with him?   APC controls the South-West and sll the people you mentioned were installed by Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and they will not compete with him if he decides to come out. I am telling you for a fact, none of them will come out if Tinubu decides to come out for the 2023 presidency.   How do you think South-West can best handle the issue of Afenifere, which is clamouring for Igbo presidency in 2023?   This is a free Nigeria, anybody can clamour for anything he wants. Politics is dynamic, is Afenifere not in dancing steps with Obasanjo now? And we have heard about the unprintable things they have said about him before. So, they have the choice to say whatever they want to say and to support whoever they want to support. But I want you to know that we are all Afenifere, only it has been fractionalised.  If you look at what is happening in Edo State now, are you not concerned that the party risks losing the state to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the election that will come up next year?   You are worried about Edo, why are you not talking about PDP, a party that has collapsed and shattered nationally. At least APC is still alive and the party’s members are fighting one another. In party organisation, you find rivalry, you find people struggling for power; it is not new.   How about what happened recently, when Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, tried to stop Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu’s defection rally?   You can stop a rally if you find out that it is not in the interest of security. When two people from the same party are fighting, you don’t solve it by a rally; you solve it at a roundtable. If the rally had gone as proposed, there might be disturbances. You can only say when a rally will start, how it  starts, but you cannot say how and where it will end.  So, it is not for fear; it is for peace and tranquility of the state.  The crisis in APC has even degenerated to a level where some governors are calling for the removal of the party’s national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. What is your view on that?  I have told you that politics is struggle for power. There might be personal reasons why those governors want to remove him, but the fact is that APC has a way of resolving its crisis. There is no crisis that is not resolvable once there is leadership. At the appropriate time, the leadership will put a halt to all grievances.   There was this belief that it was a mistake that APC removed the immediate past governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode…  Really?  Why do you say so?  Whatever we did, we did it in the best interest of the people.   Are you really satisfied with the Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration?  Based on what they met on ground, I think they are doing very well.  Still talking about 2023 election, how do you see the move by the North to extend its hold on power beyond 2023?  It is impossible; it is in the imagination of journalists and the opposition.  But some Northern leaders are insisting on producing the next president in 2023…  You are reading their body language dangerously; it is incorrect. The issue of the presidency is an unwritten agreement and this thing rotates between the North and the South. Once a northerner has been there for eight years maximum, it must rotate to the South. So, whoever is thinking that the North will retain power beyond 2023 is daydreaming and wants to break Nigeria.  The battle for 2023 seems to have started and many believe that was one of the reasons why some power brokers are trying to decimate Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.   How true is that assumption?   Did Osinbajo say he wanted to contest for 2023?  No, he has not said so. But there are perceptions that Osinbajo want to run for the 2023 presidency…   It is all assumptions. Do you know for Osinbajo to become vicepresident, we had to beg him; he was reluctant. There is no doubt that Osinbajo is a shining star.  Are you saying people begged Osinbajo before he accepted to be vice-president?   Yes! He never wanted to be. He never showed any interest. So, whomever God wants to crown, whether he is struggling, sleeping, God sees everybody and he will give him the crown.  So, if we begin to apply the issue of 2023, we will mislead ourselves. The issue on ground now is that we just had a new term of four years, how do we manage it? How do we ensure that the Yoruba people benefit maximally from this administration?  This is the first time we are associated with the centre.  How do we maximise this benefit?  I think that is what we should be thinking now and not fighting ourselves.  We are not going to fight ourselves in Yoruba land. We are going to ensure that the presidency comes to the South-West. It would be turn of the South-West in 2023.  The South-West has been in opposition for 20 years, so enough is enough. Do you think that is achievable, considering the population of the North and their determination to retain the position?   That is you imagination. All the time we have been contesting election in the North, there was no state that gave 100 per cent to a northern candidate.  When MKO Abiola contested in the June 12, 1993 presidential election, we won almost all the states in the North. When Obasanjo contested, we won almost all the states in the North. When God wants to do His thing, nobody can stop it. Are you invariably saying that the South-West is not bothered about North’s population?  Are you going to kill them because they have population?   Do you know that Kwara and Kogi are Yoruba?  Do you know Benue is Igbo? Do you know Benue was part of the East before?  So, where does the North control majority?  As far as I am concerned, in Nigeria today, it is either people vote according to their conscience or ethnicity.  So, when you say northern population, quite a lot of Yoruba today are in the North, Kogi, Kwara and all parts of the North; even in Benue, some Yorubas are there, Igbo are also there. In Plateau, it is mixed population.  We have had elections before and a northerner defeated a southerner in the South-West. You said this is the first time Yoruba is associating with the party at the centre.  What do you think Yoruba have benefitted in this administration?  During the PDP era under Jonathan, from the number one to 22 in the order of protocol, there was no Yoruba person there. I can give you the break down.  From number one to 22 in the order of protocol was either Igbo or northerners. So, what are you people talking? We have never benefitted so much as we are doing now. It has never been so good. From number one to 22 under Jonathan era, there was no Yoruba man and that was the reason for their failure.  Whoever doesn’t carry the Yoruba along will not win election in Nigeria.  What is happening to Yoruba Unity Forum (YUF), we are not hearing about that group any longer? Journalists only listen to opposition, people who want to throw stone and fight. Yoruba Unity Forum is an umbrella body of all Yoruba ethnic groups; we cannot just talk when there is no reason to talk. We are intact, you will hear from us very soon.  We can’t comment just for talking sake. We are going to make every effort to unite Yoruba leaders this time, and because it is our turn, we are not going to allow anybody to divide us. All we are concerned is that the next president should come from Yorubaland.  So, you are ready to work with other Yoruba leaders and groups to achieve that?  Yes!  We will speak to everybody and we will do everything possible to make sure that we unite the Yoruba.  Who are the likely candidates the Yoruba is looking at for the 2023 presidency?  Nobody has come out to say he wants to contest, so how can we say this is a likely candidate?  You have to come out before you can say you are a candidate; nobody has approached me yet.  That is the fact you are hearing from me now. But we have started seeing posters… Some of those posters were printed by concerned people without the knowledge of the person they are trying to promote. It happened in the North.  There were some posters in Kaduna and the governor said he didn’t know anything about it.   We have seen a lot of posters of Tinubu and he came out to say it is too early for anybody to start campaigning for 2023. Talking about the issue of posters, everybody is aspiring to become the promoter of any likely candidate. That is another politics to me.  I can’t imagine the number of groups who want to be involved in 2023 presidential election. Honestly, I think we shouldn’t be talking about 2023 now; we should be talking about the benefits that will come to the Yorubaland.  Your party has received a lot of condemnations over the outcome of the last governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa, what is your take on the outcome of the polls?  The opposition will attack you when you defeat them; is it a new thing?  Why didn’t they protest when they won in Sokoto? Anytime APC wins, there are bashings. I think journalists should sit and have a rethink and flow with people and not only with the opposition. Journalists must do investigative reporting before jumping into conclusion. You must have a source that will give you the right information.  The issue of re-arrest of the Convener of the RevolutionNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore, is giving the presidency a bad image. What is your take on it?   Is this the first time that they will re-arrest a man granted bail by the court?  This is not the first. The court might grant you bail, but as soon as you come out of the court, they will re-arrest you again.   You can be re-arrested most especially when it comes to treasonable felony or any serious offence that affects the security of the people.  Are you saying that what Sowore did was tantamount to that?  What is a revolution?  But he called for revolution without carrying arms…  What is revolution?  How do we know you don’t have arms?  Do you start a revolution alone?  I am not saying they shouldn’t give him bail or release him but let us appeal to the government to release him and not complicate the boy’s issue.   Did Papa Obafemi Awolowo commit anything when he was charged for treasonable felony?  Was he not imprisoned for many years?  In 2011, Tinubu and the South-West played a significant role in the emergence of President Goodluck Jonathan and in 2015, they also played similar role in the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari. But today, people are saying it is Tinubu and Yoruba that put Nigeria in the hands of Northerners.   How would you respond to that?  Have you ever put Nigeria in a better hand than Buhari?  Tell me who the person was? Tell me who could have managed our resources the way Buhari has done with the empty treasury he met.  The treasury was looted. Is it because we arenottalking?  A woman stole $20billion, justonepersonandup tillnowshehasnot been repatriated.  The issue of AirPeace is comingoutnow, justoneperson.  Can’tyou people reason?  Has anybody better than Buhari ever handled Nigeria’s resources before?   Muhammadu Buhari is a good president But people are complaining that the hardship in the country is too much…  Yes, anywhere in the world where you fight corruption and remove corruption money from circulation, there would be hardship because there is no free money again.  And very soon people will adjust. But the government should do more projects that will make life better for the people. There are people who have mismanaged the economy; bastardised what was placed in their care and here is a man who hasn’t built a private mansion of his own since he came into office.  This is a man who has been a former Head of State and now President for over four years, yet he has not built a private mansion or bought himself a private jet. Buhari is the best man that has ever entered Aso Rock. 