A former Abia State Governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, yesterday urged Justice Muhammed Liman of a Federal High Court in Lagos to admit him to bail pending the final determination of his appeal against his conviction over alleged N7.1 billion fraud.  Arguing the motion, Kalu’s lawyer, Prince Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), drew the court’s attention to the notice of appeal filed by the former governor to challenge his conviction by Justice Mohammed Idris.  He told the court that the grounds upon which the appeal was filed were substantial and very arguable.  The silk added that Section 6 of the Constitution empowers the court to hear the motion, saying it is not different from the regular motions for stay of proceedings or injunctions.  “It will amount to a travesty of justice for the court to reject this motion. The issue in question is whether the court has the power to grant the motion and Section 6 of the Constitution has answered the question in affirmative.  “For now, this is the only court with jurisdiction to entertain this motion. A lot of things are involved in this case. There is no limit to the jurisdiction of a court of record like the Federal High Court to grant a motion like this.  “It is not the law that if someone is convicted, he cannot have reprieve. If the court has power to convict, it must have power to grant a reprieve pending appeal,” Fagbemi said.  Responding, EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), while opposing Kalu’s request, however conceded that the court, indeed, has the power to grant bail after conviction.  He faulted claims by Kalu’s lawyer as to the need for the court to grant motion because a substantial and arguable appeal has been lodged against the conviction.  According to him, the issue of a substantial appeal is one that can only be decided by the Appeal Court and, as such, it should not be a basis for the granting of the motion.  He further noted that bail generally is a right of an accused as guaranteed by the Constitution based on his presumption of innocence.  “Beyond that, bail is not granted to a convict because the presumption of innocence is no longer there,” he said.  Jacobs also faulted the medical reports attached to the motion by Kalu’s lawyer, saying they were obtained by him more than a year ago.  After listening to submissions of parties, Justice Liman adjourned to December 23 for ruling.