In the spirit of the Yuletide, a non-governmental organisation recently made a difference by reaching out to seven orphanage homes to make this Christmas a memorable one for the less-privileged.  REGINA OTOKPA writes  Christmas is a season of love and sharing but not everybody remembers that there is a special set of persons, the vulnerable, who should not be forgotten.  It is a special time in the year most people look forward to spending quality time with friends and families, eating, drinking and making merry. The season is always so colourful and full of activities weeks before the actual celebrations as people make last minute preparations to buy clothing, foodstuffs, gifts and other personal desires to make the celebrations memorable. It’s a time where hampers and goodie bags fly all over the place as some organisations both government and private sector, reach out to staff or clients to appreciate a year well spent. A lot of people, young and old, always look forward to the joy and happiness this season of love and sharing brings. As beautiful as Christmas and New Year celebrations may sound or feel, there are some set of persons who do not share in this seasonal hyperactivity. They are the orphans, the vulnerable and the extremely poor in society. They live and depend on philanthropic gestures from well-meaning individuals, families and organisations, who seize opportunities such as special holidays to extend love and care through various means, especially material and financial gifts. The deplorable condition of different orphanage homes within Abuja and environs over time, reveals  that these special set of people need all the love, care, attention and help they can get  from well-meaning individuals,    philanthropists and charity organisations. Majority of the children in most orphanage homes are either malnourished, under fed, live in terrible conditions in terms of accommodation and sanitation,  in need of healthcare or do not have access to quality education. Some of these orphanage homes have as high as 50- 130 children to cater for and as such, despite the various outreaches embarked upon by religious bodies, individuals, corporate organisations or NGOs, it seems the help is never enough to cater for the children and their care-givers,  especially in this era of economic downturn when the rate of philanthropic gestures seem to be on the decline. Rather than spend money on frivolities to celebrate the season, a Non Governmental Organisation, the Lady Helen Child Health Foundation (LHCHF), recently reached out to seven orphanage homes within Abuja. The objective was to make sure they have a beautiful Christmas by making available a whole lot of gifts including beds, food items, sanitary towels and money to address some  basic needs in the homes. Secretary, LHCHF, Dr. Francisca Odeka, said the foundation, since its inception in 2017, have continued to be an advocate for the less privileged, especially orphans, and vulnerable children providing various range of support services including Patient Treatment Assistance Programme (PTAP), which offsets the medical bills of orphans and vulnerable children without the financial means to pay for health services received, and also ensures continuous treatment for diseases such as sickle cell and HIV. Speaking to Inside Abuja, she explained that: “The CEO of this organisation, Dr. Benjamin Odeka, is a great advocate of vulnerable children and one of the places he wanted to reach was the orphanage homes because there, you get to see the vulnerability and the need to support vulnerable children. “His view is that it is not the perfect person that opens an orphanage home. It is someone with love in his heart. There are some perception that some orphanages are doing it for individual motivation but at the end of the day, orphans are here to stay and there are the good and bad ones.” Odeka, who urged Nigerians to reach out and show some love and care to children at orphanages and vulnerable children within their neighbourhood, noted that “there is no perfect orphanage but the needs are there. We have to help each other and part of loving each other is supporting the needs of the vulnerable ones, especially children that cannot speak for themselves.” On Air Personality WAZOBIA FM , Expensive James, harped on the need to show love to one another especially the less privileged in society saying, “the initiative is based on love; it is only love that can make someone sit down and think of others.” The orphanage homes; Anawim, Mother Theresa Children Home, FACADO, Truth and Trust, Bema Homes, Divine Wounds of Jesus Christ, Treasure Homes, have a gamut of challenges, ranging from school fees, lack of foodstuffs, rent, inability to sustain schools, insufficient space, distance, lack of baby cots and appliances to keep the home running. Besides seeking that these needs be met, managers and care-givers of the various orphanage homes also pleaded for an increased support through any means available to make life easier and better for children living in the homes. Although they all have their different challenges, one thing they have in common is the desire to assist vulnerable and abandoned children access improved welfare, health and education to make them better persons in society.