The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Abia State Command, said it has successfully prosecuted 187 drug traffickers out of the 430 suspects arrested by the Agency between January and November 2019. The NDLEA, Abia State Commander, Akingbade Bamidele, disclosed this yesterday while reeling out the Agency’s achievements for January and November this year. Bamidele said that after conclusion of some cases, the Federal High Court gave NDLEA a go-ahead to destroy seven tons, out of nine tons of illicit drugs and substances ceased between 2016-2019. The items ranged from cannabis, cocaine, heroin, tramadol, Benylin to codeine and other psychotropic substances. He explained that the success recorded by the agency in nipping drug activities in almost all the black spots in Abia State, has made the state Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, to call for a Joint Security Taskforce against drugs in this month of December. Bamidele said: “We shall be bringing in our tactical team from Enugu to help us. Within the second and third week of December 2019, you’ll notice a lot of activities of the agency because of the directive of the state Governor. We want to ensure that the yuletide period is safe for everybody. Area Commanders have been tasked in Ohafia, Isuikwuato and Umuahia to send intelligence to the State Headquarters so that with the Joint Security Taskforce, we’ll be able to cover those areas. We want our activities in the state to be holistic so that everybody will be able to sleep with their two eyes closed as we move into 2020.” Bamidele further said that the agency has discovered some black spots in markets, schools and motor parks, stressing that efforts have been put in place to make them drug free before the New Year. He listed the black spots as Girls Secondary School, Abayi Aba, Ngwa High School, Okigwe Road Secondary School, Osusu Secondary School and City Primary School. “We’ve discovered that a section of the Ahia-Ohuru, New Market, has been taken over by hoodlums. In Ariaria International Market, there’s a section of the market called Black Kingdom which we’re discussing with the Osisioma Local Government Area concerning an uncompleted building there that is being used to perpetrate crimes and sell drugs,” said Bamidele. He continued: “We’re appealing to the government to do something about that building. There is also an issue at Ehere Market and Cemetery Market. In fact, we’ve discovered a section of the Cemetery Market called Black Shade where drugs are openly used, people defecate in public and girls prostitute.” He said that the agency has also recorded success in nipping rampant use of psychotropic substances in the state, stressing that drugs like tramadol were now too scarce in Abia State unlike before.