Zenith Bank Plc has restated its commitment to supporting technology start-ups in the country. The lender stated this at its recent Tech Fair held in Lagos. The event, which had as its theme, “Future Forward,” showcased leading technology innovation across every aspect of life and also saw the Tier 1 lender sponsored various technology start-ups and innovative ideas. Speaking at the event, Chairman, Zenith Bank, Mr. Jim Ovia, said that while the bank had always  organised  some form of technology summit over the years, the tech fair  this year  was  a little bit different given   that  the Nigerian economy is being digitised. Ovia explained that the event was holding at a time so many Nigerian youths were creating new innovations such as start-up companies and start-up initiatives, adding that Zenith Bank thought it needed to support start-ups and encourage them by sponsoring the various innovative ideas that they have. “We want to support them in the area of disruptive innovations and technologies and we all know what disruptive innovations will do to our economy. This is exactly why we are sponsoring this Zenith Tech Fair. “We believe in the years to come that we will build our own Silicon Valley as we sponsor more innovations and creativities whether in the area of entertainment, technology, agriculture, amongst others. That is why we will encourage our youths to come up with various technologies and innovations that they have that is disruptive and will change the old ways of doing things to embrace new ways, which is the direction of the world economy. These include artificial intelligence and various forms of innovations,” he said. He stressed that Nigeria had well trained Nigerian engineers and  IT  practitioners and there is a need to encourage them. In his remarks, MD/CEO, Zenith Bank, Ebenezer Onyeagwu, who  said he was pleased with the turnout of people at the fair, noted  that virtually every stakeholder in the digital ecosystem was represented at the event. “I am very impressed with the quality of presentation. We had presentations from Google, IBM oracle and several others and every one of them talked about the huge potentials in Nigeria and the opportunity for growth expansion that awaits us, so I believe what we need to do is take it to an elevated level to see what happens. “Remember also that at the back of this building, we have a hacker ton. The essence of this hackathon is to help us identify those who have potentials for inauguration and creativity in terms of coming up with new designs. For those who will be eventual winners, of course, the bank is going to be providing support to incubate them and see how we can get them to grow even bigger and better than what they are now,” he explained. In her contribution, Google’s Country Manager in Nigeria, Juliet Ehimuan, stated that technology had played a very important role and continues to play that role in transforming the way people  live, work, do business and interact with one another. “We are seeing cassava farmers in part of Africa using machine learning to detect diseases. This is made available to them through an interface which is the mobile phone, which is a device that almost everyone has access to. We are seeing advancements in cloud technology, security systems and Internet of Things. Beyond connectivity among people and connectivity among devices, there are over 17billion connected devices on the planet today,” Ehimuan said.