…as USAID supports 300,000 orphans The United States Government, through the U.S. Embassy in Nigeria, has pledged support for the provision of treatment to approximately 43,000 people living with HIV (PLHIV) in Imo State. The recently released data from the U.S.-supported Nigeria HIV/AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey revealed that there are approximately 1.9 million people still living with the virus in Nigeria. Approximately 58,000 are in Imo State. This new offer is in addition to over 14,000 people already receiving such treatment through the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) programme in the state. Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy, Abuja, Kathleen FitzGibbon, gave the assurance when she led a delegation of PEPFAR and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), on a courtesy visit to Imo State. She described the HIV epidemic in Imo State as critical, requiring rapid and sustained efforts for PLHIVs to be identified and put on life-saving antiretroviral treatment (ART). Such a move, she said, will not only ensure that the PLHIVs live a long, normal, productive and healthy life, but will also help in breaking the transmission of the virus to sexual partners, thereby improving the state’s health indices and moving it towards HIV epidemic control. FitzGibbon acknowledged the work that has been accomplished by the government and other stakeholders, who partnered with PEPFAR and CDC over the years. According to her, such efforts ensured that over 14,000 people living with HIV in Imo State are receiving life-saving treatment. She noted that considering the over 43,000 others that need to be identified, all stakeholders must increase their efforts, as part of the CDC-led PEPFAR ART surge in the state. The Deputy Chief of Mission emphasised the significance of Imo State in the trajectory of HIV/AIDS epidemic control in Nigeria, stressing that its population, geographic location, diversity, and status as a tourism and hospitality centre in the South-East make it an important area of focus for the delivery of HIV/AIDS services in the country. FitzGibbon highlighted the negative effect of the payment of some user-fees, which serves as a major barrier to people living with HIV from accessing treatment and called for the immediate elimination of such fees, particularly fees charged by healthcare facilities for non-essential services or those already provided by PEPFAR. She noted that the U.S. government had increased its budget for HIV control activities in Nigeria, with increased focus on identifying and putting more people on treatment through the ART surge activities in several states, including Imo. This, according to her, would enable more people living with HIV to lead healthy, productive lives, especially now that adherence to treatment leads to the virus becoming undetectable and, therefore, not transmittable to sexual partner. She requested Governor Emeka Ihedioha to prioritize the procurement of additional HIV test kits to support the current PEPFAR initiated surge efforts. The additional test kits, she said, are necessary for identifying people living with HIV in communities and help in moving Imo State towards HIV epidemic control by September 2020. The highlight of the visit was the formal launch of the Imo State ART Surge Programme by the state governor. Over the last five years, the U.S. Agency for International Development has partnered with the Government of Nigeria to mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS among some of the most vulnerable Nigerians through support for more than 300,000 orphans and vulnerable children in three southern states.