POSITIVE Third quarter earnings’ results released by most lenders in the sector and renewed investment appetite on equities on the back of recent CBN directive on OMO spurred market confidence  I nvestors in banks quoted on the main board and premium board of the nation’s stock market reported a cumulative gain of about N339 billion during the month of November 2019, following sustained positive sentiments.  The stocks recorded the gains following impressive third quarter earnings released by most lenders in the sector and also renewed investment appetite on the equities on the back of recent CBN directive on Open Market Operations (OMO).  Checks by New Telegraph revealed that the stocks recorded a gain of N339 billion or 15.31 per cent to close at N2.553 trillion in market capitalisation on the last trading day of November  as against opening figure of N2.214 trillion at the beginning of trading on November 1.  Lillian Olubi, Chief Executive Officer of EFG Hermes Nigeria Limited, said ”the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) directive barring individuals and local corporates from investing in Open Market Operations (OMO) auctions may likely have a positive impact on the equities market in which case such corporate organisations like pension managers would need to divert more funds into equities market investments. We intend to see more bite into the equities market henceforth as a result of this.”  It should also be noted that more locals showed appetites on the equities consequent upon the release of Q3 numbers by companies as it appears they see a number of value stocks trading at attractive levels. For instance, Fidelity Bank had posted an impressive financial performance for the third quarter of 2019 and is on course to finishing strong in the 2019 financial year (FY).  Details of the nine-month results for the period ended September 30, 2019, released at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) showed a strong double-digit growth in revenue, deposits and profitability etc.  Gross earnings grew by 16.3 per cent to N161.4 billion from N138.7 billion reported in the same period in 2018 whilst profit-before-tax soared by 14.7 per cent from N20.1 billion to N23.0 billion.  In other indices, total assets grew by 14.6 per cent to N1.97 billion from N1.71billion in the same period last year. Total deposits, a measure of customer confidence, increased by 14.0 per cent to close at N1.11billion from N979.4 billion in 2018 FY. “We look forward to sustaining the momentum in Q4 2019 and achieving our set targets for 2019 financial year,” said MD/CEO, Fidelity Bank Plc, Nnamdi Okonkwo.  According to him, retail banking continued to deliver impressive results as savings deposits increased by 9.2 per cent to N248.9 billion, adding that the bank was on course to achieving sixth consecutive year of double-digit savings growth.  “Savings deposits now accounts for about 22.3 per cent of total deposits, an attestation of our increasing market share in the retail segment,” he added. The growth in deposits is further complemented by its digital banking push, which has resulted in having over 46.4 per cent of its customers enrolled on the mobile/internet banking products and recording over 82.0 per cent of total transactions on digital platforms.  “Digital banking continued to gain traction driven by the bank’s new initiatives in the retail lending and increased cross-selling of our digital banking products,” he noted.