It is very saddening to lose three children at once. But the collapse of his thatched house, which caused the children’s death has become a blessing to 43-year-old Sunday Okereke, a native of Akaeze, Ivo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State as UCHENNA INYA reports from Abakaliki   Sunday Okereke’s wife and four children had gone to sleep when it started raining. The heavy downpour was accompanied by strong wind and Okereke’s thatch house suddenly collapsed, leading to the death of his three children. His wife and one of the children were seriously injured and were immediately taken to hospital for medical attention. The deceased were Mmesoma,11 , Onyinyechi, 8 and John 3. Okereke, 43, who is member of Akaeze community vigilante had gone to his duty post on that fateful night of November 9, when the incident occurred. His wife, Elizabeth, had complained about the worsening condition of the collapsed building before the disaster and urged the husband to make effort to relocate them from the building but the man was financially handicapped to rent apartment for the family. He was waiting for when things will improve so as to get money and relocate the family from the building but to no avail and the house collapsed and killed three of his four children while the wife and the remaining child survived but were seriously injured. But the tragedy is a sort of blessing to him as the local government area and his Akaeze Development Centre have commenced construction of a building for the family. The building, which is nearing completion is being constructed with cement unlike the collapsed one that was built with woods and laterite. Also, the state government gave some amount of money to the family following the incident. Okereke’s brother, Ogbonna, recalled how the tragedy occurred. He said there were strong winds and that while it was still raining, the four children and their mother had their dinner and went to bed. “At about 9:45pm, my people came and called me that Sunday’s house has collapsed and Sunday had gone for his vigilante work that night. “I quickly rushed out and everywhere looked different. I didn’t know where to start. I just looked for where to put my legs and began to dig through the debris of the storm. I was shocked when I saw the corpses of my nieces covered by debris and dust. “ I was hoping to get a survivor but that hope was dashed. I dragged out the corpse of the first person, God! It was terrible. I looked further and saw the lifeless body of another. I just removed the debris and dust and carried her out and I later saw the corpse of the third person. “I didn’t know that their mother and one other child managed to come out alive. It was my wife that told me to stop searching that they have seen the survivors and they were rushed to the hospital. “As I am speaking with you now, their mother doesn’t know that three of her children are dead. They are still in the hospital receiving treatment and three of her children have already been buried”, he narrated. The bereaved father, a commercial motorcyclist, described the situation as disheartening, stating that losing his children has been the greatest shock of his life. Okereke, a native of Akaezeukwu, Akaeze autonomous community in Ivo LGA blamed the incident on mysterious rain. He said he doesn’t know how to break the news to his wife, while thanking God that his wife and one child were spared in the disaster. The state government had commiserated with the family. Secretary to Ebonyi State Government, Dr Kenneth Ugbala, visited the bereaved family in the company of the Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Barrister Uchenna Orji, who is also from the local government area and other Council members. On getting to the incident scene, the government officials were shown the graves of the three siblings and the ongoing building project at the same spot where the building collapsed. Ugbala, who felt pity at the site of the incident pleaded with God to comfort the family and never to allow such tragedy to be recorded in the state again. He ordered for immediate investigation to ascertain the root cause of the tragedy, while he handed over an envelop containing N500, 000 to the family. He assured them that Governor Umahi will do more for the family and will personally like to pay condolence visit to them. He commended the Ivo Local Government Area Chairman, Ogbannaya Ude and Coordinator of Akaeze Development, Onyebuchi Ogbadu, for coming to the rescue of the family in need and commended the Chairman for building two bedroom flat for the family. The council Chairman, Ude said the woman would need a place to enter when she comes back from the hospital to mourn her children and that since the council couldn’t save the lives of the kids, that it can at least, provide a place where she can stay with the surviving child and her husband. He expressed sadness over the incident while thanking God that there were survivors. Meanwhile, the member representing Ohaozara, Onicha and Ivo Federal Constituency, Ebonyi State in the House of Representatives, Livinus Makwe, who hails from Ivo, has paid a condolence visit to Sunday Okereke’s family, describing the incident as very tragic. “I was in Abuja when the incident happened and I sent my condolence message to the family and promised to visit when I come back from Abuja and that is why I am here today. “What happened to you is very tragic. To lose three children in one night is terrible but I want you to meditate on the faithful man Job, who faced devastating circumstances all at once. Yet, his faith in God was very strong. “Seeing the faithfulness of Job, God blessed him more than he was blessed before. So, don’t let the situation make you lose your faith in God. Even when we are not happy with what happened, God will still bless this family with more children. You and your wife are still young and your surviving child will also be a source of blessing to this family. “What happened did not only affect Okereke family but the people of Akaeze, Ivo and Ebonyi State at large. It is not a good news. I know that at times, you will wake up in the middle of the night or any other time because of the shock but God through his spirit will help you to overcome. Accept the condolences of myself and my family” he stated. Responding on behalf of the family, Chief Emmanuel Ude Okereke, thanked Makwe for the visit. He announced that the mother of the deceased, who was receiving treatment after she escaped with her son has been discharged, adding that the Coordinator of Akaeze Development Center, Onyebuchi Ogbadu, paid the hospital bills.