The Federal Capital Territory(FCT) recently unveiled the 2018  National Demography and Health Survey  (NDHS) report in Abuja. DEBORAH OCHENI reports   In the modern world, decision making is based on data, especially data of good quality. Such data are essential for national governments and institutions to accurately plan, fund and evaluate development activities. It is against this background that the National Population Commission, FCT, Abuja,  officially launched  the 2018 National Demography and health survey   (NDHS) report in Abuja. The launch, which was organised by the National Population Commission (NPC) in collaboration National Malaria Elimination programme of the Federal Ministry of Health was aimed at providing health information and data to Nigerians. The indicators, from the report, cover areas such as fertility, family planning among married women within the age of 15-49, maternal health care among women within the age of 15-49. It also covers Child Health, Nutrition, Child Mortality; death per 1,000 live birth, Malaria, Domestic Violence among age 15-49 and Female Genital Cuttings. Speaking at the event, the Supervising Commissioner, Federal Capital Territory, National Population Commission, Alliu Datti, stated that the 2018 Nigeria Demographic and Health survey (NDHS) is the sixth Demographic Health Survey conducted in Nigeria since 1990. “The survey provides up-to-date estimate on basic demographic and health indicators in the entire country, including the FCT, Abuja. The National Population Commission worked in close collaboration with the National Malaria Elimination Programme (NMEP) under the Federal Ministry of Health across the 36 states and the FCT towards accomplishing the survey report,” he said. Datti disclosed  that a total of 41,821 women aged 15 – 49 in 40,427 household and 13,311 men aged 15-59 in one third of the sampled households were interviewed representing a response rate of 99 per cent of women and 99 per cent of men. “I am pleased to say, innovative approaches were used in the conduct of the 2018 NDHS. It has engendered high quality height and weight measurement from children and women. A new biomarker checklist was introduced to ensure that no important tasks were missed and I am pleased to inform you that these new improved process piloted here in Nigeria including FCT have been adopted as standard procedure in DHS surveys by other nations, especially Africa,” he said. According to Datti, the result of the survey shows a number of significant outcomes such as:    Two  per cent   of women and two per cent of men aged 15 and above have difficulty or cannot function in at least one domain of disability such as seeing, hearing, communicating, walking, etc. In addition,  nine per cent   of women and 10 per cent  of men have some difficulty in at least, one domain. “The data gathered on disability will be of significance to the social development statistics in planning for the wellbeing of persons living with disabilities in the country.     Nigeria, including FCT, also piloted genotype testing of children ages 6-59 months for sickle cell diseases for the first time in a DHS survey anywhere in the world,” Datti said. According to him, basic  development indicators are essential for an accurate picture of a country’s development status as  a government  cannot build schools without knowing the number of children that need to be enrolled. Inside Abuja learnt  that the (NDHS) is conducted every five years to provide  all planners, especially those in the  health sector, with reliable up-to-date demographic and health information and data in Nigeria. Territorial Director, National Population Commisison, Bello  Suleiman, said the survey would be used to measure progress in other related human and social development indices, such as skilled birth attendance, antenatal care coverage, contraceptive and many others. According to Suleiman, the survey is a fundamental geo-data base that represents a frame for all kinds of surveys that would be needed not just for the census but for academic and political use. “Politicians who want to put up project in a community will know exactly where such project is needed with data available in this report and same goes to educational, health and other sectors. “Enumeration Area Demarcation (EAD) which simply means splitting of an LGA into a smaller unit of Area with an identifiable geographical boundary, for the purpose of being counted by a pair enumerators during any census has so far  being done on  Kwali, Abaji, Gwagwalada and Bwari. “The Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) is  so massive  because its population is nearly that of smaller states like Jigawa, Bayelsa and so on. When it comes to data collection, it is always hectic for us but this time around, we are using EDA which is just a mobile phone for household data collection. We are also using satellite imaging that has a very high resolution to pick any object. We are going to return every structure. “It is comprehensive data collection. That is why I call it data revolution. It will be needed by all agencies even the security because it’s difficult to police a community where you don’t have data,” he said.  Suleiman noted that the survey  will enable stakeholders to identify the particular areas that require priority attention.