…group insists Edo gov must complete eight-year tenure  There seems to be no let down in the crisis rocking the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the ‘war’ gets messier over 2020 governorship ticket even as Governor Godwin Obaseki yesterday insisted that the suspension of the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, stands until he apologises. This is coming as a group known as Obaseki Shaibu Movement (OSM) vowed to fight Oshiomhole and his support group, the Edo People’s Movement (EPM), to a standstill over the ultimatum issued to Obaseki to reach out to the party leaders on or before December 31 or foreclose any further negotiation. While Obaseki is daring his erstwhile godfather, the OSM is also rallying support for the governor, aimed at checkmating the influence of the APC national chairman. OSM: We’ll chase Oshiomhole out of Edo The OSM, which has vowed to ensure the return of Obaseki to the Government House in 2020, said it would use all legitimate means within its powers, while daring the APC national chairman and his supporters. In the same vein, some radical members of the OSM dared Oshiomhole to carry out the threat, vowing to ensure that the former governor was chased out of Edo State. Some of the OSM members who spoke with Saturday Telegraph described the December 31st deadline as dead on arrival, maintaining that the fate of the governor and his deputy, Philip Shaibu, could not be determined by “any power drunk National Chairman of APC” and his group. A prominent member of the group, simply known by his nickname ‘Davido’, told one of our correspondents that “Edo people can no longer be cowed”, stressing that “Obaseki and Shaibu will use their executive powers to the fullest”. When probed on the reason for the combative stand of the group he said: “The OSM’s stand is coming on the heels of the December 31 deadline issued by the EPM”, in which the Oshiomhole’s loyalists said “the door of reconciliation might be shut against Obaseki, if he refuses to appease the elders of the party” before the ultimatum lapses. Another member of the group, a topnotch, who asked not to be named, said the deadline was as empty as the threat of a dog that barks but cannot bite. “Following the deadline given to Obaseki by EPM members to do the needful on or before the 31st of December, failing which the doors would be closed against him, look let me tell you something, Oshiomhole and his group are just ranting,they are noise makers. “They do not have the powers to stop a governor that God had chosen to lead the great people of Edo. That short man called Oshiomhole should know that the Binis are warriors; when we mean to fight we will fight him dirty. We are not aware of any deadline; nobody can stop our ‘Wake and See’ governor from completing his eight-year tenure in Edo. “The one that’s capable of ending that dream is God Himself. Let Idahagbon and others be deceiving themselves, by the time the cloud is clear, we will see the true colours of the sky. They should know that powers have changed hands in Edo. “The people are with us, Oshiomhole was the one that taught us how to play gragra politics. We were the ones he was using to run things in Edo, if he is not careful, we will pursue him out of Edo. We are very determined in this fight and we will get to the end. ‘The people are with Obaseki’ On his part, the lawmaker representing Esan West Constituency in the Edo House of Assembly, Marcus Onobun, said one does not need a prophet to know that the generality of Edo people are with Obaseki. While arguing that it was the masses that were urging Obaseki on, he said: “If people who gave you the mandate are calling on you to continue, what else can a man who is in the minority do? This people are just dissipating their energy into wasteful ventures. “The scorecard of this government is an evidence for people to vote him back into office. Those who are against Obaseki and Shaibu’s second term bid are just wasting their time. Obaseki’s second coming had long time be settled, stamped and sealed. “We are all in this political game together; those who are against us will join us when it is time. Edo people are not taciturn; they know what their rights are. With the overwhelming supports that this government is getting from the masses, it would be difficult for us to fail,” he said. Obaseki’s position However, the governor spoke yesterday during an expanded meeting with the leaders of the APC from all the wards and local government areas in Edo North held at Jattu-Uzaire, Etsako West Local Government Area of the state. The meeting had in attendance, the Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu; Edo State APC factional chairman, Mr. Anselm Ojezua; members of the state executive council, as well as party delegates and leaders at wards, local government councils, state and national levels. Obaseki, who insisted that due process was followed in the suspension of Oshiomhole, and that any action taken by the suspended national chairman remains ultra vires. He stated that the national chairman could only be considered back into the party when he apologises to members of the APC, noting that Oshiomhole could not take any action on behalf of the APC because he was validly suspended from his ward. He said: “Can you imagine a national chairman that is creating problems in his own house? Because of that, we had to suspend him and he remains suspended. “We pray that God should have mercy on him because he has done something bad against God and the people of Edo State; he should find his way back into the party and apologise to all of us. If he comes back remorseful and apologetic, we will consider taking him back.” The governor dismissed the speculation allegedly peddled by his political opponents that he was leaving the APC, noting that it was the persons involved in antiparty activities that would leave. “If you cannot be a disciplined member of the party, you will leave the party, whether you are a national chairman or not,” he warned. Obaseki said the APC national chairman lied about nominating only one commissioner in his cabinet. He added: “He cancelled the primaries that were initially done by the party at the state level for the 2019 general elections and did his own. Because he could not control us at the executive, he manipulated the legislature so he can use the House to impeach us.” The governor said he sympathised with the deputy governor who was deceived by Oshiomhole, a man who he had always looked up to in politics, describing his deputy as a trusted friend and strong politician. “Oshiomhole thought he was setting a trap when he chose Shaibu as my deputy and Osarodion Ogie as Secretary to the State Government (SSG). He was thinking that we will always quarrel, fight and then run to him for settlement,” he said. Obaseki maintained that the party and its members did not support godfatherism in the state, adding, “If you behave like godfather, we will fight you.” He added that he attended the meeting to thank the party members for their support and standing behind their son, the deputy governor of the state. Some of the party leaders who spoke during the meeting said their loyalty was for the governor and his deputy and supported their reelection for a second term. On his part, Shaibu said the leadership of the party in the senatorial district is united and supportive of the vision to develop the state, describing his principal as a man that has redefined politics in Edo State, noting that no man can truncate the developments being made by the Obaseki-led administration. Earlier in his remark, Ojezua said APC in Edo was intact and would within the next 24 hours announce a committee for mobilisation of new members into the party from across the 18 LGAs. He said it was unfortunate that the national chairman allowed some persons to deceive him despite knowing that the governor is the leader in the state. Some of the party leaders who spoke during the meeting said their loyalty was for the governor and his deputy and supported their reelection for a second term. On his part, Shaibu said the leadership of the party in the senatorial district is united and supportive of the vision to develop the state, describing his principal as a man that has redefined politics in Edo State, noting that no man can truncate the developments being made by the Obaseki-led administration. Earlier in his remark, Ojezua said APC in Edo was intact and would within the next 24 hours announce a committee for mobilisation of new members into the party from across the 18 LGAs. He said it was unfortunate that the national chairman allowed some persons to deceive him despite knowing that the governor is the leader in the state. ‘We want peace’ However, some of those that had worked with the duo of Oshiomhole and Obaseki are suing for peace. Another member of the OSM from Edo North, Abu Momodu, said they had remained loyal to Oshiomhole because of his magnanimity towards the people. He said: “Our leader, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is a politician with a difference. Despite criticisms against him, the people of Edo North will continue to carry him high because of his contributions. “Before the coming of Oshiomhole to Edo State, Edo North was not known, but when he came, he broke that jinx and today, Edo North is a household name in Edo politics. “We are not happy that this kind of crisis is happening in our party. Philip Shaibu is our son and brother, he is another person that we are looking up to, to help build Edo North politically. “If there is an issue between him and the national chairman of our great party, it is the duty of the elders in the party to settle them, there are people who are feeding fat from this crisis and they do not want it to end. “We must stand for the truth, Oshiomhole is somebody that has done very well as the national chairman of APC, his achievements since he came on board speak volume and therefore, he needs to be respected. For us to maintain our leadership and retain Edo State, the warring parties must put away their pride and let peace reign.” Also, the Deputy Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Peter Akpatason, urged aggrieved members of the party to embrace peace in the interest of unity and overall development of the local government and Edo State in general. He made this appeal at thanksgiving service held in Akoko Edo over his victory at the poll said his third term mandate was divine and thanked the people for breaking the record of third term jinx in the Federal Constituency and promised to redouble his efforts in attracting the dividends of democracy to the constituency. “We should be united. Let us come together for the good of Akoko Edo, let’s work together for progress and development. That energy God has given to us; we can deploy them for more positively where we can work together and when we are united,” he said.