Cristiano Ronaldo’s sister Katia Aveiro has reacted angrily to Virgil van Dijk’s light-hearted joke about the Juventus forward at the Ballon d’Or awards on Monday evening. Van Dijk finished second behind Lionel Messi as the Barcelona forward won the sixth Ballon d’Or trophy of his career, while Ronaldo finished third in the rankings. Ronaldo opted not to attend the ceremony in Paris and instead he showed up at the 2019 Gran Gala del Calcio gala in Milan to collect his ‘Best Player in Serie A’ award. The Liverpool defender made light of Ronaldo’s absence in an interview with Dutch television station RTL7 before the Ballon d’Or gala, reports metro.co.uk. When the interviewer pointed out to Van Dijk that Ronaldo’s refusal to attend meant that he had one less rival to contend with for the Ballon d’Or award the Liverpool defender replied: “Was he a rival then?” But that quip has not gone down well with Ronaldo’s camp as the 34-year-old’s older sister Katia slammed Van Dijk in a lengthy rant on Instagram. “I think there are people living completely frustrated !!! And unrealistic… such humility!” Katia wrote. “It is well known that Ronaldo will not win tonight’s prize. Although I have won important collective titles … but this is another conversation and that up ahead we will see where the truth about football will come !!! “Now, dear Virgil, where you are going, Cristiano Ronaldo has gone and has come a thousand times. “You see, my dear Virgil, that Cristiano Ronaldo was a tri-champion in the country where you have been playing for years and you still haven’t got your hand in the can. “Cristiano Ronaldo was even the best player and best scorer in the country where you play Virgil. By the way, I was even younger than you. “Then, dear Virgil, Cristiano Ronaldo went to other places and became the greatest player in the history of a clubezito. “Real Madrid, tell you something Virgil? Maybe so, because this club, with this Cristiano guy, even beat you in the Champions League final. Of these, Ronaldo already has five, Virgil. “And that fellow Ronaldo and team-mates, with the corners on his chest, crushed your ‘orange’ in a final. Was it hard, Virgil? We have pity. And, dear Virgil, In one of the least successful times of his career, Cristiano Ronaldo has won even more titles than you. Awesome, isn’t it? “Now Virgil will win titles from those who really count and then we’ll talk. When you have a handful of them, the really important ones, you might be able to sit at the table with Cristiano. Or as they say in our land, it grows and appears! “It’s for me Cristiano you are and you will always be the best player in the world !!! And who does not like to put it on the wheel of the plate !!! (as they say in our land, small for many) but where came the best ever.” 