N igerian athletes are good in combat sports. Boxing, wrestling, judo, karate and taekwondo are sports that produce medals for the country at continental and global levels. Only on Sunday, a Nigerian, Kamaru Usman, defeated Colby Covington via fifth-round technical knockout to claim the 170 pound title in the main event of the UFC 245 and retained the UFC Welterweight Championship   Usman came into the fight with a belt on the line after scoring a dominant decision win over Tyron Woodley for the belt in March, while Covington came in with a win over Robbie Lawler where he set the record for most strikes in a fight. And so, Kamaru Usman takes his record to 16-1 in MMA and remains undefeated in the UFC. His updated resume now includes wins over Leon Edwards, Demian Maia, Rafael dos Anjos, Tyron Woodley and Colby Covington.   There is also another notable name in the UCF – Israel Adesanya – who is globally respected in the sport. We are aware he has recorded strings of successes in the UCF over the years. In taekwondo, wresting and other combat sports, Nigerian athletes are always consistent, but the facilities back home are not good enough, while the athletes also lack exposure. Chika Chukwumerijie won bronze at the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games and we recall that Nigeria’s first Olympic medal was the boxing bronze medal won by Najeem Majegun in 1964.   We are happy that a Nigerian, Daniel Igali, who was developed better by Canada and won the country a wrestling gold medal at the Olympic and Commonwealth Games, is back home trying to raise gold medallists for Nigeria. Odunayo Adekuoroye and Blessing Oborodudu are good enough for the podium in their respective events at the next Olympics in Tokyo.   And so, it was a delight on December 7 when Nigerian-born British boxer, Anthony Joshua, regained his belt from Andy Ruiz with a unanimous win of 118-110, 118-110 and 119-109. It was a sweet revenge for Joshua jumped who lost his belts to Ruiz six months ago in the U.S.   We recall that it was a close shave as Joshua’s career was in the balance and a defeat could have been a major setback for him. After a gruelling 12 rounds of movement and well-timed punching, Joshua’s tactical discipline worked for him and his corner as he won back the IBF, WBA and WBO titles. Keen followers of boxing will call Joshua’s tactics ‘stick and move’ while many who have been a fan of the game for long will simply refer to Joshua’s style on the night as Muhammed Ali’s ‘float like a butterfly and sting like a bee’ style.    Joshua has a weak jaw and cannot receive much and so because of his reach advantage over his opponent, he danced round the ring to pick his points and avoided heavy jabs from Ruiz. He was a great boxer on the night with smart professional decisions and maximum concentration to get the job done. At 30, Joshua now joins top boxing legends like Muhammad Ali, Lennox Lewis, Evander Holyfield, Mike Tyson and Floyd Patterson as boxers to have reclaimed the world heavyweight title.   A boxing commentator, Steve Bunce, told the BBC: “AJ was absolutely clinical and he never wasted a shot. That was class and he stuck to his plan. He got it right in spectacular fashion. He has been steely and nasty.”   We make bold to say that Nigerians can get to the very top with the right mentality, exposure and hard work. Joshua lost the belts and did not give up. It is good to note that Joshua is a proud Nigerian. There is map of Africa tatoo etched on his right arm with Nigeria as the only country clear in the continental map. He appeared in videos and adverts to project Nigeria’s image.   Looking back, Samuel Peter was also a WBC heavyweight champion and, with the exploits of boxers like Dick Tiger, Davidson Andeh, Jerry Okorodudu, Joe Lasisi, Obisia Nwakpa, just to mention a few, it is clear that the Boxing Federation and the Ministry of Sports can bring out more Joshuas from the grassroots.   The talents are there across all sports, but how to tap and expose them remain a big issue for the authorities.  There are so many football academies in the country and we believe boxing is also big enough to have academies where young ones could develop to be super stars. Athletics, wrestling, gymnastics, tennis, swimming, and some other sports could have academies where talents are groomed into stardom.   Joshua has a Nigerian blood flowing in his veins and we believe that many younger Nigerians have the potential to get to that level in world boxing.   We urge the authorities to provide the facilities, guarantee exposure and create the enabling environment for young athletes to thrive in the country and develop into world-class athletes in their respective sports.