…leaves third half dead   P olice in Ebonyi State at the weekend arrested a middle-aged man, Chinasa Ogbaga, for allegedly butchering his two children, while leaving a third battling to live.   The deceased are six-year-old boy, Chikamso Ogbaga and four-year-old girl, Chizaram Ogbaga. The third child, who is still battling to stay alive, is a two-year-old boy named Emmanuel Ogbaga.   Little Emmanuel was rushed to Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital (AE-FETHA), Abakaliki, where he is receiving treatment.   The incident occurred at Egwuagu Okpuitumo community in Abakaliki Local Government Area of the state. Chinasa allegedly committed the act on Saturday night after the villagers and family members had gone to bed.  He was said to have taken the children to the bush one after the other where he slaughtered them. Chinasa, in February this year, divorced his wife, the mother of the three children.   The suspect was seen earlier on Saturday, sharpening a machete. When he was asked why he was sharpening the machete, he said that he was planning to go frog-hunting.   The suspect has been handed over to the police for further investigation and prosecution.   The Chinasa’s mother, Mrs. Ogbaga, who wept profusely, told our correspondent that the suspect divorced his wife early this year, but had been living with his children peacefully before the incident.    She said the suspect was the one paying the children’s school fees. She added that Chinasa, who resides in Onitsha, Anambra State, used to frequent the village to check on his children.   The aged woman added: “I discovered recently that my son has an Ogbanje (was possessed by evil spirit). I think that must have been the cause of his action.” Mr. Emmanuel Nwambam, an uncle to the suspect, described the incident as shocking.   He said: “Chinasa is a vulcanizer, based in Onitsha, Anambra State. He returned home as usual and the following day, he went with his mother to the farm. When they returned from the farm, he was seen sharpening a machete on that fateful evening, which he later used to carry out the barbaric act.   “Unfortunately, nobody knew his plan. After committing the crime, he met a vigilante in the village who interrogated him for moving with a machete at night. From there, it was discovered he had butchered his children.” Nwambam added that when Chinasa was arrested by the villagers, he confessed to have killed his two children and left the youngest half-dead.   The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Loveth Odah, said the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ekumenyi Division had reported the incident to the State Command. She added that the matter was still being investigated.