Mr. Samuel Akpologun has accused an Assistant-Inspector-General of Police (AIG) in charge of Special Enquiry Bureau (SEB), Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID), Alagbon, Ikoyi, Lagos State, Mr. Murtala Mani, of infringing on the fundamental human rights of his client, Alhaja Alilat Safiriyu. Akpologun, who is the Principal Partner at Samuel Akpologun & Co, said that Alilat was grabbed and detained in place of her son, Ibrahim Safiriyu. Akpologun further stated the woman, a widow, had spent at least 11 days in detention. According to the lawyer, even if his client had committed any crime, the right thing was to charge her to court within 24 hours or grant her bail. He also argued that the matter, which made the AIG to arrest and detained his client, was a land issue, which he said was a civil case. He said: “My client has been in detention at FCID since 26th of November, 2019 over a contractual non-criminal matter.” He said that problem started after the Administrators of her husband’s estate, which include two of her sons and two other wives of her late husband, contracted orally to sell a property at Adiyan, Ogun State to a Brigadier-General. He went on: “They nominated Ibrahim Safiriyu to act on their behalf. Ibrahim being an illiterate contracted one lawyer Olufemi, who had been his lawyer for seven years to do the paper works. The property which consists of an acre of land, an event centre and a hotel, was priced for N100million. The General paid N44million in installments over a period of one year. “After a year, his lawyer compromised and began to work for the General. He told the General about the fact that the Administrators have other property in Lagos. “The General therefore suddenly began to demand that the money he paid be deemed as payment for another property in Oko-Oba. The family insisted that they didn’t intend to sell the property. They also told the General that the property was not listed in their letter of administration, so they do not even have power to sell. Lastly, the property does not belong to their late father. Rather, it belongs to a company in which he was a shareholder. The General refused to listen. Initially, he kidnapped Alhaja Alilat simply because some of the money he paid, about N9million was paid through her account. He took her to his lawyer, who forced her to sign on behalf of the Administrators that they would pay N45million to the General within a month. ” The family paid N5million through the lawyer’s account and the woman signed the sham agreement even though she couldn’t read it. Thereafter, the General got policemen from Abattoir Police Station to go and inscribe on the Oko-Oba property that same had been sold and the purchaser had taken possession.” Akpologun said that it was after then that the police invited the widow to SEB, she honoured the invitation and was promptly arrested. The AIG, reacting to the lawyer’s allegations said: “The lawyer is a liar! We went to her account and found out that she collected the money. She’s even claiming that she couldn’t speak English Language, so we got someone to interpret. The money was lodged in her account and her son’s account. Everything concerning the transaction shows that the money was lodged into her personal account. They came to my office, I sent them away. That’s why they want to go and write a report. Let them go ahead and write whatever they want to write. I have my entire file. It’s a criminal case! She collected somebody’s money and refused to give him the property and also refused to return the General’s money. The money is about N44 million, part of it was lodged in her account and the rest is in her son’s account, and for the last five days, the woman’s son had been saying he was coming, but he refused to show up. Let the lawyer go and look for him. For someone to collect money and go away with it no longer a civil case, it’s a case we should investigate. We have no business with the issue of the property that was bought, but about the money she collected and received over the property, that is our concern. We traced the money in their account and of course the bank couldn’t lie. If there was no transaction, there was no way the bank could say there was a transaction. We have all the documents and the man sent the money in his own name so what makes it a civil case?” When our reporter spoke with the AIG on Tuesday, he promised to charge Alifat to court the following day, but as at yesterday, Akpologun said that his client was yet to be arraigned.