Students of Rivers State University have angrily spoken out against the brutal murder of their colleague, Matilda Itonyo Mark, 24, a final year law student by unknown killers. The killers were said to have invaded the deceased’s off campus apartment and allegedly raped and then stabbed her to death. The campus was thrown into mourning after students and lecturers learnt of her death. Mark’s remains were found blood soaked in her off campus apartment in Eagle lsland area of Port Harcourt. Security agents, inability to apprehend the perpetrators as at yesterday had sparked anger among students of the school. Some students, including her course mates, lamented her sudden demise, recollecting that another female was gruesomely murdered in the same city by a serial killer. The alleged killer back then, after arrest, confessed to have murdered eight ladies in hotel rooms. Mark was described as outgoing, friendly and calm person, apart from been a creative dancer, and a hairstylist. The incident is already trending on twitter. One of her friends’ states: “Matilda, a 500Level Law Student of Rivers State University, who is a dancer and attends Salvation Ministry, was apparently raped and stabbed to death in her room off campus.” Some friends, who took to twitter to mourn her, raised different questions. One of them, @Desireeagura said: “The sad thing is that they’ll probably never find who did this and that person is walking and living amongst us, all normal. Sad!” Another friend, @Straw_Chocolait, has a suggestion for the police. @Straw_Chocolait said: “Bring in her close friends for questioning. You see those quiet guys that have been toasting her and maybe she refused, bring them in too… These things are possible; it’s just that the family would need to spend money to get these things done because the system is corrupt.” @Kotlinconf chirps in: “Getting the culprit is very easy, if she was really stabbed or raped, with the finger print and perhaps the semen. Here in our country, I know the family will need to spend a lot to push that, the country is messed up. God console her family. RIP. Some guys are just useless.”