A s part of efforts to maintain the prevailing peaceful atmosphere in the area, Kaduna State government; Defence Headquarters ‘Operation Safe Haven’ and other stakeholders in the southern part of the Kaduna State, yesterday held peace a meeting in Kafanchan.  Addressing the gathering, Commander, Operation Safe Haven, Major-General Augustine Agundu, spoke on the need for residents to shelve their differences and live together in peace.  He called on stakeholders to identify and report criminal elements in their communities to security agencies to enable them guide against any breakdown of law and order.  Agundu called for tolerance among residents, warning trouble makers to vacate southern Kaduna or face the full wrath of the law.  He also called on farmers and herders in the area carrying illegal weapons to surrender it to the nearest security post to avoid arrest and prosecution.  While commending the traditional rulers for their efforts in maintaining peace, Agundu advised farmers and herders to always report any grievances to security operatives, especially the military rather than taken laws in their hands.  Agundu, however, appealed to the people of Kaduna State to embrace peace and forgive each other saying; “We went to the Chief of Kagoro and Emir of Jama’a palaces before coming here to start this meeting, we want to appreciate everybody that is here. Our work is difficult if you don’t cooperate because we are all Nigerians, if we want to do it the way we supposed to do our work, innocent people will be affected in your communities. What we want is identify the bad ones living in your communities and report to us the security for prompt action for peace. If we fought civil war in this country and we said no winner and no loser. No problem without solution, we must hold our communities together to live in peace. “Let’s appeal to our conscience, people who are giving us problem are only few. The land that belongs to all of us is the six feet’s grave, at the end of day nobody owns any land. The people who are fuelling crisis are not from here, they are in cities. We must say no to violence.”  Agundu also added that; “When people want to cause crisis, they sow the seed of discord among people. There are serving and retired security officers in this state and many are the one promoting violence, we will get you, is a matter of time.   “As a farmer, you don’t need to kill another person who destroys farmland, because we cannot buy life. We must stop stealing cows. I also advise the herdsmen to stop using children to rear cows and night rearing. Let us isolate the bad ones, criminals; they cut across all the tribes. We must be tolerance of each other and grow understanding. “In the olden days, Muslims visit Christians during Christmas and Christians also visit Muslims during Sallah, but what is happening nowadays? We must love each other. I am appealing to you all to give us useful information to pick up the few bad ones living among us for peace. Our men are ready to bring peace,” Agundu said.