Hon. Chinedu Ogah represents Ezza South/Ikwo Federal Constituency of Ebonyi State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He speaks in this interview with CHUKWU DAVID on some national issues, including the nation’s debt profile, federal character principle, rotational presidency and autonomy for local governments, among others   President Muhammadu Buhari recently sent a request to the National Assembly for approval of a $30 billion loan. What is your take on that? My take is that instead of selling Nigeria’s assets in order to build the country, it is better we borrow. I support such, in the sense that the borrowing that Mr. President has done so far is yielding result. We are seeing the result in the ongoing railway projects across the country and that is something that will help Nigeria to grow. It’s better we borrow than selling the property of this country, which is another avenue for corrupt people to loot the money. If there is any way more borrowing can be done for this country to stabilize, I will support it. When borrowed funds are invested into productive areas, then certainly, we can recoup the money and pay back. So, it’s not a bad thing that Mr. President is borrowing. But if the loans are collected and shared, that is when we can raise alarm over it, but the loans taken so far taken are being utilised very meaningfully in such a way that the economy of the country is receiving a boost. You have just noted that your state is being schemed out of employment and that this negates the federal character principle. At the federal level, the headship of the nation’s security institutions is concentrated in the North. What is your comment on that? We have met and we are already discussing with the Inspector-General of Police and heads of other agencies to make sure that Ebonyi people are appointed to eminent positions because we have people, who are qualified. As legislators, our duty is to make sure that the laws of the land are adhered to in the distribution of federal appointments and in conformity with the federal character principle. It’s not only in the security agencies, but other sectors. As a legislator, my voice is going to be heard. I am already initiating a motion, so that those agencies would be called to order. I also use this opportunity to advise Ebonyi citizens in positions of authority, who connive with people from other states by giving them Ebonyi state identification certificate to enable them fill up Ebonyi quota in government establishments to desist from doing that. They should allow Ebonyians, especially people from my constituency to occupy their rightful positions in the country. Still in line with your advocacy that the federal character principle should be respected in federal appointments, is it right to say that no South easterner or Igbo person is qualified to be appointed as a service chief since 2015 till date? You cannot say that there is no Igbo man who is qualified to be appointed as a service chief, but there are certain things you need to look at. In the appointment of a service chief, you need to look at credibility, you need to look at commitment; you don’t just appoint somebody as a service chief. We know that the Igbo are qualified, but it is a very critical issue. That is why I am advising our people to stop being in opposition because it will not help us. We should try and come to the mainstream for us to be part of what they are doing; the trust will be there and things that you need would be given to you. It is natural that when you fight against somebody, it will trigger hate. So, in making critical appointments, you must find somebody that is loyal, diligent and prudent. Are you saying that there are no loyalists to President Buhari from the South-East even when people like you, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu and other strong supporters of his are there? But you are talking about service chiefs; Ogbonnaya Onu is not in that class, he is a minister. We are definitely working towards that and that is why we want everybody to join hands to support the government of President Buhari. You cannot appoint someone who will pull down your government; somebody who cannot stand to defend your government. We should not deceive ourselves; this is pure politics and every government wants to succeed, wants to grow, wants to develop and showcase something for people to see. You cannot bring in someone who has a different idea for your agenda. We have to look at issues critically and do the needful. Your argument tends to suggest that you are supporting the philosophy of “winner takes all” in politics… No, it’s not about winner takes all, but we need to be just and do what is right. How will come out to fund the opposition and expect the ruling party to bring you into government? It’s not done. What is your take on the clamour for the South-East to produce the next president in 2023? I don’t want to deceive myself; anybody telling you that 2023 is possible for Igbo presidency is deceiving himself. Let’s wait till when we get to the bridge before crossing it. The reason is that we are not united; we are fighting ourselves. We should be able to stand to bargain. How many states in the South-East are of the national party? If at all the South-East is able to have two states in the national party, the bargain for presidency can be possible. What is our vote in the South East? What is our bargaining power? We should talk of reality. It is at the mercy of northerners, that we can say please, we want this power to go round the six geopolitical zones, and it is the turn of the South-East, then they can support us and we will have it. If we start forcing ourselves that we are going to have power in 2023, we are deceiving ourselves. Do you believe in the concept of zoning? Of course, I believe in zoning and that is why we have to work hard to make it a constitutional issue, so that each of the six geopolitical zones can take their turn at the presidency. If you believe in zoning, don’t you think that it is the turn of the South-East to produce the president in 2023 since the South-West and South-South have taken their turns? That is what you and I think, but what do we have on ground to merit that; what is our plan to get it, what is our prospective future? Those who were able to occupy big positions in the past from the South-East, why is it that they were unable to raise young people, who can now stand? We shot ourselves on the leg, now we are crying foul. An Igbo man will be in office; instead of him to employ his brothers and sisters, he will prefer to bring in outsiders, and tomorrow you start crying that you are marginalised, nobody is marginalizing us; we are marginalizing ourselves. We don’t love ourselves. You say that you believe in the principle of zoning, but at the same time said the South-East is not ready for the presidency. Can you reconcile the two seeming contradictory positions? Let me tell you the reason. Ahead of the 2019 elections, most of the governors came to Abuja and agreed that they are going to support Mr. President having seen the good things he is doing. But during the presidential election, they betrayed. It was only few that kept the agreement. So, if you have a gentleman agreement, but at the end of the day, you betrayed, how do you think the person in agreement with you will be looking at you? That’s what most of those people you call our leaders in the South-East did. So, it’s still our duty to come together and organise ourselves and do the right thing. The recent elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states were reportedly characterized by rigging and violence. How do you react to that? The elections were not manipulated. They were free and fair. If the elections were manipulated, you will see resistance from the masses, but you saw that so many people were happy with the outcome. What matters in an election is to have a good candidate. Once that is done, definitely the candidate and the party presenting the candidate will succeed. APC presented good candidates, the candidates worked hard and people supported them; even those in PDP supported the APC candidates in Bayelsa and Kogi. Some Nigerians are clamouring for introduction of electronic transmission of results into the country’s electoral process as a means of reducing or eliminating rigging. Do you support the idea? In supporting electronic transmission of election results, let us first of all do what is needful because my old father in the village doesn’t know what is internet. There should first of all be provision of communication masts in all villages in this country. Also, we need to sensitise the people on the need to introduce electronic transmission system for our future elections. You cannot jump in and put in place what will shortchange the people. We have to do certain things before we get there. Electronic voting is good, but we are not yet exposed enough to go into it. There is an impression that the present National Assembly is a rubber stamp, and therefore, can hardly take independent decisions as a separate organ of government. Do you agree with that? Whoever is saying that is not part of this country. Mr. President does not interfere with any organ of government. He does not interfere with the judiciary; he does not interfere with the legislature. Thank God that I am a member of the legislature today. The President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, is a man of great repute, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, is also a man of good character. In fact, we have never had any Speaker like him in the past in terms of excellent performance of the responsibilities of his office. Look at how he carries all members along irrespective of party differences. You can see unity in the Chamber among members from different parties. It has never been so. Therefore, anybody saying that the present National Assembly is a rubber stamp is making mockery of himself. The National Assembly is competent; it has men and women of great ideas, who have been sponsoring wonderful bills and motions that can bring positive developments to this country.