…as City confront United at Etihad   Marcos Rashford produced arguably his best performance in Manchester United shirt when they beat Tottenham 2-1 midweek at Old Trafford and coach Ole Gunnar Solksjaer will be keen to see his talisman re-enact such showing when they attack neighbours Manchester City in one of the biggest derbies in world football today (Saturday).  Rashford scored two goals as the Red Devils welcomed their former Manager Jose Mourinho to Old Trafford to take his tally in all competitions to 12, one short of his best statistics since he started his senior career at the club in 2015/2016 season under loius Van Gaal.  The high profile summer departures of Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez resulted in Rashford carrying the goalscoring burden on his shoulders after no replacements were signed.   This was a man who hadn’t scored more than 10 English Premier League goals in a campaign before.  When Anthony Martial was out injured and Rashford was deployed in the number 9 position, it was hard to see where Rashford’s next shot was going to come from let alone a goal But since scoring for England against Bulgaria and ending his open play goal drought, Rashford’s performances and goalscoring output have risen to a whole new level.   The significant change in form has come since he has been moved back into his favoured left-wing role. Coming in off that left channel is where he is at his devastating best, he can commit defenders with his trickery and pace. He can make darting runs in behind and he can cut inside and unleash his trademark venmous and dipping strikes, which caught Paulo Gazzaniga out for United’s opener.   His former manager had always believed that he would be better from the left and unfortunately for Mourinho he was proved right much to his teams detriment. Rashford has scored more Premier League goals than Harry Kane, Roberto Firmino, Raheem Sterling and Mo Salah this season. He is currently tied with Sergio Aguero and Sadio Mane, only Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (10), Tammy Abraham (11) and Jamie Vardy (14) have scored more than United’s talisman. However, the Englishman will have another youngster to fight for spotlight with and that is Gabriel Jesus. The Brazilain has struggled for form largely because he has seen his playing time reduced due to the imperial form of Aguero but he will lead the front line for the Citizens today because rthe Argentine striker is out injured.