 A n Akure Magistrates’ Court, Ondo State, yesterday remanded the founder of Sotitobire Miracle Centre, Prophet Babatunde Alfa, at the Olokuta Correctional Centre.  Alfa, who was arraigned before an Akure Magistrates’ Court by the Department of State Services (DSS), wept uncontrollably as he was aided into the waiting Black Maria.  The 42-year-old prophet was arraigned before Magistrate Charity Adeyanju alongside six workers of his church. They accused were charged with a three-count charge over the disappearance of a one-year-old boy, Gold Kolawole, in the church last month. Adeyanju ruled that she did not have the jurisdiction to try the alleged offences. She added that the accused be remanded in prison custody pending the conclusion of investigation and arraignment at the High Court.  While Alfa and five other workers were charged with felony and aiding in the boy’s kidnap, the sixth suspect, Peter Anjorin, was accused of tampering with evidence in the ongoing investigation. Alfa was arrested by officials of the DSS based on a petition by the missing boy’s parents following the mysterious disappearance of Gold on November 10, 2019, during the church’s programme.  The situation got to its peak on December 18, 2019, when angry youths attacked and razed the church over rumours that body of the missing baby was exhumed from the church’s altar. The state prosecutor, Joseph Dada, said the offence was contrary to and punishable under Section 5(i) of the Ondo State Anti-Kidnapping and Anti-Abduction Law, 2010 as well as punishable under Section 516 of Criminal Code, Cap 37, Vol. I, Laws of Undo State, 2006.   The charge sheet reads: “That you, Prophet Alfa Babatunde ‘m,’ Omodara Olayinka ‘f,’ Margaret Oyebola ‘f,’ Grace Ogunjobi ‘f,’ Egunjobu Motunrayo ‘f,’ Esther Kayode ‘f,’ Peter Anjorin ‘m,’ and others now at large, on the 10th day of November 2019, about 11.45a.m., at Sotitobire Praising Chapel, No. 48, Solagbade Street, Oshinle Quarters, Akure, Ondo State in the Akure Magisterial District, did conspire together to commit felony to wit: kidnapping and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 516 of Criminal Code, Cap 37, Vol. I, Laws of Undo State, 2006.  “That you, Prophet Alfa Babatunde ‘m,’ Omodara Olayinka ‘f,’ Margaret Oyebola ‘f,’ Grace Ogunjobi ‘f’, Egunjobu Motunrayo ‘f,’ Esther Kayode ‘f,’ Peter Anjorin ‘m,’ and others now at large, on the 10th day of November 2019, about 11.48a.m., at Sotitobire Praising Chapel, No. 48, Solagbade Street, Oshinle Quarters, Akure, Ondo State in the Akure Magisterial District, did aid the kidnap of one Gold Eninlaloluwa Kolawole ‘m,’ aged 13 months and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 5(i) of the Ondo State Anti-Kidnapping and Anti-Abduction Law, 2010.   “That you, Peter Anjorin ‘m,’ on the 10th day of December 2019, about 2p.m., on the premises of the Department of State Services, Alagbaka, Akure, Ondo State in the Akure Magisterial District, did destroy evidence by secretly taking away the vital evidence that would have aid speedy investigation in respect of the missing child (Gold Eninlaloluwa Kolawole) and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 123 of Criminal Code, Cap 37, Vol. I, Laws of Ondo State, 2006.”   Following arguments from the prosecutor, Joseph Dada, and the counsel to the defendants, Olusola Oke, the case was subsequently adjourned till January 17, 2020. Speaking with journalists after the sitting, counsel to the accused, Oke, said the prosecution presented two contradictory positions.   “In the first instance, there was an application filed on Friday where they alleged that the man, Babatunde, confessed to allegation of kidnapping. “But quite surprising today, we challenged them to present the evidence of his confession but they did not bring something like that in court. Also to the contrary, we heard in the public domain of kidnapping, they were charged with conspiracy, and aiding kidnapping; these are two different situations. If he actually kidnapped, it would be brought to the public that he kidnapped but apparently they have nothing against him.” “For us as lawyers, we believe that if the man indeed culpable, we believe very strongly in the rule of law, that he should be punished. But at the same time, there is no need for us to crucify somebody against any evidence that he didn’t commit.”