I t was a bumper literary feast recently in Lagos at launching/public presentation of three poetry collections by Wisdom O. Dafinone, namely: ‘Ode to the Inamorata and other Poems’; ‘Nature, Travelogue And Other Poems’; and ‘Contemplations: Faith, Hope, Dirges and other Poems’.   With these collections, the author has, no doubt, not only enriched Nigerian literature but also underscore how, in the words of Dr. Solomon Omatsola Azumurana of the Department of English   University of Lagos, “creative writers explore and exploit different literary resources in their attempt to examine the society…”   The poems in the three collections focus on crucial life issues, such as love, relationships, faith and hope. As the author takes the reader through a journey of discovery, he also shows that the beauty of our world is illuminated by love. “God is love! A divinely-derived concept that we are created in God’s image. This irrefutable ‘Sacred Heart’ of divine love provides inspiration for redemptive love, human interactions and relationships. Our world is continually captivated and enthralled by extraordinary love stories. Kingdoms and empires are won and lost on account of love. A world without love would be void, empty and lonely. In its core lies the nucleus of an unbreakable bond of mankind: man, woman, boy and girl.  Therefore, since God is love, let us all be guided by love.”   ‘Ode To Inamorata And Other Poems’, which is the first collection, portrays pristine beauty in a love-crumbled and divorce-prone world, and the hope of triumphant victory. Triumphant love, the poet notes, encompasses sacrifice, passion, piety and pain.    As Azumurana, in his Foreword, states inter alia: ‘In Ode to Inamorata and Other Poems’, Dafinone, like a professional artist, dexterously employs words to recreate his contemporary world using universal imageries and symbolisms. The Poet’s passionate commitment to love and family is evident in his poems. The poems exhibit versatility of ideas, in-depth knowledge of subjects and a good mastery of language and literary resources.”   Creative writers, Azumurana further noes,  “Poetry, more than any other literary genre, encapsulates the most intense emotions and passions of human existence across different periods and regions, and appears to be the most suitable landscape for projecting any given society/issue. Contemporary poets, therefore, confront the realities, sensibilities, and experiences of their highly complex world using poetry. As a major typology of poetry, the Ode perhaps enables poets to aptly express their intense emotions and thoughts in relation to their chosen subjects, objects, and ideas like no other poetic genre. In fact, the plus that the Ode has as a genre is that while it is deployed fundamentally to glorify and eulogise an individual, event, subject, object, or idea; it has the capacity at the same time to draw attention of readers to the anti-thesis/negative polemic of whatever is being glorified or eulogised. Using 38 poems organised into 4 sections, Ode to the Inamorata and Other Poems by Wisdom Oteri Dafinone strongly advocates love to a wounded world polarised by hatred and intolerance by drawing the attention of readers to the negative polemics of the abstract ideas and concepts it glorifies and eulogises.”   In Ode to the Inamorata and Other Poems, Dafinone, like a professional artist, dexterously employs words to recreate his contemporary world using universal imageries and symbolisms. The poet’s passionate commitment to love and family is evident in his poems. The poems exhibit versatility of ideas, in-depth knowledge of subjects and a good mastery of language and literary resources. The accompanying pictures corroborate the poet’s positions and animate his representations. They also intensify the aesthetic value of the text and enhance comprehension of ideas and positions presented in the texts.   Book 2 is titled ‘Nature, Travelogue And Other Poems’. This Collection reflects the immense pleasures of travelling, adventures and discoveries. It is a profound appreciation of the cultural diversity of our globalised world. The expression “sights and sounds” assumes a more definitive interpretation and meaning – the naked reality or characteristics of each locality: beauty, attractions, distractions, et cetera.   As celebrated performance poet and writer, Iquo Diana Abasi, the author of ‘Symphony of Becoming’, notes in her Foreword: “Dafinone uses his words to illustrate the beauty, culture and landscapes, from India to American cities of Virginia and Miami, and to his sojourn in Rome. Dafinone is a writer filled with love- of nature, of nation and life in general. And his poems are love letters to his nation, to places he has known, to his past, and even the future.”   The poems in Book 3, aptly titled Contemplations: Faith, Hope, Dirges and other Poems, portray a philosophical approach to life’s daily struggles and challenges: love, death, religion, eternity. The Poet’s vision is to impact the society as a part of a collective voice for positive change. Regrettably, in most cases, it represents the single voice in the wilderness or penitential pews pleading and praying for collective redemption. Poetry condenses and crystallizes the capacity and power for the public good.   In this Collection, Prof. Otymeyin Agbajoh-Laoye (Associate Professor of Intercultural Literature in English & Africana Studies, Department of World Languages and Cultures, Monmouth University, New Jersey, USA) notes in her Foreword: …“Wisdom Dafinone touches on many aspects of the essence of religiosity and spirituality in his engagement with human existence and relationships. Much of the poetry invites the reflection of the transience of life and recommends service to God and humanity as lasting legacies. The incorporation of visual and textual elements humanises the subject of the Poet’s contemplations.”   No doubt, these three Collections of poems are the realisation of dreams nurtured in youth, abandoned in adulthood, and finally finding bright light in the sunset of ageing maturity. They reflect the definitive advantages of maturity, introspection and studious scrutiny.