Y ouths yesterday allegedly attacked a political activist, Deji Adeyanju, and some members of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).  The CSO members were protesting the continued incarceration of Omoleye Sowore, Agba Jalingo, Dadiyata and other prisoners of conscience in custody of different government agencies when they were allegedly attacked by suspected Pro-President Muhammadu Buhari youths in front of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) office.  However, Sowore himself will spend his Christmas in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS).  This was just as Justice A. R. Mohammed of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja withdrew from further presiding over a fundamental rights enforcement suit filed by Sowore.   Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the violent attack on Nigerians protesting the “widespread abuse of human rights in the country under the All Progressives Congress (APC) repressive rule” was furtherance of the suppressive plot of the ruling party on Nigerians.  Trouble started when a group of youths believed to be pro-Buhari protesters appeared in the same venue with various placards in support of Buhari’s administration.  Adeyanju, who appeared to be their main target, was frontally attacked by the angry mob. A witness said the rampaging youth abruptly dispersed the #FreeSowore Protesters, while the already injured Adeyanju and other activities were evacuated from the scene to an undisclosed location.  A Director at Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Mr. Auwal Musa Rasfanjani, said the protesters were at NHRC to ask the commission to prevail on government to release Sowore and all those being “illegally detained” by the DSS and other agencies.  Rasfanjani noted that the #FreeSowore protest at NHRC was to press home their demand on the detained citizens after the expiration of the 14 days ultimatum they issued to government.  Berating government for its “anti-democratic postures and inhumanity,” the director regretted that many people had been in detention for the past 15 years without trial.  Sowore had, on December 15, dragged the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) and the Director General of the DSS, Yusuf Bichi, before the court over his re-arrest and continued detention by the Federal Government.  He also filed an ex parte application seeking an order of the court to compel the DSS to immediately and unconditionally release him from detention.  On December 17, shortly after the suit was mentioned, trial judge, Justice Inyang Ekwo, ordered service of court process on the defendants and adjourned to December 23 for hearing of the motion.   However, there was a new development yesterday, as Justice Mohammed was assigned to take over the matter as a vacation judge.  But, when the matter was called, Justice Mohammed declined to entertain the motion on grounds of likelihood of bias.   The Judge noted that he could not go on with the matter because Sowore’s media outfit, Sahara Reporters, had sometimes in 2016 accused him of being a bribe taker.   Responding, Sowore’s counsel, Femi Falana (SAN), consented with the view of the judge to step aside from hearing the matter.  Meanwhile, the NHRC Director of Human Resources Management, Mr. Balarabe Sadiq, who frowned at the attack, encouraged the protesters to continue with their peaceful protest as it was their right to show their grievances whenever need arose.  He said it was the duty of police to protect all Nigerians, irrespective of their tribe, religion or political inclinations.  Sadiq, therefore, promised to transmit the message to the appropriate quarters.  The director said the commission had been meeting appropriate authorities on the continued detention of Sowore and others.   Meanwhile, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said in a statement that the attack was nothing but to foist a siege mentality on the citizenry and force them to surrender to a repressive rule.   He said: “The world watched with shock as hoodlums chanting the ‘Sai Baba’ slogan, known with supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC, violently descended on citizens peacefully protesting at the Nigerian Human Right Commission (NHRC) complex in Abuja, with dangerous weapons and abducted protesters in the full glare of security operatives.   “By their chants, the public is not in doubt as to whose interest the hoodlums were deployed to serve by attacking Nigerians who were protesting the violation of rights in our country.   “The burden now lies at the doorstep of the APC and the Buhari administration. Our party challenges them to come out clean on this matter.”   Ologbondiyan reminded the APC that Nigeria is a democratic state governed by laws, adding that such reprehensible designs against the citizens could be a recipe for civil unrest and anarchy.   He therefore called on security agencies to save the nation from a civil unrest by immediately arresting and prosecuting the culprits as well as provide adequate security for Nigerians exercising their civic rights, including the right to peaceful protest.